 The MARQUESS of KILDARE  rose and said: Sir, in rising to move the presentation of an humble Address to Her Majesty, in answer to the gracious Speech She has this day made from the Throne, I know that the House will extend to me that indulgence which they always show to persons unaccustomed to address them, whilst I make a few observations on the topics alluded to by Her Majesty in that Speech. It is a matter of great and sincere congratulation for this House and the country that Her Majesty continues to
 53 54 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to convey to Her Majesty the dutiful Thanks of this House for Her Most gracious Speech from the Throne: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for the assurance of Her great satisfaction in again meeting Her Parliament, and resorting to our advice and assistance in the consideration of measures which affect the welfare of our country: "Humbly to express the satisfaction with which we learn that Her Majesty continues to maintain the relations of Peace and Amity with Foreign Powers: "To thank Her Majesty for informing us that it has been Her endeavour to induce the States of Germany to carry into full effect the provisions of the Treaty with Denmark, which was concluded at Berlin in the month of July of last year; and to assure Her Majesty that we participate in the gratification which Her Majesty has been pleased to express in being able to inform us, that the German Confederation and the Government of Denmark are now engaged in fulfilling the stipulations of that Treaty, and thereby putting an end to hostilities which at one time appeared full of danger to the Peace of Europe: "Humbly to assure Her Majesty, that we participate in the hope which Her Majesty has been pleased to express, that the affairs of Germany may be arranged by mutual agreement in such a manner as to preserve the strength of the Confederation, and to maintain the freedom of its separate States: "To thank Her Majesty for informing us, that Her Majesty has concluded with the King of Sardinia Articles additional to the Treaty of September, 1841, and for having directed that those Articles shall be laid before us: "That we rejoice to learn that the Government of Brazil has taken new, and, as Her Majesty hopes, efficient measures for the suppression of the atrocious traffic in Slaves: 55 "To thank Her Majesty for having directed the Estimates of the year to be prepared and laid before us without delay, and for acquainting us that they have been framed with a duo regard to economy, and to the necessities of the Public Service: "To thank Her Majesty for informing us that, notwithstanding the large reductions of Taxation which have been effected in late years, the receipts of the Revenue have been satisfactory: "That we learn with satisfaction that the state of the Commerce and Manufactures of the United Kingdom has been such as to afford general employment to the Labouring Classes: That we concur with Her Majesty in lamenting the difficulties which are still felt by that important body among Her people who are Owners and Occupiers of Land; but that we unite with Her Majesty in the confident hope that the prosperous condition of other classes of Her subjects will have a favourable effect in diminishing those difficulties and promoting the interests of Agriculture: "Humbly to state to Her Majesty, that we have observed that the recent assumption of certain Ecclesiastical Titles conferred by a Foreign Power has excited strong feelings in this Country, and that we thank Her Majesty for informing us that large bodies of Her subjects have presented Addresses to Her Majesty, expressing attachment to the Throne, and praying that assumptions should be resisted: That we rejoice to learn that Her Majesty has assured them of Her resolution to maintain the rights of Her Crown and the independence of the Nation against all encroachment from whatever quarter it may proceed: That we also learn with satisfaction that Her Majesty has, at the same time, expressed Her earnest desire and firm determination, under God's blessing, to maintain unimpaired the Religious Liberty which is so justly prized by the people of this Country: "That we beg leave to assure Her Majesty, that we will devote our best consideration to the measure which will be laid before us on this subject: "Humbly to state to Her Majesty, that it will be our duty to give our serious attention to the administration of justice in the several departments of Law and Equity; and to thank Her Majesty for the confidence which Her Majesty feels, that the measures which may be submitted with a view of improving that administration will be discussed with that mature deliberation which important changes in the highest Courts of Judicature in the Kingdom imperatively demand: 56 "To thank Her Majesty for acquainting us that a measure will be laid before us, providing for the establishment of a system of Registration of Deeds and Instruments relating to the transfer of property, and for informing us that this measure is the result of inquiries which Her Majesty has caused to be made into the practicability of adopting a system of registration calculated to give security to titles, to diminish causes of litigation to which they have hitherto been liable, and to reduce the cost of transfers: "To thank Her Majesty, for the confidence which Her Majesty has been pleased to express that it will be Her constant care to combine the progress of improvement with the stability of our institutions; and that we unite with Her Majesty in the conviction that we may esteem ourselves fortunate that we can pursue without disturbance the course of calm and peaceable amelioration; and to assure Her Majesty, that we feel we have every cause to be thankful to Almighty God for the measure of tranquillity and happiness which has been vouchsafed to us."
 MR. A. J. B. HOPE  said, he should be sorry, for the sake of the character for consistency of his side of the House, if the only expression of its opinions were to be that of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, who seemed not to have considered the subject in its double aspect, affecting the Church on the one hand, and the body politic on the other. As a member of the Church of England he agreed with the hon. Baronet in the expression of strong indignation (indeed no one could feel more indignant) at the way in which the publications of the Roman Catholics had spoken of the recent aggression; alluding as they did to "the gentleman who claimed to fill the extinct see of Canterbury,'' and the manner in which they had "ignored" the Church of England, as a member of which he was ready to fight to the utmost against the aggression. But the House should remember that they sat not there as members of the Church of England. They sat simply as representatives of the citizens of England—of that country which, pre-eminent as it was in civilisation, and intellect, and enlightenment, was most of all pre-eminent in its enunciation of the great doctrine of "civil and religious liberty." The hon. Baronet had referred to the precedents which he called (comparatively) old—as that of William III.; but although there were questions of law, or of the forms of Parliament, which had remained unchanged since those times, and on which this appeal might be proper—could it be so on a question of the treatment of members of another denomination since then set free? To be sure, the period might be appealed to upon shreds and patches of the question; but, to be consistent, they must be content to take the whole tone and spirit—the whole length, depth, and breadth of the Elizabethan era, and of the Stuart and the Tudor ideas about "liberty of conscience," under which, undoubtedly, the Cardinal would have been hurried to the stake, and the seconder of the Address would have had his ears cropped. The first step towards liberty of conscience was the repeal of those barbarous laws. The second was the measure (for which, as a member of the Church of England, he thanked the noble Lord opposite) by which was abolished the abominable Test and Corporation Act, which prostituted the most sacred mysteries of
 87 bonâ fide 88 89 90
 The EARL of ARUNDEL AND SURREY  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Member who had preceded him that it would be better to refrain from any remarks until the Bill of which notice had been given, came regularly before them for discussion; but this he desired to say, that, come from whatever quarter it might, any attack made upon the liberties of the Roman Catholic Church, he in his place in Parliament would to the best of his power oppose. He would do his utmost to repel any such attack. If the measure that was now in preparation should be carried through Parliament—for the opponents of the Catholics were strong, the Catholics themselves wore weak—then, he said, in that case he trusted that the Catholics would show how they could suffer with dignity.
 MR. FAGAN  expressed his entire disapprobation of the speech which had just been delivered by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal. That hon. and learned Gentleman enjoyed the deserved reputation of being a great constitutional lawyer, and one who had applied himself much to ecclesiastical law; but notwithstanding his attainments in this respect, he (Mr. Fagan) differed  in toto 99 100
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  said, that with respect to the paragraph in Her Majesty's Speech respecting the Papal aggression, he should reserve his observations upon that subject until he had heard what was the nature of the measure which Her Majesty's Ministers proposed to introduce. He should then, as a true Protestant, vigilantly watch it, and jealously observe it on account both of Protestant Dissenters and Roman Catholics; for he greatly feared the interests of civil and religious liberty might again come under discussion in that House. Passing from that topic, he came next to a portion of Her Majesty's Speech which was also of vital importance; it was in these words: "The state of the commerce and manufactures of the united kingdom has been such as to afford general employment to the labouring classes." Now, if this were meant to include the agricultural labourers, he (Mr. G. Berkeley) must take upon himself to say that he differed from the assurance it conveyed: for he perfectly well knew that there was a dearth of employment, and the greatest possible distress experienced at this moment throughout the counties of England. The hon. Member who seconded the Address had congratulated them upon the flourishing state of trade, and the prospects of agriculture. Now he (Mr. G. Berkeley) happened to hold in his hand a letter from a great and important county, Suffolk, and from a locality in that county to which he called the attention of the House last Session, when he stated that great distress prevailed therein, and that he believed it was increasing. On that occasion he was met with cries of disbelief from the Ministerial side of the House. But what was the state of the agricultural population in that district now? He spoke of the union of Bosmere and Claydon. It appeared that in 1849 the inmates of the union numbered 267; in 1850, 333; and in 185.1, 480; whilst there were 60 additional applications for admittance to the union house within the last week. He drew the attention of the House to this statement, because it came from a district where, if agriculture were prosperous at all, a good sample of that prosperity would be found. He regretted that, under these circumstances, the Speech of Her Majesty contained no reference to the state of the tenant-farmer—the suffering condition in which he now was, and the oppression to which he was sub-
 108
 LORD. J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I am rejoiced to find that we are not likely to have a division on the question of the Address, and that that Address is likely to be passed by the House, if not unanimously, at least with very general consent, and without any Amendment, being proposed. I will, however, endeavour to address myself to the various topics which have been touched upon by hon. Gentlemen who have spoken, and I will take the order in which the topics have been mentioned in the Queen's Speech for the sake of convenience. My hon. Friend the Member for Montrose began by regretting that it had been thought necessary to advise Her Majesty to make so much reference to our relations with foreign Powers. With reference to the principal topic that is there mentioned, it cannot be unknown to us that the hostilities between Denmark and Germany that have for some time been carried on in Schleswig-Holstein were of the greatest importance, not only as threatening danger to the peace of Europe, but as also interfering materially with the commerce of this country; and I cannot think that my hon. Friend has to learn that those differences that have subsisted are in fair course of adjustment, and that at least the danger of hostility which hung over us is likely to be averted. I cannot but rejoice myself that such should be the case, and I hope that the endeavours that were made by my noble Friend near mo to represent to the contending parties-—to the one not to enter into hostilities or to continue those hostilities, and to the other, to adopt measures of conciliation, have not been abortive, and that the danger of hostilities which so long hung over us is likely to be removed. But my hon. Friend went on to say that this country should not have permitted Austria to undertake certain measures—should not have allowed her to occupy Hamburg with her troops, and to act in a manner contrary to the freedom of Europe. I really think that complaint is most inconsistent with the former complaint. The first complaint was, that Her Majesty's Government had interfered between foreign Powers; but if Her Majesty's Ministers had listened to the latter complaint, we should now have been engaged in a war with some of the principal Powers in Europe. Our course has not agreed with either of these proposals; we have used our influence in the manner
 115 116 117 118 s. 119 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 120 121 122 123 entrée Gazette 124 125 126 127 128
 MR. DISRAELI : In the disposition of the House not to offer any amendment to the Address, I should not have ventured to trouble the House at all, had I not feared that my silence might, perhaps, be considered as assenting to those views which the noble Lord has taken of public affairs. I think the Government are fully authorised in calling upon the House to congratulate Her Majesty upon the discontinuance of hostile operations in Schleswig-Holstein, not merely because, as the noble Lord has stated, peace has been preserved, or even because a vexatious interference with commerce has been removed, but because, as the House will always do well to recollect, we are bound by treaty to interfere in the affairs of that country, and therefore we ought to congratulate ourselves that a duty is probably now fulfilled which might, under other circumstances, have led to consequences very serious to this country. Sir, I come now to the observations made by the noble Lord on that part of the Royal Speech which refers to the difficulties which prevail among an important body among Her Majesty's subjects. Sir, the noble Lord, when he addressed us, and when he admitted the extreme difficulties now experienced by that important class—the agricultural body—the noble Lord seemed to me to be offering almost an apology to the House for not proposing that fixed duty which my hon. Friend near me somewhat unexpectedly introduced into the discussion. But while the noble Lord deplored the distress which he did not foresee, and the continuance of which he acknowledges surprises him, I am really astonished that it did not occur to the noble Lord and his colleagues to make at least this inquiry—to ask themselves how
 129 130 131 132 "There is an assumption of power in all the documents which have come from Rome—a pretension to supremacy over the realm of England, and a claim to sole and undivided sway, which is inconsistent with the Queen's supremacy, with the rights of our bishops and clergy, and with the spiritual independence of the nation." 133 134
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House that he had issued warrants for  New Writs (See
 MR. SPEAKER  having  reported
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he regretted to have heard one of his hon. Friends from the county of Kent state that he did not wish to get rid of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. Now, he begged to say that he was of opinion that that was not the expression of the general feeling of the country. For his own part he heartily desired to get rid of the noble Lord, as well as the whole of his colleagues. One scabbed sheep spoiled the whole flock, and therefore the sooner they were all of them swept off the Treasury benches the better. He imputed all that had happened in reference to the Papal aggression to those who were, he might say, under the noble Lord's command—he alluded to Earl Minto, the Earl of Clarendon, and others. The noble Lord had talked of his alarm and indignation, and that alarm and indignation had extended to the country at large—but who was the cause of it? Why, the noble Lord himself and his party! Her Majesty's Speech was full of hopes and premises with regard to the condition and prospects of the manufacturing and agricultural interests; but they reminded him of the old saying, that while the grass was growing the cow might starve. Well, he (Colonel Sibthorp) had recently come from an important county, where he had made himself; 106 107
 MR. BANKES  said, that, before the debate concluded, there were passages of Her Majesty's Speech upon which the representatives of the agricultural interests of the kingdom must feel it to be their duty to make some remarks. In respect to the great subject of excitement at the present moment throughout the united kingdom, the House had been told that, on Friday next, a Bill was to be introduced which was to have particular reference to that question. He, for his own part, was willing to reserve his opinion until then. But he, for one, could not blame the head of the Government for bringing the subject prominently forward for discussion, with a view to early legislation, which he thought was so necessary in reference to that important subject. He would offer no remarks in opposition to the hon. Member who had last spoken; but he must be allowed to toll him, that this was not a question between Catholic and Protestant, because some of the most eminent of the Roman Catholic Peers had taken exactly the same view which the noble Lord at the head of the Government had taken. We had been before this aware of the respected names of the Duke of Norfolk and Lord Beaumont.; and if the hon. Gentleman had been with him in another place that evening, he would have heard another Roman Catholic Peer, with great eloquence and great effect, taking the same side of the question. This question he (Mr. Bankes) admitted, when applied to Ireland, must be viewed as having the effect of an  ex post facto 111 112 "I have to lament, however, the difficulties which are still felt by that important body among my people who are owners and occupiers of land. But it is my confident hope that the prosperous condition of other classes of my subjects will have a favourable effect in diminishing those difficulties, and promoting the interests of agriculture." 113 114
 MR. GRATTAN  said, the hon. Gentleman who seconded the Address, congratulated the people of the country upon the improved prospect of agriculture and manufactures. Now he happened to live in Ireland in a manufacturing district, and the only improvement that had taken place in that branch of industry, was the building of a chimney 150 feet high, which would vitiate and corrupt the air of the neighbourhood. The improvement in agriculture consisted in the depression of his tenants and those of other proprietors. Thousands of poor were constantly leaving their native land; his servants, his tenants, his very maid-servants, had left the country: in fact, nobody who had either talent, beauty, or ability, would stay at home. In the Cellbridge Union the number of paupers was increased from 1,500 to 2,400, and there was a general demand for the increase of workhouse accommodation for the helpless and utterly indigent, which vastly increased the rates. With such a state of things they had no great reason to congratulate the united kingdom upon its growing prosperity. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, that if such a Bill as that proposed to be introduced were passed, that it would be a disgraceful proceeding. He was at a loss to understand how a nation could be so confused and shaken of its wisdom, as to believe that a great body of people would tamely submit to be prevented from the free choice of their religion—to think that the Roman Catholics could be scattered about like chaff as they pleased. It was said that Roman Catholics were tolerated; and one Gentleman, a Member of that House, recently used that phrase, and this additional one, that the
 109 110
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  thanked the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, in the name of his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects, and of every friend of religious liberty, for the speech which he had delivered that evening, and expressed his satisfaction, as a Roman Catholic, that they were not under the necessity of moving any Amendment on the Address in reply to the Speech of Her Majesty, who might be assured of the loyalty and attachment of Her Catholic subjects. If any bitterness had been thrown into the discussion, he must say that it had not been introduced by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, but by the hon. Gentleman who had seconded the Address, who had made remarks upon what he had called the prosperity of Ireland, which were as ill-timed and irrelevant as they well could be. There had certainly been a partial revival of trade in that country, but that was all. With respect to the attempt to establish a Catholic hierarchy in England, the spread of Catholicity in that country had rendered the appointment
 85 86
 MR. PLUMPTRE  agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, as to the opinion he had expressed respecting the present position of affairs. He never remembered, during the whole course of a long public life, anything which had excited so lively, so deep, and so indignant a feeling in the breasts of the people as the Papal assumption. He must say, and he did so with some regret, that he was afraid that the feeling which had been so loudly and, as he thought, so justly expressed by the country, had not been met with sufficient strength, and in the manner that had been expected, in the Speech from the Throne. He was not anxious to go further on this point; but he was willing to wait, and he hoped the Protestant people of this country would wait, until they saw the Bill that the noble Lord at the head of the Government would propose. He hoped it would be calculated to meet the case. He must tell the noble Lord that if the Bill were not such as had been calculated upon, that feeling which had been already expressed so strongly, would show itself with redoubled energy, and he thought it ought to be so. He told the noble Lord that he might depend upon it that the Protestant people of this country felt themselves in no ordinary situation; they were influenced by no ordinary feelings; they considered that their highest, their best, their holiest interests were at stake. He believed that to a man the Protestant people would show themselves determined to act in a legitimate and constitutional manner; and he hoped, with the blessing of God, that they would be able to maintain those interests that were most dear to them. He trusted, then, to find the noble Lord act in accordance with those professions which were to be found in his letter addressed to the Bishop of Durham. Let the noble Lord be faithful to the infinitely important trust placed in his hands, and the country would go with him. It had been rumoured that some of his colleagues were not agreed with him on this subject; but if he might be permitted to advise the noble Lord, he would say, "Get rid of those colleagues." The country had no desire to part with the noble Lord, but there might be one or two of his colleagues whom the country would not he sorry to part with, if they impeded his views. He could assure the noble Lord that the feeling that now prevailed was not
 98
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that never since he had had the honour of a seat in that House had he risen with so much pain as on the present occasion; and, when he said so, he wished it to be understood that it was no mere commonplace expression at the commencement of a speech that he employed;
 69 70 "I am one of those who have probably passed; longer period of my life engaged in war than most men, and principally, I may say, in civil war; and I must say this—that, if I could avoid, by any sacrifice whatever, even one month of civil war in the country to which I am attached, I would sacrifice my life in order to do it." 71 72 e latere, in partibus infidelium, 73 74 "For my own part, I am not disposed to think it would be for the advantage of this country, or that it would be agreeable to the Roman Catholics, that we should have an agreement with the Pope, by which their religious arrangements should be regulated."— [Hansard, You must either give certain advantages to the Roman Catholic religion, and obtain from the Pope certain other advantages in return, among which you must stipulate that the Pope shall not create any dioceses in England without the consent of the Queen; or, on the other hand, you must say that you will have nothing to do with arrangements of that kind—that you will not consent, in any way, to give any authority to the Roman Catholic religion in England. But, then, you must leave the spiritual authority of the Pope entirely unfettered. You cannot bind the Pope's spiritual influence unless you have some agreement."— Ib. "For my own part, I am not disposed to think that it would be for the advantage of this country, or that it would be agreeable to the Roman
 75 76 77 entrée 78 Roman Catholic Directory and Almanack Directory; prœmunire 79 Wesleyan Methodists' Directory
 MR. HUME  said, that if a stranger entered the House he would be sure to imagine that they were a set of ecclesiastics met to discuss some Church question. No notice had been taken of any other matter. It appeared to him, from the discussion, and from the difference of opinion expressed by Roman Catholics themselves, that they were not in a position to offer any opinion on what the measure was. He perfectly agreed with the sentiments which had been expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, and he believed that thousands in this country, when they came to reflect on the true state of the question, would wonder how they could have been so led away. He maintained that not one argument used by his hon. and learned Friend, had been met by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, or the Member for East Kent. Nor had any one asserted that he had taken an erroneous view of the question. If he were to judge from the Speech of Her Majesty, no danger would arise from the proposed measure:—
 "I have, at the same time, expressed my earnest desire and firm determination, under God's blessing, to maintain unimpaired the religious liberty which is so justly prized by the people of this country." 101 "I am much gratified in being able to inform you that the German Confederation and the Government of Denmark are now engaged in fulfilling the stipulations of that treaty, and thereby putting an end to hostilities which at one time appeared full of danger to the peace of Europe." 102 103 104 "To combine the progress of improvement with the stability of our institutions, will, I am confident, be your constant care." "We may esteem ourselves fortunate that we can pursue, without disturbance, the course of calm and peaceable amelioration." 105 "We have every cause to be thankful to Almighty God for the measure of tranquility and happiness which has been vouchsafed to us."
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, he would certainly have moved an Amendment and divided the House upon it, had he thought, as some hon. Members appeared to think, that the Address pledged him to any line of conduct opposed to liberty of conscience. But though he did not, conceive that the Address at all embodied the spirit of persecution, he was of opinion that those Members who considered that it did, should show their sincerity and consistency by proposing an Amendment. He did not find cither in the Speech or in the Address any such "principle laid down, nor any allusion to it, nor a single syllable to which, as a member of the Church of Rome (but not of the Court of Rome), he could not heartily subscribe. It had been erroneously imagined that all Protestants were against the Papal measure, and ail Catholics in favour of it. That all Protestants were not against it, had been shown by the speeches of the
 91 92 Statuta Proposita, statuta proposita 93 jus patronatus quasi-law 94 95 status 96 sine die. jus canonicum, 97
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for
 80 81 [Cheers, and cries of 82 in loco. 83 84
 MR. PETO : Sir, before I venture on the topics which the occasion, and the gracious Speech from the Throne, naturally suggest, I must throw myself on the kind and never-failing indulgence of the House, and state at once my great anxiety that no word shall escape my lips which shall court debate or suggest a difference, when the House will naturally desire to respond with unanimity in the adoption of the Address which I have the honour to second. 57 l. l. 
 
 1848 were £44,407,912 
 1849 … 54,089,809 
 1850 … 60,400,525 58 d. d. 59 
 
 INCREASE OF TONNAGE OF 
 1849 over 1848. 1850 over 1849. 
 British 226,207 British 162,843 
 Foreign 215,650 Foreign 248,531 60 l. "It gives us pleasure to state, that the amount of tonnage sold in 1850 in Liverpool, exceeds that sold in 1849, being 81,028 tons against 78,212, showing an increase of 1850 over 1849 of 3–6 per cent. "New British ships have fully maintained our last quotation—indeed, we have felt the want of a larger supply of good vessels." 61 "The present year opens under circumstances of great encouragement. Money is abundant—food of every kind is cheap—general trade is active and remunerative, finding ample employment for the industry of the country." s. s. 62 63 "Our imports of sheep have been on a less extensive scale from Ireland, and we are now witnessing, to us, the novel feature that store beasts have lately been sent into that country." 64 65 d. 66 "I now tome to the great principle involved in the numerous petitions before the House-petitions signed by the whole body of Dissenters, by Roman Catholics, and by many members of the Established Church. That principle is, that every man ought to be allowed to form his religious opinions by the impressions on his own mind, and that when so formed he should be at liberty to worship God according to the dictates of his conscience, without being subjected to any penalty or disqualification whatever. Every restraint or restriction imposed on any man on account of his religious creed is in the nature of persecution, and is at once an offence to God and an injury to man. This is the first and noble principle on which the Dissenters claim the repeal of the test laws; but will fairly admit that there may be an exception to its application, and I will illustrate it by reference to the general principle of non-interference by one State in the internal affairs of another. It may be stated that
 67 Hansard, N.S. 68 "Let us not be deterred by a clamour against innovation from abrogating what is useless—simplifying what is complex; nor attempt to stave off an immediate pressing difficulty by a patch, work scheme of modifications and suspensions; but let us consult for posterity in the comprehensive spirit of legal philosophy."
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  inquired in what state the writ would remain. The law was clear that the writ, after being moved for, should be forwarded by the next post. Now it would be very inconvenient if the sheriff of Waterford received the writ and appointed a day for the election, and was then compelled to suspend that election by  supersedeas.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the House would be aware that by the statute 6th of Anne, the acceptance of any office of profit from the Crown makes the elec-
 136 supersedeas.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  replied, that a new writ would be moved for when the seat became vacant. Of course his right hon. Friend (Mr. Sheil) would see that his present position as Plenipotentiary to the Grand Duke of Tuscany was incompatible with his representation of Dungarvan, and would no doubt accordingly take the proper steps to vacate his seat in that House.
 SIR F. BARING  said, that though it was true Commander Fraser had completed his survey and forwarded it to the Admiralty, the report was not yet complete; till the complete report and plans had been furnished, no decision would be come to. When be saw that report, he would communicate the result privately to the hon. Gentleman.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, it was his intention to bring in three Bills respecting three different forests, and he thought it would be more convenient to reserve all details till he laid the Bills on the table of the House.
 The MARQUESSof KILDARE  brought up the Report on the Address, and it was read.
 THE QUEEN'S SPEECH  to be taken into consideration To-morrow.
 MR. LAWLESS  expressed his intention of voting for the Motion on grounds peculiar to the Irish Members. He had observed that the Irish Secretary had almost invariably introduced measures affecting Ireland after Twelve o'clock at night, and he felt sure the rule would be of use in stopping such a practice.
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  differed from the right hon. Gentleman the
 143
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  wished to know from his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was his intention to introduce any measure to prevent the adulteration of coffee by chicory and other means, so as to afford protection to those who sent coffee into the country?
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests if it was the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill for the inclosure of the New Forest? If so, what were the intentions of the Government with respect to the destruction of the deer; whether they were prepared to take into consideration all claims of common rights; and whether they intended to retain a certain number of acres, and, if so, to what extent?
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  then gave notice of his intention to submit a Motion on the subject.
 LORD D. STUART  said, that not having had an opportunity of addressing the House on the previous evening, he was anxious to say a few words in order that the support he gave to the Address might not be misunderstood. Although he did not mean to offer any opposition to that Address, yet there were various things in the Speech with which he was by no means satisfied; and there were, besides, many omissions which he regretted. He could not join its expression of satisfaction with respect to foreign affairs. In common with the rest of the nation, he was pleased to find that we remained at peace with all nations; but, at the same same, he could have desired to have heard that, while peace was maintained, the influence of this country throughout Europe was greater, and better established, than, he was sorry to say, judging from the state of public affairs, it appeared to be. The Speech of last year contained a remarkable paragraph relating to the differences which had arisen between some of the great States in the east of Europe in regard to the treatment of the Hungarians who had taken refuge in the Turkish territory, and the House was told that Her Majesty united her efforts with those of France, "in order to assist, by the employment of her good offices, in effecting an amicable settlement of those
 150 151 152 153
 LORD J. RUSSELL  hoped the House would allow him to say a few words in answer to the attack made upon him by the hon. Member for Montrose. Of course, it was the duty of the Prime Minister to consider the qualifications of the person whom he recommended for any particular office, and be would do wrong if he took the opinion of persons who had no responsibility, and disregarded his own convictions on a matter of this kind. Now, his conviction was, that be could not have made a better selection than that of Sir Denis Le Marchant. To say that he had no experience of the business of the House, was to say that which might be said of every person who filled the more important situation of Speaker of that House, for every Speaker when first chosen must necessarily be a person without experience in the arduous duties of that office. But with regard to this particular office there was a recommendation by a Committee of the House, with respect to the office of counsel to the Speaker—an office connected with the House, to which a salary of 1,200 l. l. l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL,  in moving a resolution acknowledging the services of John Henry Ley, Esq., late Clerk to the House of Commons, said, that he need make but few remarks. Mr. Ley was one of a succession of public officers whose services had been of great value to the House and to the country. Mr. Ley himself had served for 49 years at the table of the House, and every one who was acquainted with the business transacted in it for many years must be aware that he had a mind stored with information relating to every subject by which the order and procedure of the House were regulated: and every person must likewise know that nothing could exceed the readiness and courtesy with which he communicated to every Member of the House the information which he possessed, and of which they desired to be informed. In the Committees of the House his services were of great value in preparing and putting in due order and form those amendments which in the course of debate were proposed to be inserted in Bills of great public importance. Every Member of the House must be aware how useful it was to the regularity of their proceedings and to the correctness of their decisions to have at the table a Clerk so well furnished with the knowledge which it was requisite should be possessed on these subjects, and how often their deliberations had been aided by that knowledge being communicated to the House. He did not think be need say any more except that the House would do itself credit by placing on its records an acknowledgement of those services, arid never, he believed, would that acknowledgment have been better bestowed. The noble Lord concluded by moving the following Resolution—
 "That this House entertains a just and high sense of the distinguished and exemplary manner in which John Henry Ley, Esq., late Clerk of this House, uniformly discharged the duties of his situation, during his long attendance at the table of this House, for above 49 years."
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in a Bill for that purpose.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he would state his views generally on the subject when making his financial statement; but with regard to the prohibition respecting the use of chicory
 138
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  thought that it would not he wise for the House to bind itself down to any positive resolution on the subject. He hardly knew an instance in which the Government had persevered in an attempt to force a Vote after 12 o'clock. He was quite sure that in his time no such thing had occurred. Whenever opposition had been made to a Vote after that hour, the Government had given way. It was, in fact, understood that opposed Votes should not be taken after midnight, and he could not call to mind any deviation from that rule. His hon. Friend well knew that there were many Votes to which no opposition was offered, and it could not signify very much at what time such Votes were taken. There were certain periods of the Session when it was desirable to make more rapid progress than at other periods, and half an hour or an hour occupied for that purpose did not necessarily involve a waste of public money. It was far better that the House should be left to exercise its discretion as the occasion arose than that a rule should be established which might tend to impede the despatch of public business.
 MR. FRENCH  thought the proceedings quite contrary to common sense, that an hon. Member should accept an office of emolument and still retain his seat. Here was the acceptance of an office of emolument under the Crown, which would, moreover, leave the constituency unrepresented—Mr. Canning's was merely a temporary mission. It would be well if the Attorney General explained.
 MR. GOULBURN  did not think the matter which had been introduced by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was suited to the present occasion. He was, perhaps, above all others, qualified to bear his testimony to Mr. Ley, and to the knowledge and advantages derived from his experience, for having come into office soon after his entrance into Parliament, he had been saved, by the experience and knowledge of Mr. Ley, from falling into those errors which, as a young Member, he must otherwise have unavoidably fallen into. He owed him a deep debt of gratitude for the information which Mr. Ley had afforded him from time to time. He
 142
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  inquired if the right hon. Gentleman the late Master of the Mint would be suffered to retain his seat?
 MR. REYNOLDS  begged to give notice that on the day on which the noble Lord
 137
 MR. REYNOLDS  would ask the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any Bill during the present Session of Parliament for the purpose of abolishing the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland?
 MR. REYNOLDS  regretted that the hon. Member for Salford had not moved that the House should meet at Twelve o'clock in the day, which he thought would be a great improvement. If his reading
 149
 MR. ROEBUCK  explained that he had been mistaken. He thought the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hayter) was going a step too far.
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to know if that was the ordinary mode of proceeding? If not, there would be great danger in establishing it as a precedent. Any hon. Member might become obnoxious to a majority in that House; but that should be no reason why a  supersedeas 135
 MR. BROTHERTON  then moved, in; pursuance of notice—
 "That in the present Session of Parliament no business shall be proceeded with after midnight; and that at Twelve o'clock at night precisely, notwithstanding there may be business under discussion, Mr. Speaker do adjourn the House without putting any Question." 147 
 
 Days. Hours. Hours after Midnight. 
 1842 117 1,008 125 
 1843 119 986 105 
 1844 119 906 69 
 1845 119 1,026 96 
 1846 139 1,054 77 
 1847 121 916 71 
 1848 170 1,407 136 
 1849 121 958 76 
 1850 129 1,104 108
 MR. HUME  said, it was to avoid those discussions which often occurred as to whether the House should proceed or not, that he proposed this Amendment. Many Members were anxious to go home at 12 o'clock, but they were reluctant to do so while the public money was being voted away. If any circumstance arose to require the suspension of the Order, he should be willing to agree to it; but, lot what he proposed be the general rule, and the business of the House would be better managed.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to say a few words on another matter. Those who had, yesterday, accompanied the Speaker to the House of Lords, would recollect the disorderly manner in which the Members had been compelled to follow him, and what danger the Speaker himself had in finding his way there. He thought this was highly derogatory to the dignity of the House. Even when they did arrive at the House of Lords, there was not room enough below the bar to contain one-quarter of the Members. He happened to be the twenty-fifth after the Speaker, but both sides of the bar were so filled that he neither saw the Queen nor heard Her voice. It was an eternal disgrace to the House and to the country, that they had expended so much money on a place so ill suited to carry on the business of the country. Could no means be adopted by which decorum could be preserved in future? He recollected that, on one occasion, the coat of a Member of the House, who now filled a high office abroad, had been torn, and that his shoulder had been dislocated. That was in the Old House; but it was as bad, or worse, in the New House. What he wanted was, that a Committee should be appointed to consider of such arrangements as would enable them to go to the House of Lords as became their character and position. If there was only room for a hundred Members, lots might be drawn to ascertain who were to accompany the Speaker, that order might be preserved, and that they might be able to conduct themselves as other men, soberly and decently, and not like a mob. He was himself knocked against the corner there, his
 144
 MR. HUME  said, he had given notice last Session of his intention to move that no Money Vote should be taken after 12 o'clock, and that intention he should now fulfil. At that period experience had told him that the House was generally very indulgent. On questions of Supply nearly three-fourths of the Members quitted the House, leaving those only who were desirous of watching over the public expenditure; but these were barely sufficient in
 145
 MR. HUME  called the attention of the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs to the question which had been put by his noble Friend (Lord Dudley Stuart) on a matter in which the public out of doors deeply sympathised, and which last year commanded as much interest out of doors as the Papal aggression did now. The question which his noble Friend had put was—why was the paragraph relating to the Hungarian refugees, and the efforts of Her Majesty's Government to ameliorate their condition, omitted from the present Speech, while the cause which had led to its insertion in the Speech of last year still existed? He thought respect for public opinion ought to extract from Government some explanation, whether there was any hope for those unfortunate men who were now, at the instance of Austria and Russia, confined in Turkey. It would be satisfactory also, if the noble Lord would state the number of them.
 MR. HUME : Will the noble Lord state whether all the Hungarians who took refuge in Turkey are still detained there, or whether any have been set at liberty?
 MR HUME  said that, having had frequent opportunities of observing the admirable manner in which Mr. Ley had
 140 141
 CAPTAIN P. BENNET  expressed regret that no hopes were held out in the Speech of relief to the agricultural interest. He referred in proof of the distress to a circumstance that had recently occurred at Eye, in Suffolk, where the agricultural labourers, to the number of between 300 and 400, marched into the town armed with clubs and sticks, and took possession of the workhouse, turning out the master, and breaking the wards and holding possession until they were forced to surrender by a party of shopkeepers and townsmen who had been summoned to assist, and by whom some of the ringleaders had been captured and placed in gaol for the offence. The cause of this outrage was that the labourers had been long out of work in consequence of the inability of the farmers to provide
 154
 MR. SPOONER  said, that the strongest reason which induced him to vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Salford was the objectionable practice which prevailed of granting money after Twelve o'clock—a practice which he believed had made a very unfavourable impression on the country, and which would, of course, be at once put an end to by the adoption of the present Motion. Another advantage which would be gained by its adoption would be, that the leaders of parties on both sides would be obliged to address the House at an earlier hour than they were in the habit of doing at present.
 MR. SPOONER  thought the practice of
 146
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that some measures depended for success on the chance of being passed after midnight. He had supported the previous Motion, because he thought it exceedingly improper that any of the public money should be voted away after Twelve o'clock at night. But, on the other hand, measures of great public importance might be thrown over if the rule were applied to everything. One of the most important measures of last Session passed through the House at Two o'clock—he alluded, of course, to the Engines for taking Fish Bill.
 MR. ANSTEY  wished to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty whether it was the intention of Government to order any and what prosecutions, or proceedings, for carrying into effect the recommendations contained in the late report of Commander I Fraser, R.N., on the illegal obstruction to the fishery and navigation of the Black-water; and whether he would lay the said report, with plans, &c, before the House?
 MR. EWART  having seconded the Motion,
 MR. HAYTER  said, the hon. Gentleman wished to know whether or not the present course was that usually pursued. Now, he apprehended the usual course was, when an error had been committed, to rectify it as soon as possible. The fact would depend on the commission of the error. On reference to  Hatsell, "On the 7th July, 1715, on a question whether Mr. Carpenter, having been appointed Envoy to the Court of Vienna, is thereby included in the disability of the 6th of Anne, c. 7, it passed in the negative."
 MR. HAYTER  begged to say he was in error in moving, yesterday, a writ for this borough. He had moved it on the assumption that the right hon. Richard Lalor Sheil, having accepted the office of Minister Plenipotentiary to the Grand Duke of Tuscany, had vacated his seat for the borough; but it turned out that this was a mistake, for, on referring to precedents, it appeared that the seat was not vacated by the acceptance of that office. Therefore, the only course now left him was to move that the order be superseded; and with that view he begged to move that the Order of yesterday, the 4th instant, in reference to the writ, be then read.
 MR. HAYTER  begged to move—
 "That Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown, in Ireland, to make out a  supersedeas
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the greatest mischiefs had arisen from bringing forward votes of importance after 12, and even; 2 o'clock in the morning. When his hon. Friend the Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton) used to perform the onerous duty, in which he persevered for some years, there was some check to the evil; but his hon. Friend had of late years relaxed in his efforts, and that was an additional reason for adopting the Motion.
 SIR G. GREY  observed, that it was often absolutely necessary, for the sake of the public service, that votes should be taken after midnight; and the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) felt that necessity, for be declared he would be ready to vote for the suspension of his rule whenever the necessity arose. But in that case the House would just be as likely to engage in debate, whether the occasion was one of necessity or not, and with the prospect of such discussions upon if, the value of such a rule would be infinitesimal.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the House having decided against the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, he could not conceive that they would adopt one which went much further. No doubt it was very undesirable that the habit should prevail of continuing the debate long after midnight; but that was not the general practice, es-
 148
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  could not concur in the Motion; but thought, nevertheless, that no new matter should be brought on after Twelve o'clock.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS : I second the Motion of my noble Friend. It is, I hope, not an act of presumption on my part,
 139
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I cannot state exactly. The number now at Katayah is not so great as it was; a considerable number, about 700 I believe, who remained at Shumlah for some time, have, I understand, lately been forwarded to Constantinople, but whether to be stationed at any place in that locality, or for the purpose of their being sent elsewhere I cannot say.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I can assure my hon. Friend that Her Majesty's Government were not inattentive to the subject alluded to. Communications have been carried on by Her Majesty's Ambassador at Constantinople with the Turkish Government, with the view of obtaining the release of these persons; but I am sorry to say that those efforts have not, as yet, been attended with that success which we could desire.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  begged to inform the hon. and learned Member that it was his intention to introduce a measure on the subject.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that undoubtedly if there was an opposition offered to the presentation of an Address to the Crown for returns, that two stages would be necessary. There was not, however, generally any objection to addresses for the usual papers: he could not make any distinction in the resolution between addresses for papers, to the presentation of which there could be no valid objection, and addresses for papers during the course of a negotiation, the production of which might be highly inconvenient to the public service. He could not see how the resolution at all diminished the privileges or liberties of individual Members of the House: it only decided that the minority of the House should not have the power of presenting Addresses to the Crown. The intention of the resolution was, that there should be more than one vote before such an address was presented, in case there was an objection made. He did not think that in such a case as that mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford, in which the House might wish
 167
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. and learned Gentleman knows that there is a very important measure for to-morrow. I will see the progress of that measure before introducing another.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he had stated last year that it was his intention to pro-
 162 163 164
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that he would postpone the further consideration of the resolution until Tuesday next.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought it was just the same thing whether he withdrew the Motion or postponed it till Tuesday.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not mean to take any precedence over the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire on Tuesday.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the project of the noble Lord did not appear to be so mature as to warrant his taking Tuesday next. Besides, there stood an important Motion for that night.
 MR. GOULBURN  must oppose the resolution. It laid down a new principle, that the House was to take one course when a Motion was not opposed, and another course when a Motion was opposed. It was extremely difficult to see how this principle would be carried out. The single "No" of an individual Member might have the effect of postponing an important question until a Committee could be appointed. The resolution proposed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, afforded no security against a Member coming down to the House, and in a thin House carrying an address in favour of something that had been recommended by a Committee upstairs, and then all the inconvenience would arise that the noble Lord apprehended from the present course. The resolution of the noble Lord was founded upon an entirely new principle, and one the actual working of which it was extremely difficult to fix in the mind. It might have the effect of postponing the decision of the House upon some very important question, which it was of importance to take up at once. He thought, therefore, that on principle there were grave objections to the proposal of the noble Lord. How, for example, would it operate on the general business of the House? The greater part of the information obtained by the House on colonial and
 168
 MR. HERRIES  opposed the resolution as an attempted abridgment of the individual rights and privileges of Members of that House. He thought that it had of late years been too much the practice to curtail the privileges of individual Members of the House. In some cases, perhaps, this might have been advantageous to the public service, and to the despatch of business, while in others his own opinion was it had been done for the purpose of giving facilities to a majority in the hands of a Minister, for doing that which might have received more effectual opposition had more power been left in the hands of individual Members. When he first entered the House any Member had the undoubted privilege of rising and making a Motion, without giving notice of it. That was found inexpedient in practice, though he still thought it was in the power of every Member to do so. Still he admitted that by almost universal consent that right had been abandoned, and it was now expected that every Gentleman should give notice before bringing on a Motion. He had not offered any opposition to the restrictions, when they had been imposed with manifest propriety, or something like advantage to the public business; but here was a case of a different description. It was manifest that it arose out of an occurrence of the past year, which was extremely distasteful and disagreeable to Her Majesty's Ministers, and for that reason they must scrutinise more particularly the grounds on which they were urged to adopt it. How would the resolution proposed by the noble Lord apply to a Motion for an Address in answer to the Speech from the Throne at
 165 166
 MR. M. GIBSON  wished to know the effect of this resolution on the ordinary Motions for returns from the public offices? If there was any opposition to the return being furnished, he understood that it would be necessary to go through two stages and obtain two majorities, before the return could be obtained. He would suggest that it would be reasonable to except Motions for addresses for papers of the kind to which he had alluded from the operation of the resolution.
 MR. W. P. WOOD : At the very earliest possible opportunity?
 MR. W. P. WOOD  wished to ask whether the noble Lord at the head of the Government was prepared to bring in any measure to carry into effect the resolution passed on the 5th of August in the last Session, "That this House will, at the earliest opportunity in the next Session of Parliament, take into its serious consideration the form of the oath of abjuration, with a view to relieve Her Majesty's subjects professing the Jewish religion."
 SIR G. GREY  did not think the noble Viscount was particularly happy in his illustration of what he thought would be the inconvenient working of the Motion proposed by his noble Friend at the head of the Government; for if he (Sir G. Grey) was not mistaken, the noble Viscount had read the Address of the House in 1841, which was an Address at the opening of the Session, in answer to the Speech from the Throne, and had therefore gone through precisely that course which every opposed address would go through in ordinary circumstances if the resolution of his noble Friend were carried. That Address, after being moved in the whole House, was referred, as all addresses at the opening of the Session, in answer to the Speech from the Throne, are, to a Committee, and was then reconsidered on the bringing up of the Committee's report on a subsequent day. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, seemed to misapprehend the effect of the proposed resolution, in thinking that the opposition of any Member of the House would stop a debate and prevent discussion. The effect would simply be that the debate would go on, that the House would resolve that an address should be presented, and it would be then referred to a Select Committee to draw up the address and report it on a subsequent day. The intended effect of the resolution was, that a second stage should take place in all those cases in which an address was opposed. It was, no doubt, exceedingly desirable that the terms of the resolution should be carefully considered; and if the House was not disposed to adopt the resolution now proposed, it was more desirable to take some time for consideration.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  "thought it was impossible it could be an adjournment. The Motion must be withdrawn, and a new one made on Tuesday.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  wished to call the attention of the House to a constitutional question involved in the resolution. In what sort of a position would we be placed by it should the same state of things again take place which occurred before the dissolution of the Melbourne Government? Suppose that the majority of the House, or those who imagined that they might be a a majority, if they appealed to the country, carried the Address to the Crown of want of confidence in Ministers, did the noble Lord mean that under this resolution Her Majesty's Ministers were to have a second chance of retaining their seats? During the debates on the Irish Registration Bill last Session, when the Members of the House were nearly balanced, probably had Lord Stanley moved a vote of want of confidence, the numbers would have been the same as those who supported him on the Irish Registration Bill; but if the noble Lord's resolution had been in force, Lord Stanley must, if successful, again have
 169
 MR. V. SMITH  said, the recommendation of the Committee of 1848 was, that upon a vacancy, either of the Counsel to the Speaker or of the Clerk of the House, the question of the appointment of Counsel to the Speaker should be reconsidered. If ho might be allowed by the Committee to speak what he supposed their meaning was, it was that upon the appointment of a new Clerk of the House, some gentleman should be selected who would be capable, and willing also, to perform the offices of Counsel to the Speaker as well as of Clerk to the House. If this Committee were appointed, he hoped they would have to consider also whether there should be some sort of combined tribunal of Lords and Commons for the transaction of private business. The House of Lords had appointed a new Chairman of Committees, and he sincerely hoped that, whatever the abilities of the noble Lord who had just quitted that office might be, the new Chairman would not possess the very extraordinary and anomalous power, in the conduct of private business, which appeared to have been vested in Lord Shaftesbury. Every one must recollect that when any clause was proposed in a Committee of the House of Commons, some clerk behind was sure to whisper, "You had better not put that in, for Lord Shaftesbury will throw it out."
 MR. DRUMMOND : Well, Dr. Cullen came over, went back, and made his report. He was at Rome when he heard that Smith O'Brien had sent over to the French Republic to ask their assistance in the contemplated rebellion in Ireland. When he heard the news, he said, "Oh, now the time is come for crushing England; now the time is come to put down Protestantism there." Dr. Wiseman I was there at the same time, and he said to Father Grassi, one of the lieutenant-generals of the Jesuits, "Give me but sufficient power, and I will establish a  Jesu 227 228 Index Expurgatorius; 229 230 persona duplex persona mixta, vicarius Christi, persona mixta 231
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  said: Notwithstanding the great cry which had resounded from one part of the country to the other, he could not rise up against the Roman Catholic Church. He could not refuse to acknowledge that it contained every truth most sacred to man; although he must admit it has been perverted so as to make it fairly a question whether it has not done as much evil as good. He was very much astonished when he was told that this question was not a novel one; because he would defy any Gentleman to point out a single instance in history where a similar case had occurred. He defied them to show him a single State in Europe in which the Pope would have dared to have done that which he had in this. Other occasions would arise when he would feel it his duty to point out how otherwise he should have rejoiced at much that has taken place. He would have done so now, if the question had been confined to its spiritual point of view, because in the present state of ecclesiastical affairs, after the decision pronounced by the Privy Council, by that selected person who might be considered to have spoken with the voice
 224 baculi 225 In cœná Domini? In cœna Domini Cries of 226 Cries of
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, that the country had, during the recess, been led to believe (as had been remarked by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down) that Ireland was to be exempted from the operation of this Bill. Ireland, however, was included in the Bill, and for his own part he was not sorry for it. An hon. Friend near him, an Irish Protestant, had given notice of a Motion to alter that provision, but he hoped that he would not persevere in his Motion. He believed that most Irish Members wished the provision not to be withdrawn; for if wrong had been done by the English Catholics, the Irish Catholics shared with them in the offence, and, as the numerically stronger and more powerful body, they should not desert the weaker in a case like the present. Not only had the existing law been practically inoperative in Ireland on this question, but the supremacy of the Queen over the Established Church was an undeniable fact (whatever might be thought of its justice) in that country as in England; and therefore if a violation of it had been committed in the one country, it had in the other. The noble Lord had spoken of the loyalty of certain Roman Catholics in such a manner as to disparage that of others; he (Mr. O'Connell) did not feel his loyalty to the Queen of England at all affected by the noble Lord's judgment; but if the noble Lord meant to say that he and those who agreed with him, and who did not look on the proceedings of the Court of Rome as injurious to the Queen of England, or contrary to public policy, had diminished their loyalty in the slightest degree, he could make no answer to that imputation, because he could not make one which would be respectful to that House. He denied that the present case was at all parallel to the supposed one cited by the noble Lord at the head of the Government of a person landing in England with a grant from the Pretender, and proceeding to act upon it; for such a person would
 263
 MR. W. S. LASCELLES, COMPTROLLER OF THE HOUSEHOLD,  reported Her Ma-
 185 "I have received, with much satisfaction, your royal and dutiful Address. "Your expression of attachment to My Throne is very gratifying to Me and you may be assured of My determination to maintain the independence and uphold the constitutional liberties of My people."
 LORD J. RUSSELL :  * 188 189 190 191 192 193 "Urbem, quam dicunt Romam, Melibœe, putavi, Stultus ego huic nostra similem:"— 194 195 196 dicta placet, 197 placet 198 199 200 201 Prœmunire, 202 "As long as the law is obligatory, so long our obedience is due, and he that begins a contrary custom, without reason, sins; but he that breaks the law when the custom is entered and fixed is excused, because it is supposed the legislative power consents when, by not punishing, it suffers disobedience to grow to a custom." 203 204 "A practice has occasionally, of late, prevailed, in Ireland, which is calculated to afford great, and I may add just, offence to Protessants—I allude to the practice of claiming and assuming, on the part of the Roman Catholic prelates, the names and titles of dignities belonging to the Church of England. I propose that the episcopal titles and names made use of in the Church of England shall not be assumed by bishops of the Roman Catholic Church. Bishops I call them, for bishops they are, and have, among other privileges, a right to exercise the power of ordination, which is perfectly valid, and is even recognised by our own Church; but I maintain it is not seemly or decorous for them to use the styles and titles that properly belong to prelates of the Established Church, much less publicly and ostentatiously
 205 "And is not the King, beloved brethren, whom by the law of God we are bound to honour, entitled now to all the honour, and all the obedience, and all the gratitude you can bestow? And do not his Ministers merit from you a confidence commensurate with the labours and the zeal expended by them on your behalf? And that Legislature which raised you up from your prostrate condition, and gave to you, without reserve, all the privileges you desired—is not that Legislature entitled to your reverence and love? We confide that your feelings on this subject are in unison with our own, and that a steady attachment to the constitution and laws of your country, as well as to the person and Government of our most gracious Sovereign, will be manifested in your entire conduct." "We rejoice at the result, regardless of those provisions in the great measure of relief which injuriously affect ourselves, and not only us but those religious orders which the Church of God, even from the apostolic times, has nurtured and cherished in her bosom. These provisions, however, which were, as we hope and believe', a sacrifice required, not by reason or policy, but by prejudices holding captive the minds of even honest men, did not prevent us from rejoicing at the good which was effected for our country." 206 207 208 209 210 211 "So that the Crown of England, which hath been so free at all times that it hath been in no earthly subjection, but immediately subject to God, in all things touching the regality of the same Crown, and to none other, should be submitted to the Pope, and the laws and statutes of the realm by him defeated and annulled at his will, in perpetual destruction of the sovereignty of the King our lord, his crown and his regality, and of all his realm, which God forbid!" "That they will stand with the same Crown and regality, in those cases especially, and in all other cases which shall be attempted against the said Crown and regality, in all points, with all their power." "That leave be given to bring in a Bill to prevent the Assumption of certain Ecclesiastical Titles in respect of places in the United Kingdom."
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, as far as he was concerned, that if any hon. Gentleman desired to address the House on the Motion for the introduction of the Bill, he had no objection to his doing so; and he hoped that the House would agree to an adjournment of the debate if any hon. Member was so disposed.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the Bill must be brought in before the details could be explained.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish to recall the attention of the House for a moment from that controversial rhetoric, of which, I fear, the policy of Her Majesty's Government affords the House a considerable prospect for the rest of the Session. I wish to state the reason why I shall give my vote for the introduction of this measure. I shall do so because I think it important that the people, the community in general, should see what is the result of that remarkable agitation which has been fostered by the Government, and which has led, I admit, to a national demonstration, seldom, perhaps, been equalled. I cannot but think that, to-morrow, when the report of the contents of this Bill shall become known to the country, there will be experienced a feeling of great disappoinment, I will add, of great mortification. Let us remember for a moment what this Bill is intended to combat. It is to combat "an aggression." Let the House remember the origin of that now familiar but fearful term. It was the expression of the Minister, selected by himself, and offered to the country as a reason for that appeal, both to the passions and the reason of the nation, which he in his wisdom felt it his duty to make. This, then, is the weapon by which the First Minister of the Crown, after three months of unexampled agitation in the country—after three months of consultation with his colleagues—this is the weapon which he has prepared for defending the Church and the State from that great "aggression" which he has so vehemently denounced. I confess I do not think that the weapon in equal to the office for which it is intended. I think that many persons will be of opinion that it is a somewhat small result after the antecedents that had so attracted public notice. Was it for this that the Lord High Chancellor of England trampled on a cardinal's hat—amidst the patriotic acclamations of the metropolitan municipality? Was it for this that the First Minister, with more reserve, delicately intimated to the assembled guests that there had been occasions when perhaps even greater danger was at hand—as, for instance, when the shadow of the Armada darkened the seas of Eng-
 257 258 259 "He believed they might repeal those disallowing clauses which prevented a Roman Catholic bishop assuming a title held by a bishop of the Established Church."—[ Hansard, 260 261 odium theologicum concordat 262
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  could have supposed during the last half hour that he was in Exeter-hall, listening to some of the minor canons who held forth in that edifice. It was evident that whatever might be the religious opinions of the hon. Member for West Surrey, he was one of that class who did not hesitate to rush in "where angels feared to tread." His speech afforded a slight indication of the evil that this measure of the noble Lord at the head of the Government was likely to produce in this country, and in Ireland. The noble Lord had spoken in strong language of the necessity that had been forced upon him by the Papal aggression, and he was very indignant at the acts of the Pope and Cardinal Wiseman. To judge from the language of the noble Lord, it might be inferred that he considered the conduct of Cardinal Wiseman to fall little short of high treason. If so, did not the law as it now stood afford the means by which to meet the act? The Act of the 13th of Elizabeth was surely sufficient to meet any aggression such as that signified by the noble Lord, if the Government chose to put it in execution; and the opinion of Sir Edward Sugden, one of the ablest lawyers of the day, was, that the existing law met the case. If they had enforced the provisions of the 13th of Elizabeth, cap. 2, sec. 3, the whole proceeding and the accompanying and consequent excitement, would have been prevented. [The hon. Member here read the clause of the Act, which was to the effect that any person introducing into this country bulls, papers, writings, or instruments
 232 casus belli, 233 234 pro tanto; pro tanto pro tanto Dublin Gazette, entrée 235
 MR. MOORE  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had that night displayed an amount of historical research which would entitle him to fill the chair of history in the Queen's Colleges in Ireland. The noble Lord had undertaken to prove, from ancient and modern history, that there was a principle in Popery which required repression—that its full development was dangerous to the Government, and to the community—that therefore it was their duty, in conformity with the practice of our despotic ancestors, and in conformity with the practice of the absolute Governments of Europe, to repress the development of its institutions by statute. But he would ask the noble Lord of what institutions did any despotic Government, ancient or modern, permit the development? To assert that the policy of William the Conquer of, that the policy of the Governments of the middle ages, or of modern Governments which were not constitututional, should be examples to this coun-
 236 237 238 239 Nomine mutato de te fabula narratur. Commentaries—Ecclesia Anglicana divisa est in partes tres; 240 241 Ce n'est pas que le premier 242 pas qui coute.
 MR. MOORE  begged to ask the noble Lord, before the adjournment was put, whether he would favour the House with any inkling as to the details of this Bill, what it was—whether it was to constitute a mere misdemeanour—how it was to be tried—in fact, what were the details of the Bill.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  understood the recommendation of the Committee to have been, that, when a vacancy took place, the appointment should be reconsidered, with a view to see whether a saving of public money could not be effected. When the vacancy in the office of Clerk occurred, his noble Friend had no doubt felt, as he (Mr. Labouchere) should have done, that that House could no more meet without a Clerk; at the table than without a Speaker in the chair, and that it was impossible not to take measures immediately for filling the office of Clerk to the House. Nothing
 187
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I presume the hon. Members on the Government benches think it is not necessary to speak after the statement of the noble Lord; and on the other side the hon. Gentlemen are rather taken aback and do not know precisely what line to pursue until they have considered it out of doors, and have fixed on the course they are to pursue. Now, the question which we are to discuss to-night is considered by some present to be a light one, and a matter of very little importance; by others it is considered a very grave one, and amongst them is the noble Lord at the head of the Government, who showed more than usual feeling and excitement in the speech he has delivered to-night. I am not about to make many observations upon the course which the noble Lord has taken with regard to this question. The worst I will say of his letter is that I think it was written under feelings of excitement which are hardly becoming a Prime Minister, and which will not add to the noble Lord's character as a judicious statesman. There is also an inconsistency in it, for the noble Lord, in reference to the appointment of certain Catholic bishops, is fearful that it is a breach of the Queen's supremacy, an insult to the country, and in fact that it threatens the independence of the nation. But in that letter he has made a statement which shows that it is not that which excites him;
 243 244 245 246 l. l. l., 247 Sint Prœdicatores, non Prœdatores— 248 249 l. l. l. The Devastation. 250 251 A laugh. 252 The Birthday. 253 "Her most gracious Majesty's acceptance of the sermon accompanying this note is humbly requested by Her Majesty's most loyal and de voted subject, J. FLETCHER. "Mile-end-road, Jan. 17, 1842." "17, Upper Grosvenor-street, March 12, 1842. "Sir—In reply to your note of the 9th instant, I have the honour to state that I consider the fact of your discourse having been delivered in a dissenting meeting is of itself sufficient to justify me in declining to present a copy of it to the Queen. With many apologies for having detained the copy so long, I have the honour to be, sir, your obedient servant, "DELAWARR." 254 New York Independent "The Philadelphia papers of Saturday contained a notice of the organisation of a new German church in that city on the next day, composed of a number of Catholic German families, who have openly seceded from the Roman hierarchy. These instances of secession have become quite frequent; and, as the influences of our free Protestantism are felt, will become very much the fashion of the emigrants, particularly the Germans. In Cincinnati, the editor of the  Louisville Herald 255 256
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had acted wisely, even in the eleventh hour, in not proposing such a measure as his celebrated
 219 220 viaticum. 221 222 Hansard 223
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  rose to order. He did not consider it proper that the hon. Member should attribute treasonable sentiments to absent individuals.
 MR. REYNOLDS  could assure the House and the noble Lord that he would not have proposed an adjournment if it did not appear that many hon. Gentlemen were most anxious to address the House.
 MR. REYNOLDS  rose, amidst cries of "Divide!" He begged to move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government began by laying a foundation broad enough for the large capital of legislation proposed by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire. He not only went back to the most distant ages, but had searched Europe through, and had gone through the history of Austria, of Russia, of France, and of Holland for his Act, and, lastly, of England. If he had gathered its purpose rightly from the noble Lord's description, the Bill to be introduced meant that bishops of the Roman Catholic faith should not call themselves bishops of any place in the three kingdoms, or in any part of Her Majesty's dominions—[Lord J. RUSSELL: No! only in the three kingdoms]—and that any property left to them as such bishops should be forfeited to the Crown. Let the House understand, if the person calls himself Archbishop of Westminster the law would operate, but if he called himself Archbishop in Westminster, the law would be inoperative. With the strong opinions expressed by the noble Lord respecting ecclesiastical power and ambition he entirely concurred, but there was one broad fallacy
 212 213 214 215 216 217 218
 MR. W. PATTEN  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that a Committee was appointed at the end of last Session to consider the way in which the private business of the House could be conducted, and that it had decided on the abandonment of certain old forms and proceedings which had been found attended with inconvenience, and on the adoption of certain others for the beneficial working of which the superintendence of the Counsel to the Speaker was thought necessary. The duties which the Committee determined to devolve upon that officer were of the greatest possible importance, requiring not only experience but legal knowledge in the gentleman selected to perform them. At that time there was a gentleman connected with the House whom the Committee considered qualified for the discharge of them, and who was accordingly appointed. During the recess the noble Lord at the head of the Government had, for the reasons explained by him to the House on the previous day, thought fit to abolish the office of Counsel to the Speaker, a step which, however advantageous to the public in a pecuniary point of view, he feared might involve the House in considerable difficulties. He proposed now to move for a Committee with a view to consider how they might relieve themselves from those difficulties. There must either be a person appointed as Counsel to the Speaker, or they must resort again to the old forms, already abandoned, for the sake of procuring order and regularity in their proceedings. Having been chairman of the Committee to which he alluded, he was not aware, and he believed the Committee were not aware, that it had been recommended under any circumstances to abolish the office in question, and he thought the noble Lord was in error in referring to the recommendation of the Committee presided over by the right hon. Member for Northampton. That Committee only recommended that when the office should become vacant, the appointment of Counsel to the
 186
 SIR B. HALL  stated that, during last Session, he had alluded to an appointment made by the Archbishop of Canterbury to the reversion of a sinecure in the Prerogative Court worth 10,000 l.
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that it was the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill with respect, to the first part of the subject to which the hon. Member referred. With respect to the ecclesiastical courts generally, that was a subject which had been very much considered; communications had taken place with ecclesiastical lawyers on the subject; but he could not pledge himself to bring in a Bill, unless he could assure the House that he should be able to introduce it in sufficient time to permit its discussion. With respect to the division of populous parishes, the Government did intend to propose a Bill.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  was unwilling that amongst the number of Members who had listened to the speech of the Member for Manchester, which was a most elaborate bill of indictment against the Church of England, there should not be one to give some answer to it. The hon. Member for Manchester, in his usual  ad captandum 264 l. 265
 MR. REYNOLDS  rose, for the purpose of explaining the reasons which induced him to oppose the Motion of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. In doing
 280 l. l. l. 281 Johnson Walker, 282 s. l. l., 283 284 285 l. 286 287 288 Laughter. l. l. con amore, 289 290 l. l. l. s. d.; l. s. d. 291
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, if the House had taken the usual and ordinary course of allowing the Bill to be brought in so that the House might have seen what its provisions were, he should not have thought it his duty to trouble them with any observations on the present occasion. But as the House had been occupied one long night, and probably might continue some time longer, discussing the provisions of a Bill about to be introduced, in the absence of all knowledge of its details—a species of ignorance they must necessarily labour under—and as it appeared to him that the observations made by the noble Lord in introducing the Bill with respect to its purport and effect were not fully understood by the House, he was desirous, with its permission, of explaining what was the main scope and effect of the measure, as described by his noble Friend, in asking for leave to introduce it. Before he did so, he hoped the House would permit him to call its attention to what the offences were which it was intended by the Bill to meet. In the course of the last year the offence against which the measure was aimed occurred in the introduction of a bull, by which certain persons were entitled by the Court of Rome, or the Pope at Rome, to assume for themselves certain ecclesiastical titles, as being the archbishop and bishops of certain territorial sees and dioceses, defined by certain territorial limits throughout England and Wales. That was the whole extent of the offence; the consequences of it would have to be regarded and dealt with by the House; but they derived solely
 292 293 in partibus, 294 l. l. 295 296 in partibus 297 298 299 300
 LORD ASHLEY : * 301 The Declaration of the Ministers of the Congregational Denominations in the County of Lancaster, "In all this we see Romanism in a form the most despotic, arrogant, and offensive, strikingly in contrast to the more liberal interpretations of it so common among English Catholics before the passing of the Emancipation Act—in a form, indeed, which is so much after the pattern of the worst times in the history of the Papacy, as to furnish precedent enough, if allowed silently to take its course, for aggressions dangerous alike to the British Crown and to those liberties, civil and religious, which our Protestant fathers have bequeathed to us." 302 303 304 Some laughter. 305 Appeal, 306 307 "The Pope, by his ill-advised measures, has placed the Roman Catholics in this country in a position where they must either break with Rome, or violate their allegiance to the constitution of these realms." Middle Ages "The superiority of the ecclesiastical over the temporal power may be considered as a sort of key-note which regulates every passage in the canon law. It is expressly declared that subjects owe no allegiance to an excommunicated Sovereign." 308 309 310 "It may seem necessary to state my reason for imagining that I see an approximation, not merely towards individual Catholic practices or doctrines, but towards Catholic union. … It seems to me impossible to read the works of the Oxford divines, and especially to follow them chronologically, without discovering a daily approach towards our holy Church, both in doctrine and affectionate feeling. Our saints, our Popes, have become dear to them by little and little; our rites and ceremonies, our offices, nay, our very rubrics, are precious in their eyes; far, alas! beyond what many of us consider them; our monastic institutions, our charitable and educational
 311 "That the feelings which have been expressed in favour of a return to unity by the Anglican Church are every day widely spreading, and deeply sinking, no one can doubt. Those sentiments have a silent echo in hundreds of sympathising bosoms.…There are many evidences which it would be hardly proper to detail [mark that], that Catholic feelings have penetrated deeper into society than at first one would suspect. Whole parishes have received the leaven, and it is fermenting; and places where it might least be expected seem to have received it in more secret and mysterious ways." An observation, which the reporters did not catch, was here made by an hon. Member under the opposite gallery. "By two ways the population of this country would be worked upon (through its Established Church) for its moral improvement—the rural districts through parochial influence; the denser population of towns or manufacturing districts through monastic institutions. Experience has now shown that the country population are ready to receive without murmuring, indeed, with pleasure the Catholic views propounded from Oxford; and, indeed, even more, when taught through regular parochial instruction." 312
 MR. GRATTAN  would remind the House of the injustice of extending the
 313 314 315 Lives of Lord Chief Justices, "If I were such a man as your Lordship considers me to be, not thinking of God Almighty, or heaven or hell, I might have saved my life; for it has been often offered to me if I would confess my guilt and accuse others; but, my Lord, I would sooner die ten thousand deaths!" "This most Rev. Dr. Oliver Plunkett, titular Archbishop of Armagh and Primate of the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland, was a man of splendid abilities, profound learning, unblemished life, and genuine piety"— 316 "Solventur risu tabulæ: tu missus abibis." 317 Junius, "They left their native land in search of freedom, they found it in a desert;—divided, as they are, into a thousand forms of policy and religion, there is one point in which they all agree, they equally detest the pageantry of a king, and the supercilious hypocrisy of a bishop." "We see in our day a more enlarged and comprehensive Christian philanthropy—it seems to be the mission which God has entrusted to us on the western shores of the Atlantic—that all sects and denominations who love His will may be safely tolerated without prejudice to religion. Gentlemen, we are all Protestants; but you know there presides at the head of the supreme judicature a Roman Catholic; and no man imagines that the judicature of the country is less safe, or that the
 318 319 320 Laughter. 321 "Ille Cannarum vindex et tanti sanguinis ultor Annulus " "Macte novâ virtute, puer: sic itur ad astra, Diis genite, et geniture Deos: jure omnia bella Gente sub Assaraci fato ventura resident: Nee te Troja capit."
 MR. DRUMMOND  begged to explain. What he had stated was, that after the Court of Rome had received intelligence that the Earl of Clarendon had been consulted on the matter of the Queen's Colleges, the Pope, before he took any steps, had sent over Dr. Cullen to spy out what was going on. It was, obvious, then, that there was no room, in the application of the word which had been chosen, to take offence. He had not said that there was any harm in what the Pope had done, or in what Dr. Cullen had done.
 MR. CONOLLY  said, that in dealing with this important subject, he should not forget what was due to the feelings of Roman Catholics in reference to their religious opinions. The response given by England to the claims of the Pope was similar to that given by Spain—the most Roman; Catholic country—by Austria, Belgium, Prance, Holland, and Russia; they one and all had asserted that the powers of the Pope of Rome must be restricted within certain bounds. Those nations had not all taken the same course or applied the same restrictions, but they had all proclaimed I with one voice that the powers claimed by the Pope were incompatible with the government and independence of a free State. And should England alone, of all the countries of Europe, suffer such a power to grow up unrestricted within her territories? He did not mean to say that penal laws ought to be enacted, or any such thing, but he contended that that power ought to be restrained. He thought history would bear him out in asserting that those coun-
 322
 MR. W. P. WOOD  thought it rather inconvenient to discuss the subject at such great length upon the Motion for leave to bring in a Bill. He would much rather have seen the Bill laid before the House before he entered further on the discussion of it. At the same time, principles had been advanced, more particularly by hon. Members on his own side of the House, so perfectly at variance with the views that ought to lead to a right conclusion on the subject, that he felt it impossible to remain silent. He heard it asserted, first, by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, and, with great surprise, afterwards by his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester, with whom he thought there was an accordance at least on one point of their political creeds, that the opinions expressed throughout the country in so plain and unequivocal a manner—in a manner more decided than anything he could recollect since the agitation for the Reform Bill, were to weigh for nothing; nay, more, that those who so expressed their opinions were to be stigmatised with bigotry. He wished, as he had always wished, that the opinions of the large masses of the people of England should have yet more weight and effect than they now had in that House. He had always wished, and still wished, that the suffrage should be extended, and the effect of that extension must be, in a great measure, no doubt, to bring public opinion more strongly to bear upon questions that were discussed in that House. Were they to be told by the hon. Member for Manchester that the public opinion of the coun-
 323 324 in foro conscientiœ, in foro externo; in foro externo. 325 cis Taurum sedes, 326 Univers Gondon, "The brief of Pius IX. is, in fact, nothing less than that. The Bishop of London exactly appreciates its bearing. Just as St. Gregory transferred the primacy from London to Canterbury; as Popes Boniface and Honorius confirmed this change, so Pius IX. transfers to-day the primacy of Canterbury to the new archiepiscopal see of Westminster. It is by virtue of the authority bequeathed to him by his predecessors that the Pope substitutes for the see of London that of Southwark, and abolishes all the ancient sees erected in England by the Popes who have preceded him in the chair of St. Peter. Consequently, from the promulgation of the brief, there exists neither see of Canterbury, nor of York, nor London, nor any of the sees established anterior to the Reformation. The personages who shall for the future assume the titles of Archbishop of Canterbury and Bishop of London will be mere intruders, schismatic prelates, without any spiritual authority." 327 ex post facto 328 expressio unius exclusio alterius "The Commons aforesaid said, that the said things so attempted be clearly against the King's Crown and regality used and approved in the time of his progenitors—wherefore the Commons will stand with their said Lord and King and his Crown and regality, and in all other cases attempted against him. The Commons also recommend, that the Lords spiritual and temporal should be asked what they thought of the Pope's conduct; and this having been done, the Lords temporal declared that they would support the King's Crown and regality;"— "It was then enacted, by the common consent of Parliament, that whoever introduced any bulls to effect such translations, or in any way to touch the King's prerogative, should incur the penalty of  prœmunire." ex post facto 329 330 "Your beloved country has received a place among the fair Churches which, normally constituted, form the splendid aggregate of Catholic
 331 Appeal 332 Habemus confitentem reum Constitutiones principum ecclesiasticis constitutionibus non prœminent sed obsequuntur. 333 334 335 336 337
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, that while he listened attentively to the speech of his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down, he was unable to detect in the greater part of that speech any logical attempt to reason in favour of the first reading of this Bill. His hon. and learned Friend would forgive him, he trusted, for saying, that though the first part might have been a very plausible speech to evidence, had a prosecution been instituted on the part of the Crown, and though the latter part might be very well suited to a Church of England meeting, neither the one nor the other furnished a justification for the Act proposed to be done by a Parliament of all the subjects of the Queen, without regard to creed, assembled from every portion of a widely-extended empire, and supposed to represent impartially and to respect equally all the conscientious feelings which men could entertain with reference to that greatest of all relations, the individual relation of man to his God. His hon. and learned Friend must excuse him, therefore, if he (Mr. M'Cullagh) did not stop on the threshold of what he had to say to debate with him matters of special pleading as to the construction of statutes condemned by the highest authority as obsolete. For, be
 338 339 340 341 Royal Gazette 342 343 344
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, after the ample discussion which the question under the consideration of the House has already undergone, I should scarcely have felt it necessary on an occasion like this, when my noble Friend has merely asked leave to lay a Bill on the table of the House, to offer myself to the attention of the House even for a short time, were it not that some observations have been made in the course of this rather discursive debate, which I feel it my duty not to pass over in silence. Sir, it is impossible, in reference to the specific Motion now before the House, not to feel the inconvenience of a protracted discussion which must necessarily involve to a certain extent the provisions and minute details of a Bill which is not yet in possession of the House. I cannot, however, lament the length to which this debate has extended; I am rather disposed to congratulate the House on the fact, because the ground has been thereby much cleared for future discussion, by the admission of certain propositions which I think have been established by the most conclusive arguments, and proved by the most convincing evidence. Some of those propositions are the following. I think it has been proved beyond a question that in adopting the measure now under the consideration of the House, we are acting merely on the defensive, and in accordance with the demand which has been made from one end of Great Britain to the other, on the Crown, the Government or Parliament of this country, that some steps, of a purely defensive nature, should be taken to resist the recent act of aggression of the Court of Rome. The hon. Member for Dublin, followed by the hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House, complains of the bigotry of the people of England, and he has drawn a gratifying and pleasing picture of the harmony which has existed between all classes of the people and the professors of different creeds up to a late period. He stated, and stated truly, that Protestants and Roman Catholics were living together in kindness and mutual good feeling; and then he says that we have disturbed these friendly feelings, that we have sowed the seeds of dissension, and that a war of religious rancour and discord has been raised, which we have gratuitously provoked. That position I entirely deny. It is now proved, I think, beyond a doubt, that we were not the aggressors
 345 346 347 multum in parvo 348 349 entrée "The Castle of Dublin, Jan. 2, 1851. "My Lord—In reply to your Excellency's inquiry, relative to the private  entrée Dublin Gazette entrée, Gazette Gazette, "FREDERIC WILLIS, Gentleman Usher. "His Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, &c." entrée entrée. 350 pseudo pseudo 351 pseudo pseudo pseudo 352 Loud cries of 353 "… In the autumn of 1847 the Board of Presidents sitting in Dublin were occupied in framing the statutes for the colleges. I was in constant communication with them, and I also sought the advice of different persons whose knowledge and experience might aid in rendering the statutes complete, and thereby fulfilling the intentions of the Government which had founded the colleges, and the Legislature which had sanctioned them. I was also most anxious to remove the charge of 'godlessness' which had been brought against the colleges in England, and eagerly adopted by the enemies of those institutions in Ireland; and I moreover thought it a solemn obligation that the moral training and religious instruction of the students frequenting the colleges should be guarded with the most scrupulous care. I accordingly consulted several clergymen of different denominations, and, among others, Dr. Nicholson, the Coadjutor-Archbishop of Corfu, who had just arrived in Ireland, and having passed some time at Rome on his way, was cognisant of all the unfounded rumours current there respecting the colleges, which had led to the condemnation of them by the Pope; and, as he was shortly about to return to Rome, I was glad of the opportunity to show him how the interests of religion and morality were guaranteed for all denominations alike (by the appointment of deans of residence, and the establishment of licensed boarding-houses, &c), and consequently the utter falsehood of the report that the colleges had been established for the purpose of undermining the Roman Catholic religion. … When the statutes were completed and agreed to, Dr. Nicholson was about to return to Corfu by the way of Rome, and I willingly gave him an extract from them which related to moral discipline and religious instruction, in the belief that it was the best mode of communicating the truth to the Pope, and of confuting the unjustifiable misrepresentations made to him; and I have no hesitation in saying, that I was desirous to effect this, because the condemnation of the colleges by the Pope was likely to deprive many of the Roman Catholic youth of Ireland of the advantages offered to them by the Legislature. I wished, therefore, that he should know and consider the precautions taken, in order that he might become aware of the errors upon which his condemnation had been founded. If I had been capable of seeking any foreign sanction to a matter of domestic
 354 mutatis mutandis, 355 356 357 358 359 360
 LORD J. RUSSELL  opposed the Motion. On Friday night he was asked to state the details of the Bill; but now, if the Motion for adjournment were carried, it must be a considerable time before the House saw the Bill. If the whole principle was to be discussed on the second reading, and the Bill was to be again discussed in Committee, he did hope that the House would not agree to the Motion of the hon. Member for Carlisle.
 MR. ROCHE  supported the Motion for an adjournment. There could be no desire on his part, and that of the hon. Members near him, to see the Bill, after hearing the statement of its provisions by the hon. and learned Attorney General. Many Irish Members were anxious to express their opinions upon this question, and he therefore trusted that the House would accede to the Motion of the hon. Member for the adjournment of the debate, and that there might be at least one other night for the discussion of this question.
 MR. M. GIBSON  thought that a measure of this kind, which, to a certain degree, was an attack on the religious feelings of a large proportion of Her Majesty's subjects—["Oh, oh!"] At any rate, it was understood to be an attack on the religious feeling of the Roman Catholics. In common fairness, and with a view to the more easy management of the measure in its future stages, it was wise to give it a full and fair hearing now; and, more especially, as it was a minority which demanded an adjournment, so that there might be no complaints hereafter. He was not in a hurry on the question. This subject was one they could best take when they had nothing else to do. It was an interminable question, and he had heard it discussed year after year in much the same fashion. He trusted, too, that the debate would not only be adjourned, but postponed, in order that they might go on with the budget and the practical business of the country, and the other measures of the Government, which had far more interest for him. When they had nothing else to do, they could have a debate on the great, difficult, and interminable subject of keeping down the influence of the Roman Catholic religion by penal legislation.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that a reason occur-
 361
 MR. C. ANSTEY  supported the Motion for adjournment. He was not disposed to offer anything like a factious opposition to the measure, but he thought the Bill would have a better chance of being successful if it were fairly discussed at this stage, before the Ministers were committed to all the details of it. There was another reason why he thought it was convenient they should now adjourn the debate. Several Gentlemen wished to speak, and he (Mr. Anstey) wished to explain why it was that, being disposed to go a greater length with respect to the Roman Catholic Church in England than the Bill went, he was indisposed to change in the slightest degree the  status
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Member has moved that the House do adjourn. With respect to the suggestion he has
 362
 MR. STANFORD  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department whether the augmentation of the metropolitan police force, made in consequence of the National Exhibition, would be paid for out of the receipts of the Exhibition; and whether the Secretary of State for the Home Department had thought it necessary to convey any intimation to foreign Powers, through the proper channel, of the inconvenience that might arise of large bodies of foreigners visiting this country during the Exhibition in military uniforms, and wearing side-arms, &c and whether additional provision had been made for the safe custody of persons charged with police offences during the Exhibition?
 MR. ANSTEY  rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the repeal of penal enactments against the Roman Catholics. He begged to say that it was with one exception the same Bill which had been discussed in this House during the present Parliament on his Motion, the single exception being a clause of the Bill referring to Papal bulls and instruments of the See of Rome. He had thought that it would be more decorous to omit all reference to that subject from the Bill, as it was one which would come under discussion in the debate that had just been adjourned. With that exception the Bill was the same, as to its enacting part, with that which had been discussed in that House on former occasions. He had drawn the clauses relating to the distinction between the temporal and ecclesiastical supremacy, so as to get rid of all the scruples which had been expressed by hon. Members on this point. Hon. Members opposite would thus have an opportunity of carrying into effect the recommendation of Lord Stanley, made in another place during the present Session, which was—that this occasion should be taken of looking through the securities enacted by the Roman Catholic Relief Act of 1829, with the view of retaining any
 363
 MR. T. BARING  said, it appeared that on the 17th of October last a British brig, bearing a valuable cargo, had been boarded by a steamer in Her Majesty's service, and warned off the coast of San Salvador, although no previous intimation had been given to any parties of the intention of Her Majesty's Government to blockade that port; and up to this morning no official communication had been made at Lloyd's upon the subject, while the French  Moniteur
 SIR G. GREY  said, that in answer to the first part of the question, with regard to the increase of the police force, he had to state that it was thought necessary that there should be an increase of the metropolitan police in consequence of the large number of visitors who were expected in the metropolis during the summer. That increase would only be limited by the necessities of the case. With regard to the mode of meeting the expense which would consequently be incurred, he had to state that the Royal Commissioners of the Exhibition would be required to agree to pay the cost of that portion of the police force which would be necessary for the custody of the articles exhibited and contained within the building in which the Exhibition would take place; and they would also have to meet the charge which would be created by the formation of a police force at the approaches to the Park, and in the immediately adjoining streets and avenues. The arrangements upon that subject would, in fact, be founded upon the same principle which was adopted in the cases of the exhibitions of the Royal Agricultural Society, and of other bodies. The additional force that might be required for maintaining order throughout the metropolis generally would be paid out of the general fund for the payment of the metropolitan police. No intimation had been made to foreign Powers, or at least no intimation certainly had been made by himself, with respect to any large bodies of persons who might come into this country in military uniform; and as he had no reason to think that there was any danger to be apprehended from that cause, he had taken no precaution upon that subject. In answer to the last question of the hon. Gentleman, he had to state that it had not yet been thought necessary to make additional provision for the safe custody of persons charged with police offences during the Exhibition; but if any such necessity should hereafter be found to arise, it would as speedily as possible be supplied.
 SIR G. GREY  agreed with the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, that this was a most inopportune moment for bringing in a Bill of this kind, and he was in hopes that the hon. and learned Member for Youghal had abandoned his intention of introducing it.
 SIR J. HOBHOUSE  said, that before answering the question of his noble Friend, he begged to state that his noble Friend had fallen into a trifling and a very common error in supposing that India was at present administered under a charter granted to the East India Company. The East India Company had certainly a charter of incorporation; but all those privileges which the old charter had given them had been done away with by the Act of 1833; and the administration of India was at present conducted under the clauses of an Act of Parliament. With respect to the question of his noble Friend, he had but to observe that his noble Friend had himself stated a very conclusive reason why the Government of the present day should not follow the course which had been pursued by the Government of 1813 and 1833. It was not their intention to appoint a Select Committee to inquire into that subject. But he had to add, that if there should be any material changes proposed in the Act under which the affairs of
 277
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the House having practically decided, though the numerical majority was the other way, that it would not continue a debate which had already extended over two nights on a most important subject, in which, notwithstanding the statement of the right hon. Member for Manchester, the whole country was deeply interested, he could not but think that it would have been more seemly, more consistent with the justice of the case, and the opinion of the House, if the hon. and leaned Member for Youghal had not endeavoured to provoke a discussion. The hon. and learned Member must have known, from the experience of five successive years, that that House would not consent to a measure of this kind without full discussion. He (Sir R. H. Inglis) would give at once a negative to the proposition of the hon. and learned Member, and would take the sense of the House upon it.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he wished to know what course Her Majesty's Government meant to pursue with respect to the East India Company's Charter, which was to expire in 1854? The change effected in the charter in 1813 had been preceded by the inquiry of a Select Committee in 1809; and the change effected in it in 1833 had been preceded by a similar inquiry in 1829. It was true that on both those occasions great alterations in the charter had been contemplated; and such alterations had very properly undergone previous inquiries in that House. He wished to know whether a similar course would be pursued at present, and whether his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Control proposed to move for a Committee on the East India Company's charter during this Session?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had not yet received any statement that the blockade had been established, and he could not, therefore, have given any notification upon the subject. There were claims pending on the part of British merchants against the Government of San Salvador to the amount of about 20,000 l., 278
 MR. DISRAELI  then proceeded: Mr. Speaker, a condition of general prosperity in a country concurrent with the continued depression of a most important class of the community, appears to me to be a conjuncture which should make a Minister reflect; but if such a combination of circumstances be brought about by legislation which has at the same time produced the general prosperity and the particular depression, I think the subject becomes one which merits not only the consideration of Cabinets, but also the deliberation of Parliament. These remarks, I think, apply to the present condition of the owners and occupiers of land in the united kingdom. It was at first my intention to have offered to the House evidence now in my possession as to that present condition. I would have offered to the House evidence afforded by men in various parts of the kingdom, and who are widely and extensively engaged in the cultivation of the soil—men who are in their class of the highest reputation and merit—many of them known to Members on both sides of the House in Scotland and in Ireland as well as in England. I feel, generally speaking, that there is an objection to such evidence, however respectable, and however supported by the names of those who offer their testimony. I feel that there is a general objection to such evidence being offered in Parliamentary discussion, because it is not subjected to cross-examination, and if brought forward by a private Member of this House, does not bear the stamp of official authority. Trusting,
 375 primâ facie 376 s d s d s s 377 l 378 379 s d s d s d s d 380 381 382 s s s 383 384 Agricultural Chemistry 385 386 387 388 389 l l l 390 l l l 1 391
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I supported Sir Robert Peel.
 MR. DISRAELI : I recollect that there was a division, and that the proposition of the Government was carried. If, however, the noble Lord voted against his own measure, of course I have nothing to do with that. I come now to the second branch of the revenue. Its amount is 15,000,000 l 392 393 394 l s 395 l l l l 396 "With regard to the general policy of imposing a local rate exclusively upon one class of property, I am quite prepared to accede to a proposition which is laid down in a letter upon the transfer of local burdens written by a noble Lord, a Member of this Committee, which has recently come under my observation. These are the words to which I refer:—'The virtue of the law of Elizabeth once admitted, it must be difficult for a man to affirm that any peculiar description of property should, by any vested or inherent privilege, be exempt from paying its proportionate quota to the maintenance of the poor.' I am quite prepared to admit that, unless it can be shown that, unless there is some special reason in favour of a local tax, limited to real property, it is more fair and equitable to defray the expenditure out of a national tax, which should comprehend all species of property. It seems to me that, whenever any expenditure whatever is proposed, the presumption is in favour of making it a national charge, paid out of the national Exchequer, and that an exception can only be made from that general rule, on account of special circumstances arising in the particular case." "I have already ventured to state to the Committee my opinion, that whenever there is a question of defraying any particular charge, the presumption is always in favour of making it a national charge, to be defrayed out of the national Exchequer." "You state that you are of opinion, looking merely to the justice and equity of the considera-
 397 s s l s d l l s d l s d 1 s d l 398 "No branch of manufacturing or commercial industry is subject to a tax at all similar or equivalent to tithe. We have already seen that under the existing regulations, it operates partly to increase prices, and partly to raise the rents of the untithed lands; and we have further seen, that under a system of free trade without duties, the present incidence of tithe would be completely changed; and that it would no longer raise either prices or rents, but would fall wholly on the landlords and occupiers. But we are not to attempt to bring about what is believed to be a great national improvement, by shifting the burden borne by the public to a peculiar class. This would be flagrant iajustice, to be vindicated only by the most overwhelming necessity. Luckily, however, we have not to deal with any such unreasoning principle; and hence the obligation, in the event of the ports being opened, of im-
 399 "When the commutation is completed, the fixed and invariable corn rent that will then be laid on the land, will be a novel and strongly marked feature in the economical condition of the kingdom. Had tithe been commuted a century, or even half a century since, it would have been a very different matter. But, considering the very advanced and peculiar state of the country at the era of the commutation, and the fact that our average prices have been for many years considerably above those of the contiguous continental States, it is pretty evident that the fixed rent due to the tithe-owners may easily come to have a very serious operation on the interests of agriculture, and consequently on those of the public. We have every confidence in the national resources, and in the elasticity and buoyancy of the national industry. But we are not, on that account, to shut our eyes to possible contingencies. And, at all events, the fact of the land being burdened with a fixed corn-rent, ascertained when cultivation was far advanced, is far too momentous to be forgotten or overlooked in dealing with restrictions on importation." Wealth of Nations, 400 401 l l l l 402 l l 403 404 405 406 407 en commandite, 408 l l l 409 s s s s 410 s s s s s s d s s s d s 411 412 Here some remark was made by an hon. Member, which was not heard in the gallery 413 414 Imperium et Libertas
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I need hardly assure the hon. Gentleman and the House, that I will implicitly abide by one recommendation of the hon. Gentleman, and will come to the consideration of this question in a claim and temperate spirit. I think I may say, in-
 415 416 s d s d s 417 418 s s s s s "The deplorable crisis which is pressing upon our agriculture, and which spreads in our country districts discomfort and misery, is far from being ended. The depreciation of the price of corn continues. Agriculture will be severely pressed by this new depreciation, which proves that a superabundant harvest may be a real evil, for it tends to divert more and more from agriculture that capital which will be more necessary
 419 420 421 422 l l 423 s s s d d s d s s d d s s d s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s d s d s d s d s d; d d ½d ½d d d s d s d d 424 d s s s s s 425 s s s s s s l 426 l l 427 l l l l l 428 l l l l l 429 l l l l l 430 431 l l l 432 l l l 
 
 In 1842 taxes to the amount of. £1,596,366 
 1843 411,821 
 1844 458,810 
 1845 4,535,561 
 1846 1,151,790 
 1847 344,886 
 1848 585,968 
 1849 388,798 
 1850 1,289,151 433 l l l l l l l l l 434 l l l l l —"the prosperous condition of other classes of Her subjects will have a favourable effect in diminishing the difficulties and promoting the interests of agriculture?" 435 l l l l l l l l lb lb 436 437 "We are so far from having arrived at that expenditure of capital which, being permanently sunk in the soil, has led to an artificial fertility, that we are not yet at that stage of advancement when we can say we have placed the soil in a condition of even its natural fertility." "I have seen land in such a state of absolute neglect that I have stared with astonishment when I have asked, and been told, what was the amount of rent the late tenant was nominally engaged to pay out of such land. I have seen lands paying (I don't mean to the head landlord) 30 s l "By these means the land will be brought into a state of fertility which will require only a moderate amount of care and attention, and of manure also, to render it permanently productive, yielding, I will venture to say, in many instances, more than double, in some instances even ton fold the produce gained from the land in its existing state." "With these prospects before us, with the spirit I see among you—with the spirit more especially which I see among the leading proprietors—among those who are using properly their high station for the purpose of showing the way towards improvement, and aiding and encouraging their humbler co-labourers—I do not despair, but, on the contrary, I look with confidence to the successful working of this system of improved cultivation. I pray you not to relax in your efforts. Let the zeal you have manifested in the first instance be continued, as I am sure it will he. Let landlord and tenant, manufacturer and agriculturist, pull together in one joint endeavour for our common welfare, and, believe me, we shall insure, in spite of all discouragements and diffi-
 438 439
 MR. HODGSON  hoped that as Cumberland, in which he resided, had been referred to, the House would allow him to make one or two remarks, and extend to him the kindness it usually afforded to a Member who had grievances or distresses of his constituents to state. In the city which he represented (Carlisle), the cotton manufacture had been carried on to a considerable extent, partly for exportation and partly for home consumption; but the demand had wholly ceased, and the operatives were out of employ. There were hundreds who wanted the bare means of subsistence, and hundreds more who earned a very scanty maintenance by occasional work. So great was the distress, that the mayor called a meeting of the inhabitants last week to see what could be done, and a public subscription had been entered into to support those operatives by charity. He was afraid he could not give a much better account of the state of the agricultural interest. He knew of many farms in Cumberland being re-let this Candlemas; but every one had been let at a very considerable reduction of rent. A friend of his, who had a farm let at 600 l l s s s Newcastle Courant, 440
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  said, he could not congratulate the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon the allusions which he made to the prosperity of Cumberland; and he felt convinced that the same distress as the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had proved to exist in Cumberland, prevailed everywhere. He had heard a great many bold assertions made from the Treasury bench, but he had never heard a bolder statement than that of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire did not ask anything in the Motion which he had brought before the House. Her Majesty's Government, however, had frequently come to ask the opinion of the House without suggesting any opinion of their own. In the case of the Irish famine they called the House together without having a single proposition to make. What had been their conduct on this question? Had they not denied agricultural distress? Had they not at last reluctantly admitted it? And they now requested them to look for the amelioration of that distress in the better situation of the manufacturing classes. The agricultural classes were to wait on the manufacturing classes for the time of prosperity. But he should
 441 442 l 443 "would be better able to take a practical view of taxation next year, when the income tax had expired; and if it should be thought expedient to reimpose that tax, he should put in a strong claim in behalf of the landed interest, with a view to establishing a different system of assessment." 444
 MR. G. SANDARS : Mr. Speaker, Sir, I am anxious to say a few words on the question now before the House; not that I intend to propose a reversal of that policy which has received the sanction of this House and the country, for I agree with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, that that policy cannot be reversed by a mere vote of this House, but that if ever it be reversed it must be by the expression of feeling out of doors. Her Majesty, in her gracious Speech, has admitted that distress exists amongst one portion of her people, namely, the owners and occupiers of land; this fortunately saves us the task of proving the existence of such distress through other channels of information, but it is my belief that that distress has been confined hitherto chiefly to the tenant-farmers. Landlords have not generally reduced rents; and if the wages of labour have been reduced, the labourer has had an equivalent in the reduced prices of food; but a time is approaching when all these interests must bear a portion of the burthen. The landlord must make a permanent reduction in his rent, and the labourer will either have to be discharged, or submit to a reduction in his wages. Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has told you tonight, that agricultural prosperity depends on the harvests, and the state of prosperity of the mercantile and manufacturing interests of the country. In 1849, we were told that the distress that then existed was owing to the deficient harvest of 1848; but, in 1850 (this distress still existing), we were then told it was owing to the abundant harvest of 1849; and now I suppose we shall be told that the distress that is admitted by Her Majesty's Ministers is owing to the defective harvest of 1850. Sir, I will, with the permission of the House, state the opinions expressed by
 445 "There was a very great probability that there would be a higher price for corn than there had been during the past year." "The prices in the Baltic ports were so high, that it would not pay to send grain to this country." "Oh, it is not worth the while of France especially to send corn here. In Franco they have not corn enough for their own use. …. Where are the large importations to come from? France is in ordinary years a million of quarters deficient." "Of all the apprehensions that could he entertained, that of importations of corn from France was the most wild and visionary that ever entered into the head of man." "He believed that the present price of 40 s s s "It is extraordinary to what an extent the importation has fallen off; but it affords, I think, a conclusive proof, that the present price of corn does not pay the importer, and that the agriculturist has good reason to expect that so low a price cannot continue for long. Prices, I think, likely to prevail, will range somewhere between 40 s s "If he was asked whether these low prices would continue, he would state that he had no such belief: his anxiety was far more on account of the reaction which would take place from these
 446 s d s s s s s 447 "A duty laid upon an article which cannot be produced in this country—such as tea or coffee—adds to the cost of the article, and is chiefly or wholly paid by the consumer. But a duty laid upon an article which may be produced here, stimulates the skill and industry of our own country to produce the same article, which is brought into the market in competition with the foreign article, and the importer is thus compelled to reduce his price to that at which the domestic article can be sold, thereby throwing a part of the duty upon the producer of the foreign article. The continuance of this process creates the skill and invites the capital which finally enables us to produce the article much cheaper than it could have been procured from abroad, thereby benefiting both the producer and the consumer at home. The consequence of this is, that the artisan and the agriculturist are brought together; each affords a ready market for the produce of the other; the whole country becomes prosperous, and the ability to produce every necessary of life, renders us independent in war as well as in peace." 
 
 Barley. Oats. Beans. Peas. 
 s d s d s d s d s d 
 In 1835 was 39 4 29 11 22 0 30 0 30 3 
 In 1850 was 40 4 23 5 16 5 26 11 27 5 
 Difference 1 0 6 6 5 7 3 1 2 10 s 448 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l
 MR. W. BROWN : Sir, I have been unexpectedly called on in this debate, in consequence of an allusion that has been made by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), to what he supposed I said on a former occasion as to the protection the landed interest would receive from the expenses of bringing wheat to this country from the United States. The hon. Member represents me as having said that the freight of a quarter of wheat from the United States was 11 s 449 s s s d s s d s
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that it would be no doubt very convenient to take the debate for that day, if hon. Gentlemen who had Motions on the Paper would consider the general feeling of the House to bring the question to a termination; but it could not be expected they would do so. The hon. Member for South Essex was first on the list, and without an expression of his opinion, they could make no arrangement.
 SIR E. N. BUXTON  said, he had a Motion for Thursday respecting sugar, and was very unwilling to give way, unless he got another day on which his Motion could he brought on. He trusted the noble Lord at the head of the Government, in order that the debate should be brought to a conclusion, would give him a future day to bring on his Motion.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  considered the request of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire very reasonable, as it was desirable to enable, he House to go on with the debate as speedily as possible; but he could not think the hon. Baronet the Member for South Essex equally reasonable, when ho asked Government to grant him a day. Out of five days the Government had only two for all the business of the country. It would be better for the hon. Baronet to introduce the question on a Motion day.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would not object to the Motion for adjournment, and hoped the time would come when the noble Lord and the free-traders would be ejected from the House. On a future day, he would express his opinion oil the subject now before the House.
 LORD D. STUART  expressed his opinion that this opposition to the first reading of the Bill was very ungracious.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : In answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, I can say in the first place, that it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Ministers to take any step during the present Session, to extend the right of voting for Members of this House to other portions of the adult population beyond the classes now in possession of it. With regard to the second question, whether there is any intention to amend the Reform Act, I have on previous occasions expressed my opinion to the House that there were certain amendments of the Reform Act, and certain extensions of the Reform Act, that I thought were
 374
 MR. HAWES , in reply to the questions of the hon. Gentleman, begged to state that the whole of the correspondence would be laid on the table of the House at as early a period as was possible. The correspondence was now in progress of being printed, but it would be highly inconvenient to lay that correspondence on the table before the despatch arrived. With regard to the petitions to which the hon. Gentleman referred, he did not put his question in the form that it was on the paper. It was late on Saturday when the petitions were received. Of course the resolutions will be found in the papers.
 MR. HAWES  said, the hon. Gentleman was aware that on the first night the House sat, he laid on the table papers which were included in the notice he had given. There were papers, however, which could not, and ought not at present, be laid on the table of the House, inasmuch as a gallant Officer was about to be subjected to a court-martial and the subject matter of those papers formed part of the case.
 MR. ADDERLEY , on rising to put the questions of which he had given notice, said, that there were now in this country delegates representing the discontented
 371
 MR. SPEAKER : My answer to the hon. Member's first question must depend upon what took place before the Committee of last Session. If the document was formally laid before the Committee, and regularly entered upon the Minutes, it would be, of course, in the possession of the House, and not in the possession of any Government department; and in that case it would be a breach of privilege to withhold it; but if the document was not formally laid before the Committee, the House has no control over it, and the Government department in whose possession it now is are justified in withholding it, until the House has determined that it shall be produced. There is no question of privilege involved in the second question. The hon. Gentleman seeks to justify himself as a Member of the House, and on that account claims to be entitled to the production of those papers. That is not a question of privilege, but one which the House must decide for itself upon a Motion.
 MR. B. WALL  would oppose the introduction of a Bill on the subject at so late an hour. It was the same Bill the House had rejected last year. [Mr. WILLIAMS: No!] If not, it was the more necessary to oppose its introduction at such a time of night.
 MR. BAILLIE , in consequence of the answer of the hon. Gentleman, felt he had just reason to complain, and was under the necessity of asking a question concerning the privileges of the House. It would probably be in the recollection of the House, that at the commencement of the last Session of Parliament, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had not only utterly impugned a statement made by him (Mr. Baillie) in that House, but had accused him of producing false documents injurious to the character of an officer in the British Army; and the House thought the matter of so much importance, that they deemed it necessary to address Her Majesty that a Commission should be sent to Ceylon to ascertain the truth or falsehood of those charges. That Commission was appointed, and the report of that Commission arrived in this country at the end of the last Session of Parliament. The noble Lord refused to produce that report at the end of the last Session, on the ground that the evidence on which the report was founded had not been sent home to this country. But that evidence had now been sent home to this country; and the Government now refused to produce the report, on the ground that a court-martial was some time or other to take place in Ceylon; and thus it appeared that the inquiries of the House were to be delayed, and made dependent upon the proceedings of the Commander-in-Chief. If they were made so dependent, he could predict that the report would not be laid on the table of the House in the present Session. The question he had to ask was this: the report having been already submitted to the Ceylon Committee, he wished to know whether the document having been submitted to a Committee of the House, it was not virtually in the possession of the House, and whether it was not a breach of privilege
 373
 MR. BAILLIE  begged to ask the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, if it was the intention of the Government to oppose the Motion, of which notice had been given, that the evidence taken by the Ceylon Committee should be printed; and whether it was the intention of the Government to lay on the table of the House the report of the Royal Commission which was sent to Ceylon, in conse-
 372
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to prevent unnecessary trading on Sunday within the metropolitan police district and city of London, and liberties thereof.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  begged to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Ministers to take any steps during the present Session to extend the right of voting for Members of the House to other portions of the adult male population of these realms than those now in possession of the elective franchise under the provisions of the Reform Act; or whether there was any intention to amend the deficiencies of the Reform Act of 1832?
 MR. A. J. B. HOPE  said, that the views which he had expressed a few nights since upon this subject had not been altered. He did not wonder, under the very trying circumstances in which the Government were placed, that they should have brought forward a measure which they believed adapted to meet the emergency of the time; but he was surprised at the worrying, vexatious, yet totally inoperative details which had been laid down by the Attorney General in his exposition of the Bill. That astonishment was not diminished when he saw his honourable and learned Friend the Member for the City of Oxford, the champion of civil and religious liberty, supporting that measure. Had he been a visitor to that House, one of those persons for whose accommodation the galleries were provided—had he been one of those individuals who were not recognised, and yet were accommodated, like the Roman Catholic bishops of Ireland, and had he listened to that speech, and asked any one who it was that had just spoken, and that person had told him that it was the hon. Member for the city of Oxford, he (Mr. Hope) should not have believed him, and he should have said, "You mean the hon. Member for the University of Oxford;" and no assurance on his part would have satisfied him that he had made this slight mistake in the persons of the Members. He had listened attentively to the
 484 485 Liter a scripta manet. cacoethes scribendi 486 487
 COLONEL THOMPSON  would never be party to any quarrel with either English or Irish Catholics; but he must maintain there had been an aggression from a foreign quarter. The way not to see an aggression, was to look for it in the wrong place; but if looked for in the right, there was plenty of it here. When the French General had brought back the Pope to Rome over the bodies of his subjects, a message was sent to this country, in which might be traced the memory of Waterloo, and which, with an amiable consistency and in strict accordance with the custom of States between whom friendly relations existed, began with an allusion to the sovereign who was exiled in the very year alluded to in the Letter-Apostolic. He did not know whether hon. Members were aware that a representative of that family was at present living in America. He very often corresponds with me. [ Loud laughter. 488 Univers, 489
 MR. FAGAN,  amidst loud cries of "Divide!" moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. LAWLESS  seconded the Motion, and continued speaking for a few minutes, amid loud cries for a division—
 LORD J. RUSSELL  I said, until this debate was brought to a conclusion.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I so far agree with the hon. Member for Montrose, that if the House are disposed to close this debate, and to allow this Bill to be brought in, I will address a few words to the House with respect to what has passed during the debate. With respect to the question which the hon. Member for Montrose asked me, I can only repeat to him again, that according to the public law of Europe, it is not usual to erect ecclesiastical sees in any territory without the consent of the Sovereign. That has been repeatedly stated, and I have not heard it contradicted by any person who has opposed this Bill; but, secondly, it was quite clear, from all the inquiries we made, that there is no Sovereign in Europe who would submit to the creation of bishoprics in his territory unless his consent had been previously taken. And then, I say, that what has been done by the Pope in this respect is contrary to the well-known public law of Europe, and that it could not have been done with regard to any other country. So with respect to the arguments that have been used
 498 499 500 501
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was understood to dissent.
 MR. OSWALD,  on first rising, was met by calls for "division," but spoke as follows: Sir, I do not often rise in this House to express my opinions, and I trust the House will bear with me in doing so now. I will compress as much as possible what I have to say. It has been stated that there is an unanimous feeling throughout Great Britain with respect to this measure of the Pope's. Now, I represent the county of Ayr, the largest agricultural constituency in Scotland, and once the stronghold of the Covenanters, and yet there has not been any meeting of that county on this subject, nor has there been, so far as I know, a syllable uttered to encourage the noble Lord in this crusade against the religious liberties of one-third of the people of this country. There is no country in Europe so much opposed to the claims of the Papacy; but the noble Lord will, I believe, look in vain to Scotland for support. The people of Scotland are opposed to the Roman Catholic Church, but they believe that they have other weapons than Acts of Parliament to combat that Church. Three Monarchs of the House of Stuart tried to force on Scotland, by the temporal sword, their religious opinions. One sword there was—it is hacked and rusty now—that sword, I grieve to say (for I am an Episcopalian), was Episcopacy; but it broke in the kingly hands that wielded it. Spiritual powers must be met by spiritual weapons; and my belief is, that the act of the Pope is a purely spiritual act. For how can you say that an act, clothed with no legal sanction, deriving its authority from nothing, saving the willing consent of those who bow before the Papal throne, is anything but a spiritual act? I have heard distinctions made by able lawyers between what is ecclesiastical and what is spiritual; but to lawyers, and to special pleaders, will I leave those nice logical distinctions. I, Sir, am a Scotchman, and
 495 496 497
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : 1½ d
 MR. MOORE  explained, that he did not say that the Pope had the right to alter or abolish the bishoprics of the Established Church of England; he merely asserted that the Pope had a right to alter or abolish Roman Catholic episcopates.
 MR. HUME : He now understood that the noble Lord only wished this debate to close before he proceeded with other business, and, therefore, he should not further oppose the introduction of the Bill. He wished to see it on the table of the House. He must, however, tell the noble Lord that he ought to take measures to prevent such men as Mr. Bennett, who had led their followers to the very brink of Romanism, to remain in the Church. They said that they were justified in what they were doing by the rubric; but let the noble Lord reform the rubric, and take from Mr. Bennett, and those who agreed with him, that plea. If the noble Lord would do so, that measure should have his (Mr. Hume's) support. It was not the Pope who was to be blamed, but
 494
 MR. HUME  asked what was the interest now paid on these bills?
 MR. HUME  deeply deplored, that sentiments such as those which had just been addressed to the House should have fallen from the lips of a man who had been so long distinguished for his staunch advocacy of civil and religious liberty as his gallant Friend the hon. Member for Bradford. His hon. and gallant Friend had declared that an aggression had been attempted on the dignity of Her Majesty's Crown; but he had not attempted to explain in what that aggression consisted. This was a fatal defect in his speech. He had not, nor had any Member who had preceded him on the same side, attempted to make out a case which would warrant that House in applying a system of penal
 490 491 492 493
 MR. NAPIER  said, the only question, as he understood it, now before the House, was whether Her Majesty's Ministers should get leave from the House to introduce a Bill on this question of Papal aggression. In the absence of the particular measure I which was proposed to be submitted to their consideration, he thought it would be unwise and unjust to the Government and to the country to enter by anticipation on a discussion of the enactments which might be found in the measure when submitted to them; but he thought it was somewhat strange, after Parliament had assured Her Majesty that they would devote their best considerations to the measure to be laid before them on the subject of this aggression of the Bishop of Rome, they should now be discussing, for the third time, at a third meeting of the House, whether any measure should be introduced, or whether they should legislate at all on the subject? Though he had heard this aggression of the Bishop of Rome palliated,
 459 "The law on this point is in an anomalous state, and reflects little credit on the Legislature; notwithstanding I am of opinion that the law has been infringed by the Bishop of Rome and Cardinal Wiseman." 460 461 462 l. 463 464 465 l. 466
 MR. PHILIP HOWARD  said, he was anxious to address the House before the close of this debate, because he was unwilling to appear to shrink from the defence of his faith in the hour of peril—a faith which his forefathers, and the ancestors of many of those around him, had upheld in times of much greater peril. But that cause was now bound up and engrafted on the great cause of religious liberty; for he felt sure that if one retrograde step was taken, there was no knowing where it would stop. There was no instance of a nation or a legislature taking a retrograde step of this kind which was not followed up by still harsher consequences. The spirit of persecution, like every other passion, was only strengthened by gratification. At the same time, while he manfully defended his creed, he trusted he would be able to do so, in the words of the late Mr. Whitbread, with modest intrepidity; and he would not desecrate his cause by any virulent expressions. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northumberland adverted, in the beginning of his speech, to what he called the unanimous expression of opinion in the country on this subject, But no one knew better than the right hon. Gentleman, that in the great and enlightened county which he represented, strong attempts had been made to get up an anti-Catholic demonstration, and that these had completely failed. No one knew better than the right hon. Gentleman, that in Northumberland the cause of intolerance had received a stern and severe rebuke, while in the neighbouring county of Durham also there had been no county meeting. If there was one county more important than another as regarded all the attributes of wealth—whether as regarded agriculture or commerce—it was the county of Lancaster. But in Lancashire no meeting had been held upon the subject. Then, what was the case in one of the largest towns in England—the town of Leeds? Had not the town council of Leeds come forward with a petition to the House, praying that the House would guard against any
 452 453 Morning Chronicle 454 455 Historical Memoirs, pro tanto "He much preferred the ministry of bishops to that of apostolic vicars, who were mere missionaries, removable at the pleasure of the Pope, and bound implicitly to obey all orders from Rome." 456 457 458
 MR. SPOONER  said, he had no intention of following the last speaker through the course of observations which he had addressed to the House, and he should perhaps not that day have addressed the House if it had not been for the challenge which was put forth by the hon. Member for Carlisle. The accuracy of the charge he denied, and would again refer to it; but, for the present, he wished to remind hon. Members that they must have foreseen that such a measure as this would be brought under their consideration when they themselves had addressed Her Majesty on the subject, and had promised that they would devote to it their attention. The question was, should they, or should they not, then proceed to consider as a question for decision, whether they would adopt a measure which they had already pledged themselves to carry out? Surely it was not the way for them to carry out that promise thus to enter into the mere details of the Bill, and that, too, of a Bill not yet before them. On the whole, then, he thought that it would be better as
 482 483
 MR. C. ANSTEY  considered the case which the hon. and learned Gentleman had made for excluding Ireland altogether from the Bill was unanswerable. The Irish Church was able to protect itself. The hon. Member for Meath, when speaking I on this question the other evening, expressed his regret that the Emancipation Bill of 1813—which contained the veto—did not receive the Royal assent. By whom was that Bill recommended? By the Pope. He held in his hand an extract from the current history of the period, from which it appeared, that although there was great reason to apprehend that the Catholic bishops of Ireland were in favour of the view expressed by the Court of Rome, first the laity, and then the clergy, unanimously passed resolutions declaring that the document from Rome was non-mandatory, and not entitled to their obedience and respect. So strong was the pressure of public opinion on the subject, that the bishops also met and unanimously voted that the Papal rescript was not mandatory nor obligatory on their obedience.
 477 478 pseudo 479 480 481
 MR. KEOGH  saw the noble Lord consulting with the Home Secretary, but he believed the fact would be found as he had stated. He could give the very words.
 MR. KEOGH  informed the House that it was an Address to the Queen from the Christian Knowledge Society. He was surprised there could be any doubt of the fact in the mind of the right hon. Baronet, whose peculiar province it was to receive those addresses. The right hon. Baronet, however, could not escape from that. But he reminded the House, further, that the noble Lord and the right hon. Baronet, at a former period of their history, when their ideas on this subject were not so confirmed, had declined to receive an Address signed "John, Archbishop of Tuam." Why? Because it was contrary to the provisions of the Emancipation Act. But he
 473 474 475 476
 MR. KEOGH  said, the measure now submitted to the consideration of the House was alleged to be no infringement or interference with the principles of civil and religious liberty. Certainly, if any doubt existed in the minds of hon. Members of that House that the Bill was perfectly consistent with the principles of religious toleration, those doubts must be removed when they saw the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, one of the most undeviating advocates of the cause of civil and religious liberty, giving it his unqualified support. The Christian forbearance the hon. and learned Gentleman had always shown to his Roman Catholic fellow-countrymen—the peaceful attitude he had always exhibited to the House and country, when desirous of granting religious liberty to the Roman Catholics of Ireland, must assure the mind of the greatest sceptic. He could not help calling to mind that he had read the name of one Joseph Napier as being secretary to the Brunswick Clubs some years since in Ireland, and it would
 467 468 469 470 471 History of the Reformation in England, 472
 SIR G. GREY : No such address has been presented to Her Majesty.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, that in the observations he felt it to be his duty to offer to the House on this occasion, he should endeavour (as far as it was possible for him to do so) to compress them; be-cause, in the first place, he believed it was the desire of the House to divide this evening, and also because many Gentlemen of this considerable and important interest were anxious to deliver their sentiments on this occasion. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the answer he had made to his hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham-shire, certainly went into a great many extraneous topics, and had also dwelt upon I points which had no reference to the subject in debate. They had now had five years' experience of free trade; they had now been for five years in "a state of transition," as it had been called, and the result was, that the agriculturists now found themselves in a worse condition than they had ever been at any previous time. They had not advanced, as far as their material interests were concerned; but they had made a considerable advance in winning for themselves the public sympathy. A reference had this Session been made to them in Her Majesty's Speech; the agriculturists, and the sufferings endured by them, were not denied—last year they had been repudiated; and, perchance, if public affairs went on in this way they might be alluded to in a future Session of Parliament as "the late much lamented and respected interest." Now, in order to show the depreciation of the property; of the agricultural interest, he would remark that there was grown on the average annually in this country 24,000,000 quarters of wheat; that by the depreciation of the price of that wheat from 56 s. s. 1. l. l. 510 511 s. 512 l. l. l. l. 513 l. l. l. s. s. 514 s. s. s 
 
 500 lbs. of bread at 56s. is, per lb. 1·341 
 500 lbs. of bread at 36s. is, per lb. 0·844 
 Difference 0·480 
 7 
 Weekly 3·360 
 Or with a family of three, one 4-lb. loaf per day, 2 l. s. s. d. 515 "The question," said the right hon. Gentleman, "asked by the hon. Member for East Kent, I have already answered. I have already said that I did not think the expense and style of living of persons in the higher ranks of society has diminished; on the contrary, I think it has increased." "Wages have increased, house rent I do not think is lower, and there is no material diminution in the expenses of gentlemen of ordinary fortune." 516
 MR. KEOGH  protested against the granting of such returns, as the object of them was evidently to expose these religious orders to persecution.
 MR. GROGAN  could not see how there could be any reasonable objection offered to the returns, as similar ones had been granted in former Sessions. He had consulted the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department respecting them, and he said he saw no objection to them. Under the provisions of the Act of 1829, the registration of all Jesuits and Monks was made incumbent under penalties.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that all the members of religious congregations, who were not registered under the provisions of the Act referred to, were liable to banishment or transportation for life. This was the reward that they would return to these gentlemen who devoted their time in feeding, clothing, and instructing the poor. The return would be the means of enabling any person actuated with feelings which prompted the present Motion, to turn informer, and prosecute the members of the different religious orders in this country. Lord Stanley had said that the time was come to look into these matters, and to take out these infernal Acts from the Statute-book. With the view of testing the sincerity of hon. Gentlemen opposite, he had proposed to introduce a Bill for their repeal, yet out of a House of 200 Members there were only thirty-five to vote with him, and the son of the noble Lord voted with the majority. Those damnable laws, that still disgraced their Statute-book, declared, that unless the members of the religious orders, received the licence
 609
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that the warmth of the hon. and learned Gentleman had carried him to the very bounds of Parliamentary licence. The hon. and learned Gentleman had been guilty of the utterance of language which any society of gentlemen in England ought not to tolerate. He put it to the House, whether a stronger argument could be used for the Motion than that which was urged against it by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and who also had admitted that those persons were violating the present law of the land. He was surprised that two hon. and learned Gentlemen should interfere to prevent the law from taking its course, and to extend impunity to those who had practically disobeyed the law. This very same return had been already granted, and it was but a poor consolation to them to know the number of those who systematically violated the law.
 MR. TRELAWNY  considered that the hon. Baronet had no right to quarrel with the epithet used by the learned Gentleman, since he himself had used the words "Godless colleges" to a Bill which had received the sanction of that House, of the House of Lords, and even of Royalty itself. He thought it was particularly desirable that one or two Catholic priests should be transported, for the purpose of producing a sound tolerant feeling in the country. The labouring classes were not with those who set up this anti-Catholic howl. The middle and higher classes might; but he knew that the labouring classes were more sensible.
 SIR G. GREY  did not see any reasonable objection to the Motion. The return would not furnish the means for the exercise of the informer's vocation. The names of parties would not be given; and the sources of information were not private. The records were in the office of every magistrate, and they would not subject any one to prosecution. Not seeing any reason for refusing the Motion, he would give his assent to it.
 An HON. MEMBER,  having moved the adjournment of the House,
 MR. KEOGH  said, he was not surprised to hear the right hon. Baronet assent to the Motion of the hon. Member for Dublin, as they seemed both to be perfectly agreed upon the question of instituting a prosecution against these Catholic priests. They had already been told by the First Minister of the Crown that the Viceroy in Ireland had been consulting the Attorney General as to the propriety of commencing those prosecutions. He protested against the House acting as jackal to Her Majesty's Attorney General.
 MR. WALPOLE  was surprised at the objection of the hon. and learned. Member for Youghal, which he understood to be, that if the returns were granted, parties guilty of a violation of the Act would be subject to a prosecution in consequence. But as the first part of the return merely referred to the number of Jesuits in the country previous to 1829, the objection did not apply; and as the second part only referred to those licensed, no prosecution could by any possibility be occasioned in consequence of that return furnishing any evidence.
 SIR G. GREY : The reason that no returns have been made is, because not a single licence had been applied for.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  had not the Act of Parliament before him, but the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst was in error. It was not merely an enactment requiring the Jesuits and members of religious orders to register themselves, it required the monks and Christian brothers to obtain the Secretary of State's licence; and a natural-born subject, living in England, under the protection of the laws, could not of his own will enter one of the orders, though licensed by the Act, without incurring, first, the penalty of banishment, and, in the second instance, transportation for life. The word he had used in designating that enactment was used to denote the religion of eight millions of Her Majesty's
 611 Cries of
 MR. SPEAKER  appealed to the hon. and learned Member, whether it was a word consistent with the dignity of the House?
 MR. C. ANSTEY  would not persist in using the word in that House. Her Majesty, on the Throne, must alone be permitted to do so, and then only when referring to the subject of the Roman Catholic religion. Bowing to high authority, he would admit that the Roman Catholic religion was the only thing, in reference to which that word could be legally used; that it was the only thing that could be legally predicated as truly damnable. He did admit that the Roman Catholic religion was the only damnable thing known to the House. [ Cries of
 MR. SPEAKER : The question before the House is, that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  was speaking to that question. Having regard to these facts, to the late hour of the day, to the importance of the Motion, to the thin state of these benches, and, above all, to the animus shown by those who had spoken on behalf of the Motion, on which the present Amendment had been moved, he felt it his duty not only to reject the Motion, but to obstruct it by every constitutional means in his power. If the Amendment should fail, he would tell the hon. Gentleman he should not carry his Motion by that time to-morrow.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought the hon. and learned Member for Youghal had attached undue importance to the return. He should think the persons pointed at in the return would be the last to sympathise, or to wish that support on their behalf. He had not the Act before him, but he thought they would find this was the case. By the 28th sect., the Jesuits in the country at the time when the Act passed were required to register within six months. That a great number registered was a notorious fact, from the returns moved for
 612
 MR. KEOGH  seconded the Motion, and complained that all the Members of the Government had voted, and one of them had spoken, in favour of granting the return.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : I voted against the adjournment.
 MR. KEOGH  knew very well that that was the technical question; but it could not be denied that the real question was, whether or no the returns should be granted. The object of the hon. Member for Dublin was, that he might display his own loyalty, in contrast to those who, it appeared, had not registered their names, and had thereby disobeyed the laws.
 SIR G. GREY  said, his offence amounted to this, that when, in the ordinary courtesy of discussion, the hon. Member for Dublin asked whether there would be any objection to granting the return, he said there was none. He was prepared to grant the returns; at the same time, he was not
 613
 MR. GROGAN  said, that as that was all the information he wanted, he would withdraw the Motion.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, he did not wish to screen any person who had violated the law. He hoped the hon. and learned Attorney General would transport a few Jesuits, and he wished him much joy of his success.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman and the House were aware that he had stated at the end of last Session, that it was his intention to propose, on the part of the Government, a measure for the better administration of justice in the Court of Chancery; and he could now only state further that it was his intention very shortly to introduce a measure for that purpose. Considering the present state of business in the Court of Chancery, and the great quantity of business that, owing to some recent Acts of Parliament, had been brought before the Court, making a considerable amount of cases standing for hearing, it would be necessary to appoint a Vice-Chancellor in
 508
 LORD J. RUSSELL  rose to order. The hon. and learned Gentleman, not satisfied with asking a question, which he had a right to do, had taken it for granted that some process of abolition and centralisation was going to begin. The question could not be answered without going into a long debate, and he submitted that the hon. and learned Gentleman was not at all in order.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I can assure the House that if I were not persuaded that much more than the embarrassment, or even the fate, of a Ministry was involved in the result of the discussion to-
 583 584 l. l. 585 586 587 d. d. 588 589 590 591 592
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, it was not his intention to trespass upon the House, except to explain the reasons for his vote, and that explanation was the more essential, because there had been great discrepancies between the speeches which had been delivered, and the terms of the original Motion. The noble Lord who had just sat down, had aptly and fully represented his (Mr. Cochrane's) views. He should vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, because in Her Majesty's Speech there were these facts contained, namely, that there was great prosperity in the country, concurrent, and he might say consequent,
 573
 MR. DISRAELI  rose to reply, and said: I trust that the House will, in its indulgence, not think me unreasonable, if at the end of a protracted debate on a subject of acknowledged importance, I avail myself of the salutary privilege of a reply, in order to recall distinctly the Motion which has been made. The House will recollect that it is at the commencement of a new Session of Parliament, and that the Legislature and the people of England, in a most gracious Speech from the Throne, have been congratulated on the general prosperity of the country, and, at the same time, informed that Her Majesty still deplores the continued difficulties experienced by one—and that one an important—class of Her subjects, and this House, I think, will agree that it was not, after the reception of such a speech, unnatural or unreasonable that this House, representing the people, should take into consideration such a message—and should endeavour to inquire into the causes of that particular distress—and if possible indicate the measures required to relieve it. Sir, it was with this view that, believing that the suffering class—and the only suffering class, according to the Speech from the Throne, and according to the opinion of the Cabinet—was so suffering in consequence of a great and undue pressure of taxation—I took the liberty to bring this subject before the House; and the question before this House is, whether these difficulties and this distress are, or are not, occasioned by a great and undue weight of taxation on one class of the community—that class being the only one that is suffering, according to the Speech from the Throne and the statement of the Government. But, Sir, that is not the subject that has been debated this night. I endeavoured to secure a fair discussion of this important question by stating, and with a frankness which I do not regret, my sentiments on other subjects which some might think unconnected with it. I said the other night—and I repeat it now—that it was not my intention to make either a direct or an indirect attack on the new commercial system of the country. If, indeed, I really believed that that system popularly called protection was the only specific for agricultural distress, I would not come forward to propose a policy of protection with reference to the interests of one class alone. But irrespectively altogether of that consideration, I repeat that, after all that has occurred on
 594 595 596 597 598 l. 599 s. d. s. s. s. s. 600 Great cheering, amidst which Mr. Cobden made a gesture of denial. 601 602 603
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had come like a skilful general to the rescue of an army which, resting under the impression of his right hon. Friend, was endeavouring to perform that critical operation in the presence of an enemy, a change of front. Before the hon. Gentleman addressed the House, the question of free trade was, in the powerful and workmanlike speech of the hon. Gentleman who introduced the question, consigned to a convenient oblivion. In the able and candid speech which the House had just heard, a new battleground was taken. The hon. Member for Yorkshire commenced by saying, that he asked for justice and not for protection; but every sentence and every word of his speech was one continued impeachment of those great measures, by means of which the pressure of a crisis unparalleled had been greatly mitigated, and the peace and loyalty and safety of the country insured in times of more than ordinary difficulty. He did not know whether the hon. Gentleman would allow him to refer to those passages of Adam Smith, which spoke of the simplicity of the country gentlemen, and the astuteness by which they have been overreached by their manufacturing and mercantile fellow-subjects. The hon. Gentleman had repaid the compliment, for he seemed to imagine that the representatives of the mercantile communities were the type and patterns of simplicity, that would be readily misled by the language of a plausible Motion in the guise of a demand for justice, and, closing their ears to all the intelligence which, by any avenue could find its way into their understanding, they would go into the lobby, and voting for the present Motion, commit an act of treachery against the free-trade policy. The hon. Gentleman
 559 l. l., l. l. l l 560 l. l. l. l. l. l., 
 
 1841. 1850. 
 Cocoa 1,930,000  lbs 3,103,000 lbs. 
 Brandy 1,165,000 gals 1,861,000 lbs. 
 Tea 36,681,000  lbs 50,000,000 lbs. 
 Tobacco 22,308,000  lbs 27,685,000 lbs. l., 561 "The imports into the United States are greater than from the extent of the crop we had any reason to expect, owing to diminished consumption there, and disproportionate shipments to France and the Continent of Europe." 562 "The prospects for business in the ensuing year are of a highly satisfactory character, there being nothing apparently likely to check the cotton trade, unless it be an insufficient supply of the raw material. The means of subsistence are within the reach of all having even moderate employment, and in the manufacturing districts the masses have rarely been more comfortably circumstanced. We may look, therefore, to a steady and perhaps improving home trade (it having been so long depressed), and the foreign trade is evidently in a healthy state." "There has lately been a remarkable revival in the inquiry for heavy goods and low yarns, both for home use and export, present stocks of which are inadequate to supply the growing demand. On the whole, perhaps at no former period was there a greater feeling of security in the future. Another year of commercial prosperity has closed, and the frightful losses of 1847 and 1848 may be fairly considered to be cancelled by the gains of 1846 and 1850." 563 l. s. 564 s "I call upon you to consider this, however, which lies on the surface:—The annual value of the agricultural produce of this country is certainly not less than 220,000,000 l s. l., l. 565 "If we estimate the average income of each family of the poorer class of weavers to be 10 s s s l. l.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, that he could not imagine what was the meaning of all these statistics, unless it was for the purpose of throwing dust into their eyes; but he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that, whatever they did in this House, they would not deceive the country. The question was not the navigation laws—the question was the burdens upon land—and it seemed to have been a matter of convenience to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the President of the Board of Trade, and, in some measure, of the right hon. Member for Ripon, to give that question the go-by. The last-mentioned right hon. Gentleman had given them his inferences and his warnings; but he (Mr. Cayley) confessed that he would much rather have the right hon. Gentleman's vote. The inference which the right hon. Gentleman had drawn from the Motion before the House, was, that protection was the thing
 551 552 l l l.; 
 
 1848 … … … £52,422,000 
 1849 … … … 52,307,000 
 1850 … … … 52,177,000 l., 553 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l. l 554 l l l l d d l l l. l l l l 555 l. l l l l l 556 557 558
 COLONEL DUNNE  had entertained some j hope that the Government would have proposed a remedy for the distress which was recognised in the Speech from the Throne; but every Member who had risen in opposition to the Motion before the House had endeavoured to disprove the assertion in the Speech, as indeed the Seconder of the Address did on the very day that Speech was delivered. Leaving the Ministry and its supporters to settle as they could such a discrepancy with respect to England, and to those Members connected with that country who might follow him in the debate, to decide the actual state of the agricultural classes in their own, he would; apply himself to the state of Ireland. Reference had been made to that country as in a condition of commercial prosperity. What was the truth? There was a diminution in the customs of Dublin, of Cork, of Limerick—in every port except Belfast. The number of persons employed in manufactures in Ireland was not sufficient to compensate for agricultural depression, even if they were well employed. But he must deny that any class whatever was getting better food, better wages, or better employment. The entire numbers hitherto employed in manufactures in Ireland, scarcely exceeded in factories 24,000; and when it was asserted that employment in sewing machines had been given to some thousands of young women in the north of Ireland, in certain districts, it might be literally asserted with truth that 67 per cent, or even 100 per cent, more than last year were now employed, where none were employed last year; but this employment was confined to certain districts, and the numbers employed; and, still more, the continuance of such employment was problematical, and certainly did not by any means warrant the conclusion that the condition of the manufacturing classes in Ireland were improved. The deposits in savings banks had very largely decreased. The ordinary circulation had diminished. He had a return of prices of agricultural stock at Ballinasloe fair, and from 1845 to the present time, there had been a diminution on the average of all classes of cattle of 5 l. 567 l.; l. 568 "Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes." s. d. s. d. l., l. l. 569 570
 MR. BANKES  said, he wished to put
 505 Morning Herald,
 MR. BANKES  said, that the next series of questions he had to put to the right hon. Gentleman was, whether there had been any previous outbreak in that workhouse, or in any workhouse in that part of the country; whether the poor-law guardians in any of the unions of the district had been subjected to any intimidation; and what were the numbers in the Barham workhouse on the 1st of January, and on Sunday last, February 9th, distinguishing the ablebodied from the other paupers?
 MR. BANKES  next wished to know whether any assistant poor-law commissioner had been sent down to Carlisle, to inquire into the condition of the poor in that city; and, if so, what was the report of such assistant poor-law commissioner upon that subject?
 MR. MOORE  said, he would support the Motion before the House for two reasons, both arising out of a strictly Irish view of the question; a view which, whether from utter indifference, or whether from tact and prudence—it could not have been from ignorance—had been entirely excluded from the range of consideration of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, He would support the Motion, first, because he approved of the express terms of the resolution itself, the truth of which, as regarded that part of the united empire called Ireland, he defied any man to gainsay. They had heard the statements with regard to the condition of Ireland made by his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Portarlington. And what was the result of those statements? Why, that the land of Ireland was in the market, and that there was no one to purchase it; the tiller of the soil was in the workhouse, or was gradually drafted off to foreign shores; a nominal proprietary and a nominal tenantry were waging a war for existence against each other—extermination on the one side, hostility, and obstruction on the other; both grasping at everything, neither realising anything—the desolation of a waste, and the clamour of a crowd; the lethargy of neglect, and the rage of competition, staring each other in the face, and presenting a dismal antithesis
 581 582
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he should support the Motion, although he believed protection ought not, and never would, be restored. The Government and its supporters all indulged in hopes; but as he know the tenant-farmers were in a great state of distress, and could not live on hope, he had felt it his duty to vote for the Motion.
 MR. GREENALL,  amid cries of "Divide!" was understood to say he would support the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that under the system adopted when the Railway Board was in existence, breviates stating the nature of the Bill would have been in the hands of every Member, and he had endeavoured to supply the absence of that information in the best way he could.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that that Bill was one of so novel and unprecedented a character, that he felt it was his duty to call the attention of the House to the subject. It was not a Bill for granting certain powers to a railway company in the usual acceptation of that term, but for conferring those powers on four individuals who were to be allowed to add indefinitely to their numbers. He did not think it necessary that he should then enter into the details of the measure, but he should observe that it contained many provisions which appeared to him to be of a highly-objectionable character. Under these circumstances, he had caused a communication to be made that morning to the agents who had charge of the Bill, and he had let them know that he felt very much inclined to recommend them to postpone its second reading for a limited period, and that if they did not do so, he should probably deem it his duty to advise the House to reject the measure. The agents had told him that it would cause the greatest inconvenience and expense to postpone the second reading; and they assured him that, if he would, offer no opposition to the second reading, they would not consider that he was in any degree
 504
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he was sure the House must have experienced much gratification at hearing the speech of the hon. Gentleman, who, as he had truly observed, represented a great agricultural county, and was himself connected with an important branch of our manufacturing industry. He believed it was the desire of both sides of the House that this discussion should terminate during the present evening, and he should endeavour to promote that object by confining his remarks to the narrowest limits. It was not his intention to enter into a discussion of the general question then before the House; namely, the propriety of altering a great national system of taxation. The policy of reversing the commercial system adopted of late years had been so fully debated and so well argued by his right hon. Friends the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the right hon. Member for Ripon, that he was quite content to rest the case of those who were opposed to the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire upon the
 543 544 545 546 
 
 1848 … … … 10,630,698 tons. 
 1849 … … … 11,501,177 tons. 
 1850 … … … 12,020,674 tons. 
 
 Vessels inwards. Tons inwards. Vessels outwards. Tons outwards. 
 In 1848 … 958 … 598,182 … 815 … 551,465 
 1849 … 896 … 587,986 … 619 … 608,324 
 1850 … 748 … 595,191 … 776 … 620,037 547 548 549 "In the year 1841 the number of ships was 1,111, and their tonnage 159, 578. being an average of 144 tons; 1842, ships 914, tonnage 129,929, average 142; 1843, ships 698, tonnage 83,097, average 1J 9; 1844, ships 689, tonnage 94,995, average 137; 1845, ships 853, tonnage 123,230, average 145; 1846, ships 809, tonnage 125,350, average 155; 1847, ships 933, tonnage 145,834, average 156; 1848, ships 847, tonnage 122,552, average 145; 1849, ships 730, tonnage 117,953, average 161; 1850, ships 689, tonnage 133,695, average 194; the number of foreign-built ships admitted to British registry in 1850 being 57, with 10,499 tonnage." 550 "The number of ships building is more than usual, and the vessels are of unusual tonnage. This is to be attributed in a great measure to the circumstance of Messrs. Wigram & Co. having taken an extensive yard, and who have at present on the stocks one steam-vessel of 2,250 tons, and two sailing vessels, of 500 and 250 tons respectively."
 MR. HATCHELL : In answer to the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Dundalk, I have to state, that it is not the intention of the Government to introduce any measure, during the present Session, for the pur-
 509
 MR. J. STUART  begged to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, whether Her Majesty's Government intend to bring in, without delay, a Bill to authorise the appointment of a Vice-Chancellor in the room of Sir James Wigram, who has resigned? and whether the noble Lord is aware of the enormous expense and distress to suitors for justice in the Court of Chancery, whose complaints are now standing for hearing, from the want of a competent Judge to discharge the judicial duties heretofore discharged by Sir James Wigram?
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  concurred with Mr. Labouchere that the Bill was one which should be assented to by the House with the greatest caution. He was decidedly opposed to its provisions from what he had seen of them. He believed that the best course was for the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade to take the Bill into consideration, and see whether it was possible to pass the Bill in any form whatever, and with what alterations. If the Bill remained in its present form, he thought the House would find it its duty to reject it.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought that a Railway Board of a very opposite character to that which formerly existed should be appointed to see that no objectionable proceedings should take place. If the Bill in question were of the objectionable character referred to, he thought that Members should be allowed time to consider whether the Bill should be allowed to pass its second reading or not.
 MR. BAINES  said, that, in reply to the questions of the hon. Member for Dorset-shire, he begged to state that it was perfectly true that on Sunday evening last there had been a riotous disturbance in the Barham union workhouse, which was situated at a distance of about five miles from Ipswich. The hon. Member wished him to state whether any of the paupers in the house had been ablebodied labourers compelled to enter it from a want of employment, and in answer to that question ho had to say that he did not know for what reason they had been placed there. All he knew was, that the guardians had admitted the inmates as destitute persons, and that a number of them were able-bodied. It was also true that those persons, having commenced the riot at about seven o'clock on Sunday evening, had been in possession of the premises for several hours—he believed for five hours: that some damage had been done to the building, and that very considerable damage had been done to the furniture, windows, window frames, and floors. With regard to the question of the hon. Member whether the military had been called in to quell the riot, he (Mr. Baines) had to state that they had been, although he did not know exactly the number of the military who had been present. They had remained on the premises for a period of about five hours; but he understood that they had not at any time been actively engaged in quelling the riot. With respect to the period at which the account of the
 506
 MR. BAINES  said, that from the report of a poor-law inspector, dated the 21st of January, it appeared that at that time the cotton trade in Carlisle had been in a state of considerable depression; that a large number of persons who had formerly been employed in that branch of manufacturing indusstry had then been without employment, and that there had in consequence been a considerable additional pressure on the poor-rates.
 MR. BAINES  said, that in answer to those questions, ho begged to say that there had been a similar disturbance in that workhouse about this time twelvemonths, but that not quite so much mischief had then been done; and he had further to state that several of the parties who had been ringleaders on the late occasion, had been ringleaders on the former occasion also. With regard to the hon. Gentleman's question whether there had been any outbreak in any other union in that district, he had to state that he had received no information of any such outbreak; and in reply to the question whether any of the guardians of that district had been subjected to threats and intimidation, he had to inform the hon. Gentleman that ho had heard that in two unions of the county of Suffolk—the unions of Oxton and Hadleigh—such threats and intimidation had been employed. With reference to the number of paupers in the Barham workhouse on the 1st of January and on Sunday last, he had to state that on the 1st of January the whole number of paupers there had been 326, and on Sunday last 484—the house being capable of accommodating 700; of adult able-bodied men the number on the 1st of
 507
 MR. BAINES : Certainly not.
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, there have been a great many attempts to explain what is the nature of the Motion before the House. Some Gentlemen say that it is favourable to protection; others, on the contrary, say that it is not; but if we look at it with the eye of common sense we shall see that it involves one of two things. What is really the object of it? It is either a Motion to return to a duty on corn, or it is a Motion for compensation for the loss of that law. I apprehend that the object in either case will be protection. Now, I do not know that I should have troubled the House after the able, comprehensive, and exhaustive speech of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, if it had not been; that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, in introducing his pro-position, seemed to ground his claims on the assumption that in passing the Act of repeal we had agreed that certain prices should thereafter he obtained for corn. The hon. Gentleman then quoted the speeches of right hon. Gentlemen on the Treasury bench, and of other hon. Gentlemen who had expressed their opinion that prices would range at a certain level. Having shown that those prices had not been realised, the hon. Gentleman then comes before the House, and before the country, and thinks that he has got a fair claim for compensation. Now, as I had some share in the long and wearisome discussion previous to the passing of the measure, and subsequent to it, I must be allowed to state my own principles and my own views upon the matter. I have never, then, given the slightest encuragement to such a doctrine; and I cannot proceed to grant compensation on any such assumption, because I am prepared to show that in the whole course of my arguments upon this question, I never so much as offered an opinion what the price of corn would be. [ Cries of Hansard, 574 s. s. s. s.; s. 575 ad valorem 576 577 Laughter. Laughter. 578 579 580
 MR. SPOONER  thought that it was incumbent on the House not to adopt the principle of the Bill. He thought that the promoters of the Bill and the landowners, whose property it was proposed to take, should not be subjected to the expense of appearing before the Committee. If the principle of the Bill were so bad, it should be postponed. He moved that the second reading should be postponed to that day week.
 MR. BOOKER  said, if he had followed the inclination of his own mind he should have forborne to take any part in the debate in this early stage of his political career. But he had the honour to represent a great agricultural county, though his own personal interests were more immediately connected with manufactures and commerce. He therefore felt that he should ill discharge the duty he owed to his constituents, and to those interests
 538 l. s. d., l. s. d., l. l., l., l., l. l., l., l. 539 l. l. 540 l., l., l., l. l; l. 541 542 "Vain are all your hopes for your suffering country; for you might as well expect to see a tree flourishing in full vigour when its roots are perishing or decayed, or the human body in active motion when palsy has reached the heart, as to see trade, or commerce, or manufactures, of any kind or description, flourish, when agriculture has declined."
 MR. WAKLEY  wished to know whether there would be any objection to lay before the House a copy of the dietary in the Barham workhouse?
 MR. M'CULLAGH  rose to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland, of which he had given notice. That the House might understand the question, he must make one or two observations, and then leave them to judge of the importance of the question which he meant to put. It might not be generally known that in the superior courts of law in Ireland, there was an officer called a Master who fulfilled duties similar to those that were discharged by corresponding officers in the superior courts of law in this country. It had become generally current by rumour amongst the profession in Ireland, that Government had an intention to suppress one or more of the courts of law in that country; a great deal of feeling was excited on the subject, and it was desirable that, as soon as possible, the feeling should be allayed, if it were unfounded, and that they should know as soon as possible when that process of abolition and centralisation would begin.
 MR. M'CULLAGH  begged to say, that he was in the hands of the House; but if the noble Lord would hear, he would find that he did not impute to the Government any intention whatever. He had merely said—[ Cries of
 SIR J. GRAHAM : Sir, I am obliged to the House for permitting me to follow the noble Marquess who has just spoken. On a former evening, if two speeches had not occupied so large a portion of time, it would have been my desire to have addressed the House even then upon what I conceive to be a question of the greatest moment; and, considering the present juncture of public affairs and the state of parties, I was anxious to have stated my opinions without disguise, and with a frankness similar to that of the noble Marquess. I am glad, however, that a short time has intervened for considering the question, because I had much rather, in all such cases, that a short opportunity should be given for reflection, in preference to at once expressing what my first impressions would lead me to state. 517 518 519 l. "That from 1845, when the recent Act came
 520 l. l. l. l. 521 l. 522 523 —"Via prima salutis, "Quod minimá reris, Graià pandetur ab urbe." 524 l. l. l. l., l. 525 Ironical cheering. 526 s. 527 s. s. s. s. s., s. s. 528 s. s. s. d., s. 529 530 531 l. en commandite. en commandite. 532 533 534 "On this side of the House we believe that this depression has been occasioned by recent legislative enactments—by the recent repeal of the laws which regulated the importation of foreign agricultural produce. We believe that the surest course, the most safe, the most efficacious, the course which, in the long run, would be most advantageous to the community, and most popular I with the community, would be the re-establishment of laws regulating the importation of that I foreign produce. Speaking for those Gentlemen with whom I have the honour to act, I can say that we do not in any way shrink from an argument upon that subject. We have seen nothing at all which in our opinion confutes the conclusions which, in good report and evil report, we have attempted to advocate in this House with regard to that great subject. We still believe that the principles on which you have constructed your
 535 Hansard, "I do not bate one jot of what I hare always declared. I adhere to every argument and every opinion on this question; and I tell you I think it would be wiser and more politic to return to protection—no longer to cease to impose duties of revenue on articles from abroad, including corn, and thus indirectly to raise revenue having the effect of protection." "I last year said what I now adhere to severely, strictly, even religiously. I said, then, that I would not in this Parliament make any attempt to bring back the abrogated system of protection." "It would be most disastrous for the community that you should accord these claims, which, in the spirit of severe justice, the agricultural interest has a right to prefer." "It has been proposed by Mr. M'Culloch that the deficiency in the revenue might be supplied by a fixed duty on corn. I say, that we cannot admit that a fixed duty or a countervailing duty is an arrangement in favour of the agricultural interest. It is an arrangement which, as Members or as Ministers, we may think would, on a balance of circumstances, make what was called the best bargain for the community. I am not called on to say what might be the effect of imposing a 5 s., s., s. 536 537 ——"Experto credite, quantus In clypeum assurgat, quo turbine torqueat hastam." "I still adhere to the opinions I have expressed, and I earnestly hope that I may never live to see the day when the House of Commons will retrace its steps."
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  hoped the House would allow him to occupy its time while he stated the grounds on which he intended to give his vote. He could not assent to some of the observations of his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool, and he denied that in voting for the Motion now before them he would be a traitor to the policy of 1845. On the contrary, it was to place the seal upon the question of protection, which he believed to be closed for ever, that he should support the claim for justice now put forward on behalf of the agricultural body. He had listened to the speech of his hon. Friend with great attention; and ingenious as that speech was, it struck him to be deficient in one point, namely, that it did not touch the question before the House. It was a speech which was directed to prove the general prosperity of the country, in which he cordially concurred. It was with diffidence that he (Viscount Jocelyn) came to the consideration of that question, because he regretted to differ from one with whom he had generally acted, for whom he had the highest regard, and whose ability and sagacity he believed to be unrivalled in that House. But he would remark that the speech of his right hon. Friend the Member for Ripon supplied him with the ground of the course he should take that evening. It went to prove most clearly the general state of this country, and the prosperity of all interests excepting one; and his right hon. Friend distinctly admitted the depression of that one class of the community. He (Viscount Jocelyn) found in Her Majesty's Speech, a declaration of the general prosperity of the country, while it also admitted the depression of the agricultural body. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his speech, did not deny the depression of that interest, nor did his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool. He (Viscount Jocelyn) could testify from his own knowledge that the assertions which had been made on that subject were not overstated. And when he looked at the Motion before the House, was he to refuse to act fairly to that suffering interest, by calling upon the
 571 572
 MR. LABOUCHBRE : By the terms of an Order in Council, dated January 30, 1826, all goods imported into the united kingdom in Belgian vessels are subject to an additional duty of 20 per cent. This additional duty is only levied in the case of Belgium. It originally applied to the whole of the Netherlands. After the separation of Holland and Belgium, Holland concluded a commercial treaty with us (in October, 1837), and an Order in Council was issued in December, 1837, to relieve Dutch vessels from the additional duty. No convention having been entered into with Belgium, the extra duty still remains in force against her. Negotiations are now in progress with Belgium, and we have offered to repeal this duty if a satisfactory arrangement can be made. With respect to the second question, Her Majesty's Government have received a despatch from Lord Howard de Walden, Her Majesty's Minister at Brussels, dated Jan. 27, 1851, of which the following is an extract:—
 "The Government has decided to reduce the drawback allowed on the export of refined sugar from 63f to 59f. 75c. per 100 kilogrammes, thus reducing the bounty now standing at about 3 s. d. s d.
 MR. FAGAN  regretted it was not his
 630 631 632 633 nolens volens, "So that, at present, and till such time as the Holy See shall think fit otherwise to provide, we govern, and shall continue to govern, the counties of Middlesex, Hertford, and Essex, as Ordinary thereof, and those of Surrey, amp;c., as Administrator, with ordinary jurisdiction." Morning Chronicle 634 "The words which I put in capitals his Lordship carefully suppressed. I presume his Lordship knew that 'Ordinary' means 'Bishop; and I therefore put it to any one of common fairness, and not overheated by any excitement, whether to say that one 'governs as a bishop' is an assertion of sovereignty, and entitles the ecclesiastic who employs the term to the elegant appellation of a 'pseudo-king?' I believe the term 'Ordinary' is perfectly English, for it has been frequently used by Anglican prelates of late; but with Catholics the term is peculiarly apposite, as it expresses a bishop who is not a vicar-apostolic." "According to the letter of the documents, and the known law of Rome, a pretension is asserted that all baptised persons should submit to the foreign dominion of Rome." ipso facto, 635 "These are the rules prescribed by the Sacred Congregation to be followed in recommending to the Apostolic See priests to be elected bishops. In thus decreeing it has wished to make known to all, that, in the documents relative to this matter which are forwarded to the Holy See, there shall be nothing contained which intimates elec-
 636 "Finally, the Sacred Congregation declared, that the freedom of the Holy See, in selecting bishops, must ever remain safe and inviolate; so that the recommendations are intended to give light and knowledge to, and not to impose obligation on, the Sacred Congregation." in toto 637 l 638 639 640 641 642 "that if the spiritual authority claimed had been confined to the Roman Catholics, we should have nothing to complain of." 643 History, "It is remarkable that the two greatest and most salutary social revolutions which have taken place in England, that revolution which, in the thirteenth century, put an end to the tyranny of nation over nation, and that revolution which, a few generations later, put an end to the property of man in man, were silently and imperceptibly effected…… It would be most unjust not to acknowledge that the chief agent in these two great deliverances was religion, and it may be, perhaps, doubted whether a purer religion might not have been found a less efficient agent." 644 645 646 "That if in the discussion of this Bill, it can be shown in any way that religious liberty is infringed on, he (Lord John Russell) would be ready to discuss the point, and remove any words with which the worship of the Roman Catholic religion was interfered with." 647
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he wished to draw the attention of the House to the speech of his right hon. Friend who had just sat down, and he wished to contrast that speech with those which had come from the lower part of the House, to show that in the present position of this question there was no blame to be attributed to the Government for endeavouring to steer in this matter a middle course between extreme opinions on the one side and the other, and to suit the legislation they had proposed to the House to the exigencies of the case, in which that legislation had originated. But he could not help being struck with a remark that had fallen from his right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester, that the matter was out of the jurisdiction of the House; and that it ought to confine its duties to matters connected entirely with taxation and the ledger. But the House had duties superior to that. It was his duty to see that those rights and liberties which had been handed down to us by our forefathers should be delivered unimpaired to those who were to follow after us. But his right I hon. Friend seemed to endeavour to catch the attention of the House more by the misrepresentation of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, than by any other plan. In the first place, he had totally forgotten to refer to the speeches which I had fallen from his noble Friend, but had stated that, from his chair in Downing-street, the noble Lord had issued a certain letter in which he had taken upon himself to instruct the country in spiritual and ecclesiastical doctrines. His noble Friend: had done no such thing. [ Cheers. 691 692 693 694
 MR. HAWES  said, he was afraid that his answer would be hardly intelligible unless he went into some explanation with respect to the facts of the case. During the inquiry of the Ceylon Committee, there was a confidential letter produced and read to them by Sir Emerson Tennent, with which he had been furnished by the Archdeacon of Colombo. It was doubted whether Sir Emerson Tennent had a proper authority to make use of that letter. It appeared that he had been permitted to
 627 "I am to acquaint you in reply that Earl Grey cannot consent to receive a statement of this kind, as to what passed between Mr. Glenny and the Archdeacon relative to a private letter written by the latter, when the Archdeacon has not had an opportunity of being previously acquainted with that statement."
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he addressed the House on this occasion with extreme reluctance. Opposed as he had been to the noble Lord's general political course, he considered it no more than in accordance with the respect due to the Minister of the Crown, and with common courtesy, when the Minister introduced a measure alluded to in Her Majesty's gracious Speech, to have allowed him to have introduced it on the night that he proposed it. He should not, however, have now addressed the House, had it not been for an observation of an hon. Friend of his (the hon. Member for Ayrshire), who, in his opinion, had misrepresented the feelings of the people of Scotland in this matter. His hon. Friend said, there had been no demonstration in Ayrshire or in Scotland generally against the Papal aggression. Now, in no country were the people more thoroughly opposed to Popery than in Scotland; but the people of Scotland were not apt to volunteer their services when they were not wanted. They relied on the firmness, the energy, the love of truth, and the attachment of the people of England to the principles of civil and religious liberty, to which the doctrine of Rome had ever been opposed. But he would venture to say, on behalf of the people of Scotland, that if their assistance were required to resist the aggression of the Romanist power in this country, it would not be wanting. The hon. Member for Ayrshire had charged the Free Church with having set up a sort of hierarchy, by establishing general assemblies, new parishes, and the like; and yet, he said, it had not been interfered with. But the hon. Gentleman had misunderstood the matter. The case was entirely different. The Free
 689 Cheers. 690
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, it was only his intention to trespass for a very short time on the attention of the House, for he would not wish to interpose between the expressed sentiments of the House and the division to which they seemed desirous of coming. He thought it, however, his duty to say, that, although he could not place much confidence in the Government, or its capability to maintain, as the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War had said, the dignity and security of this country, he should vote for them on that occasion. They had seen so much on the part of the noble Lord opposite and others since the passing of the Act of 1829, that he (Colonel Sibthorp) would rather have both arms cut off than vote for that Bill; and that he said without having any un-Christian or uncharitable feeling towards any class of his countrymen. As it was a duty he owed his Sovereign, however, on account of what was recommended in Her Majesty's Speech, he should feel obliged to register his name for the Motion of the noble Lord, however little he might think the measure calculated for the security of the State, or satisfactory to either Protestant or Catholic.
 MR. BARING WALL  said, he was anxious to offer a few observations before he followed the unusual course of opposing the introduction of a Government measure, which he thought needed some discussion. The whole course of the life of the noble Lord at the head of the Government ought to have made him remember that when irritating and exciting topics were introduced into a measure of this nature, it was not very probable that any stage of it would be allowed to pass without a debate ending in a division. A great deal had been said about the feeling on this subject in the country. Doubtless the meetings had been numerous; but he agreed with the hon. Member for Leominster in thinking that the effect of the demonstrations was to show the value the people attached to the right of private judgment, and their readiness to come forward when there existed the remotest idea that the prerogatives of the Crown would be invaded. We seemed to have concealed from ourselves the fact that the Roman Catholic religion was unchangeable. It ought always to be considered, in dealing with this question, that there were only two ways in which the Pope could act in the case of Protestant States which were foolish enough to have a concordat with him, namely, either
 660 Times Hansard Hansard, Times entrée 661 662 Hansard 663
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  rose to address the House amidst loud cries of "Divide!" He assured hon. Gentlemen that he was going to ask the House to divide. He felt this debate had lasted long enough, and he would give way in the hope that no other hon. Member would ask to ad dress the House.
 MR. FRENCH  begged to ask the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies why the letter of the Rev. Mr. Glenny to Sir Emerson Tennent, dated 13th of June, had not been printed with the correspondence respecting Ceylon, lately delivered to Members; whether it was still in the possession of the Colonial Office; and if he had any objection to lay it or its contents on the table of the House?
 MR. SCULLY  said, the right hon. Gen-
 695 696
 MR. GEORGE A. HAMILTON  said, that, previous to his offering any remarks upon the question before the House, he felt it to be his duty to notice some most extraordinary mis-statements which had been made by the hon. Member for Athlone (Mr. Keogh) on the last day of the debate. The first of these related personally to his (Mr. Hamilton's) Friend and Colleague. Mr. Napier had stated in the course of his speech, that whatever might have been his opinions on the question of emancipation, he retained those opinions; but that he had always declared, both in and out of the House, that he considered the measure of 1829 as settled, and that any legislation must be in accordance with the spirit and conditions on which that measure was granted. He (Mr. Hamilton) could not see in that statement anything that was calculated to provoke an invective, especially from a Roman Catholic Member. But the hon. Member for Athlone, with the view, as it appeared to him (Mr. Hamilton), of creating some feeling against Mr. Napier, had accused him of having been Secretary to the Brunswick Club of Ireland, and had stated that those clubs were established for the avowed purpose of setting the acts of the Legislature at defiance, if those acts went in the direction of emancipation, But the hon. and learned Member was wrong in both branches of his assertion. Mr. Napier had no recollection of having been Secretary to the Brunswick Club of Ireland. [Mr. KEOGH: Will he deny that he was?] He has no recollection of having been so; but neither is it the case that the Brunswick Clubs were established to set the laws at defiance. They were established certainly to oppose the carrying of emancipation; but it was by legal and constitutional means, and the Brunswick Clubs comprised the best and
 664 "He (Mr. Keogh) had been petrified at that statement. He was a member of that university, and was prepared to show the utter hypocrisy of that statement. He could assure the House that there were no honours or emoluments to which he, a Roman Catholic, could hope to attain, but that of a sizarship, which imposed services and duties generally thought to be of a servile nature. The fellows had enormous revenues, of which no accurate account could be obtained. The junior fellows had enormous revenues, and no Roman Catholic could be a junior fellow. What was the meaning of Mr. Napier's allegation, when the Roman Catholics could be admitted to no honours but that of sizarship?" l l 665 l 666 667
 MR. MUNTZ  trusted the House would excuse him for detaining them a short time while he explained the motives which induced him to give his vote for the introduction of the Bill. He looked upon the present question as one of the most disagreeable and disgusting that had come before the public since he took any part in political life. Up to that moment he had taken no part in any proceedings or discussions on this question, wishing to hear its merits fully discussed, more particularly in that House, in order that he might be able to arrive at a just conclusion between both parties. Most of the Members of that House were, perhaps, aware that a meeting had been held in Birmingham, which borough he had the honour to represent, on the subject, and that parties were so equally divided, that no resolution had been come to. If he had then spoken, he should have requested the meeting to arrive at the end they did, by withdrawing both the original resolution and the amendment. He was present at that meeting, and it was probable that, even with the little influence which he possessed, if he interfered in favour of any course, that course would been adopted;
 697 Much laughter.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, he could not but admire the discretion of the hon. Baronet the Member for the city of London in not venturing to disturb those arguments so ably addressed to the House by the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. F. Peel). But he thought that the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat, had been guilty of unparalleled rashness in undertaking the defence of his hon. and learned Colleague (Mr. Napier), which reminded him of the sage proverb, "Save me from my friends." Now the matter in dispute between the Member for the University (Mr. Napier) and the hon. Member for Athlone (Mr. Keogh) was of some importance, and it was desirable that the facts should be made apparent. The observations of which the hon. Member (Mr. Napier) complained, were not now made for the first time. He (Mr. Sadleir), in referring to the political antecedents of that hon. and learned Gentleman last Session, had charged him with having been, at one period of his life, in connexion with the Brunswick Clubs of Ireland. The assertion had never been contradicted or impugned by the hon. and learned Member from that clay to this. He (Mr. Sadleir) had alluded to the fact, not for the purposes of Parliamentary invective, but simply in order that he might be enabled to draw those deductions which it was fair and legitimate for a Member of that House to draw in the course of a Parliamentary debate. The hon. and learned Member for Athlone made his statement the other night in the presence of the hon. and learned Member for the University; and that hon. and learned Gentleman, who was silent at the time, now replied through the medium of his Colleague, by saying, that he had no re-
 668 669 670 l l l l l l l l l l l l 671 672 673 674 675
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he had taken no part in the agitation of this question out of doors, nor had he intended to take any part in this debate; but he had endeavoured to ascertain what were the real merits of the case, that he might see as clearly as he could what part he ought to take. Both the hon. Members for Manchester had placed him in rather a painful position. The House knew that the towns of Manchester and Salford were intimately connected, and that they were, in fact, one and the same constituency. Now, he had reason to believe that the sentiments which had been expressed by those two hon. Members were not the sentiments of that
 698 "I feel considerable interest in the matter, and am confident that unless Government will protect us, all our charity-land, and other property given for our churches, will pass into the sole con-
 699
 MR. P. MILES  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, of which he had given him notice. Before doing so, it was necessary he should state the fact that a Barge of sugar was imported from the Havannah into Bristol, in a Belgian
 629 s. s. d.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland whether it was true, as stated in the local journals, that the number of inmates in the Limerick workhouse exceeded the limits allowed by the sealed order of the Poor Law Commissioners by 775; and if so, whether the Commissioners had taken any steps thereupon?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to make a few observations in order to explain to the House what course he proposed to take with regard to the Motion that had been proposed by the noble Lord. It was seldom that a Motion made by Government to bring in a Bill was so much discussed; but the principle involved in the measure now proposed was of the gravest importance. He had been in Parliament, with a short interval of absence, since the year 1837, and this was the first occasion on which he had been invited to embark in the policy involved in the proposition of the noble Lord. He was therefore desirous of taking no step in a matter of this importance without the fullest deliberation, and without being satisfied in his own mind that his reasons for whatever course he might take were sound and conclusive. He had been asked frequently to oppose the removal of disabilities from various portions of his fellow-countrymen, which had been imposed upon them on account of their religious opinions; but he said again this was the first time he had been invited to impose disabilities on men for their religions opinions. For what was the Bill? What the principle of the noble Lord? The noble Lord had invited him to join him in passing a penal law against men who desired by voluntary support and contributions among them-
 676 Times, 677 678 s. 679 l "I say, it is the bounden duty of British Christians to guard against domestic intercourse with Roman Catholics. If you allow domestic intercourse with Roman Catholics—if your sons and daughters become intimate with Roman Catholics, you with a good grace, and consistently with your duties as parents, forbid the marriage. If you object to such marriages, take all means to prevent domestic intercourse with Roman Catholics. I am persuaded that much misery has arisen from such domestic intercourse. If, instead of the unclean thing being fondled, we had come out from it and denied it our support and encouragement, much that is to be deplored would not have taken place; but you have fondled the unclean thing, you have taken it to your breast, until at length it has turned round and stung you." 680 681 682 "When they repealed penalties for not believing, they did not render disbelief legal; they only repealed the penalties which were in force, and that a person could still be indicted, under what was called the blasphemy law, for being a Unitarian." 683 l 684 685 History of European Civilization, Overland Mail "In our last overland summary we referred to the difficulties at Fuh-chau, arising out of certain missionaries of the Church of England having obtained and insisted on retaining possession of a temple within the city, very much against the wishes of the people, who, in their excitement, threatened to destroy the building. Their violence, however, has been restrained for the time by the authorities, who appear to have acted with much prudence and decision; but, while exerting themselves to protect the missionaries from personal injury, they at the same time protest against the course pursued by the rev. gentlemen as both illegal and impolitic, and have issued several manifestoes on the subject, in one of which it is attempted to be shown, not altogether unsuccessfully, that they are acting in contravention of the treaty. We have now received copies of two of these documents, which, however, are too long for insertion at present. The missionaries, it is said, are acting in accordance with the instructions of Bishop Smith, who, as he proposes visiting Fuh-chau during his present cruise, may, after personal inquiry on the spot, be induced to modify them." Reynard "Repeated complaints having been made to the British Government, it was arranged that a man-of-war should occasionally be despatched to look in upon Dr. Bettleheim at Loocho, in order to afford him the countenance of the Government by whom he had been adopted." "The  Reynard 686 "It was deemed advisable for the officers of the  Reynard Reynard. 687 688
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  begged for permission to make a few observations. He differed from his hon. Colleague in the vote he was about to give, and also from a great many of his constituents, and, therefore, he begged to explain his reasons for voting against this measure. As a member of the Church of England he could not be supposed to have any sympathy with the proceedings of the Pope or Cardinal Wiseman, which he thought to be impolitic as regarded the interests of the Roman Catholics themselves, in some respects disrespectful to the Crown, and in many ways injurious to the Roman Catholics. He must say also that this measure on the part of the Pope had, to a certain extent, raised a feeling in the country which he regretted to see had been encouraged to some extent; but on the subject of religious liberty his opinion was, that the phrase referred not only to the doctrines of particular sects, but also to the discipline of the Church, and he felt that the discipline of the Catholic Church could not be carried out except in the way the Pope desired to do it, by the appointment of a hierarchy. He thought the Bill was ineffectual for any good purpose, and he could not hesitate to vote against it.
 MR. F. PEEL,  said, he entirely concurred in the sentiment which had been more than once expressed in the course of this discussion, in which they had been now engaged for three days, that the debate was somewhat premature, somewhat vague and discursive in the range of its topics, and that it would have been carried on with greater advantage if they had first waited till they had been able to ascertain in all its bearings and in all its details the measure propounded by the noble Lord, and which he had moved for leave to introduce. And in the observations which he would venture, with the permission of the House, to make, it was not his intention to anticipate the line of conduct which he would take with respect to this Bill in the further stages of its progress through the House, ignorant, as he was, of the particular nature of the provisions of the Bill, and of the extent to which they were likely to be operative. But there were some points connected with that subject which were, he thought, independent of the particular manner in which the Bill might be framed, and to which he was desirous of confining his observations as well as he could. Now, the Bill had had, as the noble Lord anticipated, the ill luck of satisfying neither side of the House; at least as far as the
 648 649 650 651 652 653 Appeal; 654 655 656
 SIR J. DUKE  felt under great disadvantage in addressing the House at all times; and that disadvantage was certainly not lessened on the present occasion by his rising as he did immediately after the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat
 657 658 659
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that it was quite true that the pressure on the Limerick workhouse had been very great for some time past. The Commissioners had not failed to call the attention of the board of guardians to that state of things,
 628
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  concurred with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford, in thinking that, until the question of the property tax was settled, it would be almost premature to make any observations on the other parts of the right hon. Baronet's scheme. As to the property tax, he thought Sir Robert Peel was fully justified in introducing it along with the changes which he made in our fiscal system, inasmuch as he removed the taxes from the food of the people. So for the experiment had been perfectly successful; and it was mainly owing to that policy that the condition of this country was now so different from that of other
 744
 MR. T. L. HODGES  thought that as the brick duties came under favourable consideration last year, the hop duty should not have been overlooked on the present occasion. For the last thirty years there had been great complaints amongst the hop growers, and these complaints had not lessened, but aggravated; and from what he knew of the condition of the farmers in the hop counties, he could undertake to say that Government would be unable to collect the hop duty in the present year.
 MR. A. B. HOPE  experienced some disappointment in finding that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made no mention of the duty on hops. He lamented to say that the class interested in the growth of hops were now ground down. The right hon. Baronet had received various contrariant statements, but he might not be aware that lately the hop-growers of the different districts had come to the conviction that all their divisions must be laid aside, and they must unite to defend themselves by a strong and united resistance to the pressure under which they now suffered. The duty on hops was originally laid on as a war tax; it was more than doubled by Mr. Pitt, and it was never remitted when all other war-duties were taken off. It was in fact just the same now as it was during the war, although the pro-
 765 l l s
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  thought, after the acknowledgment of agricultural distress in the Speech from the Throne, that Ministers ought without delay to have proposed some alleviation of that distress. He believed Ministers did not dare remove the burdens from the agricultural interest so long as they were dictated to by the party who sat on their right. He did not object to the commutation of the window tax to a house tax; but the latter ought to be viewed with a jealous eye, to guard against its subsequent increase. He should ask whether, considering the great changes which had taken place in legislation in this country, it would not be a wise step to take a revision of the whole system of the taxation and tariffs of the empire. He did not speak then as a protectionist, but as a funded proprietor, and he looked as such to the taxation of the country, and called upon the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to preserve the revenue of the country, and thereby guarantee its credit, and maintain its public faith. When the alteration to which he (Captain Harris) had referred had taken place, a great source of the revenue of the country had been swept away, and it behoved the Chancellor of the Exchequer to face the coercion of interested parties, and not sweep away another important item of revenue. Though they might not live to see the day, he believed that if a Radical Ministry succeeded to power, after having destroyed our institutions, it would renew the duties it now proposed to repeal; yet persons professing to be statesmen listened to that party, and rejected the claims of the agriculturists. They had been goaded on by agitation. Sir Robert Peel had acted on a temporary emergency; but it was for the Government to say whether, that emergency having been removed, they were prepared to do away with the great body of taxation. He (Captain Harris) thought that a 5 s 768
 MR. SADLEIR  said, the Government ought to have adopted the course now proposed by the right hon. Gentleman last Session. If that had been done, a large amount of expense and trouble would be saved. He (Mr. Sadleir) however approved of the Bill, trusting that the right hon. Gentleman would afford every reasonable facility to the owners of land for appealing against Griffith's valuation.
 MR. W. FAGAN  wished to know whether the old townlands would be retained, or new ones created, and what steps would be taken to get rid of the appeals?
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the old townlands would be retained.
 MR. S. HERBERT  did not wish to oppose the second reading of this Bill; on the contrary, he thought the alterations which the hon. Gentleman proposed to make in the Passengers Act were quite necessary, and he was very glad that a Bill had been introduced for the purpose. But all that he asked was this—he had himself given notice that he intended to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the working of the Passengers Act as regards short voyages, as contradistinguished from voyages to Australia, and especially with reference to emigration to America, which is at present attended with abuses of the most flagrant description; and therefore he thought it most important, before any Act was passed to amend the Passengers Act, that they should first have before them the evidence which he hoped to be able to lay before the House through the Select Committee. The evils of such emigration which took place principally from Liverpool and Glasgow (and it was from Liverpool chiefly that the Irish emigration proceeded)—the evils of that emigration arose through the absence of all precautions as to health, cleanliness, or the separation of the sexes in the emigrant vessels. Indeed, the state of these vessels was such as to generate disease and immorality of every sort and description; and all he asked of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies was to
 770
 LORD D. STUART  said, a question had been put to the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer on a very important matter, which ought to be answered to enable the House to see what they were about. His hon. Colleague had asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer a very plain and a very distinct question. The right hon. Gentleman must know what his intentions were, and it was only common fairness that the House should be put in possession of the fact, whether this house tax, which he meant to call upon them to vote, was or was not to be extended to Ireland? That question had been put quite plainly, and he did think the House had a right to have it answered.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was quite sure that the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House would not interpose any unnecessary delay upon this question; and he thought the proposal that the House should go into Committee again on Friday next, with a view to its discussion, was a perfectly fair one, and one in which he could entirely agree.
 MR. HAWES  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not press him to postpone the further progress of the measure. The Bill would effect several practical amendments, which were absolutely required to be passed at once, to meet the necessities of the spring emigration, which was about to commence; while the Committee of the right hon. Gentleman, whose labours, with all the diligence that was possible, could not, terminate in less than two or three months, might lead to more extensive alterations in the Passengers Act. He, therefore, thought it better to pass the present Bill first, which would not interfere with any general amendments in that measure, and then he should be very happy to render the right hon. Gentleman every assistance in his Committee.
 MR. HAWES , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, that it embraced three objects. The first was to enable the Commissioners to shorten the time which should be deemed the length of a voyage for certain vessels, namely, steam vessels and screw ships. It had been decided by the law officers of the Crown, that
 769
 MR. HAWES  said, he should consider the remarks of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire.
 MR. COWAN  rose to confirm what had
 750 l l 751
 MR. FREWEN  regretted that the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not announced his intention to remit any portion of the hop duty. He had mentioned to the right hon. Gentleman, when attending with a deputation which waited on him to show the state the county of Sussex had been brought to by that duty, that, in a neighbouring parish to his (Mr. Frewen's), there were at this present time 1,000 acres out of 3,000 thrown on the hands of the landed proprietors; and of that amount a large proportion belonging to a noble Lord sitting on the other side of the House, had been on his hands since Michaelmas 1848. He (the noble Lord) had a very good farm of 450 acres, which he could not let on any terms whatever. A friend of his (Mr. Frewen's) had stated at a public meeting last week—
 "In his own neighbourhood there were many farms wanting tenants. He himself had one for which he could not find a tenant; and he knew that Lord Ashburnham, Sir Peckham Micklethwait, and Sir Godfrey Webster, also had farms, some of them several, which they could not let. They were obliged to cultivate them themselves; and if tenants could not cultivate to advantage, he was sure that landlords using vast quantities of land could not either." 749 l l l l l l l
 MR. NEWDEGATE , in explanation, said, the hon. Member for Youghal misunderstood his meaning. What he intended to convey was that if a man brought goods by a much larger amount than he sold, his capital would not long remain.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the theory of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the rates were paid by the landlord and not by the occupier, was contrary to the principle on which ratepayers were elected as guardians of the poor, for they were elected on the principle that they had a direct interest in the application of those funds. He had not heard in the estimate of the revenue for this year, which the right hon. Baronet had stated, what was the amount the right hon. Gentleman estimated he should receive from the duty on corn, and he wished to ask him that question. In the financial statement of 1849, the right hon. Baronet stated that he had expected that the duty for that year would amount to 250,000 l s l l l s 756 l 757
 COLONEL SIBTHORP , after his experience of twenty-four years in Parliament, had heard many statements made by Chancellors of the Exchequer, and he had said that, although an angel from heaven came down, he could not please all parties with a financial statement. He (Colonel Sibthorp) begged, however, to say, that, in his humble judgment, he had never heard a more weak statement than what had been made that evening by his right hon. Friend, and, he might add, his most respected relative, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in trying to please every body, would please nobody. The Government had, in fact, set a most unworthy trap on purpose to catch the hon. Members who represented the sister kingdom, and without whom they knew they could not get on. Therefore it was that they proposed to continue the income tax in England, but not to extend it to Ireland. He did not blame the Government, for they had set many traps and spring-guns to catch anything they could
 760
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that be would not detain the House with any lengthened observations; but he would confine himself to what he had to say in answer to the questions which, had been put to him by various hon. Gentlemen who had spoken in the debate. In the first place, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Birmingham had asked whether the Government proposed that any house duty should be paid for warehouses and manufactories? He thought it would have been clear, as it was proposed to reduce the duty on dwelling-houses with respect to their windows, that no such misapprehension could have arisen. The whole of his proposition was confined to houses in respect to their windows. He proposed to repeal the present mode of levying the duty on houses—to take away the consideration of the number of windows, and to substitute a duty to be levied on a different principle. That principle was confined to new houses, and it was the principle of assessing them according to their value. It was proposed also to enable the owners of existing houses to compound on the same principle. Another hon. Gentleman asked what principle he proposed with respect to new houses? It was that of their annual value. So long as the income tax existed, that would afford means of ascertaining their value; but if the income tax ceased, then the value would he estimated in the manner in which it was I when the old house duty was in force; Farmhouses, if under annual value of 20 l 767
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had had the satisfaction of seeing his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury with a deputation a short time ago, and having then heard all that was to be said upon the subject, he did not think it necessary to receive another deputation. His reply to the question of the hon. Member for South Nottinghamshire, who had asked for a definition of a "new house," and whether all houses not yet assessed to the window tax would be deemed "new houses," was, "such as did not come under the old system."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that half-a-dozen questions were sometimes put, and it was not very convenient that he should always rise immediately to answer them. The more usual course was to answer the various questions of the various speakers when the debate was pretty nearly drawing to a close. He assured the noble Lord that he had not the slightest intention of not answering the question, nor of shrinking to answer it. He would answer it at once. What he proposed to do was to reduce the amount of duty which houses paid in Great Britain, and he did not propose to impose any new tax upon Ireland. An observation had been made by the hon. Member for the city of Edinburgh as to the apparent injustice of so many persons receiving incomes under 150 l l l l 755
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I said that would be the amount paid off up to October, 1851.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Would the hon. Gentleman go the length of repealing all taxes?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Bernal, often as I have on similar occasions experienced the kindness of the House, I feel that I never stood more in need of their patient indulgence than on the present occasion. My hon. Friend the Member for Montrose has, in addition to the ordinary duties of a Chancellor of the Exchequer making a financial statement to the House, called upon me for some information, or opinion, at least, on the general subject of the incidence of taxation. But, independently of this, I cannot sufficiently describe how deeply I feel the importance of the proposal which I am about to submit to the House, and the more than usual difficulties which I have to encounter upon the present occasion. When the income tax was first renewed in the year 1845, the country in all its branches was in such a state of pros-
 704 705 l l l l l . l l l l l l l 706 l l l l l l l l 707 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 708 l l l 709 l d d d l l l l l l 710 l l l l l l l l l l l l 711 l l 712 713 714 715 716 l l l l l l l l l l l 717 l l l l l l l l l l l 718 719 l l l l l 720 l l l l l l 721 l l 722 723 724 ad valorem 725 l l l l l l l l l s d l l s d l s d 726 s l l l s d l l s d l s d s s., d s l l l l l l l s l l 727 l 728 s d s d s d 729 d d d d l 730 s., s s s d 731 l l s s d s l l 732 l l 733 734 l l l l l l l l l l l 735 l l l l l l l 736 l 737
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, that, though; there was a surplus, the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not proposed to divert any portion of it to the most miserable and overtaxed part of Her Majesty's dominions, Ireland. But his hon. Friend the Member for Marylebone, not content with this indifference, actually desired to increase the present amount of taxation on that country. Now, he did not shrink from stating, nay more, he was fully prepared to prove to demonstration, that Ireland already paid at least an equal share of taxation, and bore, proportionately to her means, her full quota of the burdens of the State. Out of the nine millions to which it was said the income of Ireland now amounted, he believed 7,000,000 l 758
 MR. BANKES  would not object to anything which the hon. Member for Roscommon had urged in favour of Ireland, although there might have been a time when he (Mr. Bankes) thought that portion of the country should have had to hear equally with England the heavy imposts to which we were subjected; but now he, for one, was far from giving his assent to any extension of the income and property tax to Ireland, and, in fact, would strenuously resist it. The right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer had dealt in a most unsatisfactory way with the owners of land; and the answer given by the Government to the just complaints of his hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire respecting the burdens upon the soil, was lame and insufficient. But there was a class to which neither that hon. Gentleman nor any other Member of the Administration alluded. They spoke of the landlords and of the tenant-farmers, but they never once alluded to a class who were neither landlord nor tenant, but partook of both—he meant those men who owned and who cultivated their farms—that class which had long stood high amongst the yeomanry of England; these were the men upon whom these burdens and our recent legislation pressed most severely—a class who enjoyed a prominent place in our history, and whose interests he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not disregard. They had always been loyal, they had never been clamorous—they had not commanding influence, but yet they had claims to the attention of any British Government. As regarded the window tax, it was his duty not only to give his attention to those by whose influence he might be more particularly returned, but to extend it also to the large towns that were situated within his county, and having their interest at heart, as well as that of the rest of his constituents, he had raised his voice against the window tax. He thought that the duty might be
 759
 MR. MUNTZ  would not say whether the statement of the right hon. Gentleman was strong or weak; but he would venture to say, like the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Lincoln, that a Chancellor of the Exchequer was much like the painter who, in striving to please every body, pleased nobody. If they had entirely repealed some oppressive and obnoxious tax, they would at least have given satisfaction to somebody; but they had taken away the whole of the grace from their concession of the window tax, by their substitution in its place of a house tax. They were also continuing another tax, which was one of the worst that could be imposed—the property tax. When that tax was proposed by Sir Robert Peel, he (Mr. Muntz) believed he was the only Member on his side the House that voted for it; and he took the course he did on the express understanding, most distinctly given, that the tax was only to last for three years. To his great astonishment, however, when the time came that the tax should have been repealed, it was reimposed; and many hon. Gentlemen, by whom he had been blamed for supporting the measure in the first instance, voted for its renewal. It had been renewed three times; and there was no tax that ever committed such infamous frauds upon society as this. He knew many instances where small tradesmen with incomes just over the 150 l 761 l
 MR. G. SANDARS  said: I have heard the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer with mingled feelings of satisfaction and regret: satisfaction at the large surplus in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman; regret that he has not made a more satisfactory disposition of it. I am not disposed to quarrel with the repeal of the window tax; on the contrary, I have always supported its repeal; but the right hon. Gentleman has done away with much of the grace of the boon by coupling it with a reimposition of a house tax. If the right hon. Gentleman should fill the honourable post he now holds another year—which is exceedingly problematical—I trust he may
 763 l l 764
 MR. HERRIES  said, that he had listened with great attention to the elaborate speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but he would beg to remind that right hon. Gentleman that the details of his financial scheme, with regard to the window duties, coffee, chicory, timber, and other matters, must necessarily: be subordinate to the decision which the House might come to upon the question whether the property and income tax should be continued or not. Of all questions which now excited the mind of the country, that was perhaps the most important; and he did claim from the Government, therefore, that which they were apparently quite prepared to concede—ample time for consideration before the House was called upon to determine the question, should this tax be continued or not? The concluding portion of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman was so far satisfactory that it indicated upon his part and that of the Government a desire not to press this; question precipitately or even hastily. He presumed, therefore, if the subject were postponed to-night, that the right hon. Gentleman did not intend to bring the House to its discussion at an earlier period, at least, than Friday next. He was sure the right hon. Gentleman would accept that proposal—[The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Hear, hear!] On the part of hon. Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House, he had not the most distant intention of offering anything like obstruction, or interposing unnecessary delay; but this was a subject upon which some delay was really required. And the House ought to have time to consider the measure proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, and to weigh well all the circumstances under which they were called on to agree to it. The right hon. Gentleman must be aware that there were peculiar features in the present condition of the country, and in the prospects of public affairs, which rendered this question more difficult, perhaps, than on any former occasion when it had been introduced to the House. Having reason to hope that time would be given until Friday to come to the discussion of, and a decision on, the question, in the interval he would avoid
 739
 MR. HENLEY  rose to put one or two questions. There was, be understood, to be 150,000 l l 766 l d
 MR. HENLEY  saw no objection to the provision empowering the substitution of one species of diet for another; but he hoped the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies would be prepared in Committee on the Bill to give some information as to the average length of passages by steam which it was intended to regulate; because the hon. Gentleman must recollect that some steam-vessels had been out an extraordinary length of time, and severe misfortunes had happened. If a steamer took only fifteen or sixteen days' provisions, and was out thirty or forty days, it was clear the most deplorable consequences must ensue; and, therefore, he trusted the hon. Gentleman would make this matter clear in the Bill. Other parts of the Bill were extremely vague and unsatisfactory. What was meant by the term "putting back?" If a vessel from Liverpool encountered a foul wind, and ran into the Cove of Cork till the weather changed, must she be recertified before putting to sea again? because, if she must be recertified, how could that be done without unlading her? Such a regulation would prove an impediment that would necessarily throw the whole of our emigration into the hands of foreign vessels, because foreigners were not to be subject to it. It would also induce captains to stop out at
 771
 MR. HUME  said, the right hon. Baronet greatly misrepresented him. He did not say, let all taxes he repealed; that was the argument of fools out of doors. But he contended that the application of the surplus ought to be so regulated as to remove the existing impediments to the employment of industry and the investment of capital, for the beneficial employment of which every outlet was needed. To buy up any portion of the debt, with these objectionable taxes existing, would be extremely imprudent. The right hon. Baronet had alluded to the increase of annuities—a favourable symptom; and he did not believe that there would be any fear or risk as to the public faith being kept, so long as they took care not to strain the spring of industry until it broke. He entirely concurred in one sentence of the right hon. Baronet, which had also been expressed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government on a former evening—that the security and peace of the country depended mainly on the number of people who took a share or were interested in the government of the country. Let the occupants of the Treasury bench be consistent, and bear that sentiment in mind when the question of the franchise came on for discussion. The same principle applied to taxation. It was their duty to lessen, by every means in their power, the burdens of the community, in order that they might be comfortable; and in the train of comfort would follow peace and content. But he did not think such a state of things would be realised under the present system.
 MR. HUME : This debt had been funded at 86, and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would redeem it at 96, which would be a loss to the country of nearly 250,000 l l l 743
 MR. HUME  thought it right that time should be given to consider, not only the statements which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made, but his omissions also. He regretted that the right hon. Gentleman was not prepared to make any reductions in the establishment of the country, the estimates he had given them being within 150.000 l l 740 741 l l l 742 l
 MR. SLANEY  thanked the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the several reductions which he had made in the taxation of the country, but more especially he thanked him in the name of a great and suffering body, shut up in the courts and alleys of this city, for the removal of the window tax. He himself had visited those places; he had reported on them, and he knew, therefore, the extent of the boon. He fully believed that by relaxing the restraints on the springs of industry, and relieving the burdens which now pressed down the mind of the country, that they would be able—without changing the burdens from one class to another—to improve the working classes so as to make them better, more happy, and more contented. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had on a previous occasion stated his willingness to grant assistance to the suffering agricultural interest, in the way of loans for draining. That had been found so useful in his (Mr. Slaney's) part of the country that there had been a general demand for loans, great additional numbers of persons had been employed, and great benefit had accrued. He wished his right hon. Friend had stated his willingness to extend to that suffering interest other agricultural improvements.
 748
 MR. ALCOCK  begged to express his satisfaction at the announcement of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to taking the duty off cloverseed, and he was anxious also to explain the reason why he voted the other night in favour of the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire. He did so, not from any view to a return to protection, but because he was one of those who wished to force the Government to give them a full and complete system of free trade. He wanted to extort from them free trade in the important article of barley. The House was hardly aware that one-ninth part of all the cultivated land was occupied by barley. When the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire last year proposed to transfer to the Consolidated Fund a part of the charge for the poor-laws, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department and Sir Robert Peel proved, that even if the hon. Gentleman had made good his case, it would not have made more than 2 d d l l s., s l 752
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, it was to some extent satisfactory that the grower of coffee was raised to the same level with the grower of chicory and with the grocer. He considered that to be a valuable concession, and one for which they were bound to thank the right hon. Baronet, it being a principle for which they had long striven. It perhaps was not much to thank the Government for putting the genuine article on a level with the adulterated, but still it was some advantage. They must not suppose that coffee was only adulterated with chicory. All the chicory that was grown, including that for feeding purposes, would not, even if it were all used for mixing with coffee, account for more than one-half of the adulteration. Burnt earth, torrefied or roasted yarn, damaged bread, and all kinds of excrements (for the term was not too strong) were used for the purpose. The evil would never be put a stop to until the Treasury minute preventing excise officers from entering tin; houses of grocers was rescinded. If the right hon. Baronet wished to abate the evil, let him accept the recommendations offered to him; let him rescind the Treasury minute, and put an end to these infamous practices. If this were not done, he should feel bound—though admitting the value of the concession made—to proceed with his intended Motion on this subject.
 MR. T. B. HILDYARD  begged to ask what was the correct definition of "new houses?" There were many houses now in course of erection, which were constructing in reference to the window tax.
 MR. MITCHELL  had last year expressed the opinion that the remission of the timber duties would give an impetus to our shipbuilding trade. He had the greatest confidence in repeating his belief that the remission of these duties would prove of great advantage to this country, and would give employment to one of the most valuable classes of our labourers—the shipwrights, with whom machinery did not interfere. He did not see why, with untaxed timber, they should not be able to build ships in this country which would in all respects compete with those of foreign build. The reduction of the duty on Baltic wood would increase materially the lower class of shipping, and thus give increased employment to a most valuable set of men. It was also important to other classes. Sir Robert Peel, in 1845, reduced the duty on the most valuable kinds of wood, such as rosewood and mahogany, without altering the duties upon coarse wood applicable to domestic purposes; so that a man who had a table made of mahogany paid no duty upon it, while the poor man was taxed for the deal of which his table was made.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  did not wish to anticipate the debate, but could not avoid making a few observations for the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The scheme proposed for the reduction of the window duty, by the levy of a house tax yielding two-thirds of the present window duty, he considered a great injustice to houses already erected, and containing a larger number of windows. He would bring to the notice of the right hon. Gentleman that houses hereafter to be erected with fifty or seventy windows, assessed at 50 l l s l s l s l l 747
 MR. WAKLEY , in reference to the effect which the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman for levying a house tax would produce out of doors, predicted that it would meet with a most unfavourable reception. He begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman when he would be able to receive a deputation from the inhabitants of the metropolis upon the subject? It was his firm conviction that the proposition would excite so hostile a feeling that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not be able to carry it.
 MR. W. BROWN : I am induced to offer a few observations to the House in consequence of the statement made by my hon. Friend the Member for Warwickshire. He states, that our exports last year were 70,000,000 l l l l l 762
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was quite sure the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer's statement would disappoint the country, as well as that House. If the House wished to force reductions on the Government, they must begin with our expensive establishments. After Committees had been sitting for three Sessions on the Army and Navy Estimates, the Government ought to have been prepared to carry out some very extensive reductions. But it appeared that, whenever the finances were in a flourishing condition, there was always an extravagant expenditure. The expenditure of 1845 had been 2,174,000 l 746
 SIR B. HALL  said, that when the noble Lord at the head of the Government, three years ago, proposed the income tax, he spoke of extending it to Ireland, when he next proposed to reimpose it. He (Sir B. Hall), therefore, gave notice at that early period, that, whenever the opportunity arose, he would propose the extension of the income tax to Ireland. With regard to the imposition of a house tax, he begged also to give notice that he would take the sense of the House on that proposition. And, as it was desirable to know what strength he was likely to enlist in favour of that Motion, he begged leave to ask his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether the imposition of the house tax was to be confined to Great Britain, or whether it was to extend to Ireland also?
 SIR J. TYRELL  thought that hon. Gentlemen opposite should be satisfied with the victory they had gained over the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as far as the window tax was concerned. He (Sir J. Tyrell) congratulated the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer on an admission which he had made that evening—an admission which was great in principle, though small in amount—namely, that on certain occasions the country could have recourse to the Consolidated Fund. He now proposed to administer relief from that source, to a portion of the pauper lunatics of the country, but he would find it a grave
 745
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  was obliged to the hon. Member who had just sat down, for having at length admitted that he and the other advocates of the agricultural interest had some reason to be discontented with the present state of things. To his own knowledge, those employed in that part of the country with which he was connected, were suffering severely, and it would be some consolation to them to find that the House in some degree sympathised with their sufferings. They certainly received no sympathy from Her Majesty's Government, or from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He never listened with more pain in his life to any statement than he had to the financial statement of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Only the other night the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and Her Majesty's Ministers, and Her Majesty from the Throne, described the agricultural interest as suffering from distress. Was there in the statement just made any symptom of consideration for the farmer? How could the farmer sympathise in any way with any one of the propositions? He did not see that the farmer would gain one shilling by the alteration. If he occupied a house of above 20 l 753
 MR. GEORGE SANDARS  begged to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. Was it the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in a Bill this Session, or to introduce any measure, for the collection of agricultural statistics, to place us at least on a par with Ireland?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that if he could see his way to any unobjectionable mode of obtaining correct statistical information relating to agriculture, he would be willing, indeed he was desirous, of introducing such a measure. Last year he had consulted with Gentleman connected with agriculture on both sides of the House, without arriving at any satisfactory solution of the dfficulties that beset the question; and he doubted that, in the present state of the agricultural mind, it was advisable to bring in a Bill on the subject.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  rose to move for a Select Committee to consider the expediency of assimilating the poor-laws of England, Scotland, and Ireland, and promoting the productive employment of able-bodied paupers. He knew very well that anything that he could venture to say on this subject would be insufficient to induce the House to agree to any abstract proposition relative to this question. He therefore only asked the House to agree to the appointment of a Select Committee to in-
 817 la plaie dévorante l'Angleterre. 818 819 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. 820
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  presented a petition from the parish of St. James, Bath, against the measure proposed by Her Majesty's Government for the modification of the window tax. The petitioners prayed that the House should repeal the window tax unconditionally, without the substitution of any other tax.
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  hoped the hon. Baronet would not press the second reading of the Bill on that occasion. The Bill had only been delivered the day before yesterday. [Sir W. CLAY: It is the same as the Bill introduced last year.] It was no answer to say that the Bill was the same as the one introduced last year, because the subject underwent but a very partial discussion last year. It dealt largely with the ratepaying clauses of the Reform Bill. He had always been opposed to the
 822
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  hoped his hon. Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets would not yield to the appeal which had been made to him. The Bill was fairly discussed last year; it was also discussed in the previous year, and amongst those who then took part in the debate, was the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon. It could not be said, therefore, that the House was taken by surprise. As to the observation that this was a Bill which ought to have been brought in by the Government, it appeared to him that there could be no fitter person to introduce it than the Member for a borough which contained so many parties who were personally interested in the matter. In that large borough hundreds of persons were disfranchised in consequence of an omission in the Reform Act.
 MR. SPOONER  hoped the Bill would be postponed. It had been discussed at late hours last Session, and also towards the close. Therefore time was required; to consider it. He should like to hear from the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether this measure was necessary or not. It appeared to him to be in contravention of, instead of carrying out, the principles of the Reform Bill. He hoped time would be given to the House to communicate with the country as to the objects intended to be carried out by the measure.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  did not think his hon. Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets was under any necessity of agreeing to the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman opposite the Member for Peebles-shire, that this Bill should be postponed. The subject was not new to the House; on the contrary, it was one with which the House was perfectly familiar. On late occasions, this measure had been objected to on the ground of its having been brought before the House at a late hour; that, at all events, could not be said now. The next
 823 l. l. 824
 MR. HENLEY  said, so far as the principle of this Bill had been laid down by the noble Lord who had just addressed the House, and by the hon. Baronet who introduced the Bill, he believed there would be very little, if any, difference of opinion in the House. He (Mr. Henley) believed that to carry out, legitimately, the franchise that was conferred by the Reform Bill, no one would object. But, unfortunately, the wording of the Bill did something which was very different. What did it do? The rate was the foundation of the register in boroughs; but this Bill was so worded, that when persons had once made their claim, then the person who made up the register would never have to look at the rate in future, but must take that particular class of persons from the old register. He thought the House ought to provide that, when a person having so made his claim was put on the register, he was not to remain there for ever, whether he had the same tenement or not, unless somebody objected to him. That was the real difficulty of the case. If the noble Lord wished to carry out that which was the object of the Reform Bill, he (Mr. Henley) should offer no opposition; but if, in attempting to carry that out, the House put persons on the register where they would remain until they were objected to, they put them in a position in which no other voter was placed. That certainly was not the object of the Reform Bill. He did not care a farthing whether the Bill was postponed for a fortnight or not, so that the House had ample time given them before they went into Committee.
 SIR W. CLAY  said, if the House would agree to the second reading, he should propose that the Bill be committed on Wednesday, the 12th of March.
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  would then withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. F. MACKENZIE  wished to know whether the Bill was intended to apply to Scotland? The present system entailed very heavy expenses on that country, and he was afraid those expenses were likely to be increased by a resolution of the Treasury to pay by salaries instead of fees.
 MR. HUME  said, there was one point in the right hon. Baronet's speech which ought to be considered: that was, the allowing differences to exist in different counties with regard to the payment of officers connected with public prosecutions. If hon. Gentlemen would take the trouble to read the evidence given before the Committee of the hon. Member for Manchester, they would see that the evidence of the chief constable of Stockport was directed entirely to that point, and threw much light upon it. That was a subject of the greatest possible importance; and during the progress of the Bill, he should use his best exertions to provide a remedy for the evil, for he could not think the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would allow one rule, to obtain in Lancashire, and another in Cheshire, instead of providing, as he ought, that clerks of the peace should be placed on the same footing in every part of the kingdom. He (Mr. Hume) would suggest that the right hon. Gentleman should repeal all the present Bills relating to prosecutions, and bring forward one single measure relating to that question, for at present the law was so exceedingly complicated that none but a lawyer could understand it. A Bill of that nature would be of immense importance, and would greatly facilitate the proceedings, while it
 828
 MR. S. WORTLEY  agreed with the hon. Member for Peebles-shire, that it was of considerable importance to know whether this measure was to extend to Scotland. But the object for which he principally rose, was to notice a point which had not yet been adverted to—namely, the necessity of making some provision, not for the regulation of the expenses of, but for the conducting of prosecutions. The existing system was an extremely defective one. How it was to be remedied might require much consideration; but, as it was, it placed not only the Judge but the administration of justice in the greatest jeopardy. In a great majority of cases there was no one responsible for the prosecution. The depositions were placed in the hands of the Judge, who had no previous knowledge of the case, and had to extract the facts from the depositions as well as he could. It was said, that the Judge ought to be the counsel of the accused; but he differed from that maxim, and thought the Judge should hold himself impartial between the accused and the accuser. The Judge was now, however, placed in a peculiar position from being obliged to rely on the depositions for the prosecution; and it very often lengthened the trial, as the Judge could not know to what points he ought to direct his attention. He (Mr. Wortley) knew cases where such confusion arose from the depositions, that prisoners of whose guilt there could be no doubt had escaped. He was aware that the observations he was making tended to the creation of a public prosecutor; but he did not believe it would be necessary to go to such an extent, though he was decidedly of opinion there ought to be some person to see the depositions were in a proper form, and that the case was properly brought before the jury. As to the expenses of grand jury cases, his experience induced him to think it very doubtful whether they could hope for any decided saving without a change in the system. The Chief Justice of the Common Pleas had introduced some alterations which worked well, and some expense might be saved in those districts where there were stipendiary magistrates.
 SIR G. GREY  said, with regard to the observations of the hon. Member for Montrose, he had to assure him that the Bill provided a limitation of the expenses of prosecutions; and in reply to the question put by the hon. Member for Peebles-shire,
 829
 MR. HENLEY  said, the public were undoubtedly indebted to the Government for bringing forward the Bill, dealing as it did with a very important subject. It was a question on which much difference of opinion existed as to magistrates' clerks being concerned in criminal prosecutions. If the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department thought that provision should be made to prohibit magistrates' clerks from being connected in the prosecution of cases heard originally before the magistrates to whom they acted as clerks, he must of necessity do something with respect to the proceedings of public prosecutions, which were now brought before the courts so imperfectly that their miscarriage frequently occurred. With reference to the question of a public prosecutor, he (Mr. Henley) was certain that to prevent the miscarriage of public prosecutions, something must be done in that direction.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  hoped that, in the absence of any of the Members for the city of London, his connexion with the corporation would entitle him to say a few words, and to ask the House to give full consideration to the claims of that corporation. The right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had explained the plan of the Government, but he had not entered upon any explanation of that suggested by the corporation; and, though considerable difference of opinion existed in the corporation as to the removal of the market, he knew they were unanimous in the wish to effect the greatest improvement consistent with the public interest and the importance of private rights. He thought it would only be fair to refer the rival schemes to the same Committee, who could decide which was best. Although the right hon. Baronet had not mentioned the intended site of the new market, it was generally known to be somewhere about Holloway; but, before it was fixed upon, he wished to secure for the proposal of the City a full consideration by the House.
 MR. STAFFORD  thought the assurance of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State, that the Bill would not be pressed with undue precipitation was very necessary, and was of opinion considerable time should be given to understand the provisions of a measure involving an immense amount of patronage, and a large discretionary power in the hands of a new set of Commissioners, as well as a complete change of the metropolitan markets. He observed that their discretionary power was unlimited, and that no appeal was to be given from them, whatever districts might object to the new market sites. The Bill also contained a clause that no market for live or dead meat should be allowed within five miles of St. Paul's. [Sir G. GREY: The prohibition only applies to live cattle-markets at present.] It was rather premature for the hon. Member for North Devonshire to express his thanks, and those of the farmers, to Government till they knew where the new market was to be; the change might be from bad to worse. The changes proposed to be made respecting slaughterhouses involved an immense amount of capital, and introduced a mode of dealing with private property which the House never had adopted before. The House had now before it one Bill from the Great Northern Railway Company, another from the Islington Market, a third from the City, and a fourth from Government. The latter would exclude all the others, unless it was understood that they would select Islington as the
 834
 MR. SPEAKER : The rule is that no person shall allude to what takes place in a debate in this House by petition or in any other manner; but if a proposition be once submitted to the House for an alteration in the window tax, and that proposition forms part of your proceedings, then the public arrive at the information in a legitimate manner, and may petition the House against it. But it is not competent for parties to petition against a matter that can only have come to their knowledge from having been mentioned in debates in this House.
 MR. SPEAKER : The petition is informal, and cannot now be received.
 MR. ELLIS  said, the Bill would be hailed with great satisfaction by the graziers in every part of the country.
 MR. BUCK  said, the farmers and graziers around the metropolis ought to feel extremely indebted to Her Majesty's Government for bringing this subject under the consideration of Parliament. He knew that the proposal to change the site of the market would be exceedingly welcome news to many of his constituents in North Devon.
 MR. WAKLEY  begged Mr. Speaker would let them know precisely the regulations of the House on the subject, for probably there would be numerous petitions with reference to the measure before the House.
 SIR G. GREY  rose to ask for leave to bring in a Bill for the removal of Smith-field Market. The subject was one which had been brought frequently under the consideration of the House in past Sessions, and it was not necessary, therefore, to enter into an explanation of the circumstances which led to the appointment of a Committee in 1849. That Committee had heard evidence, and had proposed a series
 830 "I am directed by Secretary Sir George Grey to enclose, for your information, a copy of the
 831 "Sir—In answer to your letter of the 24th of June, I am directed by the Markets Improvement Committee of the Corporation of London, in pursuance of an order of the Court of Common Council of the 23rd of July, to state, that your letter, and the reports accompanying it, have been fully and maturely considered; and, the notice of the corporation having been drawn by your letter to the recommendation of five of the Commissioners for the discontinuance of the present market at Smithfield, and the establishment of a new market for the sale of cattle without the City, the corporation are advised to protest against the commission being used for the purpose of affecting the rights prescriptive, chartered, and Parliamentarily and judicially confirmed to the corporation of London, and cannot concur in the proposed removal of the market from the place where it has been held by the citizens of London from time immemorial under the common law and their charters, which prohibit the establishment of any other market within seven miles of the City, and which charters have been confirmed by Parliament, and lately supported by the judgment of the House of Lords, assisted by the Judges. The corporation of London, therefore, feel themselves called upon to maintain those charters for the sake of the public and of their fellow-citizens; and rely with confidence that no such Bill as that referred to in your letter will be proposed to Parliament. The corporation having recently prepared a comprehensive plan and model, for the purpose of meeting the suggestions pointed out by the reports of the several Select Committees of the House of Commons, and proposed means for effecting it, they cannot undertake the task of constructing a new market without the limits of the City, for which ne site, nor plan, nor estimate is suggested; while the plan proposed by the corporation is ready, when sanctioned by Parliament, for immediate execution." 832 Gazette 833
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that he had already stated he could not fix any day for the second reading; because the nature of the Bill required it to be presented to the Standing Orders Committee. The Bill was partly of a private and partly of a public nature, and before it was presented to the House must go through certain stages before that Committee.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that he gave every credit to the City for the desire to improve Smithfield as far as possible; but the question was, whether the evils arising from the locality did not call for the absolute removal of the market to another site.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, a somewhat similar course was taken last year; but, as an hon. Member having charge of one of those Bills to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred for supplying the metropolis with water, he should like to hear from him what was the nature of the Bill he had to propose on the part of the Government. He would also ask whether, considering the late period at which Easter occurred this Session, it was necessary that the postponement of the Water Bills should take place till that time. It might possibly have the effect of preventing for another year any improvement in the mode of supplying the metropolis with water.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  wished to put another question to the right hon. Gentleman. Some Bills had been put into his hands relative to the supply of baths and washhouses, but not including water for domestic use. Had the attention of the right hon. Gentleman been called to these Bills, and did he mean to include them in I his Motion?
 SIR G. GREY  thought it might be inexpedient at the present moment to state the purport of the Bill which was in the hands of the Government; but, in answer to the questions which had just been put to him, he might say, that the Board of Health was of opinion that it was undesirable and inexpedient that the supply of water to the metropolis should be made the subject of competition. He would not enter more fully into the subject before he had an opportunity of laying a Bill on the table of the House. It was already in preparation, and he hoped before Easter to bring it in, when it might be desirable that he should make a short statement of its provisions. With regard to the question of the hon. Member for North Lancashire, he had to observe that the chief object of the Government was, to supply water for domestic purposes; at the same time, he was bound to state, that he had been informed the water which was at present supplied to the baths and washhouses was, in some cases, unsuited to the purposes for which it was required; the Bills, therefore, to which the hon. Member referred were included in the present Motion.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN : I have to thank my hon. Friend for having had the courtesy to give notice of the question he has just put. I willingly bear testimony to the general accuracy and fidelity with which speeches are reported—both those which are made in, as well as out of, the House of Commons, considering the great noise and confusion which often occur while hon. Members are speaking. But the words which I made use of at the meeting, to the best of my recollection, were these. I said that—
 "I was called to order by the Speaker, and was told that the people of England had no right to express surprise or regret upon any matter mentioned in debate in the House of Commons, and which could only reach them through the reports in the journals, unauthorised by the House."
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  did not intend to make any objection to the introduction of this Bill. There might be modifications of the existing system of local' courts in Ireland which it would be desirable for the House to have an opportunity of considering; and he had no doubt a careful consolidation of the numerous existing Acts would be a useful measure. But he wished to be certain that he correctly understood the purpose of the Bill. If he (Mr. M'Cullagh) was in error, his right hon. and learned Friend would set him right; but he understood him to say that the only transfer of jurisdiction proposed in the measure was that now exercised by the Commissioners of Insolvent Debtors, whose duties, for the sake, he presumed, of some pecuniary saving, it was intended should hereafter devolve upon the assistant barristers. Upon the propriety of that alteration he did not-then mean to enter. But he would take that opportunity of reminding his right hon. and learned Friend that a growing feeling of jealousy prevailed among the profession in Ireland with respect to any transfer of jurisdiction from the superior courts, whether of law or equity. There was a very prevalent and by no means a groundless fear, that by degrees the chief tribunals of the country might be stripped of their proper functions in order to carry out a theory of change, which he, for one, could not but regard as most injurious to the best interests of the community at large, and wholly destructive of the dignity and inde-
 872
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, the hon. Gentleman who has made this Motion has done it certainly in the most temperate manner. He has laid it before the House with as little of undue exaggeration, either as to its merits or its nature, as any Member of this House could possibly desire. I must likewise say, as he stated at the commencement of his speech, that there can be no objection to his making the Motion at this period of the Session; and that that reason which he says, and says truly, was the only reason I urged last year against entertaining the Motion he then submitted, will not now apply, and that it is not a reason I will now assign. I will also make an admission with respect to the nature of the Motion itself. I think this Motion differs very much from several Motions which the House has considered of late years respecting the extension of the suffrage, inasmuch as I do not think any reasonable objection can be alleged against the class of persons whom he proposes to introduce into the county constituencies, I admit at once they are a class of persons who, if entrusted with the elective franchise, would probably use it with intelligence and integrity. I certainly do not pretend that there is such a superiority in the inhabitants of towns over those in the country as to enable me, or any one, to say that the inhabitants of a town, when invested with the franchise, are distinguished by their superior qualities over those not having the franchise residing in other parts of the country. But the question really is, whether this proposal will be an improvement of our representation; because I have always considered that this was really the important question which the House had to decide in any proposition of this kind. I never could think, with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, that the chief point to which we were called on to direct attention, was whether certain persons with certain qualifications should be intrusted with the franchise, or whether it was a hardship—the hon. Gentleman, using a harder term, calls it a species of tyranny—to exclude them from the franchise. The view which I have taken has been this: seeing the immense
 858 859 l. l. l. l. l., 860 l l l. l. l. 861 s. l. l. s. s. 862 863 864
 MR. HAWES  said, he should not object to the appointment of a Select Committee to consider the alterations which had been suggested.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he should have felt it his duty to have impeded the passage of the Bill through Committee, if he had not been informed that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Wiltshire had received a promise from Her Majesty's Ministers that a Select Committee should be appointed on the subject, to whom suggestions might be more properly referred. He (Mr. Adderley) would have endeavoured to introduce provisions for extending the protection of the Act to cabin passengers, feeling that persons of wealth and substance would be thereby induced to emigrate in greater numbers, and, in proportion, there would be a greater number of labourers expecting to obtain employment in our colonies; but, inasmuch as the passage of the Bill was of immediate importance, he would not impede it, simply understanding that such a Select Committee would be appointed, and that Her Majesty's Ministers would afford every facility to obtain information, and to carry through Parliament during the present Session some such measure as he now suggested.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that he should direct the few observations it was his intention to make, less to the great variety of topics which the hon. Gentle, man had introduced into his speech, than to the Motion which he had submitted to the House. The efficiency of the law of limited partnership was an important and a much controverted question. A Special Committee of that House, of which the hon. Gentleman was chairman, had been appointed to consider it, and the hon. Gentleman now moved for its reappointment. For his own part, he (Mr. Labouchere) was not able to come to any very decided opinion upon the subject, for, if they looked to authorities, they would find that the authorities were almost equally divided. The greatest commercial and the greatest legal authorities had expressed the most contrary opinions as to the effect which might be produced by introducing a system of limited liability which
 849 850 appointed "To consider the Law of Partnership, and the expediency of facilitating the limitation of liability, with a view to encourage useful enterprise, and the additional employment of labour."
 MR. HUME  was glad that at last they had obtained a definite promise from the noble Lord, although it was not very pleasant to be told, after all, that if they would wait till next Session, they might then get something. The noble Lord did not seem to be aware that he had been tardy, or that he was to blame for having passed twenty years without an effort to remedy the over and over again acknowledged de defects in the Reform Bill. The same reasons which existed now, for a movement in this direction, had existed during these twenty years; and what he (Mr. Hume) asked now, and would continue to ask, he had asked all along, that, having taken a wise step in passing the Reform Bill, they should carefully and calmly continue in the same course, and admit the whole of their fellow-countrymen within the pale of the constitution. The noble Lord had referred to affairs on the Continent; and he was sure the noble Lord would agree with him in this, that the Reform Act had tended to settle the peace of this country during those convulsions abroad, which otherwise would have been disturbed at home; and the question now arose, as the Reform Act had worked so well, whether it was not advisable to go a step further, and extend the suffrage to those who, it was admitted on all hands, were so well qualified to exercise it? The noble Lord had told them that many of the electors in counties were fettered and dependent. He asked, then, ought not the noble Lord to strengthen the hands of the really independent voters by throwing in the votes of the independent 10 l. 865
 MR. LOCKE KING  then rose to move for leave to bring in—
 851 "A Bill to make the Franchise in Counties in England and Wales the same as that in Boroughs, by giving the right of Voting to all Occupiers of Tenements of the annual value of 10 l. 852 "He had always considered it a condition in every reform—a condition which he thought had been happily complied with hitherto—that the representation of that House, the mode in which it was constituted, the mode in which the people elected their representatives, should be compatible and consistent with a monarchy and House of Lords."  [Hansard, 853 "Tens of thousands of men, in certain favoured localities, distributed over the face of the kingdom (I believe the number for 1850, freemen included, is 471,502), enjoy the elective franchise because they pay a yearly rent of 10 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. "The measure proposes to place the people of Ireland with respect to representation, in a position, in point of fact, as good as that of the people of England and Scotland. It is founded on the principle that they should not he treated as inferior to the people of England and Scotland; but that they have a right, when England and Scot-
 854 855 "There is nothing in my opinion I ever held, or in any opinion I hold now, which would debar me from seeing with satisfaction any plan by which the admission of the working classes could be still further extended, and the basis widened upon which the representation rests." "I must say, considering the increase of the democratic element in our institutions, that I see the greatest danger in erecting an immense superstructure on a narrow electoral basis. If that superstructure cannot stand upon an extended electoral basis, I am sure that a narrow basis cannot long sustain it." 856 l. 857
 MR. P. HOWARD  expressed himself favourable to such an extension of the franchise as should include the greatly increased number of persons who were capable of using a vote, and had an intelligent acquaintance with the constitution and laws of their country.
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I have heard with very great pleasure, and I am sure the country will receive with much satisfaction the declaration made this evening by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that he proposes to bring in next Session a measure of Parliamentary Reform. I only hope that in the interval the country will give that attention to the subject which will enable it to secure a real and substantial measure of reform in our present most faulty system. I think—and I should not have said a word on this Motion if the noble Lord had not addressed himself to the larger question—that some of the scenes we have witnessed in one or two of our recent elections—such as the Falkirk district, St. Alban's, or take Wareham as the most recent example—are utterly disgraceful to us. I have witnessed scenes in some of these small places, where perhaps there are but two, three, or four hundred electors, exceeding anything that has occurred on the continent of Europe at general elections in which six millions
 866 l. l. l. l. 867 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. 868 l. l. l. 869
 MR. SLANEY  rose to move the appointment of a Select Committee to consider the Law of Partnership. The question was, he believed, one of much more importance to the well-being of the country than might be at first sight imagined. He rejoiced to think that some of the measures for the advantage of the great mass of the people had been already accomplished by that House; but he believed that there was no measure better calculated to advance and improve the condition of the people generally than the measure he was now about to submit to the House. The question was one deeply affecting all classes,
 843 844 s. 845 846 l. 847 l. 848
 MR. C. ANSTEY  considered that the cabin passengers in emigrant ships were chiefly men with large families, who found it convenient to go in that way for the sake of the superior comfort, and were not in circumstances to bring actions which might involve them in a great deal of trouble and expense. They as much required protection as the steerage passengers; and, with the exception of a very little change in diet, there was very little difference between the
 873
 MR. THORNELY  having seen a great deal of the emigration to the United States of America, had learned from his experience that the cabin passengers were perfectly well able to protect themselves, by bringing an action in case of a violation of contract.
 MR. EWART  seconded the Motion.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Member for Bath respecting the accuracy of a statement which had been attributed to him in the newspapers, as to the right of the people to petition the House of Commons. The noble Lord was reported to have said, at a public meeting—
 "That he had, on the previous night, presented a petition which he had received from his constituents at Bath, stating, that they viewed the budget with surprise and regret. He was called to order by the Speaker, and was told that the people of England had no right to express surprise and regret at anything done in the House of Commons."
 MR. A. B. HOPE : Mr. Speaker, I can assure the House, particularly on an evening like this, when an important financial measure is about to be brought under its consideration, that I will not detain them a single minute more than is absolutely necessary, whilst I offer a few observations on this subject. I am as sorry as any one can possibly be that such a discussion as this has been brought before Parliament. It seems to me as if we had suddenly gone two centuries back—to the time of the Long Parliament—and that if we go on in this way, we shall ere long become a Barebones Parliament. I say, if individual clergymen are to be dragged before this House in this manner, and if the noble Lord at the head of the Government is to condescend to step from his high position to humble accusations of this nature, touching the conduct of a private gentleman, this House will assume a character which will go far to lower its dignity, and to lessen the respect with which its proceedings are regarded by the country. I only rise, Sir, to vindicate the character of a private gentleman with whom I am personally acquainted, and whoso ease, I regret to say, has not been fully or fairly brought before the House, in that memorial which my hon. Friend the Member for Marylebone has read to the House. In the first place, he has enlogised the character of the late incumbent, Mr. Fallow, as a man who, whilst living, possessed the confidence of the parishioners. Now, the truth is, that most of those arrangements on which so much blame is attempted to be thrown, as the exclusion of laity from the chancel, were the work of Mr. Fallow, and not of Mr. Murray, the present incumbent. With respect to the charge of Mr. Murray having attended a Roman Catholic chapel in King William-street, Strand, that charge was made by a gentleman who, when Mr. Murray made his acquaintance in his pastoral visitation, told the reverend gentleman that he never gave charity to anything whatever. In answer to that charge, I have to state to the House that Mr. Murray did twice attend a Roman Catholic chapel, but that was only to hear a contro-
 882 "Sir—I have been too much occupied since I received your last letter to pay proper attention to it, but there are some points in it on which I consider you to be in the wrong; but I will write you so soon as I have a little leisure.—I am, my dear sir, your faithful servant, "C. J. LONDON."
 LORD D. STUART  said, he was sorry to be the means of postponing for a few moments that financial question which was the legitimate subject of discussion that evening. The House would see that he had been compelled to take that course by the neglect of duty of other persons, and not of himself. ["Order, order!"] He believed he was perfectly in order, if he put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. It might be in the recollection of the House, and certainly in that of the noble Lord, that early in February last Session he had made a Motion for the production of papers relating to the treatment of the Hungarian refugees, which had led to a debate characterised by considerable warmth. The noble Lord met that question in these terms:—
 "I trust my noble Friend and the House will think I am not asking too much of their forbearance if I entreat them not to press the Motion in the words in which my noble Friend has put it, but to allow me to select out of that great mass of papers such documents as may explain to the House the course which Her Majesty's Government has pursued, without giving details which would be inconvenient to the public service, or laying before the House those confidential communications that may have passed between Her Majesty's Government and Her Ministers abroad, or between them and the Ministers of other countries." 886
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he begged to move that the Order of the Day on that question be postponed till Monday. On Monday he would state the reasons to the House why he had made that request.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I cannot state positively what is intended, but on Monday I will state the reasons why I now propose a postponement, and the course I then intend to pursue.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : That question I cannot precisely answer. It must be left to the lawyers to determine whether or not it forms part of those assessed taxes.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I will answer, as well as I am able, the statement of my hon. Friend the Member for Marylebone. I have been in communication with the Bishop of London, with respect to the subject to which he has referred, and also with the Archbishop of Canterbury, in respect to the modes of worship to which the Archbishop referred in that extract which has been read to the House by the hon. Baronet. With respect to the Bishop of London, I have been informed that his attention had been called for some time to the mode of worship in Wells-street chapel, which he thought was not in conformity with the customary forms of worship in the Church of England; that the inhabitants of that district had complained to him; and that he had been anxious to attend to their complaint. His Lordship also informed me that where a clergyman is willing to attend to the admonition of his bishop, such practices as the bishop objects to may be amended, and such grievances as affect the inhabitants may be duly redressed; but that where a clergyman altogether refuses to attend to the admonition of his bishop, there is then very considerable difficulty, delay, and expense in enforcing that which appears to the bishop to be the right performance of
 880 881 l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  had only to say, in answer to the question of the hon. Baronet, that there was no intention to propose any new qualification by the new tax on houses. He presumed the application of the law would be the same as with respect to the assessed taxes.
 MR. BANKES  again rose to ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether his attention had been called to the increase of vagrancy in the metropolis, and whether it was the intention of the Government to propose any remedy for that evil? Recent coroners' inquests showed a great amount of distress in the metropolis; and it had been stated in a public journal that on one day this week 430 ablebodied persons had applied to the Leicester-square soup kitchen, of whom 200 only could receive relief.
 MR. BANKES  begged to ask the President of the Poor Law Board whether he had received information of other disturbances in union houses in Suffolk besides those in the Barham union, occasioned by ablebodied labourers sent to union houses in consequence of want of employment?
 MR. HERRIES : Can the noble Lord say whether it be intended positively to proceed with the Committee of Ways and Means on Monday next?
 MR. REYNOLDS  rose for the purpose of entering his protest against certain phrases used by the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone, who introduced this subject to the House. In speaking of matters of belief in the Roman Catholic Church, he spoke of "Romish practices," and "Romish errors." Now, since he (Mr. Reynolds) had the honour of a seat in that House, he had made it his particular study never to record a vote upon any Motion involving the practices or discipline of the Protestant Church. When his hon. Friend the Member for Cocker-mouth submitted his Motion to the House, he (Mr. Reynolds) thought it right, as a Roman Catholic, not to interfere in such matters. He did not vote himself on that Motion, and he advised many of his Roman Catholic Friends in the House to do the same. He protested against the introduc-
 883
 MR. HUME  would remind the House that the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone had made a complaint on the part of the laity of the parish, and he (Mr. Hume) feared that was not the only one among the many remonstrances on such a subject that the House would have to discuss. They paid annually a very heavy rate to maintain their churches, and those of them who belonged to the Anglican Church expected to have the services performed agreeably to the doctrines of that Church. He felt himself compelled to allude to a recent case in Marylebone, where a clergyman, the Rev. Mr. Baring, had refused to attend a parishioner's wife who was at the point of death. The rev. gentleman said he could not go out of his parish, and it was an hour and a half before a clergyman could be got to attend the dying woman. Was that the conduct of a Christian divine? Something must
 884
 MR. BAINES  had to state that he had received no information of disturbances in any other union house in Suffolk besides that at Barham. There was a disturbance, though of a much less serious character, in the workhouse of the Depwade union, in Norfolk, about the middle of January. With regard to the question whether these disturbances were occasioned by ablebodied labourers sent to the union houses in consequence of want of employment, he could only say that the accounts which he had received were conflicting. One account was that this was the sole cause. Another account stated that the really industrious and deserving labourers had borne their
 874
 MR. PLOWDEN  had no desire to protract the present discussion, but he rose for the purpose of correcting the statement made by the hon. Member for Montrose, who had stated, he must think inadvertently, that the Rev. Mr. Baring had answered, when applied to by a sick person desirous of spiritual consolation, that "he would not go to her." Now, he (Mr. Plowden) was present at the Marylebone vestry on Saturday last, when this subject was discussed; and he was sure the hon. Member for Montrose would, upon reflection, remember that when the Rev. Mr. Baring explained the matter at the vestry, he stated in the reply to the application from the sick lady, that he deeply sympathised with her situation, and if he had it in his power he would at once attend her in his spiritual capacity; but the state of the law and the ecclesiastical district arrangement of parishes precluded the possibility of his visiting the sick out of his own immediate parish, and that therefore he was, he regretted, unable to comply with her request; and fearing that some misapprehension might exist as to the Rev. Mr. Baring's motives, from the statements just made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, he (Mr. Plowden) thought it only fair and due to the character of the Rev. Mr. Baring to make the statements he had addressed to the House.
 SIR B. HALL  would now beg to ask another question of the noble Lord. When the right hon. Baronet the late Sir Robert Peel imposed the income tax, he said he would not make the payment of that tax a necessary qualification for voting; and was he (Sir B. Hall) to understand that, if the house tax was to be imposed, it was to be one of those assessed taxes, the payment of which was necessary to entitle the voters in boroughs to be placed on the registry?
 SIR B. HALL  wished to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Go-
 875 l.
 SIR B. HALL : Sir, I now rise to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government a question of very great importance as to the state of discipline in the Established Church. It is necessary for me before I put the question to state the circumstances of the case to the House, which I shall do in as few sentences as I possibly can. I will confine myself exclusively to the facts of the case, and shall refrain from making any comment upon them, or offering any observations to the House which may lead to discussion. ["Order, order!"] I think I am perfectly in order, and as I have given notice of my question nearly a fortnight, I think it is only fair I should be heard. The parish of Marylebone, con-
 876 "That, unhappily, immediately on the appointment of Mr. Murray, he began to make alterations in the church and services; and, although remonstrated with from time to time, and after promising, as he has done, not to make further innovations or changes, either in the church or the services, he has persisted in doing so, until at length he has brought the building—that is, the chancel—and the services to what is boastfully stated to be models of Puseyite worship. That, among other the innovations and alterations made by Mr. Murray are the following:—The communion-table, or as it is now termed, the altar, has been on two several occasions raised, so that it is now approached by steps; it is covered
 877 878 "Mr.——begs to inform Sir Benjamin Hall that, in a conversation he had with Mr. Murray, he declared distinctly that he had only been three times to the Catholic chapel, in King William-street, Strand." "Fulham, Jan. 1. "Sir—I am sorry to have so long delayed my answer to the memorial addressed to me by you and others, parishioners of St. Andrew's, Wells-street. I am quite aware of the grounds of complaint stated in that memorial, and I have long ago remonstrated with the Rev. James Murray on the matters to which they relate, but without success. The memorialists may be assured that I will pay due attention to the subject, and that I will do all in my power to make their parish church answer the purposes for which it was built.—I am, Sir, your obedient servant, "E. S. Bailey, Esq." "C.J.LONDON. "London House, Feb. 6. "Sir—I am not surprised to find that some degree of impatience is felt by those members of the congregation of St. Andrew's, Wells-street, who are dissatisfied with the present mode of celebrating Divine service in that church. But as the measures which I propose to adopt will be general, and not with reference to that church only, and as several questions of difficulty are involved in them, some time must of necessity elapse before they can be carried into effect.—I remain, Sir, your faithful servant, "John Howard, Esq." C. J. LONDON. "Ten years have elapsed since I thought it necessary to warn the clergy of another diocese against the danger of adopting principles which, when carried out, tend naturally to those Romish
 879
 SIR G. GREY,  in answer to the hon. Member, begged to state that he had received no information from the police commissioners, or other authorities, leading him to think there was an increase of vagrancy. On the contrary, he found, from a report which he had called upon the police commissioners to furnish when the hon. Member gave notice of his question, that vagrancy had diminished, judging from the number of vagrants apprehended by the police in the months of November, December, and January, in each of the years 1848–9, 1849–50, 1850–51. In the first period the number of vagrants apprehended amounted to 2,372; in the second year to 1,309; and in the third, which was for November and December, 1850, and January, 1851, the number was only 1,022. From an account of the vagrants apprehended for the last ten years it would appear the amount of vagrancy in 1850 was less than in any of the preceding years. The best thing he could do would be to lay these returns on the table of the House. As to the increase of vagrancy in any particular district, if the hon. Member would communicate any observation of the kind he might make to him, the commissioners of police would be directed to turn their attention towards it.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  willingly acknowledged the delicacy with which the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone had treated a subject confessedly of so delicate a nature as that under discussion; but the whole tone of that discussion only confirmed his (Sir R. Inglis's) previous impression, that that House was not the proper tribunal before which to review the discipline of the Church, the conduct of individual clergymen in that Church, or the proceedings of vestry meetings. He denied the competency of the whole Legislature to decide such subjects as those; at all events, he was satisfied that the House would best consult its secular duty—and he said it with all respect—if they did not press forward a discussion on such a matter. He could not but regret that the time and attention of the House had that evening been diverted from the financial state of the country, which properly came within their consideration.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am quite ready to admit that my noble Friend has a claim upon me for the performance of the promise which I made him on the debate of last year; and I also am quite ready to acknowledge publicly that which I acknowledged to him in private, that on the appearance of the thing he has a right to be angry with me. I must take this opportunity of thanking my noble Friend for his forbearance. If he knew how great has been the pressure of the various matters upon me which have prevented me hitherto from fulfilling that engagement, he would be induced, perhaps, to continue that forbearance which he has already manifested on this occasion. I trust, however, the papers will be in the hands of Members on an early day of next week. The papers from which selections are to be made are very voluminous; but I trust I shall be able to produce such of the papers as my noble Friend wants.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I promised the House that I would, on this day, state the reasons that induced me to propose, on Friday last, the adjournment of the Committee of Ways and Means to the present time. I now rise to acquit myself of that engagement. The House will remember that, immediately after the commencement of the Session, a Motion was made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, calling on Her Majesty's Ministers to take immediate measures to relieve the distress of the owners and occupiers of land. Every Member of this House, and every person in the country, must have considered that that Motion was a Motion to take out of the hands of the Government the conduct of the measures which the Government might think it fit to propose. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire took a perfectly Parliamentary course on that subject. He stated that, having appealed to the Government on former occasions, he now appealed to the House. I do not in the slightest degree complain of the course the hon. Gentleman took; but I stated what must have been the effect in the view of every one if the Motion had been successful. Sir, 269 Members of this House voted for that Motion, and 283 Members voted against it. There was, therefore, a majority of those persons present in the House of 14 Members against it. Now,
 893 894 895
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Not then prepared.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : After what the hon. Gentleman has stated, I can only say that Lord Stanley will, no doubt, at a proper time, when he shall think fit—having received the permission of Her Majesty—make a full statement of all that has occurred. And, I believe, that Lord Stanley's statement will fully bear me out in what I have said respecting the noble Lord.
 MR. DISRAELI : "Was not then prepared"—that correction of the noble Lord does not at all affect what I wish to state to the House. I must express my conviction that when the noble Lord says that Lord Stanley stated to Her Majesty that he was not then prepared to form an Administration, the noble Lord has made a statement to the House which, on further reflection, I think he will acknowledge was not founded on what really occurred.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it is not my intention to trespass on the House, but after the statement made by the noble Lord, I must address it for a minute. It is most true, and a matter of public notoriety, that Lord Stanley has had an audience of Her Majesty; and when Lord Stanley shall have Her Majesty's gracious permission to state what transpired during that audience, he will do so publicly and in a constitutional manner, in his place in Parliament. There is, however, one observation made in the statement of the noble Lord which my duty will not permit me to allow to pass unnoticed. When the noble Lord states that Lord Stanley stated to Her Majesty that he was not prepared to form an Administration—
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I am anxious to make an observation on the extraordinary state of affairs in which we are now involved. We are about to adjourn until Friday. The noble Lord, it appears, is about to reconstruct his Cabinet. But the noble Lord may fail in the task he has undertaken; and then, without the House of Commons having the slightest opportunity of expressing any feeling of its own, Her Majesty, I believe, in all probability, will be obliged—if I may use the phrase—to
 896
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, in moving the postponement of the Order of the Day for the second reading of the Ecclesiastical Titles Assumption Bill, I will take the opportunity of stating to the House what has occurred since I asked the House on Monday last to consent to an adjournment to this day. Before doing so, however, I think it necessary to notice a contradiction which I received to a statement I made on Monday. I stated that Lord Stanley, having been sent for by the Queen, had stated to Her Majesty that he was not then prepared to form a Government, and that thereupon I was required to repair to Buckingham Palace. I received from the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire a contradiction to that statement in terms very peremptory, and in a manner not very courteous. I feel it due to my own honour to state, in the first place, that nothing was further from my intention than to mis-
 1030 "Lord Stanley has, after a conference of more than an hour, declined undertaking the formation of a Government at present, until it should be clear that no other Government could be formed. The Queen has sent for Lord Aberdeen and Sir James Graham, and wishes to see you immediately." 1031 "After stating to Your Majesty the position of the three main parties into which the House of Commons is divided, Lord Stanley observed, that the policy of the present Administration had met with the general approval and support of the most distinguished men of the party which adhered to the late Sir Robert Peel, and that they had never yet met with a defeat from Lord Stanley's political friends; that a very important Member of that party, Sir James Graham, had publicly declared his opinion of the necessity of 'closing their ranks' to resist the presumed policy of Lord Stanley's friends; and as Your Majesty had been pleased to inform him that no communication had been made to any one previous to that with which Your Majesty honoured him, he ventured to suggest that, in the first instance, Your Majesty should ascertain whether it were not possible to strengthen the present Government, or partially to reconstruct it by a combination with those who, not now holding office, concurred in the opinions of those who do, and professed their opinion of the necessity of union; that, failing such a combination, a portion of that third party might be willing to combine with Lord Stanley, whose difficulties in such a case would be greatly diminished; that if it should appear that both of these arrangements were impracticable, and if personal considerations stood in the way of the formation of a Government of those whose opinions appeared to prevail in the House of Commons, Lord Stanley, not undertaking the extreme difficulties which he would have to encounter, would, if honoured with Your Majesty's confidence, prefer any responsibility, and even the chance of failure and loss of reputation, to that of leaving Your Majesty and the country without a Government; and he added, that he believed an Administration formed under such circumstances would be more likely to meet with support, even from moderate opponents of their views, than one which should be hastily formed without giving time to show the impracticability of a different arrangement." 1032 "He feels highly honoured by being allowed to submit to Your Majesty unreservedly his whole views, and while he would be sorry that this paper should fall into any other hands than those of Your Majesty, he has that entire confidence in Lord John Russell's honour, that he is sure no ungenerous use will be made of any portion of it which Your Majesty may see fit to communicate to him." 1033 1034 1035 1036 1037 1038 1039 1040 "The only method which has ever been found effectual to preserve any man against the corruption of nature and example is a habit of life and communication of counsels with the most virtuous and public-spirited men of the age you live in. Such a society cannot be kept without advantage, or deserted without shame. For this rule of conduct I may be called in reproach a party man: but I am little affected with such aspersions. In the way which they call party, I worship the constitution of your fathers; and I shall never blush for my political company. All reverence to honour, all idea of what it is, will be lost out of the world, before it can be imputed as a fault to any man that he has been closely connected with those incomparable persons, living and dead, with whom for eleven years I have constantly thought and acted."
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Gentleman appears to have misunderstood what I stated. I stated that the Administration of which I was at the head, had offered its resignation. There is, in fact, no Administration now existing, and therefore it would be impossible for me, in any event, to state what are the intentions of the Government upon the subject of financial measures. It would be improper that I, or any one else, should state what the budget shall be, until the formation of another Administration shall be intrusted to me.
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker, I request the indulgence of the House whilst I briefly endeavour to remove a misapprehension which exists in the mind of the
 1041 1042 1043
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Sir, the hon. Member for Middlesex has tendered his allegiance to the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, on the ground that no measure should pass into a law with respect to the aggression committed by the Pope of Rome upon the prerogatives of the Sovereign and the independence of the nation. Now that was tantamount to a declaration that the objections urged by the representatives of a certain section of the people of Ireland should prevail over the unanimous decision of the people of England. ["No, no!"] It was neither more nor less. And he (Mr. Newdegate), as the representative of an English constituency, begged to tell the hon. Member for Middlesex that the people of England would consider the attempt to prevent legislation upon this subject in no other light. The explanation of to-night had,
 1057
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that the motto of the noble Lord opposite was, "Any port in a storm." He dared not appeal to the people to try what their opinion upon all these subjects was. The noble Lord reminded him of a large sheet of sticking plaster. He had been so long on that side of the House that those around him were sticking to him, and he could not venture to separate from them. He remembered an old saying of "Scratch me, and I will scratch you." That had been carried out to a large extent. There was a good deal of itching in Members sitting on different sides of the House.
 1058
 MR. BANKES  wished to address to the House a few observations on some remarks which fell from the hon. Member for Finsbury. That hon. Gentleman said, that the party to which he (Mr. Bankes) belonged had made a proposition to the House which was negatived by such a small majority that they were necessarily called on to prescribe for the benefit of the State. Now, that majority, though not large, was still sufficient not to put the protectionist
 1064
 MR. WYLD  complained that the subjects of taxation and fiscal regulations had not been adverted to. Throughout the country large meetings of the people had been held at which they had demanded alterations in certain matters of taxation; and he assured the noble Lord that unless some large and striking alteration were made in the system, the middle and labouring classes would not be satisfied. His belief was, that alterations in the franchise were also necessary; and he did hope that whoever was in power would give consideration to these matters.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that the agitation which had taken place on the question of Papal aggression had been got up by interested parties, by the clergy, who, in fear that their enormous possessions should be attacked, endeavoured to avoid the danger by setting up a cry of this nature. As an Irish Member he was anxious to state that the impression on the minds of the people of Ireland was that the majority of the people of England did not share in the hostility which had been denounced against them. The noble Lord took great credit to himself for not shrink-
 1055
 MR. HUME  said, that he was anxious at once to state the deep regret with which he had listened to the explanations tendered to the House that night. He certainly excepted the explanations offered by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon. To that right hon. Gentleman he had listened with great satisfaction; and he was delighted at the consistent conduct of the right hon. Gentleman on the question as to the liberties of Roman Catholics. He (Mr. Hume) was confident the right hon. Gentleman had taken the proper view, and that what he suggested would turn out correct—that if we valued the peace of Ireland we would have to give way on the question of the so-called Papal Aggression. We could not re-establish a penal legislation; and the sooner that was confessed the better. What he said now, on this question, he had said on all similar question's ever since he had entered Parliament. There had never been, since he had been in Parliament, a single Motion in that House, which had for its object the removal of a civil or religious disability from any portion of his fellow-countrymen, which he had not most cordially supported. But he had heard the speech of the noble Lord with great regret, for it was impossible not to feel regret at finding that the formation of a Government had been dependent upon this narrow point in respect to the "Papal Aggression." The people of England would be surprised and offended on learning, that during all this time, in this Cabinet crisis, none of the really important questions had been raised, whether the budget should be abandoned, whether the income tax should be continued, and, in short, whether we were to have any relief from taxation. Ten days had been
 1052 1053
 MR. P. HOWARD  said, that when the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire stated that the country was unanimous upon this question, he seemed to forget that in the capital of his own county—in Birmingham—a large meeting had been held, and a fair race run between the two parties, which resulted in a dead heat, so much so, that the presiding officer was unable to say which party carried the resolution. Unanimity should not, therefore, be talked of. He thanked the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon for his able speech and declaration; and he trusted that the statesmanlike opinions which he had enunciated would before long place him at the helm of affairs, and that he would see the principles of civil and religious liberty triumphant. For his part he was determined, whether the Bill was modified or not, to give it an unrelenting opposition. He was glad to see that the mist of prejudice upon this subject was passing away, and that the people of this country were not about to insult their Irish fellow-countrymen, or adopt the craven hearted policy of pursuing and persecuting a minority of their Roman Catholic countrymen in England. He was sure that any line of policy which should create an increase in the cost of the necessaries of life would not be acted upon for a week. Without wishing to revive the memories of past feuds, he would observe that the reflecting part of the country must feel that the policy of free trade and cheap provisions was one of the settled principles of the country. He was equally convinced that they now saw that the time was come when the enlightenment of the people admitted without danger of an enlargement of the elective franchise. He was quite willing to admit that in that course judgment, experience, and prudence were eminently necessary; but he was also persuaded that such was the general love of order that
 1059
 MR. B. OSBORNE  should not follow the example of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, and import into the debate a topic which would give rise to debate. The empty state of the benches showed that the excitement abroad was not keeping pace within doors. He rose on behalf of his constituents, after the explanations, in which so little had been told, to express his astonishment that, with peace abroad, prosperity at home, and an immense surplus, the Government should have gone down in a sunny sea. He must be permitted to doubt that it was the division on the Motion of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, or the division on the Motion of the hon. Member for East Surrey, that led to that event. In his mind it was episcopal rashness joined to financial imbecility, which caused the good ship to founder.  Apres moi la deluge 1056
 MR. SPOONER  wished to correct an error into which the hon. Member for Carlisle had fallen with respect to the meeting at Birmingham, when he described the contest of parties on that occasion as a "dead heat." The hon. Gentleman was mistaken. There was a decided majority at that meeting in favour of the Protestant feeling expressed in the town. An amendment was proposed, recommending that no legislation should take place on the subject, and that amendment was rejected by a most decided majority; but owing to the parties who voted against the amendment having gone away under the impression that the rejection of the amendment affirmed the original proposition, the latter, when it was afterwards put from the chair, was lost in consequence of their absence. In proof of the earnestness with which the Protestant feeling of Birmingham resented the Papal aggression, he reminded hon. Gentlemen that the address which had been presented to the Queen by the right hon. Baronet opposite from that town, had 16,500 signatures attached to it. He was exceedingly happy to hear the noble Lord opposite still maintain the opinion he had so manfully and constitutionally expressed as to the propriety of a measure on the subject, though he (Mr. Spooner) doubted the propriety of his attempting to mitigate it. The country was not satisfied with his measure, because, as had been well observed by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford, it did not go far enough. The Protestant feeling of the country was raised, and nothing would satisfy that feeling but such a measure as should secure to the nation all these guards which formed part of the Bill of 1829. Nothing would satisfy that Protestant feeling but that the insult which had been offered to the Sovereign on the Throne and to the nation at large, should be repelled in a manner worthy of the noble Lord's speech, to which he fear-
 1060
 MR. SLANEY  thought that the present circumstances of the country strongly demanded the exercise of mutual forbearance.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  would venture to state to this House that whatever had been the agitation on the question of Papal aggression, it would be speedily followed by no less convincing demonstrations against the inequality and injustice of that abominable measure—the income tax. When the noble Lord again announced, as he trusted he would shortly do, that he had successfully formed an Administration, and came again to ask the House to continue for three years a tax which had been stigmatised with the injustice and oppression with which the income tax was now loaded, he (Mr. Sidney) would venture to predict that such an Administration would have a very short existence. He trusted, whatever Administration was formed, that subject would be taken into serious consideration. He should be sorry to see any Administration disregard the feelings of the people of England on the question of Papal aggression. Whatever might be the state of the case with our fellow-countrymen in Ireland, he felt compelled to state that the feeling was all but unanimous in England, that it was the duty of the Government to put a stop to the insolent aggression of a foreign Power. They believed that an inroad was attempted upon the constitution and the religious freedom of the people, and he was quite sure whatever advantages the right hon. Member for Ripon might be able to lay before the people, they would sink into insignificance compared with having that question fairly and expressly placed upon a legislative enactment. If there was to be a new budget, attention should be given to economising the collection of the taxation of the country in both Customs and Excise.
 MR. WAKLEY  had attended with great anxiety to the explanations furnished during the very gloomy debate which they had had this evening, and he must say that, having applied the most powerful efforts to the subject, he was now as much bewildered with regard to the right definition of the state of affairs as before it commenced. The question was, Was there any Government? Was there any Administration? Gentlemen on the opposite benches were smiling; but he must confess, it appeared to him as if he should have had to perform a very special duty upon them this evening, and he certainly had not anticipated their smiles under the circumstances. He asked again, was there any Administration? He had been told that the noble Lord had resigned, but had not quitted office. Who were his Colleagues, and what policy did he intend to pursue? Not a word had been said with regard to the Budget. The late Chancellor of the Exchequer was in the House; but not a word had been stated by him or any other of his Colleagues with reference to that subject. The House was left in a state of great perplexity. But why? Because those who possessed the confidence of the Sovereign were not prepared to take the correct course. He saw clearly enough that those who, in the first instance, brought in the Reform Bill, were not prepared to act upon its spirit, with reference to the Executive of the country. The influence of that Act had been felt in the country and in that House; but an obstacle seemed to be in the way of its being felt by the Executive Administration. It appeared that it was desired to govern by the fag-ends of the Whig and Tory Governments, and that the parties who had been returned to that House in consequence of the energy and ability they had dis-
 1061 1062
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire was in error in stating as to the Birmingham meeting, that the Protestant feeling was predominant, because it was impossible to ascertain which was the predominant party at that meeting.
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I wish to state, Sir, why I waited for some intimation that the House expected from me some explanation before I—a private Member—thought it consistent with my duty to intrude myself Upon your notice on this occasion. I was afraid lest it might be deemed presumptuous in me, who have no official character whatever, to offer any observations on the present critical juncture of affairs, when an unguarded or imprudent expression might aggravate the difficulties which, from my heart, I wish to see removed rather than increased. But I regard what has just passed as an intimation that some explanation is expected from me, and I will endeavour to make that explanation as succinctly and as plainly as it is in my power to do. I hope the House will bear with me while I state as accurately as I can so much of the case as is open to me consistently with my duty to my Sovereign, and with the desire of not increasing the difficulties which have been stated to the House. On Saturday evening, Lord Aberdeen and I received the commands of Her Majesty to wait upon Her Majesty at Buckingham Palace; and there we were honoured with an audience of Her Majesty, who informed us that Lord Stanley not being then prepared to form an Administration, Her Majesty had empowered Lord John Russell to endeavour to reconstruct a Government; and Her Majesty intimated to Lord Aberdeen and myself Her command that, laying aside personal differences, we should meet Lord John Russell in a spirit of amity and conciliation, for the purpose of seeing if it was possible to form a Government upon a more extended basis, with due regard to our private convictions of what was necessary for the public service. That command Lord Aberdeen and I cheerfully obeyed; and it is superfluous, I hope, for me to say that, haying received such a command from the highest quarter in the realm, I should have been wanting in faithful obedience to my Sovereign—I should have been wanting in gratitude for the marks of condescension I had received from a Sovereign I had served for many years—knowing as I did, too, that the object nearest to the heart of that Sovereign was the welfare, contentment, and happiness of Her people—I say I
 1044 1045 1046 1047 1048 Cries of 1049 "Netherby, Nov. 23, 1850. "It would give me cordial satisfaction to cooperate with you on any public occasion in this county. But, although I am a sincere Protestant, and resent the haughty tone assumed by the Pope in his bull, and by Cardinal Wiseman in his pastoral letter, yet I am unwilling to join in the No-Popery cry, or to ask for the revival of penal laws, or for any new enactment which might fetter the Roman Catholics in the full and proper exercise of their religious discipline within the realm. When I supported emancipation I knew that the Roman Catholics acknowledged Papal supremacy, and would be guided in all spiritual matters by bulls from Rome. I knew, also, that their religion is episcopal; and when I fought on their side for perfect equality of civil rights, I was aware that the Pope might nominate in England, as in Ireland, archbishops and bishops. I did not attach much importance to the safeguard proposed by the Duke of Wellington, who did not himself place much reliance on it, that the Popish hierarchy so nominated should not assume the title of English or Irish sees occupied by Protestant prelates. I myself was a party to the recognition by statute of the dignity of Roman Catholic archbishops and bishops in Ireland; while I adhered, however, to the settlement of 1829, that the enactment prohibiting the assumption of local episcopal titles identical with Protestant sees should be upheld, I proposed in the House of Commons, on behalf of Sir Robert Peel's Government, the remission of the penalties which attached to receiving bulls or other similar instruments from Rome; and out of office I supported Lord John Russell's measure, which authorises the renewal of diplomatic intercourse with the Roman Pontiff. I took these steps deliberately, and I do not regret them. I believe them to have been necessary for the good government of Ireland, and I cannot believe that it will be possible to have one law for England and another for Ireland with respect to Roman Catholic discipline and worship." 1050 "I am offended, indeed, by the arrogance and folly of the language which the Pope and his Cardinal have thought fit to employ in announcing an ecclesiastical arrangement which I believe to be lawful, and which I do not consider dangerous. But my displeasure will not induce me to treat with disrespect the religion of 7,000,000 of my countrymen, or to contemplate for one moment the revision or the reversal of a policy which, in defiance of the No-Popery cry, I have supported throughout my public life, which I still believe to be sound, and which is indispensable, unless by a melancholy necessity the vast; majority of the Irish people are still to be treated and considered as our national enemies. I have thus written to you without reserve my genuine sentiments. I am aware that they are not popular. I do not wish to obtrude them on public attention. The subject will in some shape probably be brought under the notice of the House of Commons; and then, in my place in Parliament, it may be my duty to declare the feelings and the opinions which I entertain. In the mean time I am desirous to avoid any premature or hasty pledge in a matter of such paramount importance. I am more anxious to extinguish than to add fuel to the flame of religious strife and animosity." 1051
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that though the Motion before the House was the further postponement of the Order of the Day, yet hon. Gentlemen had assembled together rather to hear the statement of his noble Friend, than to discuss whether the Ecclesiastical Titles Assumption Bill should or should not be proceeded with. At the same time observations had been made, particularly by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, which, if absolutely unnoticed, would, he thought, add much to the difficulties which that right hon. Gentleman, or any other man who was called upon to share in the administration of the Government, would have to encounter. Let not his right hon. Friend deceive him-
 1054
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had paid a well-deserved compliment to Lord Stanley, for the statesmanlike and moderate speech he made in another place; but the hon. Gentleman went on to say, that the noble Lord had confessed he was unable to form a Government, because he could find only one person of official experience in that House, and that that person was one in whose sentiments he did not agree.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  was anxious not to be led into a corn-law debate on that occasion, but he must be allowed to state that what Lord Stanley did say in the House of Lords—[ Cries of
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if he had been aware of the hon. Gentleman's intention to make this statement, he would, of course, have come down prepared with papers to show that, during the time the present Government had been in power they had reduced far more places than they had created. He would not, however, object to the return being granted.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the return for which the hon. Member had just moved would only show the number of places created, but not the number of
 1086
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, that, looking to the peculiar circumstances under which the reconstruction of the Cabinet had taken place, he was sure he gave expression to the universal feeling of Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House, in assuring the noble Lord that from them would proceed no factious or unnecessary opposition to his policy. But, while expressing what was the general feeling of the Members on that side of the House in that respect, he felt it necessary to say that, should their assent be asked to any measures in antagonism to their general principles—whether with respect to finance, or the great social and industrial questions which had already occupied the attention of the House for several days—it would be their unpleasant duty to withhold it. Nay, more, he thought he might say, tha should Ministers unfortunately take no
 1078
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I should be quite willing to make any reasonable concession on this subject, but I do not think that the statement of my right hon. Friend need affect the second reading of the Bill. Indeed, it is rather unusual that the Amendments, which can only be proposed in Committee, should be stated before the second reading; but I am anxious that these Amendments should be made known as early as possible to the people of Ireland; and it will be for hon. Members, having heard the statement on Friday, to say whether they will agree to the second reading or not.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I am not going now to enter upon that question. My right hon. Friend the Home Secretary will state on Friday what alterations are to be made in the Bill; and I may state, in reply to I the hon. Member for Dublin, that he does not seem to recollect that it is necessary for the Bill to be read a second time before any amendments can be made, as those amendments can only be made in Committee.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I have said I will state on Friday next on what day the Budget will be proceeded with. It would be exceedingly wrong in me, in the present state of public business, to enter into further explanations.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I now have to inform the House of what has occurred since I last addressed it, and to state the course which I purpose to pursue. Since I last addressed the House the public has been put in possession of a statement made by Lord Stanley with respect to his attempts to form a Government, and the reasons why those attempts were not successful. It is not my intention to make any comment on those reasons; but I feel it right—especially after the rumours which
 1075 1076
 MR. OSWALD  wished to put one question to Her Majesty's Government, whether in the Bill, as it was to be modified, the noble Lord still intended to prohibit, as the Bill now before the House did, the bishops and deans of the Episcopal Church of Scotland taking the titles of their dioceses, as they now did?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to be informed whether there was any objection to lay before the House copies of the Addresses which had been presented to Her Majesty from different parts of England, Ireland, and Scotland, with regard to the present Papal aggression?
 MR. MOORE  said, he was not going to discuss the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, but he did think it necessary to urge upon a bewildered House, and upon a ruffled Administration, the necessity of taking time—the one to recover its senses, and the other again to try its wings, before they entered upon a course of legislation which more than any other required a serenity of mind and a well-formed judgment, which the events of the last few days were very much calculated to destroy. If they were determined to legislate upon this question, they should not at all events depart without chart or pilot upon that troubled and unknown sea on which the Administration had once already foundered, and on which some of our most experienced and ancient mariners had declined to spread their sails. He thought it would be generally admitted that a species of legislation like this, however necessary, was so caculated
 1084
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that with every possible anxiety to respond to the wishes of the noble Lord at the head of the Government to avoid discussion, he felt that if he did not make a few remarks on the present occasion, he should be abandoning his imperative duty. He confessed that, after all which had occurred during the last fourteen days, he had heard the declaration of the noble Lord with reference to his Ecclesiastical Titles Bill with very considerable disappointment. He had hoped that the upset of the State coach, if he might use the expression, would have involved the necessity of getting some new passengers. He had entertained a hope that there would not have been so much determination expressed to proceed with this bad Bill. He fully joined in the remark made by the right hon. Member for Manchester that there ought not to be so much precipitancy about this Bill, and that it ought not to be introduced to the prejudice of other and more important questions. The speech of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon on Friday night, had afforded him and the Catholic Members of that House much pleasure and satisfaction; and for that speech he (Mr. Reynolds) availed himself of that opportunity to offer to the right hon. Baronet his sincere and heartfelt thanks. He felt that as a Catholic he was bound to offer him his thanks, and he did so. What had the right hon. Baronet told them? Why, that he was opposed to all legislation on this angry subject. The same sentiment had been quoted by Lord Aberdeen. He (Mr. Reynolds) presumed that the illustrious Duke, whose name had been mentioned that night by the noble Lord as having advised Her Majesty to restore her former Ministers, was of the same opinion; and yet, in the teeth of all this, the noble Lord had just stated that he would move the second reading of the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill on Friday next. He (Mr. Reynolds) objected to be left in the dark on this subject. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Athlone that the House
 1079 1080
 MR. SADLEIR  had not been able to gather from the statement of the noble Lord, whether it was his intention to expunge some of the clauses of the Bill now before the House on Papal aggression. If such was his intention, he thought the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department ought to state which of the clauses it was intended to expunge, and also the precise nature of the clauses which it was intended to introduce. As it might be the noble Lord's intention to introduce an entirely new Bill, he appealed to him whether it was unreasonable to demand that at least ten days should be allowed to the Roman Catholics of the united kingdom to consider its nature? He had no desire to meet the noble Lord on this subject in any factious spirit;
 1085
 MR. B. OSBORNE : Does the noble Lord intend to persist in the Budget which has already been open to the House?
 MR. M. GIBSON  was afraid the second reading of the Bill would take up a very considerable portion of time, and have the effect of postponing to a very remote period the financial business of the country. He would make an appeal to the noble Lord—not, he could assure the House, in any spirit of levity—whether it was right to
 1077
 MR. WAKLEY  hoped the noble Lord would consider this matter deeply before Friday next. He hoped that the noble Lord would review the whole course of his proceeding with regard to this Bill—that he would not press its second reading at the present moment, but either shelve it for the Session, or refer it to a Committee, which would have the same effect. After the speech of the light hon. Member for Ripon, it was perfectly impossible to pass the Bill during the present Session. He (Mr. Wakley) was firmly satisfied that this Bill could never be passed under its present title, and that a great alteration must be made, not only in its title, but I also in its character, before it could receive the assent of the House of Commons, As it now stood, it never could possibly become the law of the land. Did the noble Lord see what would be the effect of opposing this proposition? It would only, be to give force to an adverse party. The House had been sitting for a month, and yet nothing had been done for the good of the people. The noble Lord (Lord Stanley) who was at the head of the party in another place, had, in his (Mr. Wakley's) opinion, in the most manly, frank, and noble manner, stated the course which he intended to pursue. He thought that the noble Lord had acted in a way that entitled him to the warmest thanks of the House and of the country. He (Mr. Wakley) perfectly agreed in the propriety of the; course which the noble Lord had intended to pursue. He trusted that the same course would be pursued in this House, The noble Lord the Member for Colchester had told the noble Lord at the head of the Government that no factious opposition to
 1082 Cries of 1083
 MR. WAKLEY  explained that what he said was, that Lord Stanley had declared he could find only one person of official experience in that House; and in his (Mr. Wakley's) opinion that person was of the wrong kind.
 MR. KEOGH  would ask the noble Lord if it would not be reasonable, after all that had taken place, not to proceed farther on Friday night than the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary? The noble Lord had stated that the second, third, and fourth clauses, if they were not altogether withdrawn, were at least to be materially modified. Now, it was but reasonable that the people of Ireland should have time to consider those modifications, for the effect of those modifications might be to make it an entirely new measure. He would suggest, therefore, to the noble Lord—and he was sure the noble Lord would be willing to concede whatever was reasonable under the circumstances—that he should postpone the measure for a week or ten days, to allow time for consideration of the alterations.
 SIR G. GREY  said, they had been already ordered to be printed.
 MR. M'GREGOR  said, that if the Bill was not carried, the creditors would lose every shilling of their money.
 MR. FAGAN  said, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had over and over again stated that insult had been offered to the people of this country by the Pope of Rome. Now, it was impossible that an insult could be offered, when none was intended. The Pope's interference
 1161
 MR. J. STUART  said, he did not intend to oppose the Bill, the object of which was to repeal a clause in the Act of the 5th of the Queen, which prevented the appointment of a third Vice-Chancellor after the resignation of Sir James Wigram. If, unfortunately, the Vice-Chancellor to be appointed under this Act should die, or be obliged to resign, recourse must again be had to Parliament for a new Bill, for there could be no doubt that three Vice-Chancellors would be permanently required for the Court of Chancery.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he intended to propose the introduction of a clause in the Committee which could not have been introduced in the House of Lords; and he did not apprehend, that if the Bill were passed, that it would be necessary to come to Parliament for another Bill in the case put by his hon. and learned Friend unless the last clause in the Bill were retained. That clause was introduced for the purpose of not interfering with any formal arrangements which might be made with respect to the Court of Chancery.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  would appeal to any hon. Gentleman who had heard that most powerful speech in which the Prime Minister introduced this Bill, whether he could have conceived it possible that any Bill of which that speech was the prelude should have been reduced to so miserable a rag and tatter as that which was now presented to the House? He would ask the House to pause before they committed themselves to a consideration of the proposed object of this Bill. The Bill was "to prevent the assumption of certain ecclesiastical titles in respect of places in the United Kingdom." It recited the 10th of George IV., c. 7, s. 24, which imposed a penalty of 100 l. 1146
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I have no objection to the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, and am willing to print in a separate shape any parts of the
 1147
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, in moving
 1123
 LORD J. RUSSELL  could only at present say that Earl Grey had, as the hon. and gallant Member was aware, written in the strongest manner to the Governor of the Cape enjoining him to take care that in any future Kaffir war no expenditure should take place of which this country could be called upon to defray the cost; in short, his noble Friend gave it to be understood that the colony must bear the expense of future wars. At the same time it was impossible for him (Lord J. Russell) to say more than this, that with
 1122
 LORD J. RUSSELL : To the assumption of these new titles.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The questions referred to new titles generally. The hon. and learned Gentleman says the Government knew these persons had committed an offence at common law, which the Government might, but had not proceeded to prosecute. My answer is this—that, having asked the opinion of the law officers, they said they did not think that the assumption of these titles was contrary either to the common or the statute law. The preamble of the present Act states that—
 "Whereas it may be doubted whether the recited enactment extends to the assumption of the title of archbishop or bishop of a pretended province or diocese, or archbishop or bishop of a city, place, or territory in England or Ireland not being the See, province, or diocese of any archbishop or bishop recognised by law, but the attempt to establish, under colour of authority from the See of Rome or otherwise, such pretended sees, provinces, or dioceses is illegal and void." 1148 1149 1150 1151 1152
 MR. HAWES  said, that the only information at present in possession of the Colonial Office had already been laid before the House. He would take that opportunity of expressing a hope that no exaggerated degree of importance would be attached to the statements now in circulation with respect to the outbreak at the Cape. No despatch had yet been received from the Governor at the Cape. The only information on the subject which had reached the Government was contained in a despatch from the Colonial Secretary, which communicated what had occurred up to the 4th of January. No despatch had been received from the Governor of the Cape, owing to the accidental circumstance of his being at the same time surrounded by a very large body of Kaffirs. Since that time, however, Sir Harry Smith, with the characteristic skill and courage belonging to him, had emancipated himself from his difficulties by gallantly cutting his way through a horde of barbarous enemies, and had reached King William's Town in safety. In a short time—in fact every day, they were expecting an account from Sir Harry Smith by a steamer, which would bring them information three weeks later than that of which they were now in possession. It would, he thought, then be inexpedient to publish the papers they had at present, although there was no objection on the part of the Government to produce them; but still they thought it was better to wait for further papers, as the moment they were received the whole would be laid before the House.
 Mr. NEWDEGATE  could not sympathise with the troubles of the noble Lord, whose speech was but an enumeration of, to him, insurmountable difficulties; neither could he approve of the Bill as altered and amended by the Government. When he looked at the Bill, and considered how different it would be with the omissions now proposed by the noble Lord from what it was when first introduced, and, much more, when he recollected the first speech made by the noble Lord on this subject, and compared it with that which he had just uttered, he could not help thinking of the old quotation—
 "Quantum mutatus ab illo Hectore." à latere Corte di Roma, "The legates  à latere 1153 à latere, Notitia Congregationum et Tribunalium Curiœ Romanœ, 
 
 P. 42, DE PRIVELIGIIS CARDINALIUM. 
 (§9, cap. ix.)—Cardinali asserenti se esse legatum creditur, etiamsi literas suæ legationis non exhibeat Credence is given to a Cardinal who asserts that he is a Legate, although he may not exhibit his letters of Legation. 
 (§ 12)—Electus in Cardinalem eo ipso a patriæ potestate est liheratus. A man who has been elected a Cardinal is by that fact freed from the power of his country. 
 (§ 13.)—Cardinales in commissis sibi ecclesiis a sede apostolica possunt beneficia conferre, jurisdictionem exercere ante captam possession. Cardinals can confer benefices and exercise jurisdiction in the Churches committed to them by the Apostolic See, before taking possession. 
 (§ 15.)—Cardinali asserenti aliquid actum in presentiæ Papæ vel sibi vivæ; vocis oraculo a Papâ mandatum fuisse credi debet. A Cardinal who asserts, that something was done in the presence of the Pope, or commanded him by word of mouth by the Pope, ought to be believed. 1154 Laughter.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he thought it was rather premature for the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, to pronounce an eulogium on the letter of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, to the Bishop of Durham. He (Colonel Sibthorp) had no objection to say at once, that he regarded that letter as a Jesuitical, hypocritical production—as a mere piece of clap-trap. And so it now turned out to be. He thought that the measure in its amended shape would meet with more opposition than before. For his own part, though he felt it his duty to put the noble Lord on his trial, and to give him his support in the introduction of the Bill, though he did not doubt that he should find himself deceived, and now he found he was not mistaken, and he certainly should take no further part in the measure, and he would take care that he was not again caught in the same snare. He supposed that a similar course would be adopted by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. No doubt an amended budget would be brought forward, and that amended budget, like this amended Bill of the noble Lord, would be nothing at all—it would not be satisfactory to the public, or beneficial to any member of any class of the community in the country. It would be merely the  spumantia verba 1162
 MR. BANKES : There had been no assumption of new titles in Ireland. It had been in this country.
 MR. BANKES : Did they refer to Ireland?
 MR. BANKES  doubted whether his hon.
 1142 d. 1143 "The evil I apprehend from the passing of such a Bill will not he immediate, but it will be inevitable, and it will come on the country in a manner which is little expected. The grand maxim of the Roman Catholics is, If one Church sinks, the other must swim; destroy all the Protestant Church Establishments, and that of the Roman Catholics will flourish.' To destroy that Church is, in fact, their great object, it is their duty, it is their religion, it is their oath, it is their everything. To effect its downfall, circumstances may in the mass not favour their designs; but if the object be effected, what does it signify if the mischief
 1144 Hansard,
 MR. MUNTZ  looked on the Bill as an attempt to support a mischievous system. The Bank of England, no doubt, would support it, because they were the last lenders. He had no interest in the company one way or other, except in so far as he used large quantities of copper, and would therefore be glad to see them succeed; but he was satisfied those who now supported the Bill would hereafter repent if it became law.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  agreed with the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that the proper mode of dealing with this subject was by direct legislation, for the appointment of Committees would lead to a great deal of delay, without being productive of any good consequences. The noble Lord had characterised the proceedings of the Pope as an insolent and insidious aggression, and if he thought it right to meet that aggression by legislation, he ought to have done so in an effectual way; but the omission of the second and third clauses of the Bill would neutralise any good effect it might have had; and if passed into a law in its amended shape, he
 1160
 MR. STANFORD  said: Sir, being quite sensible of the difficulties which surround this complicated and most embarrassing question, I was far from expecting a perfect measure—an expectation I should at any time as little dream of seeing fulfilled as of a perfect Minister. 1155 1156 viz., vox populi vox Dei, 1157 jus gentium, Vattel, casus belli 1158 1159
 MR. J. STUART  said, that the right rev. Prelates of the Episcopal Church of Scotland, from whom he had presented the petition that night, conceived that the great principle at stake on this occasion was far more important to them and to the country, to the Church and to the people, than any question with reference to their titles. But the measure which the Government now invited the House to discuss next week, would in no respect answer to the measure for which they were prepared by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, when he first expressed his opinions upon the subject. This was a most important consideration for the House, and especially for those Members who had voted for the first reading of the Bill—that they should observe attentively what the nature of the measure was, as now described by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary. When they entered into discussion upon this Bill, they would have to consider whether there was not a greater confusion between the legislative and the executive functions of Government than had ever before presented itself to the House. The noble Lord at the head of the Government described the act of the Pope as a gross insult to the supremacy of the Crown. If such an insult was offered, it was the duty of the Executive Government to take proper steps with regard to it. One constitutional mode of resenting such an insult was by proclamation, calling the attention of the subjects of the Crown concerned to the rights of the Crown. That he conceived to be the con-
 1138 1139 1140
 MR. BROTHERTON,  in supporting the second reading of the Bill, said that he had done so on the representations of the
 1121
 MR. SPOONER  was opposed to the second reading of this Bill, and should move its postponement, which was an important one, and created a new species of legislation. The Copper Miners was an old chartered company, formed for the purpose of working the copper mines in England. They became greatly involved, and borrowed a great deal of money upon debentures. The object of this Bill was to oblige the creditors to become partners in this bankrupt concern by threatening them with the loss of their money if they did not do so. He had no interest directly or indirectly with the company; but he knew a certain Baronet who had lent 1,000 l. 1120
 MR. BOOKER,  as sheriff of the county where the company's works were situated, had once to execute a levy upon them to the extent of half a million sterling, and from what he saw on that occasion felt bound to protest against such a Bill being sanctioned by the House. He felt every sympathy for the parties who had been mentioned, but he must say they had embarked in the company with their eyes open. If the House entertained a Bill on such principles, they would inflict a heavy blow on the manufacturing and commercial industry of the country, from which it would not soon recover.
 MR. M. GIBSON  desired to say a few words in explanation, as the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary did him the honour of making one or two marked allusions to certain views which he was supposed to have expressed in reference to this question. The right hon. Gentleman assumed that he (Mr. M. Gibson) had come forward to support some particular plan, with a view to deal with Papal aggression. Now the only plan he was in favour of was the plan of doing nothing. Not being the advocate of any legislation, he could not be the advocate of inquiry; not desiring to legislate upon the subject, he did not desire to obtain any information about it by a Parliamentary inquiry. His remark was made in reference to those who did desire to legislate; and he would still say, that if they were determined to legislate, it was better to legislate with information than without it. A noble Lord in another place certainly said he did not consider himself to have sufficient information to legislate now; and he (Mr. M. Gibson) thought that, considering the course taken, many Gentlemen would question whether the Government had sufficient information to legislate now. The evils of inquiry might be great, but the evils of legislating in ignorance were greater; and the greatest of all evils was, bringing in a Bill to do one thing, and finding it was going to do something else. He rose merely to set himself right; he still adhered to the opinion that
 1141
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, this was a question of great importance, and one on which he entertained very decided sentiments, but he would rather reserve the expression of them until he had an opportunity of stating them fully and in detail. The point to which he wished at present to call the attention of Government was with reference to the shape in which the measure was to be laid before the House. He did not understand that the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary intended to print any portion of the changes he proposed to make. As regarded the latter part of the Bill, that, of course, was unnecessary, because the clauses were simply to be removed; but he understood that words were to be added to the first clause for the purpose of excepting and distinguishing the cases of bishops of the Ecclesiastical Church of Scotland. He presumed that, with the same view, some alteration of the preamble would be necessary, because at present its language was so wide that it
 1145
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  wished to put a question either to the Under Secretary of the Colonies or to the noble Lord at the head of the Government. They were all, unfortunately, aware that a new Kaffir war had burst forth. They were, too, all unfortunately aware that the last Kaffir war had cost this country upwards of 2,000,000 l.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  supported the second reading. He knew officers, and officers' widows, who had put about 60,000 l. l., s. s. d.
 SIR G. GREY : Mr. Speaker, before I
 1124 1125 1126 1127 1128 1129 1130 "For any archbishop or bishop or other person in holy orders of the Church of Rome, officiating in any district, or having pastoral superintendence of any congregation of persons professing the Roman Catholic religion, and for those who shall from time to time so officiate or shrill succeed to the same pastoral superintendence." 1131 1132 l., "The sums left to Roman Catholic charities in this case exceed 30,000 l. 1133 1134 1135 1136 1137
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, at the present moment I have only to state, that I entirely concur in the last sentiment expressed by the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down—that our legislation on this subject is a gradual approximation to doing nothing. That evening, a Bill had been before the House for regulating the affairs of an English Copper Company. Those who advocated the Bill said, if it did not pass, the unfortunate shareholders would only get a dividend of 9 d. s. d. Hamlet d.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  wished to know from the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies whether any official information had been received as to the commencement of the war?
 MR. V. SMITH : Before the conversation closed he was anxious to point out to his noble Friend what he thought was the nature of the information which should be immediately placed before the House with reference to the state of affairs at the Cape of Good Hope. In the first place, his noble Friend had spoken of information from Sir Harry Smith. There could be no doubt that the events in Kafraria had come upon the country altogether unawares, because
 1175 1176
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, the question before the House was whether the House should go into a Committee of Supply. As soon as the Speaker should leave the chair, it would be his duty to lay before the House the Navy Estimates.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that when he had to open the Navy Estimates last year, the first duty he had to perform was to call upon the House to vote a large sum for the excess of expenditure over the votes of former years—somewhat about 211,000 l. 1186 l. 1187 l. 1188 l., l., l. l., l., l.; l. 1189 l., l. l. 1190 l. l. l. l. l. l., 1191 l.; l.; l. l., l. l.; l., l. l. l. 1192 l., 1193
 The CHAIRMAN  informed the hon. Member that his Motion could not be put, as it pledged the House to a certain resolution which it was not competent to propose in Committee. The Committee could only adopt, reject, or limit the Vote.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that the evidence he had given before the Committee of that House afforded, in his opinion, the best argument in favour of our retaining a large body of seamen. He had said in the course of his evidence that 100 steamers, fitted to act as auxiliaries, might be found among the merchant service in case of a war. But he had not said that he could find the men to take these vessels
 1222
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he must vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose for the same reason as the hon. Member for Rochdale who had last spoken; although he could not vote for it on any of the grounds assigned in its favour by the hon. Mover, who had done everything in his power to make the vote a perfect emetic to him. The first defect he noted in those grounds, was that the House had been informed, that the President of America had stated there were two millions of tons of shipping belonging to the republic capable of being applied to warlike purposes, of which there could be no doubt a large proportion were steam boats. Now, if only half this should by any conjunction of events be employed in combination with a coalition of European Powers, how it would let loose the imprisoned angels the Absolutist powers might at any time hare lying bound in all
 1223 1224
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that he had made his comparison with the year 1848–49, because that happened to be the year in which he had taken office.
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, he had already explained that the reason of the gradual increase was the gradual increase of salaries from greater length of service. Another reason for the increase since 1844 and 1845 was the introduction of steam,
 1228
 MR. FITZROY  regretted that the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln had proposed so great a reduction in the vote, and trusted he would consent to modify his Motion, in which case he might be enabled to support it. The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Admiralty could not but allow that some reduction of expenditure might be made under that head, and that a larger staff was maintained at the Admiralty than was absolutely required. This he might be allowed to state, inasmuch as it was in evidence before the Committee on Official Salaries, which proved that the services of one Lord might safely be dispensed with. The right hon. Baronet, in his evidence with reference to the duties of the fifth civil Lord, certainly gave a long catalogue of duties; but he (Mr. Fitzroy) asked any one conversant with the matter, how many hours in the course of a month a Lord holding that position would find it necessary to attend for the actual performance of those duties? The hon. Member for Montrose had ridiculed the idea that fifteen men could not be found to form a Government, when all the business was, in point of fact, transacted by permanent clerks; but this was strictly true with respect to the Admiralty department, which perhaps possessed better clerks and more efficient permanent heads than any other. It was absurd to keep up an office with a salary of 1,000 l. 1229
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member applied only to one service, whereas it ought to be applied to all the different branches of the service, Navy, Army, and Ordnance. The hon. Member for the West Riding had referred them back to the year 1838 as a standard; but the propriety of the force to be maintained was not a question of chronology but of expediency. There was no abstract amount of force that could be determined upon. The amount to be kept up depended upon what were the probabilities of a hostile force coming against us. Did any Gentleman in sober sadness believe that there was the same chance of a greater force coming against us now than in the years 1835 and 1838? There were certain portions of the estimates which seemed to him to be very slightly passed over, but which in his opinion ought to be explained. He referred to certain details such as occurred in page 12.
 1232 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l.;
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, that, with regard to the details which had been referred to, those of them which had been introduced since 1845 or 1846, he ought not to be called upon to explain, except as now holding the office of First Lord of the Admiralty. The principal part of the increased expense of the establishment had, as he had already explained, arisen from the creation of the steam navy. With reference to the particular items mentioned by the hon. Member for West Surrey in regard to engineering works, architectural works, and other works, he had no doubt that the persons appointed to those various departments were required to superintend and check the great expense of the works going on in the public buildings and in the dockyards. For such purposes there must be some establishment. There was one officer appointed as assistant to each establishment; and, although they were called hard names, yet they were in effect clerks; and he did not think that the sums set against their names was very large. The hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln had proposed the reduction of his (Sir F. T. Baring's) own salary. He was afraid he must leave that entirely to the decision of the House. The question had been already. discussed, and that relieved him from any difficulty he might otherwise feel on the subject. He should, therefore, abstain
 1233
 SIR F. T. BARING  said, the rooms now occupied at Somerset House by the Surveyors of the Admiralty would soon be required by the Board of Excise; and, if his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer were prepared to give the Admiralty a house nearer Whitehall, he should be quite ready to transfer the Admiralty surveyors to it without any loss of time.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  could only say in reply that the wages of artificers were regulated by those given in merchant builders' yards. It was indeed found that shipwrights and artisans generally were not to be had at wages so low as formerly. He could refer to documents to show that four ships built in Her Majesty's dockyards were cheaper by the sum of 141,953 l.,
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that though the statement respecting those ships made a great display on paper, the ships would not make a very good show at sea, and no nation had vessels of so small a size as England. It was very well to say we have this number of ships, and we must not build any more; but fifty sail of the line was a small number, and if a general action was to come on it would be absolutely necessary to have another fifty to replace those disabled in action. In consequence of our having been at peace so long, there were no doubt many ships that had never been at sea, but that was no reason why they should be relied upon, especially if they were not in a fit state. It should be remembered that if they were building ships they were not launching them; they kept them on the slips, and it was hardly necessary for him to point out the disadvantage of too much haste in building. If a ship was run up in a hurry, or upon an emergency, she very soon rotted and was found little worth at sea. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose seemed to think that a good deal would be saved by giving up building for themselves, and getting ships built in merchants' yards. In order to show the fallacy of this, he would refer to two 72-ships of the first-class, both still extant. One of these, the  Blenheim, l.; Benbow, l. Benbow Blenheim Defence l., Dublin l.;
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that when other countries were building line-of-battle ships, not as formerly, but with screw propellers, and when they propelled these ships with 940-horse power, we should be but ill prepared if we did not take steps of a similar kind. A propeller was useless in an old stern, and it would be more expensive to put new propellers in old ships, altering them for the purpose, than to build new ones.
 Sir F. T. BARING  said, there would be a report soon on the subject, which would be laid on the table.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, in the first place the prosecution against Captain Watson did not lie in his department at
 1183
 MR. S. HERBERT  did not consider it fair to institute a comparison between the cost of vessels built in the dockyards, and those built in private yards. They might get a ship built cheaper in the merchant yard than in the dockyards, but the question was whether the one was as well constructed as the other in regard to strength. He had no doubt that practically ves-
 1238
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that, in introducing the Mercantile Marine Bill last year, the right hon. President of the Board of Trade announced his intention to bring in a general measure this Session for the consolidation of all measures relating to navigation. Hon. Members were aware of the disturbances which were now taking place at all the principal seaports in Great Britain, and they knew, probably, that these disturbances were the result of the dissatisfaction entertained by some of the seamen to the Bill of last year. He wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would introduce a Consolidation Act, and if it was his intention to move any
 1167
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I wish to make a statement with respect to a question asked me on Friday last, with reference to the state of affairs at the Cape of Good Hope. I have to say, in the first place, additional information has been received from Sir Harry Smith, in a despatch dated the 20th of December; that was at a time when there was no apprehension of the peace of the colony being disturbed. A despatch has also been received, dated the 24th of December, giving an account of an ineffectual attempt by Colonel Mackinnon to arrest Sandilli. Then follows a despatch detailing an ineffectual attempt of Colonel Somerset to join Sir Harry Smith; and then there is an account of the irruption upon Britain and other towns, and the murders which took place. These are the most recent accounts received in this country, which are contained in the public newspapers, which Members of the House have no doubt seen. The next point I wish to give
 1168 Vulture, "The steps you have taken for calling upon the inhabitants of the colony to arm in their own defence, and to form a large volunteer force in aid of Her Majesty's regular troops, appear to have
 1169
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: I will only enter into the question of the number of men for the Navy, and not into the grave charges which have been made with respect to the management of the dockyards and other places—matters which belong more properly to the department of the Admiralty. Still less, Sir, am I disposed to go over the vast field travelled by the hon. Member for Montrose, who not having been sent for on a late occasion, has, notwithstanding, followed the example of Lord Stanley, and explained what his policy would have been had he been sent for; and what measures, had he taken office, he would have proposed in the capacity of the head of the Government. I shall not follow the hon. Gentleman into that very extensive field. I shall speak merely of that which is the most important subject before the House, the number of men we should vote for the Navy, and I will not
 1213 1214 1215 1216 1217 l. l. l. l., "I have also enclosed a return, showing the number of slaves landed on a certain portion of this coast during the six months ending December 31, 1850. showing that, in the latter half of the year 1850, the total number of slaves landed on this extent of coast was 5,108; while the number during the latter six months of the three years 1847, 1848, and 1849, averages upwards of 24,000." 1218 l. l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  could only say, that as much information as the Government possessed upon all the points mentioned should be laid before the House. With respect to what the right hon. Gentleman had said about the extensive frontier of the colony, he begged to remark that it was the opinion of military men that the frontier was in a more defensible state now than ever it was before.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, there was a despatch from the Secretary of the Governor, addressed to the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, but it was not so late as some of the private letters.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, Sir Harry Smith had left Cape Town some time before the last despatches were sent home, and he did not believe that the answer which the hon. Gentleman referred to had been received—at all events, he had not seen it.
 MR. B. COCHRANE  begged to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, which related to a subject of great importance, and one which had been noticed even by the press of foreign countries. It related to an inquest which had been held on a child of one Anne Connell, who came to England by the  Pelican 1177 s.; s. d.
 MR. HAWES  had stated the reasons before, and he would state them again, why the evidence which was taken by the Commissioners in Ceylon could not now be presented to the House. In the course of last autumn, the Colonial Office received the report of the Commissioners, together with the evidence taken by them. On Captain Watson demanding that he should be tried by court-martial, it was thought necessary to send to the Horse Guards the report and evidence taken by the Commissioners. The report and evidence were sent out by the military authorities here to the military authorities in Ceylon, to enable them to conduct the prosecution. A duplicate of the Commissioners' report was returned to the Colonial Office by means of which he was enabled to comply with the Order of the House, as far as it related to the report; but no duplicate was taken of the vast mass of evidence, and therefore he could not lay a copy of the evidence upon the table. When his hon. Friend made the Motion, he (Mr. Hawes) was under the belief that a copy had been retained; but he found on inquiry that there had been only one copy, which was given in justice to Captain Watson. As soon as he found that there was no copy in the Colonial Office, he wrote out to the Ceylon Commissioners, directing them to send home a copy immediately.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, after the statements of the right hon. Gentleman, he must express the conviction at which he had arrived, after the closest possible investigation, that though he believed Her Majesty's Government were not to blame for the Cape not being at that moment in the enjoyment of representative government, yet he had not the slightest doubt that want of concert between the Government and the agents of the colony was the cause why the colony was still prevented from enjoying those representative institutions the absence of which would involve this country in considerable expense. He thought, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman could not wash his hands of the responsibility of the present state of things, as undoubtedly the Government was responsible for those causes which prevented the colony from enjoying the benefit of free institutions. But as the right hon. Gentleman deprecated any discussion at that moment, he would only say that he hoped the time would soon come when they would have a discussion upon the subject, which was so deeply interesting to this country. He rose now to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government whether it had ever entered into his contemplation that British Kafraria was altogether a different thing from the Cape colony; that it was not a part of the Cape; that it was altogether a separate British possession, under a separate administration, and neither politically nor fiscally connected with the Cape? Therefore, the noble Lord must not delude himself with thinking that the Cape could be compelled
 1174
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said that, in proposing the Amendment just negatived, he had only performed his duty; and, as he had not been supported, could only say, he had no confidence in either side, and should leave the House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that the hon. Member for Lewes, having himself been a Lord of the Admiralty, had admitted that a reduction of one Lord was necessary; but he (Colonel Sibthorp) went further, and considered that in these days of economy and distress they might with strict propriety be reduced two.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  complained that the vote was larger than that of last year. He believed that the free-trade system, and the faulty measures of the Government, would conspire to make the expenses of the Navy much greater. Economy was the order of the day, and therefore (although he was not disposed to question the capability, respectability, and efficiency of the officers of the Admiralty) he would propose a small reduction. He was aware that whatever dropped from him was regarded as  vox et prœterea nihil; l. 1227 l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that one of the private letters referred to was from the Commissary General, who stated that the latest news was, that Sir Harry Smith had cut his way through the forces by which he had been surrounded.
 MR. CARDWELL  said that, probably, the right hon. Gentleman would agree with him that the law, as it at present stood, had been found by the Board of Trade to interpose difficulties to the vigorous execution of its original object. He had understood that it was the intention of the Government to amend the law in order to make it really and practically what it was technically.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had raised a point which had already been frequently raised in that House, and which, although it might at first sight appear plausible, would, on mature reflection, be found entitled to very little weight. The right hon. Gentleman had said that he attributed the recent exertions of the Brazilian Government upon that subject to a disposition which had arisen in the Brazils to put down the slave trade, in consequence of our having removed that irritation which our former interference had produced in the minds of the people of that country. But let him (Mr. Cardwell) ask what were the facts of the case? In former times we had been feeble in our efforts for the accomplishment of that object, and the Brazilian Government had remained inactive. But in the last Session of Parliament a solemn Motion, based on the report of a Committee, had been brought forward in that House, and the most strenuous efforts had been made to induce the House to reverse its policy upon the subject. But the House had taken another, and, he would venture to say, a far wiser and more enlightened, course. It had solemnly affirmed that policy. And what had taken place, in consequence in the Brazils? A degree of vigour and activity had been imparted to the operations of Her Majesty's fleet on the coast of Brazil such as had not existed there before. And what had been the result? One of Her Majesty's vessels, acting, he believed, not without an understanding with the Brazilian Government, had taken possession of a Brazilian vessel engaged in the slave trade on the coast of Brazil; and then the guns of a Brazilian fort had been opened on our vessels; but we had bombarded and silenced that fort. What had been the next consequence? Why, the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Brazil, having been cross-questioned in the Chamber of Depu-
 1221 "With regard to the insult that has been offered to our country, we will endeavour to give the best account of it; but let me tell you this—if you believe that you can succeed in maintaining the slave trade, when a country like Great Britain has solemnly recorded her determination to prevent it, you are greatly mistaken." Times
 MR. BANKES  said, the noble Lord had stated that he had derived part of his information from private letters, which came at the same time with the newspapers that gave the information to the public. Now if private letters had come, it did seem unaccountable that there was no communication whatever of an official kind to the Colonial Office. He begged to know whether there was not some secretary or other officer who, in the absence of the Governor, might have sent a communication to the Government, when he knew there was a ship sailing to this country?
 MR. BAILLIE  begged to ask the right hon. the Secretary at War by whose authority the documents were sent to the colony, and whether it was the practice to send away documents without taking a copy?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the statement of the hon. Gentleman was perfectly true to the extent that the present penalties had been found inadequate. He
 1178
 MR. LABOUCHERE  wished the hon. Gentleman had consulted with him before putting his question. At the same time, he begged to remind the hon. Gentleman that, two years ago, he introduced a Bill, which obtained the sanction of the Legislature, to prevent the overcrowding of steamboats. The consequence had been, that the Board of Trade had closely watched the proceedings of steamboats since that period; and had instituted several prosecutions—some of them recently—in cases where it was reported, or where they had good reason to believe, that overcrowding existed, especially in the steamboats between Dublin and Liverpool. With respect to the particular instance now adverted to, his impression was—though he could not speak with certainty—that an inquiry had been instituted; but, if it had not, an inquiry should be instituted immediately.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  hoped he should not be called on to go into the general matter, merely on the asking of a question, but that discussion would be postponed until he brought in his Bill for the regulation of the steam service.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it was not then his intention to follow the hon. Gentleman through all the details of the question which he had brought before the House. Other opportunities, and those much more suitable, would offer themselves for the House to consider the various points to which he had alluded. But the hon. Gentleman had referred to one point in a manner which, he thought, showed how little of dependence was to be placed upon any of his statements. He told the House that the Government had been employed in depriving the Cape of Good Hope of its representative institutions. [ Cries of 1173
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the noble Lord had referred to two subjects of an entirely distinct character. The first had reference to the consolidation of the Navigation Acts. Last year he (Mr. Labouchere) had introduced a Bill to consolidate these Acts, stating, at the same time, that he hoped during the recess hon. Members interested in the mercantile marine of this country would carefully consider the Bill, and favour him with their views and suggestions on the subject. He had since received many opinions respecting the consolidated Bill, and from them it appeared that it was desirable to defer any further legislation, at least until it was seen whether any further alteration was to be made in the laws in question. With respect to the Mercantile Marine Bill of last Session, he had to state that it was not his intention to propose to Parliament to alter any of the main provisions of that Act, because he believed the main and principal provisions of that Act were most useful for all classes interested in shipping. But there were points of detail connected with it susceptible of amendment, and it was his intention, in the course of the present Session of Parliament, when he saw the further working of the Bill, to propose an amendment of that part of it of which he thought just complaint might be made.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, he believed every Member of that House ought to have a difficulty in coming to a vote on a
 1203 l. 1204 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l., l. 1205 l., 1206 l. 1207
 MR. MACGREGOR  did not see what necessity there could be for such an amount of naval force as was contended for. Almost every nation on the Continent, except Russia and Belgium, was in a state bordering on bankruptcy; and what was the naval strength of Russia? It was not more than
 1237
 MR. PLUMPTRE  said, he felt it his duty to support the vote proposed by the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty. It was true that his constituents were at present suffering considerable distress, and that they were very naturally, and very properly, anxious for economy in the public service; but he believed that by following the course recommended by the hon. Member for Montrose, he should be adopting a penny-wise and pound-foolish policy.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  asked if there had been any reduction of the wages of artificers? The agriculturists had reduced the wages of their labourers at least one-sixth.
 MR. HENLEY  inquired if they could ascertain the proportion which the cost of the machinery and plant used in the dockyards bore to the expenditure, and whether the interest of it were calculated in estimating the cost of vessels built?
 MR. HENLEY  explained that his observations with regard to what had fallen from the hon. Member for the West Riding had reference to what that hon. Gentleman had stated two years ago, and not to what was the number of men in the Navy in the year 1848. With respect to the hon. Member for Montrose, he (Mr. Henley) begged to say, that he had no intention of accusing that hon. Gentleman of a want of sincerity. What he intended to say was, that the hon. Gentleman could have no expectation of carrying his Motion.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had let out some secrets respecting the Admiralty. If they went on, the Committee might get some more information. Without pretending to the accuracy of knowledge of the hon. Gentleman, he thought it quite clear that for the last ten years the vote of the Admiralty establishment had been gradually increasing. In 1841–42 it was 121,844 l. l. l. l. l. 1230
 MR. HUME,  amid some laughter, declared his conviction that the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Bradford must have been asleep during the delivery of his (Mr. Hume's) speech, as he had not uttered one syllable with respect to the income tax. [Colonel THOMPSON: Hear, hear!] When he spoke of the 2,000,000 of tonnage in America, he spoke of the mercantile navy. As the hon. and gallant Gentleman had declared that he would not vote for the Amendment for any argument which had been adduced in favour of it, perhaps the hon. and gallant Gentleman would tell the House why it was that he intended to vote for it.
 MR. HUME : Indeed I had. If hon. Gentlemen had fulfilled their pledges, I have no doubt I should have succeeded.
 MR. HUME  disclaimed the charge of insincerity, and said that the hon. Member for Oxfordshire and his Friends, who were constantly crying out for a reduction of taxation, and yet when they had an opportunity of lessening the expenditure did not embrace it, gave a pretty strong proof that they were not sincere. And, he would tell the hon. Gentleman, moreover, that those who voted for large establishments, and yet demanded a reduction of the taxation by which those establishments were supported—in other words, those who refused to diminish the expenditure before reducing the taxation—did not, in his opinion, adopt a very honest course. He begged to tell those hon. Gentleman also,
 1231
 MR. HUME  asked, whether it was intended to remove that portion of the Admiralty Department which now occupied rooms in Somerset House either to the Admiralty itself or to some convenient place near Whitehall, where all the business might be more conveniently transacted? He understood that it would very soon be absolutely necessary to make the removal.
 MR. HUME  said, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had referred to a ship which had been built in a private yard, and had proved defective; but if that were so, it was no excuse for the Admiralty, who were just as responsible, having their own surveyor over the work. What he (Mr. Hume) proposed was, that a certain number of artificers should be kept in our yards, but that on extreme occasions, when additional ships were necessary, the contracts should be taken in private yards. As for fifty sail of the line, it would be long enough before the gallant Admiral would see that number. To propose to the country to pay for them would be ridiculous in these days.
 MR. HUME  said, that whatever were their opinions they should be correct in facts. Now, he held in his hand the report of a Committee upstairs, by which it appeared that while 220,000 tons had cost 22 l. l. s. d.
 MR. HUME  complained of the high price at which the  Nautical Almanack 1234
 MR. HUME  said, that the American Government had five vessels on the stocks, and they had stopped their progress. It appeared to him that in our naval architecture we were certainly building to waste: he therefore pressed his suggestion that the American system should be followed, of not building more ships than were required for service. In 1848 there were 208 vessels in ordinary, 235 in commission, while about 70 were building. Since 1838, 266 vessels had been built, of 620,000 tons, at a cost of 4,848,000 l. l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  said he would then propose to reduce the Vote to a number not exceeding 30,000 men.
 Mr. HUME  was about to interfere with very little of the address which they had just heard. The point was, whether they were at this time warranted in voting that number of men. When the separate votes came, they would be called upon to vote for the estimates, and that would he the time to consider the different points. He had waited with anxiety to know what reasons the right hon. Baronet could assign for continuing the number of men at the present rate; and the only thing like a reason was, that we must not be indifferent to what passed across the Channel. It was singular, and he did not know whether the right hon. Baronet was aware of the fact, that when a reduction of a number of men was proposed in the French army, it was held that the number should not be reduced too low, because the English kept up so large a number. Thus it was, that there was a circle within a circle—the French kept up a large number of men because the English did it; and the only excuse that could be given for our doing it was, that the French did it. But this was not the usual way in which votes of this kind were dealt with. In the first place, he rather expected when he interrupted his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth, who spoke before the Speaker left the chair, that they would have from the Chancellor of the Exchequer some explanatory statement of what the country was to expect from the budget before they were called upon to vote these men. They had not yet heard whether it was intended to propose another budget; but of this he was sure (if he might judge from the opinions abroad and at home) that the budget which had been laid before them could never pass that House. He was anxious to have had a statement upon that point, because before the voting of the supplies he had always held that they ought to have the means pointed out to meet them. It was, however, convenient for the Government to
 1194 personnel 1195 l., l.; 1196 1197 1198 Punch 1199 s., s. s, l., l. s. l., l. l. l, 1200 l. l. s., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 1201 l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l. 1202 l. l., "That in accordance with the prayers of numerous petitions for relief from the burden of taxation, and with the view of affording relief to the distress now existing amongst the owners and occupiers of land, it is the duty of this House, before voting any sum on account of the Army and Navy estimates, to take into its serious consideration in what manner and to what extent, the number of ships can be reduced; and with reference to the squadron on the coast of Africa, for the suppression of the slave trade, it is the opinion of this House that it should be entirely dispensed with, as being altogether useless, and occasioning in its support an unavoidable and heavy expenditure. With regard to the Navy estimates, the average number of seamen and marines from the year 1835 to the year 1839 having been under 30,000, and this House not being aware of any reason for an augmentation of the number, considers the vote now proposed excessive in amount."
 MR. HUME  wished to ask a question of the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies, with regard to Ceylon. It concerned the privileges of this House, because, when he moved that copies of the report and of the evidence taken by the Royal Commissioners at Ceylon should be laid on the table, his hon. Friend told him that there would be no oppesition to his Motion; and he wished now to know if it was possible that this House could have a copy of the evidence that had been taken by the Royal Commissioners?
 MR. HUME  wished to ask his right hon. Friend whether it was not high time to give an explanation, or whether he intended, before he asked the House to vote the remainder of the Navy Estimates, to give an explanation of the peculiar circumstances which required such a war establishment as the present?
 MR. HUME  wished to be informed what was the real state of the Government at the Cape of Good Hope. The letters of the Secretary of the Colonies of 1848 and 1849 might have been applicable to a people entrusted with self-government, but unfortunately the people at the Cape had never enjoyed that privilege. The colonists had declared in public meetings over and over again, that they had nothing to do with the expenditure of the previous war; that the money was expended by men appointed from home; and that, if they were allowed the management of
 1170 1171 Laughter. l. 1172
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  gave notice that he should move for the production of the papers connected with this subject.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  desired to put a question to the right hon. Baronet opposite, the Secretary for the Home Department. It could not have escaped the recollection of the right hon. Gentleman that in the year 1848, when the institutions of this country were thought to be in danger, the Orangemen of Ireland felt it to be their duty to forward for presentation to their Sovereign several loyal addresses, and he held in his hand letters from the Under Secretary, and from the Principal Secretary for the Home Department, acknowledging the receipt of those addresses, stating that they had been laid before Her Majesty, and that they were most graciously received. There was also a loyal and dutiful address from Orange lodges in British America, which were described in the letter of acknowledgment as loyal and dutiful, and which also Her Majesty was stated to have most graciously received. Similar addresses were presented to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, the receipt of which was acknowledged by Mr. Corry Connellan, and the addresses were described by him as satisfactory to the Lord Lieutenant; and another letter, signed by Sir T. N. Redington, acknowledged in similar terms addresses of the same character. But in the month of December, last year, when the majesty of the British Crown was insulted by the aggressions of Rome, and when addresses offering to our gracious Sovereign the strongest assurances of loyalty and affection were transmitted to the Home Office, the Secretary for that Department refused to present such addresses to the Queen. The same individual Minister who refused to present addresses from the Orangemen of Ireland in 1850, was quite willing, and did present, such addresses in 1848. He wished to know the grounds on which the right hon. Baronet refused in the one case, and consented in the other?
 MR. COBDEN  said, the question before the Committee was, the vote of a sum of money equal to the income tax, to the malt tax, or to the whole of the assessed taxes, with the addition of the soap and paper duties. For it could not be concealed for a moment that, if they voted the number of men, it was quite in vain to think afterwards of reducing materially the vote of money in the Navy. He was convinced, from three years' experience in Committees on Navy, Army, and Ordnance estimates, that it was a delusion to think of effecting any considerable saving in the expenditure of the Navy, unless they could reduce the amount of the forces. Going back to 1835, and looking at all the reductions ever effected, they would see that the number of men voted had been generally a fair test and index of the amount of money spent. There might be exceptions, arising from large occasional outlays. This test applied to the reductions made by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, when he exercised his most useful sway at the Admiralty from 1830 to 1834, for while he effected a reduction in the expenditure from 5,687,000 l. l., 1208 1209 1210 Ordre, "The naval returns of England, published at the commencement of 1853, contain the names of four ships of the line, and six frigates provided with screw apparatus of from 350 to 450 horsepower. It mentions, besides, that three new ships of the line, of 80 guns, with screw power, are on the stocks—namely, the  Agamemnon, Sanspareil, James Watt. Agamemnon Sanspareil Sanspareil Times "The bureaux were yesterday occupied with the Bill for granting to the Government a credit of 6,800,000 francs for the continuance of the works for the defence of the port and roadstead of Cherbourg. Numerous objections to the measure were raised, particularly on account of the form in which the Bill has been submitted to the Assembly. Some Members were in favour of postponing the Bill until the finances of the country should be in a more prosperous state. Messrs. Maissiat and Collas, members of the naval com-
 1211 l. 1212 l. l., l., l. l.
 MR. COBDEN  remembered that when Sir Henry Ward was excusing the high estimates brought forward, he told the House that there was so much to spend for sailing vessels on hand. But to go on at the present moment building more ships of the line when they had such a fleet of steamers, appeared to him a great evil. He had heard military men say, that in the event of a war breaking out it would be a contest of steam, and if they had thirty or forty practicable vessels, such as were used in the Post Office service, they could dispense with the line-of-battle ships. It came out before the Committee that there were 500 steamers and coasters which might be made available for carrying large guns, and it appeared that the Government lost sight of these and other resources when they went on building line-of-battle ships. It was what no country ought to endure, unless they had more money than they knew what to do with.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that the gallant Admiral the Member for Gloucester had stated, that the screw could not be applied to the present line-of-battle ships; whereas the right hon. Member for South Wiltshire had recommended that the screw should be applied to some of those vessels. It ought to be settled whether they could apply the screw to the old vessels before they built new ones, for it was far from right to be going on building vessels which they would never require.
 MR. COBDEN  stated, that the machinery and plant were counted as nothing. The dockyards were provided with these, and they were never considered as forming any portion of the cost of the vessels, and yet they put the vessels in competition with those of the private merchant, who had all his machinery and plant to provide. He (Mr. Cobden) could prove that the price of an article stated in that House as the cost price could never be credited, as it was utterly fallacious.
 MR. COBDEN  thought it would be in the recollection of the Committee, that what lie had said was, not that it was impossible to make any reduction, but, that it was impossible to make any material reduction of expense without a reduction of the forces. The hon. Gentleman who bad just sat down said, that there had been a reduction of 1,500,000 l.
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, he could not allow the observation of the noble Lord, that the recent free-trade policy of this country rendered it more than over necessary to keep up a large naval force, to pass without making a reply. He was entirely at issue with the noble Lord on the question; for he considered that their free-trade policy having increased the com-
 1219 1220
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, he should support the Amendment because his constituents had sent him there to promote reduction of expenditure and taxation. The Whig party had come into office as advocates for economy in the public service; but they had since departed from their professions upon that subject.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, that if the hon. and gallant Member went to a division he would support him. And he hoped at the same time that he would endeavour to carry out the principle of reduction with respect to other salaries.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty was in error when he stated that the estimates of the present year exhibited a saving of a million and a half as compared with the years 1848–49. The excesses of late were to be attributable to the present Government. If the right hon. Gentleman had referred back to 1844, he would have found that the estimate of Sir Robert Peel's Government was 36,000 men, and that the cost was 266,000 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the excess in the amount of the present estimates over those of 1844, amounting to 11,800 l.,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had avowed his intention of submitting to the House an amended budget, and he (Mr. Williams) thought they ought not to vote any portion of the public money until they knew what that budget was. It appeared to him that this House had for a long period of time submitted too quietly to receive and vote such estimates as the Government had thought fit to lay before them. That had given great dissatisfaction to the people out of doors, who were anxious to see a very different course pursued. The House would remember that in the year 1848, in consequence of the refusal of an increase to the income tax, large reductions were effected by the Government by the introduction of three distinct budgets on the Navy and Army Estimates. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer should adopt the same course as he did in 1848, he might think it right that the estimates should be reconsidered as in that year; but at all events, he (Mr. Williams) would shortly show, he hoped to the satisfaction of the House, that very large reductions might be effected without any detriment whatever to the public service. He considered that it was of very great importance also that those estimates should be reconsidered, as well as the budget, because, from the demonstration made in that House, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had no security of having the income and property tax retained. To arrive at anything like a correct idea of the amount which ought to be voted, it was necessary to make reference to the number of the force, and the expenditure required for that force in former years. The most eminent statesmen had conducted the public service at a much less expenditure than that which was now proposed. The Duke of Wellington in 1830, Earl Grey in 1834, and Sir Robert Peel in 1885, conducted the public service of the Army, Navy, and Ordnance at a much less cost than the Government pro-
 1184 
 
 No. of men voted for the Army, Navy, and Ordnance, in Amount voted and expended for the Total. 
 Effective Force. Non-effective, Half Pay, and Pensions. 
 £. £. £. 
 1830 138,954 8,491,057 4,803,653 13,294,710 
 1834 136,332 7,918,593 4,147,464 12,066,057 
 1835 135,820 7,146,952 4,510,535 11,657,487 
 1851,2 182,284 10,933,981 3,740,717 14,674,701 l.; l.; l. 1185 l.
 SIR B. HALL  wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department. He held in his hand a paper purporting to be a report of the Metropolitan Commissioners of Sewers, in which it was stated that the general expenditure of the Commission amounted to 69,511 l., l.
 SIR B. HALL  wished to put another question to the right hon. Gentleman with reference to a return with regard to Church preferments which had been presented to the House. On the 30th of May, 1850, the House had ordered a return to be made of the preferments held by archbishops, bishops, and dignitaries of the Church. All the returns which had been made were imperfect; but from the Bishops of Ely, St. David's, and Exeter, the only answer was, "No return made." He wished to ask, whether any communication had been made to those right rev. prelates in pursuance of the Order of the House—whether that communication had been made to them more than once—and whether there was any hope that those right rev. prelates would make any return?
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the Order for the return had been communicated to all the bishops; and, in cases where no return had been previously received, a letter had been addressed to the right rev. prelates and others on the 29th of July last. Since then returns had been received from all of them except three. On the 6th of August, he (Sir G. Grey) had received a letter from the Bishop of St. David's, expressing his regret at the delay which had occurred, that he had lost no time in desiring his secretary to make the return,
 1180
 SIR G. GREY  said, that an Act, under which the present Commission of Sewers was constituted, would expire this Session, and it would be necessary to introduce a Bill to revive the Commission. He would not say when that Bill would be brought in, but it must be in the present Session. With regard to the money which was to be borrowed, if the hon. Gentleman would refer to the fifth page of the paper to which he adverted, and which stated the powers given to the Commission to borrow,
 1179
 SIR G. GREY,  in reply, said, that there had been three addresses of the kind to which the hon. and gallant Gentleman referred: one was from the grand lodge of the Grand Protestant Association of Loyal Orangemen of Great Britain; it was signed by the Earl of Enniskillen, as grand master; by the deputy grand master, by the grand secretary, and it bore another signature, to which the letters "G. T." were added, probably meaning grand treasurer. Another of these addresses was from the members of the Loyal Orange Institution in Ireland, which was signed on behalf of the Orangemen of Ireland by the Earl of Enniskillen, as grand master. The third was from the Orangemen of Liverpool; but, as that address was returned at the request of the gentleman by whom it was transmitted, he (Sir G. Grey) could not now say how it was signed. Adverting to a resolution of the House of Commons, agreed to on the 24th of February, 1836, which was in these words—
 "That an humble Address be presented to His Majesty, praying that His Majesty will be graciously pleased to take such measures as to His Majesty may seem advisable for the effectual discouragement of Orange lodges, and generally of all political societies, excluding all persons of a different religious faith, using secret signs and symbols, and acting by means of associated branches"—
 SIR G. PECHELL  said, it would be in-
 1239
 SIR G. PECHELL  said, there were great complaints as to the unnecessary work carried on in the building yards, and he was anxious to see a remedy for that evil. As a specimen of the mode of doing business in the docks he might refer to the case of the  Tremendous. Eagle, Wellington Wellington; Wellington
 SIR J. DUKE  said, that he had occasion, about eighteen months ago, to call the attention of the House to the complaints of the dangerous crowding of the river steamboats. He had found, upon inquiry at the Office of the Board of Trade, that, notwithstanding the Act to which the right hon. Gentleman referred, those boats were still able to carry as many persons as a seventy-four.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he deeply regretted that it had fallen to his lot to bring forward this important Motion, the substance of which was, that the gross income derived from the Woods and Forests should hereafter be paid into the Exchequer, and I that the necessary expenses for collecting and managing the same should be voted by the House upon estimates annually submitted by Her Majesty's Government. He had most anxiously expected that a similar Motion would have been made by his noble Friend at the head of the Government; and if his noble Friend had shown any disposition to deal with the subject, he (Viscount Duncan) should not have been bold enough to come forward with the present proposition. But, having sat as Chairman of a Committee of that House on the subject of the Woods and Forests, and being well acquainted with many irregularities in that department, he should have been wanting in his public duty if he had failed in bringing forward the Motion on the present occasion. Now, it would be in the recollection of the House, that his noble Friend at the head of the Government had
 1243 1244 l., l.; l. l. 1245 l. l., l. l., l., 1246 l. l. "That the land revenues may be increased, and consequently the burthen upon the estates of the inhabitants of these realms eased and lessened in all future provisions to be made for the civil government." l. 1247 l. l. l. "The present state of the accounts is as follows:—The ledgers of the department have only been completely posted and balanced to the 31st of March, 1839; all the ledgers subsequent to that date are deficient in consequence of the entire omission of the accounts of the agents or sub-accountants of the department. I need not point out that such omissions affect the whole
 1248 1249 "That a great quantity of timber was stolen by purchasers at the time of the periodical sales, and that there was a great deficiency in the lots, and that a great many more trees were accustomed to be cut down than the number stated in the reports." l., 1250 l. l. l. 1251 "I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to send you herewith a comparative statement of the expense of procuring oak timber from the King's forests, and by contract, and I am to acquaint you that it is no longer the interest of the public to pay 5 l. l. s. d.; l. s. 1252 l.; l.; l. l. l.; l. l.; l. l.; l. l., l l., l. l. l l. l l. l. l. l. s. d 1253 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d.: l. s. d. l. 1254 l. l., l. 1255 "Though the land revenue of the Crown in England has been extremely reduced by the sale of fee-farm rents, and by many exorbitant grants, since the Revolution, yet it is still too considerable an article to be omitted by your Commissioners; and we take leave to remark, that we find, in our examination of the general incomes and issues of the Exchequer, that the sums there brought to account of late years are much smaller than would have arisen even from what remains of this revenue, if due care had been taken by those intrusted with the management of it. We are unable to offer any perfect state of this revenue. The papers and rolls connected with it have been kept in so little order, and the several receivers are so uncertainly charged (some with rents which have been lost or unknown for many years, others with such as have been sold or granted away), that nothing to be relied upon can be collected by the accounts as they now stand. The methods for the regulation and collection of this revenue are plainly laid down in several Acts of Parliament, and the neglect of them hath been the cause of the confusion we find in the accounts of those concerned in it." "Experience has shown that the combination of these offices has led to the imposition of very large and undue charges on the land revenues of the Crown for the purpose of public works, and that the First Commissioner of Woods and Forests, being a person connected with a political party, is not so well fitted for the management of the Department of the Woods and Forests as a person would be who was totally unconnected with a political party." 1256 "By this proposed separation we get rid of what has frequently happened, namely, that, when large expenses have been incurred for certain public works, the sums were raised by making them a charge on the land revenues of the Crown; whereas the object being the formation of public parks, or the improvement of streets in the metropolis, or in Dublin or Edinburgh, the expense should rather have been thrown on the general revenue of the country." "The new arrangement will, I hope, be found to bring the expenses incurred for public works more specifically under the notice of Parliament, and to secure a better management of accounts."—[3  Hansard,
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that his noble Friend who brought forward the Motion now before them had given much attention
 1257 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1258 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l., 1259 l. l., l., l. l., l. l. 1260 1261 l. l. 1262
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, it was not his intention to detain the House at that hour with many observations. He thought, however, that his noble Friend the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests, had misunderstood his Motion. He (Lord Duncan) did not say that the money was withheld from Parliament, but that it was withheld from payments into the Exchequer. He had taken the returns as his authority. The noble Lord the Chief Commissioner would find in the returns that the gross income derived from the possessions and land revenues of the Crown had amounted, during the seven years quoted, to 2,446,785 l. l. l.
 MR. MOWATT  said, the right hon. Ba-
 1242
 MR. HUME  said, he should not trouble the House by dividing on the items contained in this report. He would content himself by placing amongst the records of the House the reasons that induced him to ask for a reduction of the number of men proposed to be voted for the naval service.
 1268
 MR. HUME  said, there was a misunderstanding between the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests, and his noble Friend the Member for Bath, because the first part of the resolutions moved by his noble Friend consisted of a declaration of certain results which the noble Lord admitted to be the case. [An Hon. MEMBER: He has denied it.] The noble Lord admitted the results; the only question was the manner in which the difference was explained. What his noble Friend wanted was, that the gross income derived should be paid into the Exchequer. It was not inconsistent to concur in that, and also in the giving leave to bring in the Bill of the noble Lord also. He (Mr. Hume) should therefore advise the House to affirm the original Resolution, and also the Amendment, and then when the Bill came in they should see how far the enactment would carry out the proposition of his noble Friend, which he submitted was perfectly consistent, reasonable, and proper. He acknowledged the force of the statement of the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests, because he (Mr. Hume) recollected that, when a number of allotments were made in the Forest of Dean, the noble Lord urged the keeping the public revenue and the revenue of the Crown separate and distinct; but that would not affect the course which was now proposed to be observed in future.
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 SIR B. HALL  thought the House and the country very much indebted to his noble Friend the Member for Bath, upon the clear and admirable manner in which he had brought the subject before the House. He should like to refer to a few words which had fallen from the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests, in which the noble Lord had observed that he was answerable for the management of that department for a short period only during which he had presided over it. Holding the position which he (Sir B. Hall) did as a metropolitan Member in the House, his duties had given him opportunities of observing the manner
 1263 l. l. l.,
 SIR G. GREY  said, the change effected by the Bill had been a very extensive one, and that many preliminary measures were necessary before that change could be made. The attention of the Board of Health was directed to the subject, and they had made arrangements with a view to the general adoption of the provisions of the Bill. They must, however, obtain the metropolitan cemeteries in order that they might be made cemeteries under the Act. Negotiations with that view had been going on with the different companies, with some of whom he was afraid that there was no great prospect of coming to any voluntary arrangement. Still, it was only right that the board should have made the attempt; and, if the attempt eventually failed, the requisite notices would be given, and matters would go to a jury, or be settled by arbitration. The desire, however, was to bring the Act into operation at the earliest possible period.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  supported the Resolution for two reasons—first, that a very large sum of money was received and expended by the Commissioners; and, second, that as regarded a large portion of that expenditure, there was no check at present. He would, however, take rather a wider range than the noble Lord the Member for Bath, with respect to the accounts. He would take a period of eighteen years. The sum received by the Woods and Forests during that period, was 7,340,000 l., l., l. l. l. l.; l. l. l. l. l., 1265
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  had presented petitions in favour of financial boards from nearly every board of guardians in the county of Surrey, and he confessed that there was a growing desire on the part of the ratepayers for some such measure; but he was utterly at a loss to know how they could make any Bill which could give any real control. He thought the ratepayers would be completely deceived, and that not one shilling would be saved. He wished to be perfectly fair, and he must say he did not understand how it could be considered they were setting aside the magistrates, by simply asking them to share a part of their duties, especially when they recollected that in the early history of this country these magistrates were all elected by the people. He very much questioned whether this Bill would answer without giving much stronger powers to the Secretary of State than were now assigned to him. He believed they would see at these boards precisely what they saw in poor-law unions: those who possessed only a short-lived interest would be doing like the hon. Gentleman opposite in Government matters, always saying a less sum, without any regard to the adaptation of amount to necessity. Reserving to himself the discussion of the provisions at a future stage, he should not object to the second reading.
 MR. RICE  concurred in the hope that the hon. Baronet would withdraw the Amendment. As he understood the Bill, it would give the ratepayers a voice in the expenditure; they would be able to express an opinion upon the extent of the police, but not upon the use of that body. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary that the ratepayers ought not to be restricted in the choice of persons. He saw no reason why they should not appoint a magistrate; many of their own body, though well qualified from their having been made conversant with public business at the meetings of the boards of guardians, would be really unwilling to go a great distance from their homes, and might probably be very glad to find a magistrate to act as their representative. When the right hon. Baronet spoke of the restriction the other way—that none but magistrates should be selected—of course he was only to be understood to use that as an argument to do away with the restriction that magistrates should not be chosen.
 MR. T. EGERTON  advocated the appointment of salaried prosecutors, as the best method of discouraging unnecessary prosecutions. Where there was such a host of attorneys conducting prosecutions, the expenses could not be otherwise than large.
 MR. T. EGERTON  said, that the reason of so many attorneys being employed was, that the magistrates' clerks conceived it but fair to divide the briefs, and so long as the present system lasted, such a distribution of favours might be desirable. It showed, at the least, that the clerks acted with some degree of impartiality.
 CAPTAIN PELHAM  thought they were endeavouring to couple together, for the purposes of county business, two parties—one not only more conversant, but saddled with responsibility; but the other party having no responsibility whatever. They were asking the ratepayers to control expenses, upon which they could not possibly form a correct judgment, inasmuch as they were connected with duties which the magistrates alone had to perform. He could not, for the sake of popularity, consent to lead a people on a false scent, which must end in disappointment. They had heard a great deal of public feeling on this subject; but he believed the noble Lord at the head of the Government had
 1289
 LORD J. RUSSELL  wished to prevent any misunderstanding with respect to the promise made by his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary. He said, that if the House would agree to the second reading he was willing to serve upon a Select Committee upstairs, to attend assiduously to the subject, and to state his opinion as to the best mode in which the objects of the Bill might be attained. He did not think his right hon. Friend could be expected to engage himself further than that, because his views might not be entertained by the majority of the Committee. What his right hon. Friend had engaged to do was to serve upon the Committee, and to state what amendments ought to be made in the Bill.
 MR. FREWEN  submitted that it would be better, in all cases where clerks were paid by fees, that it should be by an uniform scale. At present some very strange appoinments of clerks were made by the lords lieutenant of counties. He knew a case in the north of England where the lord lieutenant appointed his own nephew to be clerk of the peace, and that gentleman received 2,000 l.
 MR. PACKE  said, that in the county he represented there had been every attempt to economise the public money, the same as if the expenses of prosecutions had been still a charge on the county. At the same time, it could not be denied that the expenses of prosecutions at quarter-sessions were much less than those at assizes, and he thought the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would do a great deal of good if he assimilated the latter with the former.
 MR. WODEHOUSE  would not have troubled the House, if the hon. Member for Montrose had not particularly referred to the county of Norfolk. It was perfectly true that the county expenditure had been very materially increased in the course of
 1284 l. l.
 MR. ELLIS  considered that taxation and representation ought to go together. This was not merely a tenant's question; the parties that felt most aggrieved were the small owners of property. They felt they had no representation, any more than the tenants, and that they ought to have some control over the expenditure of their own money. He could bear his testimony to the admirable way the magistrates of Leicester administered the funds; but it was no matter how little they spent, so long as the people had no representation. They were not satisfied, and never would be satisfied. He should be sorry to see any division which might produce had feeling against hon. Gentlemen opposite, and he suggested that the Bill should be allowed to go a second reading without any division.
 COLONEL RAWDON  begged to offer his best thanks to the right hon. Gentleman for the mode in which he had administered the duties of his office, and requested, as the measure was one of a humane nature, that it should be extended to Ireland.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  agreed with the hon. Baronet who moved the Amendment, that this Bill ought to be taken up by the Government. It was in the county he had the honour to represent that the measure had been first suggested. A large meeting of the boards of guardians in Lancashire was held, and he and other parties were appointed a deputation to come up, and request Her Majesty's Government to undertake some measure having for its object the giving control to the ratepayers, upon which point there was a unanimous opinion, though there were differences as to details. And he felt bound to say, in justification of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester, who had brought forward this measure, that he brought it forward, not because the Bill in detail afforded the best mode of carrying out that unanimous opinion, but because Her Majesty's Government had declined to introduce it. He (Mr. Patten) had heard with great pleasure from the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department, that if the House would pass the second reading, he would do almost the same thing as if Government took* up the measure—that he would serve upon a Select Committee of this House to consider its provisions, and would exercise that influence which he would always have in any Committee on which he sat, in endeavouring to bring forward a right measure on this subject. He (Mr. Patten) had objec-
 1285 1286
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, it would be a considerable saving to the country if the payment of officers were made by salaries and not by fees.
 MR. HENLEY  was glad to find that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary was of opinion that they ought to separate the judicial and the financial functions of the magistrates, and thought he could see his way to effect that object. There being no difference of opinion on any side of the House that taxation and representation should go hand in hand, he would be inclined to give the right hon. Baronet an opportunity of developing his plans in Committee. He (Mr. Henley) and the country would, however, have been
 1292
 MR. HENLEY  was surprised to hear the statement of the noble Lord the Member for Plymouth, as to the great increase of expenditure since 1846. It must be remembered that in 1847 and 1848 there had been a great increase in the number of criminals, and he did not think that rateably with that number there had been any increase at all in the expenses of prosecutions. He should be sorry, in the present depressed state of the farmers, to see any attempt made to take from them the little advantage they now enjoyed by those expenses being charged on the Consolidated Fund. As to the proposition of the noble Lord to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, he did not think any advantage would be gained, for the clauses appeared to be very carefully drawn, as might be expected in a Government measure. The putting of the sessions and assizes upon a uniform footing, would, he had no doubt, tend to lessen the expenses; and he knew that the Judges of assize had expressed great readiness to attend to any suggestions for lowering the scale of charges. If they were, however, to lay down a uniform rule, which was to be at all times binding, it might inflict hardship on parties; for expenses in attending assizes on the part of witnesses and others, were often greater than at the sessions. Lodgings were not unfrequently higher, and there were also other items which were more. He knew that this was the
 1295
 MR. HENLEY  entirely agreed with every word that had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman; but he thought they would find, when they came to discuss the clauses of the Bill, that some of them ought to have been made more general in their character, and he thought the visits of the guardians ought not to be confined to cases where the children remained as apprentices or servants "within" the limits of the union, because the probability was, that when removed beyond the limits of the union they were removed from any friends they might have, and would therefore require a more careful attention than otherwise. In all other matters he fully approved the Bill, and thought the House and the country highly indebted to the right hon. Gentleman for the care he had taken to provide a remedy for what all must admit to be a crying wrong.
 MR. HUME : I did not say that.
 MR. HUME  said, that when Lord Althorp had thrown the expenses of prosecutions on the Consolidated Fund, he (Mr. Hume) had ventured to state that these expenses would go on rapidly increasing, because there had been no proper check imposed. The system which had been pursued of paying the public money for prosecutions was wrong in principle; for if the public paid for prosecutions, the expenses ought to be controlled by a public officer, such as the Secretary of State. From the evidence of Mr. Sadler, the constable of Stockport, it appeared that there existed no check or control over these expenses, and he found that on one occasion there had been twenty-three attorneys employed in the prosecution of forty criminals. They ought to have public prosecutors the same as existed in Scotland. In Scotland there were responsible officers, who inquired into the merits of cases before they went to trial, who saw what evidence there was, and ascertained whether convictions were likely to follow, and thus all unnecessary
 1296
 MR. HUME  said, that many of the observations of the hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich were not applicable to the Bill. He (Mr. Hume) had been asked to serve on the Committee last year, but he declined, because he thought no information was wanted. The hon. Baronet said, that the Bill was mischievously bad, dealt with a delicate subject, and was an attack on the magistrates. If he had been in the House when the Municipal Corporation Reform Bill was discussed, he would have heard the same arguments used. All those who now opposed this Bill would have opposed, and some of them did oppose, the Municipal Corporations Reform Bill; and, therefore, as a matter of course, he expected that they would oppose this Bill. He wished to disabuse the House of the notion that there was any intention on the part of the promoters of this Bill to attack the magistracy of the country. He, for one, had always thought that the magistracy had been of great benefit to the people of this country, though, perhaps, if they had been otherwise appointed, they might have been still more useful. What was wanted was, that the ratepayers should have some control over the expenditure of the money which they contributed; for he put it to the House whether money would not be differently managed if it were put into the hands of men who knew that they were subject to no control, and if it were put into the hands of men who were at any moment liable to be called to account. He was quite ready to admit that more attention had been paid to county expenditure of late years; but of what use was that to persons who paid the rates, and wished to have some control over their management? He was sorry to observe that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary objected to the clause in the Bill which provided that the persons to be elected by the boards of guardians should not be magistrates. Now, as one-half of the board was to be composed of magistrates, he would ask, could anything be more fair or
 1282 1283
 MR. BAINES  said, that public attention had lately been most painfully drawn to several cases of cruelty towards servants; and, in particular, the late case of the Sloanes. There had been other cases of a similar description to that of the Sloanes, but none equalling it in atrocity—none so disgusting. Various attempts had been made to legislate for the protection of young persons from the cruelties to which they were not unfrequently subject; but the law, as it stood, did not, he was sorry to say, sufficiently reach all cases. It was with the view of providing some remedy that he undertook to submit the present Bill to Parliament. There was one defect in the law, made manifest in the late trial of the Sloanes. It had been found that, however clear the obligation on the masters or mistresses of young persons to provide them with food for their necessary sustenance, the criminal law afforded no means of redress except in the cases of infants of tender years. It was considered that, inasmuch as Jane Wilbred was sixteen or seventeen years of age, and not an infant of tender years, although she might have a remedy of a civil description, yet she had no protection afforded her by the criminal law. This, he conceived, was not a proper state of things; for a person in the position of Jane Wilbred ought to have the protection of the criminal law as well as an infant of tender years. It was to meet this defect that he proposed the first clause. Again, by the law as it stood no case of assault upon a servant or apprentice, however
 1298 1299
 MR. SPOONER  said, the real question before the House was whether they could again do that which they had already twice done, namely, recognise the principle that the ratepayers ought to have a voice in the expenditure of the country. He had not heard that principle challenged by anybody, but he had heard that this Bill was very improper for the purpose. To the principle he gave his full and complete assent; but he did agree with the hon. Member for Droitwich that he never saw such clumsy machinery, or a measure so
 1288
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  thought the hon. Member who had moved the rejection of the Bill had adduced strong and good grounds for making that Motion when he rose. He (Mr. Palmer) did not at all wish to dispute the principles endeavoured to be carried out in the Bill, but he agreed with the hon. Member for East Somersetshire that the subject ought to be taken up by Her Majesty's Government—that it ought to be carried out under their sanction. From what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, it appeared he objected, almost as much as he (Mr. Palmer) did, to many of the provisions, which would require an alteration of almost every clause; but since the right hon. Gentleman had offered to give every attention to the Bill, he thought it would not be unworthy of the hon. Member for Droitwitch to agree to affirm the principle, only reserving perfect liberty to discuss the details.
 MR. M. GIBSON  should strongly object to the appointment of any such Committee as sat upon this Bill last year. He did not want a Committee to take evidence; but if it were proposed to go into Committee, with a  bonâ fide
 MR. M. GIBSON  could not then say, but he believed the greater portion of them proceeded from those bodies. The principal alterations in the present Bill were these—that the guardians were not to be paid for attendance; that the justices to be on the board were to be elected at quarter-sessions; and that the guardians might select any persons they thought fit to represent them.
 MR. M. GIBSON,  in moving the Second Reading of the County Rates and Expenditure Bill, said, that he would content himself on that occasion with explaining to the House the position in which the question stood, without entering at any length into details concerning the plan embodied in the Bill. The subject was already well known to the House, and was fully discussed last Session. The Bill proposed to enable the ratepayers in counties to take some share in the control of county expenditure, and in the assessing of county
 1269
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  wished to know if the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary intended to make the costs of the prosecution and maintenance of criminals fall equally on all respective localities in the country. The right hon. Baronet was aware that at present the expense of
 1294
 MR. DEEDES  said, there was one ingredient wanting in the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Berkshire, which was—that they had not, at present, the consent of the right hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Bill to the arrangement proposed—that if they allowed a second reading it should then pass to a Select Committee for the purpose of being considered in its details upstairs. He could not be bound to consent to the second reading, unless he had that distinct understanding from the right hon. Gentleman that he would adopt such a course. He was not prepared to deny that there was a growing feeling—from what cause it arose he should not now stop to inquire—
 1290
 SIR G. GREY  said, that his hon. Friend who had just moved the Amendment, had so distinctly and repeatedly appealed to him in the course of his address to the House, that he begged to state his views with regard to this Bill. And he would say at once, that although he was not prepared to oppose the second reading of the measure, there were many clauses which,
 1275 1276 1277 1278
 SIR G. GREY  said, that when the change had been made in 1846, it had appeared desirable to place some efficient check upon the expenditure. The subject had been under consideration from time to time, and he could assure the House that the Government had been exceedingly desirous to effect so desirable an object. He had stated when he brought forward the Bill that he had called for returns from the various counties and boroughs, of the average expense of prosecutions at assizes and sessions. The result was, that, making every fair allowance for the varying circumstances of counties, the difference in the average amounts for prosecutions was so great that there existed no approach to uniformity. With reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Oxford-shire, he had to remark that Judges of assize and magistrates in quarter-sessions were constrained to certify the accounts whether they were just or not. It was with the view to remedy these evils that the first and second clauses had been framed. The clause referring to clerks prevented them from acting as attorneys in cases committed by the magistrates to whom they officiated as clerks. The hon. Member for North Cheshire had recommended the abolition of fees altogether, and the substitution of salaries. This suggestion he (Sir G. Grey) would take into consideration. The expenses of assizes had been alluded to by several hon. Members. He had much pleasure in observing that within the last year or two about twenty thousand pounds had been saved at the Yorkshire assizes. Some arrangement had
 1297
 SIR H. VERNEY  could give testimony to the strong and growing feeling that some Bill of this nature should pass the House, having come from a very sharp
 1287
 SIR J. JOHNSTONE  trusted that the Bill would effect the desirable object of imposing a check on all unnecessary county expenditure.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  had not imputed any want of truthfulness to the evidence of Mr. Roberts, but he had said that he knew little of county affairs. The question had now assumed a different aspect from that which it presented when he had moved his Amendment, and after what had been said on behalf of the Government he would not divide the House.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  considered that he would be able to show that the alterations in the Bill had only rendered it more objectionable and more dangerous than ever. The first important clause was the fourth, by which the new financial board was to be constituted. It was to consist of one of the guardians from each union in the county, with an equal number of magistrates to those guardians. This was the arrangement by which the right hon. Gentleman hoped to achieve an end which he alleged to be so desirable—namely, to introduce a representative system in county affairs. As far as taxation and representation went together, he did not object to it as a sound principle; but in this Bill the right hon. Gentleman sought to apply that principle in a manner very dangerous to the public service. The constitution of the country did not entrust the justices with any power of expenditure. They were limited within the four corners of a long succession of Acts. They had no power to tax, save those which from time to time the Legislature conceded, to enable them to discharge their duties. One of the objections urged against the Bill was, that it would interfere with the functions of the justices of the peace. In the Bill of last year this was only done in general terms; in this, that interference was rendered more specific. The whole of the Bill, from the 12th to the 39th clause, was entirely new. The other clauses to which he wished more particularly to advert, were the 12th and 13th; and he would ask the House and the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether they were prepared to sanction that all the powers connected with the rural police, which the Act of Parliament entrusted to justices, should be taken away, and transferred to persons consisting of one half of justices
 1271 "Provided always, that nothing in this Act contained shall give or confer any power or authority to any committee so appointed by the county financial board as aforesaid, to do, exercise, or perform any act, duty, matter, or thing which justices of the peace for counties are enabled, authorised, or required to do or perform within the powers or by virtue of their commissions as justices, but that all such acts, duties, matters, and things shall hereafter continue to be done, exercised, and performed by such justices of the peace for counties as if this Act had not been made." 1272 "We consider that our duties as magistrates would be very much interfered with, by bringing other persons to direct the finance; for instance in many different ways, in the management of the gaols particularly, and in the control to be exercised over the magistrates in calling out special constables, and in many other ways; though, I believe, we are many of us in favour of giving a salutary audit or cheque; still the subject is very much beset with difficulties, because it seems almost impossible for the magistrates to fulfil their particular duties, unless they have the management of the finances of the county." "In the event of its being required to have a lunatic asylum, would not a central meeting of all the justices of the county take place for that purpose?—Yes, for anything of that sort. What attendance do you suppose would take place then?—Upon a question of such magnitude as that
 1273 1274
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  wished to be informed how many of the 214 petitions were from boards of guardians?
 MR. W. MILES  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had given the best of all reasons why this Bill should emanate from the Government. He had first of all taken exception to the leading principle of the Bill—that magistrates should not be eligible for election by the ratepayers; and he had even gone so far as to suggest that none but magistrates should be elected. ["No, no!" Sir G. GREY explained.] He had not misunderstood the right hon. Gentleman. Rather than ex-
 1279 1280 ex parte d. l., l., l. l. l. 1281
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he thought that local and county expenditure should be considered more comprehensively than it had hitherto been. The late Sir Robert Peel had introduced a proposition for saddling the Consolidated Fund with all the expenses of prosecutions. He (Lord Ebrington) would suggest that they should recast a little the allowances made out of the Consolidated Fund, in order in some measure to alleviate the pressure of county taxation, for since the magistrates had obtained local control in regard to prosecutions the expenses had greatly increased. There ought to be a check put upon the expenditure, and this he (Lord Ebrington) thought could be done by leaving a portion of the expenses to be borne by the counties, the Treasury affording relief on some other points to the county funds. If the late Sir Robert Peel, who knew little, if anything, of county business, had allowed a portion of the money to the relief of other kinds of local taxation, instead of devoting it all to the expenses incurred in the prosecution of prisoners, he would not only have equally relieved the county funds, but would have effected the desirable object of keeping down the expense of prosecutions. He thought this question should be referred to the same Committee which had had the county rates under consideration, so that the subject of local taxation in this respect might be more comprehensively treated.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  explained that he did not propose to take away the present advantage from the farmers, nor did he deny their depressed condition; what he wished was, that the money should go as far as possible.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, the Bill was merely permissive, and that, if passed, it would enable the Caledonian Railway Company to fulfil its engagements to a class of Shylocks who were determined to have their "pound of flesh." He thought it should be left to independent and impartial parties to decide the claims due to the creditors; but, as the Bill gave a simple sanction to an agreement, and was not compulsory, he would support its second reading.
 MR. GLADSTONE  called upon the House to bear in mind the magnitude of the question now before it, because he could assure hon. Members that the Bill did not only relate to the interests of the parties mentioned in it, but that it involved a public principle. The hon. Gentleman who had just spoken said, that certain Shylocks were determined to have their "pound of flesh," and he then went on to observe that the object of this measure was to empower those Shylocks to make an arrangement with the company. Now, it was very true that a portion of the Bill was permissive, but another portion of it was of a totally different character, enabling the Caledonian Company, which had obtained an unhappy notoriety for proceedings of this nature, to borrow 600,000 l. 1314
 MR. NEWDEGATE  would support the Bill upon the ground that it would enable parties to pay their just debts. He hoped the House would not be led away with the idea that there was anything wrong in the permissive character of the measure—a measure which, in his opinion, was deserving of inquiry before a Committee.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  considered that, in reference to the situation he had the honour of holding, the only private business in which he was 'justified in interfering, either by speech or vote, was when some important public principle was involved. When he conceived that some clear public principle was involved, in such a manner as that no amendment in Committee could do away with it, then he ought, he considered, to tender his advice. There was a material difference between the Bill of this year and the Bill of last. Last year's Bill interfered summarily with guaranteed and preferential interests, thus giving no security to the great mass of the shareholders. According to the present Bill, these guaranteed and preferential shares could not be interfered with without the sanction of four-fifths of those interested in them. The Bill contained some of the most startling provisions and some most objectionable clauses; such, for instance, as that empowering a loan of 600,000 l.,
 MR. CARDWELL  had no opinion on the case either one way or the other; but he thought the merits of the Bill would be best understood through the investigation of the Committee.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that this railway had been a persecuted railway from its very commencement, but, notwithstanding the opinion of the Marquess of Dalhousie and the misrepresentations to which it was subject, he believed that it was a good design, and he should certainly vote for the second reading.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, that there was an immense amount of capital at stake, 5,000,000 l., l.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  moved that the discussion should be adjourned till this day week.
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY  said, he should propose that the Ecclesiastical Titles Assumption Bill be read a second time that day six months. He should treat the Bill not in the form in which it at present stood before the House, but in the form in which the Prime Minister had given notice of his intention to press it. That would be the simplest way, and it would produce no inconvenience, inasmuch as if certain clauses were to disappear altogether, they had no occasion to allude to them; and if they were proposed, an opportunity would subsequently be given for their discussion. This Bill had been prepared during a period of great excitement caused by the Pope's creation of a Roman Catholic hierarchy in this country; caused by the change of the spiritual organisation under which Roman Catholics had hitherto lived, by the change of vicars-apostolic into bishops in ordinary, and a regularly constituted hierarchy. This was said by the people of this country to be an insult to the nation, an infringement of the prerogative of the Crown, and an infraction of international law. Now he would ask permission to glance at what had been the condition of the spiritual affairs of the Roman Catholic Church in this country since the Reformation. In 1598, under the reign of Elizabeth, the last Roman Catholic bishop—the last bishop of their ancient faith—the Bishop of Lin-
 1325 1326 "It appeared then, as his statement had not been contradicted, that it was the intention of the Court of Rome to subdivide Her Majesty's European dominions, as well as those beyond sea, into bishopries, without the consent of the Crown of England; and he contended, in the language of the Dean and Chapter of Westminster, whose petition he had the honour of presenting in the course of the present Session, that it was high time that England should,"&c. [3  Hansard, 107.] "He had no objection to call him Bishop Wiseman—his objection was to calling him 'Archbishop of Westminster.' He did not deny that there were bishops in the Church of Rome—he only objected to their claiming to be bishops of places in his Queen's dominions, and against his Queen's permission and authority." [3  Hansard, 1327 Tablet Freeman's Journal Hansard, [Ibid., "An hon. Gentleman has asked me some questions with regard to certain proceedings that have taken place. I do not know whether he wishes to ask me now with respect to the creation of Roman Catholic archbishops in England. I do not know that the Pope has authorised in any way, by any authority he may have, the creation of any archbishopric or bishopric with dioceses in England; but certainly I have not given my consent—nor should I give my consent if I were asked to do so—to any such formation of dioceses. With regard to spiritual authority, the hon. Gentleman must see, when he alludes to other States in Europe, that whatever control is to be obtained over the spiritual authority of the Pope, can only be obtained by agreement for that end. You must either give certain advantages to the Roman Catholic religion, and obtain from the Pope certain other advantages in return, among which you must stipulate that the Pope shall not create any dioceses in England without the consent of the Queen; or, on the other hand, you must say that you will have nothing to do with arrangements of that kind—that you will not consent, in any way, to give any authority to the Roman Catholic religion in England. But then you must leave the spiritual authority of the Pope entirely unfettered. You cannot bind the Pope's spiritual influence unless you have some agreement. For my own part, I am not disposed to think that it would be for the advantage of this country, or that it would be agreeable to the Roman Catholics, that we should have an agreement with the Pope, by which their religious arrangements should be regulated." [3  Hansard, The Earl of Arundel and Surrey 1328 1329 "'We govern, and shall continue to govern, the counties of Middlesex, Hertford, and Essex;' and in the case of five other counties the same pretensions were set forth. Now, Sir, I cannot see in these words anything but an assumption of territorial sovereignty." "So that at present, and till such time as the Holy See shall think fit otherwise to provide, we govern, and shall continue to govern, the counties of Middlesex, Hertford, and Essex, as Ordinary thereof, and those of Surrey, Sussex, Kent, Berkshire, and Hampshire, with the islands annexed, as Administrator with ordinary jurisdiction." Wesleyan Centenary "The power of government which Mr. Wesley possessed during his life, by his appointment de-
 1330 "That your petitioners firmly and respectfully declare to your honourable House, that so far from being indifferent or averse to the late normal reconstruction of the Roman Catholic Church in England, it has been to them and to their predecessors an object of their most earnest desires and frequent petitions." 1331 l. l. 1332
 MR. PAGE WOOD  said, after the indulgence which he had met with on a former occasion, he would have been very loth to again trouble the House, had it not been that since he last had the opportunity of speaking to the subject, the Bill had not only boon laid upon the table, but they had had the opinion of very eminent statesmen pronounced upon it, some of them holding very different views from those which he entertained. They had further heard, during the course of that evening's debate, from the hon. Member for Plymouth, one of the best and ablest speeches delivered on the subject, and one which he confessed appeared to him to require an answer. He believed that his hon. Friend had fallen, during the course of that able address, into many fallacies. But he believed there was one pre-eminent, which, being set aside, the rest would fall with it. His hon. Friend the Member for Plymouth began by laying down his definition of civil and religious liberty, and he said that it behoved the House to consider how far they had proceeded in the direction of establishing that liberty, and under what conditions they would restrain it. He (Mr. Page Wood) was sure that there was no Member on his side of the House who would not be prepared to maintain the principle of civil and religious liberty to the utmost verge of safety to the constitution. But he did believe in his conscience,
 1391 1392 Sic utere tuo ut alienum ne lœdas: 1393 Constitutiones principum constitutionibus ecelesiasticis, non pre-eminent, sed obsequuntur, "Moreover, you ought to know, that God has created two great luminaries in the firmament of heaven, the greater light to rule the day, the lesser light to rule the night: both great, but one greater. For the firmament of heaven, therefore, that is, of the Church universal, God has created two great luminaries, that is, God has instituted two dignities, which are the Pontifical authority and the Royal power. But that which rules the days, that is, spirituals, is the greater; but that which rules carnals is the lesser: so that as great difference as between the sun and the moon, as great difference may be known between Popes and Kings." "Præterea nosse debneras, quod fecit Deus duo magna luminaria in firmamento cœli, luminare majus ut præesset diei, et luminare minus ut præesset nocti; utrumque magnum, sed alteram majus. Ad firmamentum igitur cœli, hoc est, universalis Ecclesiæ fecit Deus duo magna luminaria, id est, duas instituit dignitates, quæ Bunt Pontifioalis auctoritas, et Regalis potestas. Sed ilia quæ præest diebus, id est, spiritualibus, major est; quæ vero carnalibus, minor; ut quanta est inter solem et lunam; tanta inter Pontifices et Reges differentia cognoscatur."— Decret. Grea. "Uterque gladius est in potestate Ecclesiae, spiritualis scilicet et materialis. Porro subesse Romano Pontifici omni creaturæ declaramus definimus et pronuntiamus omnino esse de necessitate salutis." ad bonum spirituale, In Cœna Domini. 1394 ad Cancellarium, ad Cancellarium, 1395 exequatur, 1396 1397 prœmunire 1398 placet 1399 placet. 1400 1401 1402 1403 1404
 LORD ASHLEY  said, he had already postponed his Motion more than once; but if other hon. Gentlemen would agree to postpone theirs, he would not stand in the way.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : It is my intention not to go on with the Navy Estimates on Monday; but if the debate on the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill be adjourned this evening, then to go on on Monday with the adjourned debate. I may as well take this opportunity of stating, with regard to the notice which I gave, that on Friday next my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would state what alterations he proposed to make in his financial
 1319
 LORD J. RUSSELL  proposed to bring it forward on Tuesday next, and, failing that, he would endeavour to bring it forward some other Notice day.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : What I stated was, that on Friday, the 21st, my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would propose the alterations that he proposed to make in his financial measures, and that we should then proceed with the Army Estimates, and that on Monday, the 24th, we had intended to proceed with the question of the continuance of the income tax. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford has given notice of a Motion on that question, and what I say is this, that as on Tuesday, the 25th, the vote of censure is to be proposed, it would be inconvenient to the House—more inconvenient
 1321
 LORD J. RUSSELL  could only say that his general directions to the Secretary of the Treasury was to make a House on all occasions, independent of what business was set down in the paper. The Government were the losers more than any one else by the House not being made, from the inconvenience of the Motion, of which notice had been given, coming on other nights when the Orders of the Day stood first. Last night his expectation was that a House would be made, and the Secretary of the Treasury assured him that he had used every exertion to make a House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he was quite as much disappointed as the hon. Member for Lambeth; and, with reference to the money which the hon. Gentleman said was paid unconstitutionally, he begged to inform him that a great part of it was paid in conformity with Acts of Parliament, and much of the remainder was paid on old constitutional principles. He had come down last night with his box under his arm, to show all this to the hon. Gentleman, and to his surprise and disappointment he found that from there being no House he was not able to meet him.
 MR. URQUHART  begged to put the question, of which he had given notice, whether there was any certain information as to the withdrawal of the Russian troops from the Danubian provinces?
 MR. URQUHART  had to ask further, pursuant to notice, if the noble Lord was in possession of any information as to the conditions attached to that evacuation? And, perhaps, the noble Lord would, at the same time, be so good as to state, whether the signified time of their detention having elapsed, the Hungarian refugees in Turkey were likely to be soon liberated; and, also, if the noble Lord could properly answer that question, whether the English Government was favourable to the views of those who desired to see the liberation of those Hungarians, or to the views of Austria, which sought their continued detention?
 MR. BARNARD  rose to state, in con-
 1323
 MR. F. O'CONNOR  thought that nothing could be more fair or more creditable to the Government, than to postpone these measures till the charge to be brought against them was disposed of.
 MR. MOORE  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had stated that, with a vote of censure hanging over him, he would not proceed with the financial business of the country. Now, it appeared to him (Mr. Moore) that the question relating to the finance and taxation of the country called not only for wise, but for prompt consideration; while there were other important measures involving great changes in the law, and a permanent adjustment of the relations between the Government and the governed, in which not only was there no haste required, but in which it was important that they should
 1320 Cheers
 SIR H. W. BARRON : I know the contrary to be the fact, having erected a monument to a friend myself.
 SIR H. W. BARRON : I distinctly deny it.
 MR. GOULBURN  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department respecting a paper which had been issued from the Secretary of State's office, proceeding from the Registrar General, on the subject of the census, and which had given occasion to considerable alarm. The paper in question had been directed to be addressed to the clergyman, the officiating minister, or any other person in the parish; and, if required, the party with whom the notice was left to give intimation of the total income of the clergyman of the parish, the sources from which it was derived—whether from endowments, pew-rents, fees, donations, &c; and, further, it required a statement of the average number of persons who attended each place of worship within the parish. Now, he (Mr. Goulburn) had always understood that the object of the census was to procure certain information with reference to a particular class of facts; and, therefore, as the information sought by the paper to which he had referred was uncertain, it appeared to him that it would have a tendency to defeat the object of the census itself. With respect to the inquiry into the income of a clergyman of a parish by any one to whom the notice was sent, the House would excuse him for asking the right hon. Gentleman whether it would be compulsory upon parties to make the return?
 MR. PLUMPTRE , on the Question, "That the House, at its rising, should adjourn to Monday next," begged to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, if the debate on the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill should not finish to-night, whether it was the intention of the noble Lord to proceed with it on Monday, or whether it would be postponed for the Navy Estimates?
 MR. REYNOLDS  had the honour of seconding the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Arundel. He was well aware that the Motion, if carried, would lead to the virtual defeat of the Bill, and he was candid enough to acknowledge that such was his object. The noble Lord, who just sat down, had spoken so well on the English part of the question, that it was almost unnecessary for him (Mr. Reynolds) to occupy any portion of the time of the House upon that branch of the subject. He would therefore devote the observations he should address to the House principally to the Irish portion of the question. He might say in parenthesis that he could not express his surprise and astonishment that Ireland should be at all introduced into the measure. Let him not, however, be misunderstood, for inasmuch as the Bill was calculated to oppress the creed of Catholics in the united kingdom, he rejoiced that it also included Ireland; and his feelings of pleasure on this point were derived from the reflection that in Ireland the Catholics were strong, and were able to offer constitutional resistance to the Bill. By her efforts, through her representatives in that House, and by her influence through the meetings of her people assembled in her counties and her parishes, she was able to speak in such a manner as must entitle her to respect and attention in that House. He was well aware that those who in that House wished the Bill rejected altogether, had a most difficult part to play, for the public mind in Great Britain had been much inflamed by a variety of machinery. He was not unmindful of the fact that the people of England had been led astray by violent letters and by violent speeches. He could not close his eyes to the fact that the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown had issued a most violent letter dated Downing-street, 5th November, and addressed to the Bishop of Durham, and of
 1333 1334 1335 1336 Times "'Popery offends and disgusts the understanding.—Bishop of London. 'Audacity of the pretensions of the Church of Rome.'—Bishop of London. Base ingratitude of the Church of Rome.'—Bishop of London." l. "The Romish system is unchangeable in its character. We are not so degenerated as to be beguiled into the snares which her ever-watchful rulers have laid for our ruin.'—Archbishop of York.' Foreign bondage'—Salisbury. 'Papal assumptions are all but blasphemous.'—Gloucester. 'An unholy thing.'—Gloucester. 'The Church of Rome roars when necessary, but has the meekest and mildest blandishments when it suits her purpose'—Oxford. 'A subtle and tyrannical enemy'—Oxford. 'Tyranny of the Church of Rome'—Llandaff. 'Subtle and unclean '—Oxford. 'England defiled by her pollutions '—Oxford. 'The Church of intolerance'—Chichester. 'Her arrogant and vain assumptions—Chichester. 'That apostate from the truth'—Chichester. 'That corrupt and domineering Church'—Oxford. 'That wilfully blind and intolerant '—St. David's. It poisons the minds of the people by false and insidious arguments'—Chichester. Her claims are blasphemous and unchristian'—Carlisle. 'Her self aggrandisement '—Hereford. 'Great apostacy of the Church of Rome '—Hereford. 'The dogmas of the Church of Rome opposed alike to Scripture and common sense'—London. 'Superstition long ago exploded '—London." "'The slough of Romish corruption'—London. "A horror of the doctrines of Rome '—Oxford." —"'Corrupt doctrines and practices of the Church of Rome'—Lichfield. 'Pestilential errors'—Bath and Wells. 'Delusions of dreamers'—Ripon. 'The subtlety of Romanism'—Man-
 1337 "'Insult to the Sovereign'—London. 'Daring aggression'—Salishury. 'Insolent aggression'—Oxford. 'Presumptuous aggression'—Hereford. Unparalleled aggression'—York. 'Most monstrous and insolent aggression'—London. 'Aggression as dishonest as it is insulting'—Worcester." 1338 l. 1339 [Laughter.] l., 1340 [Cheers.] 1341 1342 1343
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER : I rise, Sir, with much more than ordinary anxiety to state the reasons which have made me think it my duty to vote against the second reading of this Bill. Sir, I am not insensible to the duty we all owe to regard the expression of public opinion, especially in a matter of this great importance; nor am I insensible to the great amount of public opinion which has been expressed on this question, or to the depth and strength of the feeling which has been manifested throughout the country. I confess that if I could interpret what has taken place out of doors as a deliberate and well-considered demand for this species of legislation, as necessary to protect the secular interests of the public, and to deliver the country from any political danger, I might be led to hesitate before I trusted myself in coming to a con-
 1348 1349 1350 1351 prima facie, 1352 Commentaries, 1353 "On a civil and not on a religious account. For every Popish priest of course renounces his allegiance to his temporal sovereign on taking orders; that being inconsistent with his new engagements of canonical obedience to the Pope; and the same may be said of an obstinate defence of his authority here, or a formal reconciliation to the See of Rome, which the statute construes to be withdrawing from one's natural allegiance." 1354 status 1355 placet exequatur 1356 1357 1358 1359 1360 "Potestate Catholica et jurisdictione vicarii apostolici generalis fulciatur, ac personas omnes tarn ecclesiasticas quam laicas, intra Angliam degentes, secundum ecclesiasticas constitutiones regat et gubernet." "The same Pontiff (Innocent XI.) divided England into four districts, namely, the London, the western, the midland, and the northern, with the powers proper to a local ordinary… This partition of all England into four apostolic-vicariates lasted till the time of Gregory XVI." "Art. 7 If you would please, by your Royal proclamation, to inhibit the four Romish bishops,
 1361 1362 imperium in imperio 1363 1364
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  would ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman upon whom the Government relied for making a House when the noble Lord at the head of the Government had important business on the paper. The noble Lord's Motion respecting
 1322
 MR. HAYTER  begged permission to say that he took all measures for the purpose of securing a House, however unsuccessful they might have been. When he came to the House he found some Members—not Members of the Government—reluctant to come in, and he was unsuccessful in inducing those Members to come into the House. Having made the attempt, he was present when the House was counted, and expressed to the hon. Member for Lambeth his regret that his efforts should have been unavailing to obtain the advantage for him of an opportunity to make those charges of which he had given notice.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said,
 1385 1386 1387 scire facias 1388 1389 "ECCLESIASTICAL TITLES ASSUMPTION BILL—CASE FOR THE OPINION OF COUNSEL.—Counsel will please to consider the Ecclesiastical Titles Assumption Bill, of which a print, as proposed to be amended in Committee, is sent herewith, and to advise—'1. Whether, in case the second clause should be omitted, as proposed, a deed executed after the passing of the Act by or under the authority of any person, in or under any name, style, or title, which such person is by the recited Act or this Act prohibited from using, would nevertheless be void in law? 2. Whether, in case the third clause were omitted, an endowment by will or gift of any Roman Catholic archbishop, bishop, or dean, in the manner intended to be prohibited by said clause, would nevertheless be void in law?'
 
 "1. We are of opinion that any such deed or writing would be void in law. "2. By the 1st section any gifts, grants, or endowments for the benefit or support of the office of any Roman Catholic archbishop, bishop, or dean, by or under the name or style of his office, would become incapable of being claimed or demanded, because they became gifts to an office abolished in law, being forbidden to be assumed; and all powers and authorities annexed to any such office would become incapable of being exercised; for, in the case of grants, the grantee, and in the case of authorities, the donee thereof, has no longer any recognised legal character or existence. The first section, in fact, involves the second and third sections, which are declarations only of legal consequences resulting from the first; and it seems to us to be a mistake to suppose that by omitting the second and third sections the acts thereby proposed to be prohibited will remain good and legal, notwithstanding the first section. "In illustration of our opinions:—Suppose a bequest to trustees, upon trust, to apply an annual sum for the better support of the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Tuam for the time being. The bequest would now be good, but it must be claimed by the archbishop  nomine virtute officii, "So, if powers and authorities (as for the selection of schoolmasters and appointment of trustees) were annexed to the office of any Roman Catholic bishop by a charitable endowment, such powers not being given to an individual, but made appur-
 1390 (Signed) "RICHARD BETHELL. "G. W. BRAMWELL. "J. SURRAGE. "Lincoln's-Inn, 14th March, 1851."
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that recent proceedings showed the necessity of altering the rule of the House, which required 40 Members present before a House could be made. He himself had a Motion on the paper of the greatest importance, involving an expenditure of 7,000,000 l.
 SIR B. HALL : The hon. Baronet might contradict him, but he (Sir B. Hall) must be excused if he did not stand corrected. He could relate instances within his own knowledge, if required; but he
 1346 "Quæ; claris fueram præclata puellis, Illa ego hoc brevi condita sum tumulo; Cui formam pulcherrimum charites tribuere decoram Quam Deus cunctis artibus erudiit." 1347
 SIR B. HALL : What he asserted was perfectly true.
 SIR B. HALL  had no hesitation in saying that it was his intention to give his vote in favour of the Bill which had been proposed by his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department. In the course of this discussion, one very remarkable feature had occurred. It had been elicited by the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, who had boldly and unhesitatingly declared that he and his party were a marketable commodity both in this House and in the country. The hon. Gentleman said, that they were ready to dispose of themselves either to one Government or the other; but before any one attempted to purchase them, he thought it would be well to consider the value which they put upon themselves; and he would caution his noble Friend at the head of the Government not to have anything to do with them, for they would always support the Government when it suited their convenience to do so, or when they could profit by so doing. Why, if they looked at the conduct of the Irish party, they would find that ever since the year 1832, when most of them became Members of the House, they had voted first on one side of the House, and then on the other, on every kind of question; and that, notwithstanding their loud protests, they had supported the Government in the most abject manner. The hon. Gentleman had told them that unless he opposed this measure he dared not show his face in Ireland: probably he would be excommunicated if he did. His noble Friend the Member for Arundel, who had opposed the measure,
 1344 1345
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that the paper which had been issued by the Registrar General in order to procure information with respect to the census was divided into two classes of queries: the first class was addressed to parties under the Act of Parliament, and the withholding of answers to the queries in that class was subject to a penalty. The other class comprised, not
 1317
 SIR G. GREY  said, that not having had an opportunity last night of placing upon the paper the notice of the clause which he intended proposing in Committee on the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, in the event of that measure being read a second time, with respect to the Scotch bishops, he begged to be allowed to state the terms of it now. In the first place, he begged to say that he intended to move the insertion of the following words in the preamble, after the word "whereas," in the first line of the Bill:—
 "Divers of Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects have assumed to themselves the titles of archbishops and bishops of pretended sees and dioceses within the United Kingdom, under colour of an alleged authority given to them for that
 1316 "That nothing in this Act shall be held to extend or apply to the assumption of titles of Bishops of the Protestant Episcopal Church in Scotland by persons exercising ecclesiastical functions within any district or place in that country, or assuming the name, style, or title of such district or place, and that nothing in this Act shall be held to give the right to any such bishops to assume or use any name, style, or title which they are not now allowed by law to assume."
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  wished to know, as the noble Lord had no opportunity of bringing forward the Jewish Disabilities Bill last night, on what day he now proposed to bring it forward?
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  begged to present several petitions from British colonies, praying that the provisions of the Bill be extended to wherever Her Majesty's prerogative extends; also a petition of a different kind from a Gentleman formerly a Member of that House, the Hon. Craven Fitzhardinge Berkeley, which recited certain circumstances to which he would respectfully ask the attention of the House. It stated that Augusta Talbot resided until lately in her mother's house, and subsequently with the Earl and Countess of Shrewsbury; that she was a ward in Chancery, but, notwithstanding the fact of her being such ward, she had been placed, last September, in a convent at Taunton, not as a pupil, but as a postulant, with the avowed object of becoming a nun; that by September, 1851, the year of probation would expire, and that she would be still under age; that she would still be a ward of Chancery; that her fortune of 80,000 l., 1324 "That this House would introduce into the Bill a clause enacting that no infant, whether a ward of Chancery or not, should be permitted to be placed by parents or guardians, or any other person whomsoever, in any convent, seminary, or place of education, as postulant during the minority of such infant; and that any property of such infant, so having been placed, whether absolute or contingent, should vest in and enure to Her Majesty, and be disposed of as Her Majesty might be pleased to direct by warrant of her sign manual, provided that such property should not go to the Church of Rome, as by the laws of the Church of Rome it otherwise would."
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that his hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down had concluded his elaborate and ingenious, but, he was bound to add, his fallacious speech, with the expression of an opinion, in which he (Sir R. H. Inglis) entirely concurred, and to which it was not, therefore necessary that he should further advert. Neither would he be tempted by the allusion made to himself to enter into a consideration of what he might have formerly said on the question of the system of education which had been introduced into Ireland by the Government of Sir R. Peel. It was enough for him to say that he had not renounced the opinions he had formerly expressed upon that point. But he should observe that his hon. and learned Friend had, in his opinion, proceeded on a great fallacy in all his historical references. His hon. and learned Friend had talked of the Episcopal Protestant Church of Scotland, of the Free Church in that country, of the Wesleyan Conference, and of the possibility of a Free Episcopal Church springing up in this country; and then his hon. arid learned Friend had asked whether they were prepared to legislate in any one of those cases in a manner similar to that in which they proposed to deal with the Roman Catholic Church? But there was an essential difference between those cases and the act of aggression which they had then to consider. All the religious communities to which his hon. and learned Friend had referred, were founded on a system of internal organisation, and were dependent on no parties except their own voluntary associations. But the body With which they had then to deal was one, owing at least a divided, if not an entire, allegiance to a foreign Power. He had himself held in his hand that day a petition from the Wesleyan Conference, in which the petitioners stated that they refused to recognise the Sovereign of another State as the fountain of honour and authority in this Country. It was that fact which constituted the great and fundamental distinction between the cases to which his hon. and learned Friend had referred, and the case on which they had then to decide. In order to show the peculiar position occupied by Roman Catholics in this and in other countries, he had only to quote a passage from the eminent person who had been sent over by the Pope to govern the spiritual affairs of England. "The Catholics," said Dr. Wiseman or Bishop Wiseman, "are not, and never
 1366 1367 1368 In Gæna Domini 1369 1370 1371 "Amid the chords bewildered strayed, And back recoiled, he knew not why, Scared at the sound himself had made." 1372 1373 1374 "nil." Cheers. 1375
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he was quite aware of the responsibility which attached to him in attempting thus early at the com-
 1376 1377 1378 1379 in partibus, 1380 "Lest from the bounded level of our mind, Short views we take, nor see the lengths behind;" In Gœna Domini, 1381 1382 1383 1384
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The only conditions annexed to the evacuation of the Danubian provinces are the conditions which are stipulated in the agreement which was made two years ago, by which the two parties, Turkey and Russia, contracted to withdraw their troops from those
 1318
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The question is with regard to the evacuation of the Danubian provinces. The answer which I have to give is, that, by late accounts received, both from Constantinople and from St. Petersburgh, I am induced to believe that the evacuation of those provinces, both by the Turkish and Russian troops, has been ordered, and will very shortly take place.
 MR. MOORE  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, towards the close of the debate which took place upon the first reading of this Bill, or rather of the Bill of which this was a fraction, undertook, to use his own expression, to clear the ground for the House. But the right hon. Gentleman entered into the question with so little calm consideration—he threw himself into the question with such noise and impetuosity—he kicked up such a dust on all sides, and comported himself in such a fashion, as not only not to clear up the ground that he found encumbered, but to encumber the ground he found clear, with an almost inconceivable amount of mystification. But whatever might have been the success of the right hon. Gentleman upon that occasion, he (Mr. Moore) thought it would be conceded they had cleared up the ground considerably since then. In the first place, for ten days, at all events, they had cleared the ground of the right Baronet himself and his colleagues—and since their restoration to the shadowy mimetic position which they now occupied, they had cleared the ground of three-fourths of the Bill. They had cleared the ground also of all pretence to character and consistency on the part of its promoters. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had openly avowed that the opinions of his former life were all blunders and misconceptions, and that the present Bill was founded upon an entire change in the opinions which he had formerly expressed. He (Mr. Moore) thought the proposition of the noble Lord had cleared the ground, in the course of the discussion, of every single, disinterested, earnest, zealous, and hearty supporter of the Government in that House. He had exposed the dirty strings which pulled the puppet of intolerance, showing that the same strings which pulled up its head, were ready to pull it down again, and that the same motives which prompted to de-
 34 35 36 an imperium in imperio, 37 38 "but if the President of the Conference, having subdivided the country for the convenience of the Wesleyan ministers, were to make known what he had done in a pastoral, such as hon. Members had lately read, and say that he 'governed' the counties of York and Lancaster as President of the Conference, he (Lord Ashley) really thought that the next thing they would near of him would be that he was under the hands of a medical man, and had been declared of unsound mind." 39 in foro conscientiœ, in foro externo, jure 40 41 "As to the insult that had been offered, it would be useless to say anything. With regard to tin; injury inflicted by the bull, it undoubtedly affected the Roman Catholic branches of the community, but it was, however, of a twofold nature. The first injury was of a spiritual, the second was of a temporal character. With the first he apprehended they had nothing to do; and if it was possible for them to separate completely any questions with respect to the spiritual and temporal effect of the introduction of the bull, and the assumption of titles thereupon, it would be well and fit for them to do so, apart from the question of what was due to the honour and dignity of the country. It was said the effect of the bull in temporal matters would be to give to certain persons assuming the titles of archbishops or bishops of dioceses and sees the power of dealing with appointments relating to religious endowments made by Roman Catholics; that it would enable them to deal with the property given to support charities, or for other religious purposes, in a different and more extensive manner than at present, and that the result would be to give to those prelates powers not intended to be conceded to them by the persons who founded those institutions. As to the spiritual power introduced, he had not heard it suggested, nor had he seen it in any of the publications he had read, that there were any specific powers which might be enforced by the bishops of those pretended sees, distinct or different from the powers which might have been enforced by the bishops in  partibus Hansard, 42 43 44 45
 MR. WIGRAM  said, he desired to state to the House the grounds which induced him to support the second reading of the Bill, and led him to think that on the present occasion legislative interference was called for. 46 47 "Either the Holy See must issue another and full constitution, which would supply all wants, but which would be necessarily complicated and voluminous, and, as a special provision, would necessarily be temporary; or the real and complete code of the Church must be at once extended to the Catholic Church in England, so far as compatible with its social position; and this provision would be final. But, in order to adopt this second and more natural expedient, one condition was necessary, and that was, the Catholics must have a hierarchy. The canon law is inapplicable under vicars-apostolic." 48 Jus Canonicum, Romœ, "The Supreme Pontiff, by virtue of the power immediately granted to him, can, in matters spiritual, and concerning the salvation of souls and the right government of the Church, make ecclesiastical constitutions for the whole Christian world. It must be confessed, notwithstanding, that the Pope, as vicar of Christ on earth, has indirectly (or in respect of the spiritual power granted to him by God in order to the good government of the whole Church) a certain supreme power for the good estate of the Church, if it be necessary, of judging and disposing of all the temporal goods of all Christians." 49 Rambler: "All that we plead against is the adoption in any measure of that preposterous cant of the age, that the secular power, as such, is bound by its duty to God to extend equal toleration to all reli-
 50 principiis obsta 51
 MR. E. B. ROCHE  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had pointed to Ireland as a case in which the Catholicity of the country had rendered her unhappy, and caused her to be misgoverned. Now be (Mr. Roche) could not refrain from protesting against such an assertion, for Ireland was governed under the influence of the Protestant Church, maintained by Protestant bayonets, for the benefit of Protestant garrisons. Of all the countries in the world, Ireland bad been the least governed on Catholic principles, and the least in unison with the feelings of the people. Ireland was a stigma and a disgrace to this Protestant country, because she had been always legislated for with a view to sectarian principles, and in opposition to the feelings of her people. He objected to the measure because it was an infringement of the Emancipation Act; for the preamble, after stating that the Emancipation Act had given the Roman Catholics the power of taking titles from any places not already occupied by archbishops or bishops of the Church, went on to enact that it should not be lawful within the united kingdom to take titles from any places whatever in the united kingdom. This was a clear violation of the charter of the liberties of the Roman Catholics of both England and Ireland. The Government had stated their intention of altering the Bill so as to make it less stringent than when it was first introduced; but he doubted whether the erasure of the second and third clauses had effected any improvement in that respect. The Government had said that the erasure of these two clauses would leave the Roman Catholics the endowment of their churches. Now, if the Government were sincere, the first clause ought to go along with the others, because it was equally unfriendly to the
 52 "In 1782 a law was passed in Ireland which prevented Catholic priests from assuming the titles of the Established Church; hut that law was repealed by the Act of 1793, and since then the assumption of these titles had increased." [2  Hansard, 53 "It does not signify to us whether you call yourselves bishops or vicars-apostolic: so long as you do not ask us to do anything for you, we have no right to prevent you taking any titles amongst yourselves." 54 55 "According to the law of England the title of a diocese belonged to persons appointed to it by His Majesty; but it was desirable that others appointed to it by an assumed authority should be discountenanced, and that was the reason why the clause was introduced. This was one of the instances which showed how difficult it was to legislate upon this subject at all. He was aware that this clause gave no security to the Established Church, nor strengthened it in any way, but it was inserted to give satisfaction to those who were disturbed by this assumption of title by the Catholic clergy." "That he had on principle always opposed Catholic emancipation; but that point having been carried, he would not encumber emancipation with restrictions like these which were of no use. To exclude Catholics from seats in Parliament would have been a  bonâ fide Hansard, 56 "There is a danger, however, which alarms me much more than any aggression of a foreign sovereign. Clergymen of our own Church, who have subscribed the Thirty-nine Articles, and acknowledged in explicit terms the Queen's supremacy, have been the most forward in leading their flocks 'step by step, to the very verge of the precipice.'" The Ecclesiastical History Society, Book of Common Prayer, "It is remarkable, that at the Chapel Royal, St. James's, and at the chapel of Trinity College, Dublin, the holy table is placed east and west, close to the north wall, and consequently in such a position that it is impossible to get at its north side. At the Chapel Royal, Whitehall, the holy table is placed east and west, close to the south wall, so that the front of the holy table is its north side. In every one of these chapels, therefore, so sacred a rite as the holy communion is not performed in accordance with the Rubric—although they are places where it was to be expected that rubrical observance would have been the object of especial care." "That the Book of Common Prayer should be presented to the members of the United Church of England and Ireland without the slightest omission or interpolation, the Universities of Oxford
 57 "I am fully sensible of the inaccuracies of the Oxford and Cambridge editions. The Oxford seems to me to be the most inaccurate of the two; so much so that when I was superintending the printing of the last edition of our Irish Prayer Book, I soon threw the Oxford edition aside, but compared every word with the Cambridge edition, folio, which, however, I found to have been corrected by several different hands, from various dissimilarities in different parts." "Respecting the edition of the Prayer Book printed at the Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1796, it has no table of contents. It begins with the Table of Proper Lessons, and ends with the Psalter. Almost every Rubric is either omitted or altered, only six of the sentences at morning and evening prayer are given, many of the alternative canticles and prayers are omitted, and the four prayers and thanksgivings which appear, instead of the nineteen in the sealed books, are printed as part of the Litany. In the Communion Service, the second prayer for the Sovereign, and the second exhortation are omitted. The Offices of Baptism and Matrimony, &c, are also omitted." 58 Esprit des Loix, "The threatenings of religion are so terrible, and its promises so great, that when they actuate the mind, whatever efforts the magistrate may use to oblige us to renounce it, he seems to leave us nothing when he deprives us of the exercise of our religion, and to bereave us of nothing when we are freely allowed to profess it."
 MR. H. D. SEYMOUR  wished to state why he had come to the determination of voting against the Government on this question, and in opposition to those with whom in general he most cordially agreed. He was aware of the almost superhuman efforts of the Roman Catholics to spread their religion, not only in this country, but throughout Europe. But that was a circumstance from which he drew consolation, because he did not think that hitherto any adequate means had been taken to resist them. The present crisis had not come upon him unexpectedly, for he had heard from Roman Catholic friends ten years ago that meetings were holding weekly in the principal cities of Europe to pray for the conversion of this country, and for the establishment of systematic efforts for that purpose such as we are now called upon, though by other means than by Acts of Parliament, to resist. He was aware that in many quarters in Europe there had been a regular crusade of one class of Roman Catholics against Protestants. That class was very far from consisting of the whole Roman Catholic communion, but only of those ultramontane Roman Catholics who were in favour equally of civil and religious despotism; and he believed if they were victorious over the Protestants, they would turn their arms with equal energy and perseverance against that part of their own communion, who formed what Hallam the historian had called the Whig party in the Roman Catholic Church. He should admit, indeed, that having seen a good deal of that party in various portions of Europe, there were amongst them many who would be as unscrupulous in their
 59 60
 MR. GOULBURN  was glad that he had given way to the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed them, and who had shown that in any vote which he might give he would he actuated by none but the best and most honourable motives. In much of what he had said he fully concurred, but he should nevertheless differ from him in the vote which he should give upon this occasion. The hon. Gentleman's statement as to there being a general crusade going on upon the part of the Absolutists of the Roman Catholic Church against the religion of this country was not a very strong argument for opposing a measure the object of which was to place a restraint on the assumption of temporal power by the Pope over the subjects of this country. The hon. Gentleman the Member for the county of Cork had told them that the proposed Bill was an invasion of the Act of 1829. If he (Mr. Goulburn) regarded it in that light, he would not support it. He had been a party to the framing of that compact between the Roman Catholic body and the people of this country, and he would not knowingly, either in favour of one party or the other, depart from its provisions, or consent to the violation of its spirit. But in the present measure he saw no violation of that Act, for the Act of 1829 contained a specific and direct prohibition of the assumption of the titles of any existing see by any bishop of the Roman Catholic Church; and when the hon. Gentleman told them, with a kind of threat, that if they attempted to enforce the prohibition which that Act imposed, they would not find a Catholic jury to convict a person indicted under the law, he did not think that the hon. Gentleman acted fairly by his Roman Catholic fellow-countrymen, in imputing to them that they would not be as ready, either honestly to administer the law, or to fulfil the provisions of a compact that had been entered into for their special benefit in the year 1829, as any Protestant. He (Mr. Goulburn) asserted that the act of the Pope was an act of aggression. He did not deny that with an act of aggression—taken in a purely religious sense—he might not he prepared to deal, for he believed that every religion that had sincere followers and believers was naturally aggressive. The Roman Catholics endeavoured, by teaching and preaching, to extend the
 61 62 63 personas omnes; Non sine magnâ viscerum commotione. 64 ab initio. 65 66
 SIR W. H. BARRON  said, that when a very talented woman in his country once published an essay on Irish Bulls, the president of a farmers' club moved that a copy of the work should be taken in by the society, with a view to the improvement of the breed of cattle in Galway. Now, he thought that the discussions which had taken place on Papal bulls, had tended as little to any useful legislation, on this or any other question, as Miss Edgeworth's essay had contributed to the improvement of Irish cattle. The manner in which the question had been discussed had only served to awaken feelings of religious discord in this
 67 68 ipissima verba 69 70 l.
 MR. CALVERT  said, that he was sorry to interpose between the House and hon. Members who were so far more competent than himself to discuss the question: but if a strong sense of the importance of a subject, and a diligent effort to make himself acquainted with its merits, formed any grounds for asking the attention of the House, those claims be could certainly advance. Never had he entered upon the consideration of any question which seemed to him more pregnant with great and important consequences. Never had he approached any subject on which it had appeared that the course of legislation upon which the House was about to embark, was more likely to produce important results to all the great interests of the country. He would say one word as to the feelings with which he approached the consideration of the subject. They were told that if they supported the Bill now before the House, they would be guilty of persecution and of taking a retrograde step with reference to the
 71 72 73 74 75 Nolumus leges Angliœ mutari? 76 77 78 79 pœnitentiœ; 80
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, that having listened with the utmost care to the speeches of hon. Members opposite in support of this Bill, he had been struck with the logical inconsistency between their arguments and their votes. Their language, in effect, was this—"We are the friends of civil and religious liberty—we contend for complete toleration—and it is because we dread the establishment of a hierarchy in this country, and the introduction of the canon law, that we vote for a Bill which touches neither of these points." He confessed he was unable to reconcile
 81 82 "There is no position in law so completely established with reference to the relations between the Holy See and the Sovereign Princes of Europe as that the  exequatur Royal placet, "If there be any one principle of law which has received the sanction of that high usage and practice which constitutes a binding obligation on all the Powers of Christendom, it is this, that the Pope cannot set up the see of a bishop within the territory of an independent Sovereign without his consent." exequatur 83 84 85 "If conversion to Popery be an evil, law is not its proper remedy. If proselytism exists, it is a disgrace only to the clergyman in whose parish it takes place. What, if they do their duty, can members of the Church of England fear?" "It is not to any Act of Parliament that I look for the maintenance of the Protestant religion in these realms, but to that deep feeling of attachment to the Protestant faith which not only the members of the Established Church, but the members of every Protestant denomination, possess, and to which they have given utterance in language clear, unambiguous, and unmistakeable. It is to their just appreciation of the blessings connected with the maintenance of the Protestant faith in this country, that I look for the maintenance of that faith, accompanied, as it no doubt will be, with the increased diligence and activity of Protestant ministers in their respective spheres, armed, as I believe, with the armour of truth, to resist that spiritual aggression with which they have been threatened." [3  Hansard, 86 "It is evident that neither Elizabeth nor her ministers understood the benefits of civil and religious liberty. The prerogatives which she so highly prized have long since withered away; the bloody code which she enacted against the rights of conscience has ceased to stain the pages of the Statute-book, and the result has proved that the abolition of despotism and intolerance adds no less to the stability of the Throne than to the happiness of the people." 87
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that he would endeavour to deal with this question dispassionately. In the first place, he would state the position assumed by the opponents of the Bill. There was one set of arguments urged by those who took what might be called the Roman Catholic view of the controversy, and the pith and substance of their reasoning might be stated thus: an established and organised hierarchy, say they, is essential to the interests of our religion; we are therefore entitled to have such an organised hierarchy. We can obtain that hierarchy from the Roman Pontiff alone; we are therefore justified in having recourse to the Pope for the purpose of obtaining it; and the Pope is entitled to grant us that hierarchy, and to do all that is necessary for the purpose of establishing it. Now, that under the conclusions which they drew from their premises there lay an egregious fallacy, he thought it would not be difficult to show. But before proceeding to deal with it, he would add to this summary the substance of the arguments of those members of the Protant community who were also opposed to legislation on this subject. They said, "You have, by the whole course of your legislation in recent times, conceded to the Roman Catholics the right to the full, free, unrestricted exercise and enjoyment of their religion. Now, an established hierarchy is essential to such exercise and enjoyment: therefore you are bound to complete the work you have commenced, and to grant to them the establishment of that hierarchy." These were the substance of the arguments of the two sections of the opponents of the Bill; and, according to his view, it was impossible to reflect, for a moment, on these two propositions without
 88 89 90 Has Cardinal Wiseman violated the Law? 91 92 93 ipso facto, "But in the sacred government of clergy and laity, and in all other things appertaining unto the pastoral office, the archbishop and bishops of England will henceforward enjoy all the rights and faculties which the other Catholic archbishops and bishops of other nations, according to the common ordinances of the sacred canons and apostolic constitutions, use, and may use; and are equally bound by the obligations which bind the other archbishops and bishops according to the same common discipline of the Catholic Church." 94 "And whatever regulations, either in the ancient system of the Anglican churches or in the subsequent missionary state, may have been in force either in special constitutions or privileges or peculiar customs, will now henceforth carry no right nor obligation; and in order that no doubt may remain on this point, we, by the plenitude of our apostolic authority, repeal and abrogate all power whatsoever of imposing obligation or conferring right in those peculiar constitutions and privileges of whatever kind they may be, and in all customs, by whomsoever, or at whatever more ancient or immemorial time brought in. Hence it will for the future be solely competent for the archbishop and bishops of England to distinguish what things belong to the execution of the common ecclesiastical law, and what, according to the common discipline of the Church, is intrusted to the authority of the bishops." status; 95 quasi 96 Appeal to the People of England, Appeal, 97
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  said, that at the time referred to it was Dr. Crolly who was Archbishop of Armagh, and that it was not till fourteen months afterwards that Dr. Cullen had been sent.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that Dr. Crolly was, no doubt, an assenting party to the passing of the Act. But he unfortunately died, and was succeeded by Dr. Cullen, who, though an Irishman by name, was to all intents and purposes an Italian monk. [An Hon. MEMBER: He never was a monk. He was president of the Irish College at Rome.] In defiance of the usage of the Irish Roman Catholic Church, Dr. Cullen was elected. The established usage was, that upon a vacancy the clergy should send three names to Rome for the selection of the Pope. They were also in the habit of writing against one name the word  dignus, dignior, dignissimus, Cries of 98 99 "Wherefore, after diligently weighing the state of Catholicity in England at the time that now is, and after reflecting upon the increase which, in various places, is manifest in the already largo number of Catholics, and after considering how the hindrances which stood in the way of the spreading of the Catholic faith are daily being removed, we have judged that the time has come in which that form of ecclesiastical government may be restored in England, which freely prevails in other countries where no special cause requires the extraordinary ministry of the vicars-apostolic. In forming this judgment, we feel that the circumstances of times and things had rendered the government of the Catholics of England by vicars-apostolic no longer necessary; and, indeed, that such a change had taken place that called for the establishment of the ordinary form of episcopal rule in that kingdom." 100 101 casus belli 102
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had witnessed the rising of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General with great pleasure, not only because he expected to have a speech characterised by great ability and power, but because he hoped to have, at that late period of the debate, from one of the law officers of the Crown, a clear and full explanation of the measure under discussion, by which great evils were supposed to be redressed. In that hope he had been disappointed. The hon. and learned Gentleman had told the House that the municipal law of England, and the national law of Europe, had been alike violated, that the honour of the country had been attacked, and the rights of our Sovereign aggrieved. He asked the hon. and learned Gentleman, where had Her Majesty's Government been all the time? Did the hon. and learned Gentleman mean to say the municipal law had been disregarded, the international law scandalously infringed, a territorial invasion perpetrated, that a foreign Prince, and the representatives of a foreign Court, were governing Her Majesty's subjects with temporal jurisdiction, and that the Executive Government had all the time made no sign, and had not even remonstrated with that foreign Power? Did he mean to affirm that acts of treason had been committed within this realm, and against the positive law of this kingdom, and the law officers of the Crown had taken no steps for the vindication of the Sovereign? But, above all, did he mean to say Government now relied on the Bill before them for the vindication of the wrongs that had been done? He would now invite the House to the consideration of the Bill, which the House had,
 103 104 105 "Be it known unto you that by God's help the dignities and usages of the kingdom of England shall not, during my lifetime, suffer any diminution. And even were I, which God forbid, so far
 106
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL : What I said was, that they spoke as if we were going to re-enact the penal Acts.
 MR. CARDWELL : That made good his argument. The Roman Catholics were as indignant with this futile Bill, as if it had been a stringent and effective measure. The Bill appeared to him to be just enough to irritate, but not enough to satisfy. It appeared to him as if they had suffered a great external grievance from the Pope, but were about to visit it on the loyal Catholic subjects of this country, and that they were doing it in this manner, not so as to vindicate the honour of the Crown, or repel the insult they had received, or add one iota to the security of Protestant institutions; but they were; creating in the vitals of this country a I little wound—a festering wound—the end of which they could not foresee, and the cure of which they could not undertake to; perform. It appeared to him they were called on to assent to a measure which contained within itself no possibility of remedying the evil; because they should bear in mind that, restrain the assumption of ecclesiastical titles as they would, they were dealing only with the name, I they would leave the thing just where they found it. There would be their archbishops, bishops, and synods; and there would be the canon law. There would be the whole usurpation entire and complete. They would have prohibited the usurpation of particular names under
 107 "It is very possible that we may have a struggle; but the struggle will be, not for the abolition of civil distinctions, but for the predominance of an intolerant religion. Sir, I contemplate the progress of that struggle with pain; but I look forward to its issue with perfect composure and confidence. We shall have dissolved the great moral alliance that has hitherto given strength to the cause of the Roman Catholics. "We shall range on our side the illustrious authorities which have heretofore been enlisted on theirs; the rallying cry of' civil liberty' will then be all our own. We shall enter the field with the full assurance of victory, armed with the consciousness of having done justice, and of being in the right; backed by the unanimous feeling of England, by the firm union of orthodoxy and dissent; by the applauding voice of Scotland; and, if other aid be requisite, cheered by the sympathies of every free State in either hemisphere, and by the wishes and the prayers of every free man, in whatever clime, or under whatever form of government his lot may have been cast."—[2  Hansard, 108
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it would be well that the House should understand upon what day the debate would be resumed, as there were several important matters to come before the House which could not well be delayed.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that as the hon. Member for Bridport had consented to postpone his Motion, as there was no other notice of importance on the paper except that of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Carlow, he trusted there would be a general understanding that the adjourned debate should be pursued to-morrow.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, the Government were well aware of the circumstances under which he had placed his Motion on the books, and it was hardly possible to decline proceeding with it. It was a question of great importance, which had been postponed last Session, and he should feel bound to proceed with it upon the present occasion.
 MR. DISRAELI  wished to know whether the budget would come on for discussion on Friday?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: No, not on Friday. It was impossible to say on what day it would come on, as it was impossible to tell when the present debate would close. It would be taken the first night after this debate concluded.
 MR. GOULBURN  inquired whether the Motion with reference to the oath of abjuration would be taken to-morrow.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : No, no.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said: Mr. Speaker, I will take this opportunity of asking the hon. Gentleman the Member for Inverness-shire whether he has made any arrange-
 24
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, the hon. Gentleman has mistaken the grounds upon which I stated the view I took of the Motion which he has given notice of his intention to bring forward. The hon. Gentleman has attended for about three years to the affairs of Ceylon. He stated at the commencement of these proceedings, in moving for the Ceylon Committee, that he wished to censure the conduct of the Secretary of State for the Colonies and the local Government. He has continued in these opinions, and he wishes to bring forward a resolution in conformity with those opinions. To that course I have no objection—I cannot object to any hon. Member taking that course which he thinks proper; but that to which I object, and to which I have a right to object, is, that any hon. Member, after making a charge involving an accusation of wanton cruelty against a late Governor of one of Her Majesty's possessions, and of full, complete, and unqualified approbation by the Colonial Secretary of State of those proceedings of wanton cruelty, should not immediately bring that question before the House. This I can venture to say, that not only among numerous precedents of accusation, but of Motions of censure brought before the House, there never has been an instance of an hon. Member giving notice of that which was clearly and distinctly a vote of censure against a great department of the Government, with a Secretary of State at the head, and refraining from bringing that question to an immediate issue. It was in reference to that point that I put my question to the hon. 26
 MR. DISRAELI : I believe, Sir, there is no question before the House, but perhaps I may be allowed to say that I wish to remind the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that at this moment important documents which were submitted to the Ceylon Committee, are not in possession of hon. Members. A very large volume, containing the evidence received by that Committee, has been only recently
 27 locus standi 28
 MR. BAILLIE : Sir, I have in the first place to express to the noble Lord my regret that I was absent from the House on Friday last, when he wished to put a question to me; and in answering the question he has now put to me, I must take the liberty of observing that the course which the noble Lord has thought proper to adopt is one of which, I think, I have great reason to complain. The noble Lord has stated that the Motion of which I have given notice is a censure upon Her Majesty's Government, and that therefore it is not his intention to bring forward the great financial measures of the Government until that question is disposed of; thus placing me in the invidious position, not only of obstructing the public business of the country, but of placing the Motion itself not upon its real merits, but in the position of a question of confidence or no confidence in the Government, and that at a time when the noble Lord is perfectly well aware that there is no other party in the country prepared to take office. Now, I beg to remind the noble Lord that this is a question of long standing. The noble Lord has shown much virtuous indignation within a few days; but he must be perfectly well aware, as I am, that he has been looking forward to this Motion for the last three years. I myself gave formal notice of it in the last Session of Parliament, and it is only in consequence of the extraordinary course pursued by Government, in refusing to allow the evidence to be produced, that it has been delayed so long. I think, therefore, that under these circumstances the House will be disposed to admit that I am not liable to the charge of factious motives, or of having brought forward a Motion to impede the great and necessary public business of the country. Now, Sir, I can perfectly understood the difficulties of the noble Lord's position. I can perfectly well understand that the noble Lord is anxious to escape from those difficulties, and that, perhaps anticipating defeat on this Motion, he does not wish to have the trouble of preparing and bringing forward those measures which it is his duty, as the Minister of the Crown, to bring forward in this House. But the noble Lord is mistaken if he thinks that I shall allow myself
 25
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, the hon. Member for Inverness-shire has all along, from the moment at which these transactions were reported, in respect to Lord Torrington, expressed a strong opinion respecting
 30 31
 SIR B. HALL : I entirely agree with what has fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, and that it is utterly impossible that the Government could have taken any other course. On the present occasion it is admitted—and it must be admitted by every impartial person—that the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Inverness-shire was nothing more nor less than a censure on the Government; and with that feeling how could the noble Lord have brought forward the financial affairs of the country? I have no doubt hon. Gentlemen opposite desire that he
 32 33
 SIR G. GREY : Mr. Speaker, it is impossible the House can help observing the remarkable difference between the arguments of the hon. Member for Inverness-
 29
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN , seeing the unpaid Commissioner of the Commission in his place, begged, in pursuance of notice, to put to him three questions: When the New House of Commons will he ready for the reception of Members? Whether the gilding of the roof, and other costly decorations of the New House of Commons, have been introduced under the sanction and by the order of the Commissioners of the New Palace of Westminster? What provision has been made for a better supply of water in case of any future accident by fire?
 MR. BLEWITT  said, that since the noble Lord at the head of the Government had last come into office in 1846, ho, approving generally of the noble Lord's policy, had taken very little share in the debates of that House, but felt bound to deliver his sentiments on this most impolitic measure. It was, he thought, the late Lord Sydenham who remarked that the present Prime Minister was the noblest-minded man he ever knew. If he (MR. Blewitt) could not concur in that panegyric, it was not because he was no less sensible of the services the noble Lord had rendered to his country, nor that he was wanting in his appreciation of his statesman-like qualities, and great oratorical powers. He bore willing testimony to the amiable disposition and the integrity of the private character of the noble Lord; but by some extraordinary mental fatality, the liberalism for which the noble Lord had been so distinguished, had of late "fallen into the sere and yellow leaf," and he could not help viewing, with unaffected regret, his avowal of feelings, prejudices, and passions, in breach of that consistency which had been one of the proudest features in the noble Lord's political career. It seemed a matter of astonishment that the noble Lord, who had done so much to dispel the clouds of bigotry and intolerance in this country, and having succeeded, by various measures, in lulling sectarian feeling between Catholic and Protestant into
 126 Church and State: "He would not scruple to say, that if a Mahometan conscientiously believed that his religion came from God, and taught divine truths, he must believe that truth to be beneficial beyond all things
 127 Hansard episcopus. 128 "All the strength that the penal or imperial laws have maintained in this kingdom is only because they have been received or admitted by the consent of Parliament, and so are a part of the statute law, or else by immemorial usage, and no otherwise. Their authority is not derived from themselves, and, therefore, they bind no more here than our laws bind in Rome or in Italy."
 SIR R. LOPEZ  said, he should not have asked the indulgence of a few moments' hearing, but for the strong speech of MR. Roundell Palmer against the bull, and against any legislation whatever on the all-engrossing subject under discussion; but, residing in the immediate neighbourhood of Plymouth, the town the learned Gentleman represented, and knowing, as he thought he did, the strong and almost unanimous feeling and opinion of that large and important town, he felt himself called upon to say he was quite certain that the sentiments which he had uttered were not in accordance with those of the bulk of any part of the constituency, or of what could be called even a fraction of the mass of the inhabitants at large. He thought it the more necessary to make this known, and he could appeal to the learned Gentleman himself for the truth of the assertion, that his opinions on this subject were at variance with those universally entertained by the inhabitants, as Plymouth was one of the places which the Pope of Rome had thought fit to distinguish as one of his newly-nominated bishoprics, without his ever, he was sure, having been at the trouble to ascertain whether he had the slightest  locus standi 129 130 principiis obsta. 131
 MR. WALTER  said, that if the hon. Member for South Devon felt that his being the representative of a county of which one of the principal towns had been appropriated by the Pope for a new episcopal see, furnished him with an additional claim upon the attention of the House, he (MR. Walter) thought he might plead the same excuse for venturing to ask
 132 "And whereas the Protestant Episcopal Church of England and Ireland, and the doctrine, discipline, and government thereof, and likewise the Protestant Presbyterian Church of Scotland, and the doctrine, discipline, and government thereof, are by the respective Acts of Union of England and Scotland, and of Great Britain and Ireland, established permanently and inviolably; and whereas the right and title of archbishops to their respective provinces, of bishops to their sees, and of deans to their deaneries, as well in England as in Ireland have been settled and established by law; be it therefore enacted, that if any person, after the commencement of this Act, other than the person thereunto authorised by law, shall assume or use the name, style, or title of archbishop of any province, bishop of any bishopric, or dean of any deanery, in England or Ireland, he shall for every such offence forfeit and pay the sum of 100 l 133 "was the organ of Sir R. Peel's Government in moving the Bequests Act, an Act which recognised the authority of the Roman Catholic bishops and clergy of Ireland. It speaks of the Roman Catholic archbishop or bishop 'officiating in any district,' and Roman Catholic clergymen 'having pastoral superintendence of any congregation.' What is the meaning of' officiating in any district' but having a diocese? What is the meaning of 'having pastoral superintendence of a congregation' but being a parish priest?" Hansard "He had demurred, and he still demurred, to the right of the archbishops and bishops of the Church of Rome claiming titles as affixed to certain localities and districts in Ireland; but, hoping to conciliate the feelings of those who were deeply interested in this measure, and having no other desire than, as far as was consistent with the maintenance of sound principles, to tender that
 134 Hansard 135 136 137 "It is contended by Roman Catholic writers that the erection of the new sees is a spiritual act on the part of his Holiness, and that the Roman Catholic subjects of Her Majesty who maintain the right of the Pope to erect such sees, maintain only the spiritual supremacy of the Holy See, and are within the law. But it may be observed, in the first place, that neither the erection of a see nor the appointment of a bishop is a spiritual act. The consecration of a bishop, by the laying on of hands, is the spiritual act; the appointment is a temporal act, even if it should happen to be the act of an ecclesiastic. For instance, if the appointment were a spiritual act, in the sense in which the consecration is a spiritual act, it could not be performed by laymen; yet bishops in communion with the Holy See have, from time to time, been appointed freely by the Church at large— i.e. 138 mero moto suo. 139 140 l
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that, notwithstanding the high importance which the lion. Member who had just spoken of this quarrel with the Pope, appeared to attach to his own position in the debate, he should not have felt it necessary to notice the offensive remark of the lion. Member, had it not been for the very general cheers and laughter with which the remark had been received on the other side of the House—that his chief reason for supporting the Bill was, that it might induce every man of property to leave Ireland to its fate. That such an insinuation should have been received with applause, and without protest, could not but have a very prejudicial effect upon the dispositions of the Irish people, already too much exasperated by the course which had been taken, and too willing to believe the worst of the intentions and motives of the Legislature and the Government. He would protest against these sentiments, and he did not believe they were shared by Her Majesty's Ministers; if he did, he should be prepared to extend the opposition with which he met the pro-sent Bill to any measure whatsoever which might emanate from the Cabinet for the chastisement of the Papal aggression. It was, indeed, the great misfortune of this Bill, that, small and contemptible as it was in itself, it served as an opportunity and a pretext for intolerant effusions against "Popery" and "the Romish supersti-
 141 142 status 143 144 145 jus canonicum 146 147
 LORD ASHLEY : Sir, notwithstanding all that has been said, revert to the first question—shall the Parliament of England, or shall it not, arise to the succour of the Crown, to maintain the rights of the people, and to assert—use the expression advisedly—the civil and religious liberties of half mankind? Our opponents; tell us of the intricate difficulties of legislation. That we always knew. We were denounced as illiberal—we foresaw the misrepresentation. Many advised a surrender. We had anticipated the demand for such a concession. But there was one thing we did not foresee. We did not anticipate that a British Peer would denounce our defence of the British Crown as equivalent to persecution or even torture; and we did not foresee that British senators would assume the rights of conscience and the necessity of spiritual development among the followers of the Church of Rome, as a lawful ground for the assumption of territorial titles, with all their paraphernalia of political Peerages, in defiance of the Queen and Her Government, and in opposition to the customs, the opinions, and the feelings of the people of Great Britain. Now will reiterate my first question, "Shall we or shall we not come to the succour of the Queen of these realms?" Even many of our opponents admit that the language and demeanour of the Roman Pontiff has been arrogant,
 148 "Sic uteve tuo ut alienum non Uædas." 149 150 "We, of our own proper notion, on certain knowledge, and of the plenitude of our apostolical power, constitute and decree that in the kingdom of England, according to the common rule of the Church, there be restored the hierarchy of ordinary bishops, who shall be named from sees which we constitute in these our letters. To begin with the London district, there will be in it two sees—that of Westminster, which we elevate—[mark his audacity!] to the degree of metropolitan or archiepiscopal dignity." "Thus, then, in the most flourishing kingdom of England, there will be established one ecclesiastical province, consisting of one archbishop and twelve bishops, his suffragans." "Wherefore, we now reserve to ourselves and our successors, the Pontiffs of Rome, the power of again dividing the said province into dioceses, and of increasing the number of its bishoprics; and in general to settle their boundaries, as it shall seem fitting in the Lord." "The instrument could not have been externally more complete if the Queen of England had placed her realm at the disposal of the Holy See for all ecclesiastical purposes, nor could the Pope have dealt with his own territory in a more free and absolute manner. But, if there be any one principle of law which has received the sanction of that high usage and practice which constitutes it a binding obligation on all the Powers of Christendom, it is this, that the Pope cannot set up the see of a bishop within the territory of an independent Prince without his consent. Common sense suggests that none others than the Sovereign Power of the land can create a see within the land. The Pope may give a bishop mission, that is, may authorise him to go forth as the spiritual ambassador of the Holy See, but that the Pope should establish a territorial seat for his bishop in the realm of a Sovereign Power without its consent, would be to usurp an attribute of local sovereignty, and to take possession of the land for ecclesiastical purposes." 151 "The law of nations, in a very great measure, stands upon nothing but usage and general practice; and the usage and constant practice throughout Christendom is this, that no see has been or can be created in the territories of any independent Prince without the authority of that Prince." "It was not, therefore, in any way by reason of temporalities being connected with the sees of the English bishops, over whom the Pope exercised ecclesiastical jurisdiction before the Reformation, that the Pope was held to claim and use an assumed authority; it was not in temporal matters, but in causes which he called spiritual, that his power to dispense with the laws of the realm was disputed by the Crown of England, and ultimately declared to be unlawful." Episcopus Meneviensis, 152 Episcopus Meneviensis, "In the district of Wales there will be two bishoprics—that of Shrewsbury, and that of Menevia (or St. David's) united with Newport… We assign to the Bishop of St. David's and Newport, as his diocese, the counties of Pembroke," &c. Appeal. "But there has been a more remarkable instance of the exercise of the Papal supremacy in the erection of bishoprics nearer home. Galway was not an episcopal see until a few years ago… it was governed by a warden … the Holy See changed the wardenship into a bishopric… Bishop Brown was consecrated in October, 1831. No remonstrance was made, no outcry raised, at this exercise of Papal power." 153 "At present, and till such time as the Holy See shall think fit otherwise to provide, we govern, and shall continue to govern, the counties of Middlesex, Hertford, and Essex, as ordinary thereof, and these of Surrey, Sussex, Kent, Berkshire, and Hampshire, with the islands annexed, as administrator with ordinary jurisdiction." 154 "Need I remind you where or how I have been nourished in the faith? Is it likely that I shall he behind any other, be he neophyte or Catholic of ancient stock, in defending the rights of my lord and master? The second altar at which I knelt in the Holy City was that which marks the spot whereon St. Peter cemented the foundations of his unfailing throne with his blood. The first was that of our own glorious St. Thomas (of Canterbury). For twenty-two years I daily knelt before the body representation of his martyrdom? at that altar I partook even of the bread of life; there, for the first time, I celebrated the divine mysteries; at it T received the episcopal consecration. He was my patron, he my father, he my model. And, withdrawn from the symbols of his patronage by the supreme will of the late Pontiff, I sought the treasury of his relics at Sens, and with fervent importunity asked and obtained the mitre which had crowned his martyred head."— Words of Peace and Justice, 155 "Then shall they seek to avail themselves of names, Places and Titles; and with these to join Secular power, though feigning still to act By spiritual; … and from that pretence, Spiritual laws by carnal power shall force On every conscience." 156 Appeal, 157 "The history of the world," says Ranke, "does not present a time in which the clergy were more powerful than at the end of the 16th century. They sat in King's councils, and discussed political matters before all the people from the pulpit; they governed schools, learning, and the whole domain of letters; the confessional afforded them opportunities of prying into the secret conflicts of the soul, and of deciding in all the difficult and doubtful circumstances of private life." 158 Cries dragonades, 159 160 "We decree," says the Pope, "that these our letters apostolical shall never at any time be objected against or impugned through fault of mis-suggestion or missuppression, or any defect either of our intention or otherwise, but shall also be valid and in force, all general or special enactments notwithstanding, whether apostolical or issued in synodal, provincial, or universal councils; notwithstanding also all rights and privileges of the ancient sees of England, and of the missions, and of the apostolic vicariates there established, and of all churches whatsoever and pious places, whether established by oath, by apostolic confirmation, or by any other security whatsoever; notwithstanding, lastly, all other things to the contrary whatsoever." 161 162 Times, "There is one point for your Lordship to consider. The hierarchy is established, therefore it cannot be abolished. How will you deal with this fact? Is it wise to force a large body of Her Majesty's subjects to put the principle of Divine law in opposition to such an enactment?" Cheers and derisive laughter. 163 quid enim præclarum non idem arduum? "That absurd and erroneous maxim, or rather wild notion, that liberty of conscience ought to be assured and guaranteed to every person." 164
 MR. S. HERBERT  said, he felt very great difficulty in addressing himself to the question, because he felt appalled by its magnitude, believing it to involve the very foundation of the whole system of government in this country, and the principles on which its unwritten constitution was founded. It was the magnitude of the question, certainly not that of the measure—which contained nothing to keep him within bounds—that created the difficulty he experienced in approaching the subject; and he felt likewise regret that he should differ from one to whom he was proud to be bound by the ties of private friendship, and by the admiration he felt for his public character—he meant the noble Lord who had just spoken. He admired the frank-
 165 166 167 Cheers. onus probandi 168 169 "Toleration being a part of moral and political prudence, ought to be tender and large. A tolerant Government ought not to be too scrupulous in its investigations, but may bear without blame, not only very ill-grounded doctrines, but even many things that are positively vices, where they are  adulta et prævalida. 170 status? 171 172 173 174 argumentum ad hominem, "The system, therefore, which I should he disposed to adopt would be one which would put the Established Church, as regards the Roman Catholics, and Protestants, and the Presbyterians of the north of Ireland, on a footing of perfect equality …But I look forward to the time when the present circumstances of irritation shall have passed away, and confidence in the Government I pervade the minds of the people again." "Which will enable us to give exactly the same advantages to the Roman Catholics and Presbyterians of Ireland as are now enjoyed by the Protestants. At all events I think that we ought to take away everything derogatory to the position and character of the Roman Catholic bishops. You provide by statute that they shall not be allowed to style themselves by the name of the diocese over which they preside. I think that a most foolish prohibition. You declare that Dr. Murray shall not style himself the Catholic Archbishop of Dublin; but he is so nevertheless—and a man of very high attainments and character in the eyes of the people of Ireland." [3  Hansard, 175 vi et armis, l 176 jus regali. 177 178 179 l 180 Index Expurgatorius 181 Scapula's Lexicon Hume's Essays. Chambers's Dictionary of Science and Arts, Locke on the Under standing; La Figlia del Lattais, Dairyman's Daughter. "It was long before the spirit of true piety I and true wisdom, involved in the principles of the Reformation, could be depurated from the dregs and feculence of the contention with which it was carried through. However, until this be done, the Reformation is not complete; and these who think themselves good Protestants from their animosity to others, are in that respect no Protestants at all." Magna est Veritas et prævalebit! 182
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he must crave the indulgence of the House for a few moments; but as the time at which he rose was the time at which they usually separated for the night, he would take care he did not encroach too touch on their attention. There was, indeed, a great part of the speech they had just heard from the right hon. Gentleman, which belonged more properly to the Committee than to the present stage of the discussion; and there were some parts which he thought it would be better to leave for the further consideration of the right hon. Gentleman, who, perhaps, by the time the Bill will have got into Committee, will have settled some question which at present appeared to be undetermined in his own mind. First, what he would do, objecting, as he did, to what the Government had proposed; and next, perhaps, he might come to a decision as to whether the Bill to which he objected was a nullity or a persecution. For his part he would freely confess that he never remembered, since he had had the honour of a seat in that House, any discussion that had been so painful to the mind as that in which they were then engaged. He had hoped that when the disabilities were removed in the first place from the Dissenters, and afterwards from the Roman Catholics, that discussions and controversies on religious questions would never again be heard within the walls of Parliament. He had hoped that when they had established, not what Gentlemen called toleration—for he, like others, repudiated that word, and said that the principle that was established was not the principle of religious toleration, but the greater principle of religious freedom—he had hoped, he said, that when that principle of religious freedom had been fairly established by the Legislature of the country, these odious coutroversies with regard to religious doctrines would never again he heard within the walls of Parliament. But whose fault was it that
 183 184 185 186 Quis tulerit Gracchos! 187 188
 MR. GOULBUEN  rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department respecting the schedules of inquiries sent forth to procure the information necessary for the census. On a former occasion he expressed something of the objections felt
 113
 MR. F. FRENCH  said, he was favourable to the Resolution, though not for all the reasons which had been alleged in its favour by its Mover. He should be sorry to do anything which would have the effect of propping up that enormous injustice, the Incumbered Estates Act. Upon the whole, he should prefer to see the object of the Resolution embodied in a Bill. There was no reason, in the abstract, why the clergy in Ireland should not have the benefit of an increase in the price of corn, as in this country. The proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Carlow was a fair one; but he hoped he would accede to the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet by the Home Secretary.
 MR. GEORGE A. HAMILTON  said, he was quite ready to admit that the question had been argued very fairly and very temperately by the Member for Carlow. As it was likely he would withdraw his Resolution, according to the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet, he (MR. Hamilton) was unwilling to occupy the time of the House; but there were a few points in the speech of the hon. Member which required observation on his part. In the first place, he must remind the House that the question he had raised, was one that did not in the slightest degree affect the occupying tenantry in Ireland. Under the provisions of the several tithe composition Acts, all lands must now be let tithe free, and no arrangement as to the mode of taking the averages could effect the tenant. It was possible, certainly, that it might affect the landowner; but he (MR. Hamilton) did not believe that the landowners, either in England or Ireland, however distressed, would desire to secure an advantage for themselves if it involved an undue encroachment upon the rights of others. The hon. Member had dwelt much upon the system of averages in England; but he (MR. Hamilton) would observe there was no analogy whatever between the case of England and Ireland as regarded the arrangement of the tithe composition. In Ireland, under
 122 Dublin Gazette 123
 SIR H. W. BARRON  hoped Government would take up the matter, as it was not, or ought not to be, a party question; and Government were, therefore, bound to effect practical good whenever they had an opportunity. The question was not one of such immense difficulty as that it could not be grappled with, even by the present Government.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that the right hon. Baronet, seeing the inconvenience of the system on which those papers were sent out, made it appear that the clergy, in his opinion, were not under any legal obligation to answer the questions which he put; but what did the Act say? It distinctly declared that the parties to whom such questions were put, under the authority of the Secretary of State, were bound to answer them, or incur a penalty not exceeding 5 l s.
 MR. GRATTAN  advocated a septennial in preference to an annual average, as more equitable to all parties. His hon. Friend the Member for Roscommon had objected to the operation of the Incumbered Estates Bill. He believed that the general opinion was, that the Incumbered Estates Bill had operated as a robbery. ["Oh, oh !"] He had read in the papers, only the other day, that an estate having a rental of 380 l l
 MR. SADLEIR  would not occupy any further time this Session in discussing the question. He had given notice, at an early period of the Session, to move for leave to bring in a Bill on the subject; but he had been remonstrated with by many hon. Members for attempting to deal with a subject so large that Government only ought to undertake it; and this had induced him to give up his intention, and to submit his Motion and his reasons in their present form. But since, he had received an intimation from Government, that a Bill, if introduced by him, would not meet with Government opposition; and, as he hoped that Government was disposed to recognise the principle for which he contended, although the task of introducing a measure of so much importance was usually
 124
 MR. SADLEIR , in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, said it was not his intention to discuss the subject in any other spirit than that which became the consideration of a practical subject in which the rights of property were intimately involved. It was his intention to relieve it as much as possible of everything like legal technicality. He should not give a history of Irish tithes; the ante and post Union statutes on that subject were very numerous: it would be sufficient for his purpose to state that the Legislature at one period substituted for tithes in Ireland a composition, and subsequently, for that composition, a perpetual rent-charge, variable in amount at certain intervals. But, in order that English Gentlemen should understand the injustice of the system of which he complained, it was absolutely necessary to ask their attention to the course of legislation in Ireland on this subject. There was no concealing the fact, that all legislation was practically determined by the decision and views of English Members. The number of Irish Members was insignificant. The numeri-
 117 London Gazette. Dublin Gazette. 118 Dublin Gazette Dublin Gazette; 119
 MR. C. ANSTEY  was not going to bring old topics before the House, but a new topic, which had arisen within the last six months. A petition had been presented by the hon. Member for Montrose in relation to an infant, the lawful heir of the Rajah of Sattara; which petition, though printed and sent to MR. Greville, had not been duly brought before the Privy Council by MR. Greville, the clerk of the Council. The petition was, to obtain the settlement of claims, not of a political character, but to obtain restitution of private property belonging to the late Rajah of Sattara, taken possession of by the British Government, on the mistaken assumption that the Rajah died without heirs. The infant, the subject of the petition, who had been adopted and recognised as the heir of the Rajah, sent a petition to the Privy Council; which petition was not presented by MR. Greville, who, in a note, informed the petitioner, "that the matter of the petition being of a political nature, did not come within the jurisdiction of Her Majesty's Privy Council." This proceeding of MR. Greville was in the nature of a denial of justice, and the conduct of MR. Greville called for the consideration of the House; and, with the view of bringing the matter under the notice of Parliament, he should move a Resolution, to the effect, "that the matters of complaint set forth in the petition of the infant Rajah, deserved the serious consideration of that House." He contended that the petition contained nothing at all relating to political questions, but referred solely to matters of private and pecuniary interest. But, assuming that the petition did relate to political matters, it would be found, on reference to
 125
 MR. T. GREENE  said, in reply to the first question, he could only give that answer which he had received from MR. Barry, the architect, who was the only judge of when the New House would be ready for the reception of Members. Hi3 answer was, as soon as the walls were sufficiently dry. He (MR. Greene) would explain that he should rather have said the walls of the adjoining lobbies, which had of course been pulled down since the alteration—as soon as they were dry enough to allow the workmen to proceed to finishing, which MR. Barry expected to be completed by Whitsuntide. With respect to the second question, he could only say that it was the wish and the desire of the Commissioners that the New House of Commons should be fitted up in as plain a form as possible, so as to exhibit a strong and direct contrast to the House of Lords. They would understand, that whilst saying that, the Commissioners did authorise the introduction of the painted glass. He should also state that, with regard to the gilding, there were no written instructions; the feeling of the Commissioners was, that MR. Barry distinctly understood from various conversations prior to the sitting of the Committee last year, that such was their desire, and they believed that such was being carried out. He was bound, in justice to MR. Barry, to add that he had stated he did not understand the wish of the Commissioners to the extent; hence the ornaments in the New House of Commons, the greater portion of which had been stopped. As to the roof, the Commissioners fancied it was not right to have that painting removed, as considerable expense would be involved in its removal, and the Members of the House would be the best judges whether it would be desirable that it should be removed or not. He was bound, in justice to MR. Barry, before whom he had laid
 116
 MR. T. GREENE  had already stated that the supply of water entirely rested with the Commissioners of Woods.
 MR. THORNELY  wished to know, with reference to the third question, whether the Commissioners had ever thought of taking that supply of water from the river Thames, which flowed past the Houses of Parliament?
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  seconded the Motion.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  considered the existing difficulties in taking the averages, in order to determine the amount of charge, were so great as practically to render the previous legislation on the subject abortive. But, however, he recommended his hon. Friend to accept the proposition made by the right hon. Baronet.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the subject referred to in this Resolution was one of great complexity, and the right comprehension of which depended on the examination of minute details and the provisions of several Acts of Parliament; and he thought it would be extremely inexpedient for the House, at the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman, to commit itself to a particular course of proceeding, by passing this Resolution, without being in possession of the provisions of any Bill by which the object proposed could fairly be carried out. It was not very easy, without an intimate acquaintance with the subject, to follow the hon. Gentleman through all the topics of his speech, many of which seemed to have nothing whatever to do with the question before the House. It was the more necessary to see the specific alterations proposed in the shape of a Bill, rather than to agree to an abstract resolution introduced with a reference to a variety of other subjects, connected, no doubt, with tithe-rent charge, but which did not appear to come within the scope of the resolution. The hon. Gentleman had alluded to the redemption of tithes, to the methods by which he proposed to make them more marketable, and to the poor-rate charge on tithes; on all which subjects it was inexpedient that the House should pledge itself to a definite course without having the provisions of a Bill submitted to it. As he understood the Resolution, its object was to assimilate the law in Ireland to that of England, by dispensing with the necessity existing in Ireland for the individual tithe payers to take some proceedings, in order to reduce the tithe rent-charge which they were liable to pay, such charge being fixed, by Act of Parliament, at two-thirds the original tithe composition, that composition having been determined by a valuation made on a different principle in Ireland to what it was in England. He was not prepared to say, should it appear, on a careful examination of the Acts of Parliament relating to the subject, that there was no insuperable difficulty arising out of the circumstances under which tithe
 121
 SIR G. GREY  stated, that the opinion of the Attorney and Solicitor General had been taken, and they held that the penalty need not attach, unless in the cases which the right hon. Gentleman now brought under notice. According to the best legal opinions, the clergy were not bound to furnish the information requested in those papers. He did not believe that any clergyman would refuse to give full information on such important matters as the amount of provision for education and religious worship in their respective districts, which was admitted by all parties last year, in the debate on the Education Bill of the hon. Member for Oldham, to be so desirable to obtain. With regard to the incomes of the clergy, that was of very little importance, and might be withheld altogether, if necessary.
 SIR G. GREY  replied, that information under what was called the first class was absolutely required by the Act; that that demanded under the other class was furnished both now and on former occasions by means of those inquiries to which the right hon. Gentleman referred. He was a little incorrect in his statement on a previous occasion, when he stated that circulars informing the clergymen that they were not bound to give the information had
 114
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  seconded the Amendment, and said that he would in a few words endeavour to explain the meaning of the Bill. Everybody knew that the Farnham hops were the best in England; everybody knew also that the Sussex hops were the worst; and the object of the Bill was to create such a mystification between the Kent, Worcester, and Sussex hops that the public might be deceived, and buy bad Sussex for good Farnham. He could not say that any great complaint was to be made of the hon. Member for East Sussex in bringing forward this Bill. The hon. Gentleman might be anxious, in the prospect of a general election, to get up a little political capital; but he (Mr. Drummond) must object to the public being called upon to supply that capital, and this was, in his opinion, a sufficient reason for rejecting the Bill.
 MR. T. L. HODGES  said, that previous to the establishment of the system now in force under the statute, the Farnham hops were not very celebrated; but when they had come to be distinguished by the operation of the Act of Parliament from other growths, they had been greatly improved, and the growers had therefore every reason to be satisfied with the present system, from any alteration in which they did not anticipate advantage.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 195  said, it was not necessary for him to say much as to the character of such a proposition as the present, since that had been already broadly stated by the Seconder of the Amendment; and other hon. Members very fairly complained that the effect of the measure would be to enable certain hop-growers to cheat their rivals; but he thought that he himself had some reason to complain of a portion of the Bill, which had reference to the duty payable upon hops. The hon. Member for East Sussex got leave to introduce his Bill at 12 o'clock at night; and, under a title which gave no reason to suspect anything of the sort, a Bill was brought in for repealing 200,000 l. l.
 MR. A. B. HOPE  was prepared to support the Bill, both for the words in it in roman letters and for those in italics, though of course the attention of the House at this stage was most directed to the former ones. The question affected practically the pockets, not only of hops, but of men; and after the sham legislation in which the House had been for so many days engaged, he thought it might occupy itself a little in a measure of real practical relief. It was a great grievance that hops should be exempted from that universal rule of commerce—of common sense— caveat emptor. rem, quocumque modo rem,
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  wished to know whether the Bill would extend to young persons apprenticed or hired out to persons out of the union?
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  thought some means ought to be devised to afford the protection of the Bill to the cases which the right hon. Gentleman said it was impracticable to meet.
 MR. C. W. HOWARD  said, that it would be well if the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary determined the amount of fees payable to clerks of the peace. In his opinion the amount ought to be fixed.
 MR. FULLER  said, that, finding such an opposition to the Bill, he would recommend his hon. Colleague to withdraw it; but if he went to a division, he (Mr. Fuller) must vote with him. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer that great distress prevailed amongst the hop-planters and agriculturists of Sussex, and he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would, in his amended budget, propose a reduction of the malt tax to the extent of at least 10 s. 194
 MR. STAFFORD  said, this was the most important clause of the whole Bill, and he rose to move its omission. He
 208 onus probandi
 MR. COWAN  believed that the system of remunerating the procurators-fiscal in Scotland was working well, and it seemed to him that a similar system would work well if introduced in England, with regard to the services of magistrates' clerks.
 MR. FREWEN , in reply, repudiated the charge of unfairness which had been
 196
 MR. FREWEN , in moving the Second Reading of the Hops Bill, said, he was quite aware, and had anticipated from the first, that strong opposition would be raised in the county of Kent to the passing of this measure. But he must say that the conduct of the Kent planters was not altogether consistent, inasmuch as they had over and over again been to the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer to urge upon him the, reduction of the excise duty upon hops; but the moment a Bill was brought in which proposed to reduce the duty, at once they opposed it, because it made an alteration in an Act of Parliament the effect of which was to give them almost a monopoly of the hop market. He ought in fairness to tell the House that yesterday he received a communication from a committee of hop-planters, who met at Staplehurst, a very central place in Kent, on Monday last, urging upon him not to proceed with this Bill; and in looking carefully over the names of the gentlemen who attended that meeting, he found that of the thirteen planters present, only three were from Sussex—one of these was certainly a very large planter; another was not so large; and the third was a very small planter. The answer which he (Mr. Frewen) returned to those gentlemen was, that, as he had been entrusted with various petitions from Sussex, signed by some of the largest and most influential landowners in that county, and also most numerously and respectably signed by hop-planters, praying that the Bill might pass into a law, it was his intention certainly to proceed with it. He
 189 190 l. s. l. s. s. s. s. 191
 MR. PACKE , from long experience as a chairman of quarter-sessions was confident that if clerks of petty-sessions were prevented prosecuting, justice would not be done. The best men were selected to fill these offices; and the result would be that prosecutions would fall into the hands of men less well informed. He approved of the suggestion that the clerks of petty-session should be paid for the prosecutions by salary.
 MR. BARING WALL  should move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. He thought that the hon. Member for Lambeth had avoided entering into any details explanatory of his Bill. After a lapse of 200 years, he thought the House would not be prepared to begin legislation anew against Sunday trading, unless the hon. Member who proposed it was able to bring forward some measure which would stand critical observation, and answer the purpose he had in view. It was an invidious position to object to a measure like the present; but what had fallen from the hon. Member would, if he mistook not, reconcile the country to the opposition to this Bill. The hon. Member said, "Refer this Bill to a Committee upstairs;" but he
 200 l. l. d. s. l. 201 d. 202 Family Herald, Eliza Cook's Journal, Working Man's Friend,
 MR. BARING WALL  wished to know if the Committee would have power to examine witnesses?
 MR. BARING WALL : Then, I agree to that at once.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  thought that the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for East Kent ought not to be entertained without considerable caution, or it might open the door to very great expense. He would not say more than just to put the right hon. Gentleman upon his guard relative to the admission of the proposed clause.
 MR. BANKES  was of opinion that the presiding magistrate at assizes, and the justices at quarter-sessions, might safely be intrusted with a discretionary power in ordering the expenses. As the law at present stood, it was extremely hard upon the poor. He should cheerfully vote for such a clause as his hon. Friend the Member for East Kent had alluded to.
 MR. AGLIONBY  had previously given a notice which, if carried, would have had the effect of giving the magistrate power to take the confessions of delinquents. By such a proceeding the cost of witnesses and general expenses of prosecutions would be materially avoided.
 MR. COLES  must, from all he had ever seen, speak in high terms of the magistrates' clerks, who were men of high standing and honourable character. He should beg to move the following Amendment to the clause:—
 "To add to section 6, after the words, 'and to his rights in respect thereof,' the following words:—'and that the salary to be paid to any such clerk of the peace shall not be less than the average amount of the fees, profits, and emoluments payable to such clerk of the peace, in respect of his office, for the three years next preceding the passing of this Act.'"
 MR. COLES  would not press his Amendment.
 MR. CURTEIS  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said this was not the right time for bringing forward a proposal to remit some portion of the hop duty. If this was not the right time, he knew not when the right time would be; for now there was almost an impossibility of obtaining rents. If the Government did nothing, they would be still more out of favour than they were already in the hop-growing districts. Believing that the Bill was brought forward to benefit the hop-growers, he should support it.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  should also vote against the Bill. He could only regard it as a Bill for the encouragement of trickery. He should have no objection to a reduction of duty, but he could not support a Bill that gave direct encouragement to deception.
 MR. BROTHERTON  thought it necessary that the clause should be either omitted or modified. In the borough he represented, the justices appointed a clerk to conduct the prosecutions, who was paid by I salary, the fees going into the borough fund; and this was a plan which had operated very beneficially. Where there were a number of magistrates' clerks competing; for the prosecutions, it caused a great increase of expense. He hoped a proviso would be added to the clause, exempting
 209
 MR. HENLEY  considered it was right that the Secretary of State should have power to fix the amount of expenses to be paid per diem; but unless precautions were taken in case a magistrate's certificate was not to be conclusive, the expenses might be enlarged indefinitely, and no means at hand to check abuse.
 MR. HENLEY  said, no provision was made for the expenses of constables in cases where magistrates, instead of exercising a summary jurisdiction, sent the case for trial to the sessions. This would throw the expenses of constables on the parish or county instead of the Crown, which now paid them.
 MR. HENLEY  thought that some means should be provided to prevent quarter-sessions deciding such matters without due notice, and that the Secretary of State should have the power to act as arbitrator between parties. A great part of the income of many clerks of the peace did not consist of fees in prosecutions, but of fixed charges for other business.
 MR. MULLINGS  inquired whether the salaries would include all fees which were not strictly for professional business—whether, for instance, they would include registration fees?
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that the clerk of the peace generally acted as solicitor to the county, and his emoluments as solicitor were frequently double the amount of his fees as clerk of the peace. He was acquainted with a case where the fees of a clerk of the peace for a county were something less than 300 l. l.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that in some instances where the cases were not sent to the sessions, no expenses were allowed, which he thought a great hardship.
 MR. BAINES  proposed to extend the operation of the Bill to a circle of five miles beyond the union. In cases where young persons were hired out to a distant part, such as their being taken from a union in Sunderland to become domestic servants in Cornwall, for instance, it would be impossible to require the guardians to incur the expense of visiting the young persons periodically. The law already, to some extent, met the case of apprentices beyond the union; but with regard to servants, he thought it impracticable to trace them out and visit them at a distance.
 MR. BAINES  said, the wording was any term "not exceeding" three years; and he thought the penalty not too severe, as some of the offences to he provided against by the Bill were little inferior to murder.
 MR. BAINES  said, he was anxious to render the measure as effective as possible, and, therefore, he should reconsider the suggestion of the hon. and gallant Member.
 MR. BASS  opposed the Bill as one of a mischievous character. He knew of no article in testing the quality of which so little reliance was to be placed upon appearance, touch, and smell, as the article of hops. It was often the case that hops which appeared to be the best were of comparatively little value; and so difficult was it to determine their real value until they were in the copper, that he believed there were a great number of brewers who were no judges of hops, and very many merchants who knew nothing whatever upon the subject. That being the case, the House would at once see how desirable it was that the purchaser and consumer of hops should have the means of obtaining the particular description of hops which they were desirous of having for their specific purposes. Hops of the same appearance, grown upon different soils, and in different climates, produced the most opposite results. It was, therefore, absolutely necessary to know in what county and parish the hops were grown. The name alone was not sufficient for this purpose, for, in looking through the hop-growers of Kent and Sussex, he found that there were no less than thirty-five growers of the name of Smith, and that of these there were eight or ten "John Smiths" all of a row. Now the hops of one John Smith might be worth 6 l. l.
 MR. SPOONER  urged that some means should be adopted to prevent the salaries of clerks to borough magistrates being reduced by the ratepayers. He saw no reason why the magistrates of boroughs should be treated differently from magistrates of counties, with regard to fixing the salaries of their clerks. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would promise to reconsider the subject, otherwise he should take the sense of the Committee upon it.
 MR. SPOONER  moved, that after the words "governing body," the following words be inserted:—"and the justices of the peace in special sessions assembled." His object was, to give to justices of the peace in boroughs a concurrent power with the town councils in determining the amount of salary to be given to clerks of the peace.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that in this clause a power was given of diminishing the salaries of clerks of the peace, but not of increasing them. In this respect the same powers should be given to magistrates of boroughs as had been given to justices of quarter-sessions.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, the object of the Bill was to diminish the expenses of prosecutions, and he supposed it was intended to infer that magistrates' clerks had an interest in bringing additional witnesses in order to increase their costs. But he believed the insertion of the clause now under consideration would produce the very effect which the right hon. Gentleman was desirous to prevent. He would just state to the House the result of the present system with respect to the cost of offences tried at Lincoln from the neighbourhood of Gainsborough. Out of 220 commitments, only three of the indictments preferred by the magistrates' clerk had been ignored by the grand jury. The expenses of each prosecution amounted to 4 l. s. l. s.
 MR. LENNARD  begged to second the
 203 Morning Chronicle 204 205
 MR. WAKLEY  was very glad the hon. Gentleman had drawn attention to this matter. It was a very important one, for many reasons. The present state of the law held out a premium to persons to adopt what was called "hard swearing," in order to secure the committal of the defendant for trial, in which event, if the prosecutor were a poor man, he would be unable to proceed.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he did not propose that magistrates should have an unlimited power in all cases, but that power should be limited to particular cases. If magistrates were not to have discretionary power in such cases, then it was clear the right hon. Gentleman did not think magistrates completely fitted for their office.
 MR. DEEDES  considered it would be desirable to give the magistrates the power of granting a certificate in certain cases, stating that the parties were not entitled to proceed further. Such a provision would greatly control the expense of prosecutions.
 MR. DEEDES  suggested that the following difficulty might arise. By the proposed clause the committing magistrates were to have the power of recommending the costs of prosecution. A case might occur in which the clerk came to the sessions under the authority of the committing magistrate as a fit person to conduct the prosecution, and, on the other hand, the quarter-sessions might not consider the case to be one in which the expenses ought to be allowed.
 MR. DEEDES  wished to draw the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department to the question of allowing the expenses of prosecutions in cases of assault sent by a magistrate to the sessions. At present the court could not allow the expenses of prosecutions in such cases, but he saw no reason why the expenses should not be allowed in cases of aggravated assault, as well as in common felonies. If the right hon. Gentleman was not prepared to consider the question, he would himself bring up a clause with reference to it.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he had listened with much curiosity to ascertain upon what grounds his hon. Friend had introduced this Bill to the House. His hon. Friend had told them candidly that he expected considerable opposition from Kent, and he (Mr. Deedes) could assure his hon. Friend that he would not find himself disappointed; that the ranks of the opponents of the Bill would be greatly augmented by hon. Members from other counties also; and that in the result he would see that all who were engaged in the hop trade, as well as the growers themselves, were decidedly hostile to the principle of the Bill. It was very evident to him (Mr. Deedes) that the object of the Bill was to benefit the Sussex at the expense of the Kentish hop-planters; and it struck him as a singular coincidence, that there should appear in a morning journal of considerable circulation and influence—the  Morning Herald 192 ipso facto, 193
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  had no objection.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that he had undertaken the charge of the Bill at the request of a large number of his constituents, who were Sunday traders, and who regarded Sunday trading as an evil of the greatest magnitude. It would be in the recollection of the House that last Session the House of Lords referred the subject to a Select Committee, before whom evidence was taken for and against any measure of interference with the practice; and in accordance, with the preponderating weight of evidence, their Lordships passed a Bill, which was sent down to this House so late in the Session that it was found inexpedient to go on with it. The present Bill did not introduce any new principle of legislation; for an Act was passed in the reign of Charles the Second containing far more stringent clauses than any in this Bill. The principle, however, was identical—the Act of Charles the Second declaring—
 "That no tradesman, artificer, workman, labourer, or any other person whatever, shall exercise any worldly labour, business, or work of ordinary calling on the Lord's day, works of necessity and charity excepted." 198 199
 SIR B. HALL  said, he knew that the inhabitants of the metropolis were extremely diversified in opinion with regard to this Bill; but the hon. Member for Lambeth had made a proposition in which he hoped the hon. Gentleman who had moved the Amendment would coincide, namely, that if this Bill should be allowed to pass the second reading without opposition, it should be referred to a Select Committee.
 SIR G. GREY  said, it was intended that the words should include all the expenses that were now included in the certificate. If that was not the case, the words should be altered so as to make that quite clear.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that since this Bill had been before the House, he had received an immense number of letters on the subject, the greater part of which stated objections to this clause. He brought no charge against the gentlemen who acted as justices' clerks, comprising as that body did some of the most respectable practitioners in the law. He was surprised, therefore, to hear the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire say that this Bill was an imputation on the whole body of the clerks of justices, and that they were bound to oppose this clause, as, indeed, they were most effectually doing. No doubt there was a natural tendency in the human mind to avail itself of opportunities of obtaining money, and therefore there might be an increase of the expense when it put money into the pockets of the party incurring it. No doubt many cases had occurred in which the public bad been charged under the present practice with unnecessary expenses by clerks of justices conducting prosecutions. When the Municipal Corporations Act was beforet he House, a similar clause was inserted; but they did not hear that what was then proposed was casting any imputation on the gentlemen who acted as justices' clerks in the municipal boroughs, nor had he heard since of any inconvenience from the adoption of that clause, while at the same time it kept down the expense of prosecutions. He had given his best attention to this subject, and he thought the clause might be open to exceptions in its application to particular country districts; but his only object in it was to insert in the Bill a clause which might tend to promote economy without risking the loss of the proper means of conducting prosecutions and enforcing the criminal law. A suggestion had been thrown out on the second reading of the Bill, that if the clerks were to be paid by salaries, for which in the next clause there was an optional provision, those salaries should be calculated with reference not only to the duties they performed as magistrates' clerks, but also with reference to the duties that might be thrown on them in conducting prosecutions. With some modification, he thought that such a pro-
 211
 SIR G. GREY  said, it had been suggested by the hon. Member for East Kent that there ought to be discretionary power
 207 c.
 SIR G. GREY  said, he thought no alteration was necessary, as the magistrates, if they acted wrongly, were subject to control on the part of the Secretary of State.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the object of the
 212
 SIR G. GREY  said, the proposal now made by the hon. Gentleman was very different from that which he understood him to suggest before. He understood now that the hon. Member did not mean to transfer the power of fixing the salaries of clerks of the peace from the town councils to the justices, but only to give the justices a Voice in the matter; and if the hon. Gen-
 214
 SIR G. GREY  said, there was this difference between the functions of justices of the peace in counties and in boroughs, that the former managed all the financial business of the counties, while the latter had nothing to do with the financial busi-
 213
 SIR G. GREY  thought they ought to cover every duty which a clerk of the peace was, by statute or usage, compellable to perform as clerk of the peace.
 SIR G. GREY  replied that the salaries were intended to be a commutation for all the fees received by the clerks of the peace in that character. The counties might, however, employ any solicitor they chose; and if the clerks of the peace were compensated in their salaries for the duties they performed as solicitors, there was nothing to prevent the business of county solicitor from being transferred to another person, in which case a double charge would be thrown upon the county rate. The magistrates might, of course, if they chose, make an arrangement with the clerk of the peace for conducting criminal prosecutions.
 SIR G. STRICKLAND  said, the most important point was the exclusion from practice of certain professional men. He had received various complaints about this clause, and thought it required much modification.
 SIR J. DUCKWORTH  could see no principle upon which the expenses of prosecuting aggravated assaults that came before the quarter-sessions should be withheld.
 SIR J. TROLLOPE  wished to know
 210
 SIR J. TROLLOPE  wished to know whether it was intended that the salaries to be given to clerks of the peace should comprehend all costs to which counties were put incidental to the office of clerk of the peace?
 MR. W. MILES  said, that an imprisonment of three years was a very severe one. Two years was the usual term up to which a discretion was allowed, and he did not see why they should make an exception in the present instance. He was aware the Bill had been brought in in consequence of the Sloanes' case, but they were not likely to have another case of such gravity.
 MR. W. MILES  thought there would be a difficulty in allowing a single justice to certify for the prosecution. The power ought not to be vested in a single magistrate, but in the bench of petty-sessions.
 MR. W. MILES  thought that there would be a difficulty in dealing with the case as had been suggested by his hon. Friend; for it frequently happened that cases of trumpery assault were brought before a magistrate, who refused, perhaps, to have anything to do with them. The parties then might prefer an indictment before a grand jury, and, if the costs were in all cases to be allowed, that practice would no doubt greatly increase, and the county expenditure be much enhanced. At the same time he was far from denying that the present system was capable of great improvement, and he thought the subject well deserved the attention of the Government.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  thought the whole of this discussion afforded a fresh illustration of the difficulty of legislating for local exigencies by a central authority. He was assured that the operation of this clause would be very injurious in many places, and he hoped it would he withdrawn.
 VISCOUNT MAHON , in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, said he would in the first place recall the attention of the House to what had passed on this subject in the month of May last. In May, last year, when the estimates of the Foreign Office were before the House, he called attention to this subject, and he complained that the high price put upon passports by the Foreign Office, of two guineas and a half, amounted almost to a prohibition. The noble Lord the Foreign Secretary did not admit the practical grievance of which he (Lord Mahon) complained, nor did the noble Lord hold out any hopes of any alteration; but several other Gentlemen, especially the hon. Member for Bath, and the hon. Member for Montrose, had joined in the complaint. He (Lord Mahon) seeing then that the feeling of the House was against the existing system, had said that he felt disposed to bring forward the question in the present year. In pursuance of that pledge he gave notice of his Motion on the 18th February. He had no reason then to think that the subject had occupied the attention of the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. But he had been glad to find the contrary. On the 20th of February, two days after his notice, there appeared an order in the  Gazette, s. d. 222 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. 223 en regle, 224 225 226
 VISCOUNT MAHON  said, that the noble Lord at the head of Foreign Affairs having declared that the present arrangement for issuing passports at the Foreign Office was only temporary and provisional, and that he would attend to the subject, and endeavour still further to improve the present system, he thought he should be making an ill return to the spirit in which the noble Lord had met the Motion if he called upon the House to come to a division.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND :  * alter ego alter ego, pars ipsius corporis, 262 "The doctrine and principles of the Court of Rome are not sufficient to establish the doctrine of the Catholic Church; we distinguish between the Court of Rome and the See of Rome; for the Court of Rome may be a scene of much intrigue and cabal, without affecting, at the same time, the authority of the Holy See, or decrees of the Catholic Church." "The Catholic religion is that of the vast majority of the French nation; to abandon so powerful an engine would be to desire the first ambitious knave or unprincipled demagogue who wishes to convulse France, to seize it, and direct it against his country." 263 "It had never entered into the mind of the Pope to dispute the power of His Most Christian Majesty to dismiss from His service those Ministers and servants of whose conduct His Majesty is not satisfied, but only that His Majesty could not send away an ecclesiastic, and far less a Cardinal; and this not tin account of any affection for Cardinal Bouillon, who has not applied for aid to His Holiness, but out of the zeal which he ought to have for the immunities of sacred persons and things. With regard to other ecclesiastics, these indeed, are born subjects of their King; but so soon as they receive any orders from the Church, they become exempt from all lay power, in order to become subject solely to the Apostolic See; and the King is endangering his eternal salvation if he thinks otherwise." "I promise and swear that I, from this time forward, so long as I shall live, will be faithful and obedient to blessed Peter and the Holy Roman Apostolic Church, and to our most holy Lord the Pope and his successors, and will fight for their honour and standing against all, with all my endeavours and all my power." 264 "Whatever regulations, either in the ancient system of the Anglican churches," [that is, before the Reformation] "or in the subsequent missionary state," [that is, subsequent to the Reformation] "may have been in force either by special constitutions, or privileges, or peculiar customs, will now henceforth carry no right nor obligation; and, in order that no doubt may remain on this point, we, by the plenitude of our apostolic authority, repeal and abrogate all power whatsoever of imposing obligation or conferring right in those peculiar constitutions and privileges, of whatsoever kind they may be, and in all customs by whomsoever or at whatsoever most ancient and immemorial time brought in," [that is, by our Saxon monarchs]. "Hence, it will, for the future, be solely competent for the archbishop and bishops," —"to distinguish what things belong to the execution of the common ecclesiastical law, and what according to the common discipline of the Church are entrusted to the authority of the bishops." "Calm your perturbation, ye excellent indivi-
 265 —"and when he has found these, rejecting some and tolerating others, with as much freedom as you use when you handle oranges in a shop, selecting the soft and the sweet, contemptuously rejecting the sour and rotten. And then—O dreadful thought:—he will insist upon being obeyed." "What! the Bill was read three times in each House of Parliament; it was thrice passed; engrossed on parchment; garnished with a waxen appendage, by way of seal; and has had read over it pronounced by Royal lips, the mysterious and creative fiat,  La Reine veut —"or rather upon his duties; it violates the integrity of those interests which he is set to guard; and, therefore, Commons, Lords, Queen, wax, parchment, and all, avail it very little. You may call it law if you please. You may enter it on your roll. You may print it in the yearly volume of your statutes. But before long you will have to repeal, or alter it, in order to procure the sanction of a foreign potentate, without which it has not in the end the value of a tenpenny nail." "You call yourselves religion, but we will make you understand that religion is one thing, and you are another thing." 266 "If the Roman Catholics were to come to Parliament and say, 'The head of our Church has given us bishops, and we ask you to give these bishops power by law to enforce their jurisdiction,' then, I should say, that such a demand should be visited with the most strenuous opposition."—And again, "Tell me in what way these Roman Catholic bishops will interfere with my civil liberty, with my religious opinions, or with my purse." Interruption, and cries of Violent cries of
 The EARL of ARUNDEL and SURREY : I had only just entered the House when I heard the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond) say, at least so I understood him to say, though I hope I am mistaken in my impression, that nunneries were either prisons or brothels. Now, Sir, I wish to ask you whether an hon. Member is in order, who states that these nunneries, in which reside ladies who devote themselves to the service of God, and endeavour to attain to the perfection of all human virtues—I ask, whether it is proper, in this House, to use base terms so disgraceful of those institutions as have fallen from the hon. Member?
 MR. DRUMMOND : I will show you presently what is "the perfection of all human virtue," in the minds and instructions of priests, and towards which the laity are advanced. In the meantime, I will show you that so far is the assertion in the pastorals of the bishops, that neither priests nor laity require protection, from being true, both priests and laity have petitioned against the very measures which the Pope has taken. "To his Holiness Gregory XVI. in 1839. May it please your Holiness. The gracious attention which it has pleased your Holiness to pay to a petition presented about two years ago from a numerous and influential portion of Catholics of the northern district of England, praying for a subdivision of our districts, election by the rectors, as well secular as regular, of each congregation, the proper appointment of chapters, and enactment of laws duly considered and approved by the Holy See. …. cannot but increase our gratitude," &c., &c. "Our joy, however, has been checked by reports which seem but too well founded, of designs to impede by various means your wise intentions on our behalf. More especially we find that attempts are being made, with the risk of fomenting dissension amongst us, to deprive us of the expected privilege of voting in the election of chapters, and of vicars-apostolic, those missionaries who belong to religious orders," &c. 268 "We, the undersigned, missionary priests of the Catholic Church in England, humbly and earnestly beseech the Sacred Congregation that the rank of bishops in ordinary may not be granted to the vicars-apostolic of England before that the rights of the parish priests shall have been granted to the missionary priests; …. and that, in the first place, there may be a code of laws touching spiritual things, .…. some part given to the priests in the choice of their bishops, …. chapters duly constituted in each district, …. and that stability of place, and that parochial status secured, which hitherto, that is, down to the present generation of vicars-apostolic, was sanctioned by customary law; the which things not being granted, the latter state of the aforesaid clergy will be worse than the first." "If our intercourse with Rome is in favourable progress, a recent step on the part of your British 'vicars-apostolic' is, nevertheless, likely to create an awkward impediment. You are aware that these functionaries, originally four, were doubled during the last years of Gregory, and England is now divided into eight quasi-episcopal districts: viz., Metropolitan, York, Lancaster, Northern, Eastern, "Western, Midland, and Wales. Not satisfied with this augmentation of their numbers, the vicarial body is just now in the attitude of Oliver Twist, 'asking for more.' Their new demand is, to have their  locus standi 269 "So far in spirituals; but here's the rub! in temporalities they want to 'carry the bag,' and to get transferred to their single separate names the pure and simple proprietorship of all the landed and funded property now vested in lay or clerical trustees, for Roman Catholic purposes throughout Great Britain. These accumulated funds, the legacy of bygone piety, have long been coveted; and as the law of England will not sweep away these solemn trusts at the bidding of the vicars, it is sought to carry the object into effect by the spiritual weapons of excommunication and ghostly terror, should Propaganda give powers to wield such questionable thunder for such still more questionable purposes. "Considerable funds and rents are held by laymen in various countries in trust for Benedictine and Jesuit missions; but as these corporations a it powerful at Rome, no attempt is made just now at usurpation in that quarter. The other lay patrons of Roman Catholic livings, holding such patronage according to the canonical usage of all Catholic countries (in right of original grants from the pockets of their ancestors), are all about to be despoiled of their immemorial lights, unless, being made aware of what is brewing in Rome, they instruct Roman lawyers and agents to resist the palpable spoliation, or, what would be more effectual, bring the matter under the notice of Pius himself. "The system by which the vicars themselves are created is an anomaly unknown to Catholic Christendom. There is no election by a parochial synod as in Ireland: no principle of  detur digniori. "I have information from Rome that there is prepared a brief to force upon us the canon law of the Diocese of Rome. By that law bishops are, under their primate, absolute masters of all church temporalities; and the great motive for the creation of a mock hierarchy was the introduction of the same canon law, and the annihilation, consequently, of all hope of reviving the old free canon law of England amongst us. Thus would Rome succeed for the first time since the Conquest in her darling object—the introduction of her own canon law into England, to be enthroned upon the ruins of an ancient and homely canon law; an
 270 "It is not true that they pretend to confine it to spirituals, but with the Cardinalities the distinction of spirituals and ecclesiasticals is not recognised; and so "spiritual" in their mouths means all things relating to persons and rights ecclesiastical, as benefices, patrons, congregations, incumbents, church lands, and the like. Cardinal Wiseman is determined to be paramount in spirituals first, and then in temporals. If he succeed, all liberty is lost to us, poor clergymen; and succeed he will, unless Parliament interfere to save us." totidem verbis et totidem literis, 271 Index Expurgatorius, "It must be quite obvious that these claims had not their origin in the gospel" [quite obvious indeed], "nor in the doctrine of the Catholic Church" [certainly in the doctrine of the Papal Church], "but in the state of society, in the mistaken zeal, or in the ambition of some Popes; a zeal or an ambition excited and directed by an insatiable avarice, pride, and thirst of power, in their followers and dependants." Essay on the Catholic Claims, "Boniface, Bishop, servant of the servants of God, to Philip, King of France, fear God, &c., &c.; we wish you to know that you are subordinate to us both in spiritual and temporal concern." 272 "Philip, by the grace of God, King of France, to Boniface, acting as Pope, little or no greeting: your superlative foolishness is hereby informed, that in temporal concerns we are not subordinate to any one." "It is especially conducive to advancement—nay, even necessary—that all yield themselves to perfect obedience, regarding their superior, be he who he may, as Christ the Lord." "All which" [ i. e. "And let every one persuade himself that they who live under obedience should permit themselves to be moved and directed under Divine
 273 "In the first place, you must not behold in the person of your superior a man liable to error and weakness, but Christ himself, who is highest wisdom, immense goodness, and infinite love; therefore you must receive the voice and commands of your superior not otherwise than the voice of Christ." "It hath seemed good to us—,to declare that none of these constitutions, &c., shall make obligatory any sin, whether mortal or venial, unless the superior may command it in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, or in virtue of the vow of obedience; and that he may judge it conducive either to individual good or to the universal well-being of the Society." Exercises of Loyola, "In the Catholic Church no one is ever allowed to trust himself in spiritual matters. The Sovereign Pontiff is obliged to submit himself to the direction of another in whatever concerns his own soul." "That we may in all things attain the truth (that we may not err in anything), we ought ever to hold it as a fixed principle that what I see white I believe to be black, if the hierarchical Church so define it to be." 274 "Although it is not lawful to lie, or to feign that which is not, it is, however, lawful to dissimulate that which is, or to cover truth with words, or with other ambiguous and indifferent signs, for the sake of a just cause, and when there is no necessity for confessing it." 275 Shouts of disapprobation, cries of and great confusion, which it is to be noted accompanied many parts of the hon. Member's speech.
 MR. KNOX  wished to express his indignation and that of the people of Ulster at the conduct of the Government with regard to this Bill. The letter of the noble Lord at the head of the Government had been regarded by every Protestant in the kingdom as an indication that he intended to do his duty to the country in protecting its religion. When, however, the noble Lord brought forward a measure, it turned out to be a milk-and-water affair, and did not by any means bear out the declarations contained in his celebrated letter. What followed? Some hon. Members threatened the noble Lord with a civil war in Ireland; and, in consequence of that absurd threat, the Bill was reduced to a wretched remnant, and would have no effect whatever in preventing the assumption of power by the Roman Pontiff. He (Mr. Knox) wished to take that opportunity of contradicting an assertion made the other evening by the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, that Ulster was perfectly indifferent as to the measures that might be taken on this subject. He could only say that the Protestants of Ulster were as angry at the Papal aggression as they now were at the conduct of the noble Lord, who, with the support of a minority of that House, held the reins of Government. He hoped that Ireland would be included in any measure that might be carried through the House; for he considered that the omission of Ireland would be a breach of the Act of Union.
 MR. DRUMMOND  rose, amid loud cries pf "Adjourn, adjourn!" An hon. Member last night (the hon. Member proceeded) pointed out to you that Cardinal Wiseman had specially selected as—
 MR. DRUMMOND  accordingly proceeded, observing that he was not out of order, and that he had not been reprimanded. He had been provoked by repeated and offensive interruptions to say things which, in the heat of argument, escaped his lips. He did not retract one word of what he had said; but if he had given offence, whether merited or unmerited, to any individual, be humbly begged their pardon. He continued: "Fear not that the interests of religion will be jeopardised in my hands, least of all where the cause of the Holy See is particularly concerned." "Need I remind you or others of where or how I have been nourished in the faith—how from early youth I have grown up under the very shadow of the apostolic chair; how, week after week, I have knelt at the shrine of Peter, and there sworn fealty to him; how I have served as good masters successive pontiffs, in their very households, and have been admitted to confidence, and, if I dare say it, friendship by them? And is it likely that I should be behind any other, be he neophyte or Catholic of the ancient stock, in defending the rights of my holy Lord and Master under Christ? or that I can require the summoning to watch with jealous eye any attempt to infringe them?" "The second altar at which I knelt in the Holy City was that which marks the spot whereon St. Peter cemented the foundation of his unfailing throne with his blood. The first was that of our own glorious St. Thomas. For two-and-twenty years I daily knelt before the lively representative of his martyrdom; at that altar I partook even of the bread of life; there for the first time,
 278 "That which seems to be the noble shout of offended British patriotism, is no more than the passionate cry of the spirit of darkness over that mighty demoniac of three centuries old, the established Protestantism of England. The Established Church is the great opponent of Jesus Christin this island. Add together all the dissenting sects, account their heretical tenets at the worst, number up the deeds of hostility against the Catholic Church—their crimes will be nothing in comparison with hers. She alone is the true embodiment of that sin for which Satan was cast out of heaven. The Pope comes forward and restores England to her place in the Christian Church. He makes no new claim to her obedience; he never yet ceased for a moment to demand the obedience of all baptised Christians." "Not only has the Church continued to prevent heretics from possessing ecclesiastical property, but it has besides established, as punishment of the crime of heresy, the confiscation and loss of the goods possessed by heretics. This punishment is decreed regarding private property in the decretal of Innocent III., and for that which regards principalities, feoffs, it also is a rule of the canon law, in the chapter Absolutes XVI. of heretics, that subjects of a prince manifestly heretical, remain absolved from all homage, fealty, and obedience, ( rimangono assoluti da qualunque omaggio, fedeltà, ed ossequio 279 280
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, late as the hour is, I hope the House will indulge mo; while I make some observations in defence of the present Bill; and in defence of the general principle which is contained in the Bill. Sir, however this Bill may be designated as insignificant, or however its provisions may be described as inefficacious, the House will not have failed to observe that both on one side and on the other there has been the greatest zeal and the greatest perseverance shown in commending of in blaming this Bill as fit or as un-
 310 311 "I beg to observe that there is now every reason to hope—that there is no reason to doubt—but that securities may be had, and such securities as the House will perhaps think desirable. There may be domestic nomination—there may be a veto—there may be both. … … The question is, whether any securities whatever will be received? Let me tell you why. There is a communication between the Pope and the Catholic clergy, which must end either in an incorporation with the See of Rome, or a connexion with the Government of England; and if the latter be refused, it will be dangerous to the safety of England. You will have the Catholic clergy incorporated with the See of Rome, and the Catholic laity discorporated from the people of England."—[1  Hansard, 312 313 Cries of "I may be quite wrong in refusing you tribute—in refusing you certain lands which you claim, but certainly you can hardly be justified in men-
 314 Dublin Review, "The apostolic see, it is said, charges those who call themselves the archbishops and bishops of the Church established in England and Ireland with being intruders by favour of the civil power into the sees of those realms; inasmuch as they and their predecessors took possession thereof in spite and to the detriment of the patriarchal rights of that see, which from the canons and by immemorial usage, had been exercised in the nomination or approbation of all metropolitans and bishops. Up to the time of Henry VIII. this right was perfectly acquiesced in, when by his statute 25 Henry VIII., c. 20, the nomination was reserved by letters missive to the King, all the authority of the apostolic see being set aside … Such subversion of the rights long holden and admitted of this apostolic see, and such assumption of a power never admitted in any part of the Church, were clear infringements of the canons, and constitute an act of usurpation and intrusion which is null and void in all its consequences." 315 "And we decree that these our letters apostolical shall never at any time be objected against or impugned, on pretence either of omission or of addition, or defect either of our intention, or any other whatsoever; but shall always be valid and in force, and shall take effect in all particulars, and he inviolably observed; all general or special enactments notwithstanding, whether apostolic, or issued in synodal, provincial, and universal Councils; notwithstanding also all rights and privileges of the ancient sees of England." 316 317 318 319 "Even if it shall appear that the ministers and servants of the Pope in this country have not transgressed the law, I feel persuaded that we are strong enough to repel any outward attacks. The liberty of Protestantism has been enjoyed in England too long to allow of any successful attempt to impose a foreign yoke upon our minds and consciences. No foreign prince or potentate will be permitted to fasten his fetters upon a nation which has so long and so nobly vindicated its rights to freedom of opinion—civil, political, and religious." "Upon this subject, then, I will say, that the present state of the law shall be carefully examined, and the propriety of adopting any proceedings with reference to the recent assumption of power deliberately considered." 320 321 322 323 324 325
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  rose to order. I most respectfully submit to the English House of Commons—a body which I have always understood to be composed of men of gentlemanly feeling, and who would not permit any portion of the Members of this House, or any portion of Her Majesty's subjects professing conscientiously no matter what creed to be insulted—whether, even at the present moment, there ought not to be on the part of the House, some expression of feeling with respect to the language employed by the hon. Gentleman whom I have called to order? [ Cheers, and cries of Cries of and cheers.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  had sought that opportunity of addressing the House, not because he could express any warm approval of the Bill under consideration, though he should vote for the second reading of the Bill, imperfect as it was, because he thought some declaration of the common law on this subject was necessary. He had no wish to carp in any factious spirit at the measure introduced by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, but he was anxious to draw the attention of the House to a part of the subject to which he thought that neither in the debate then proceeding, nor in the previous discussions in that House and the country, had due consideration been given—a part which he looked upon as of the greatest importance—namely, the aggression upon the temporal sovereignty and civil independence of this nation, which had been committed by the agents of the Pope. He had on a former occasion shortly called the attention of the House to that part of the subject, and had shown that, although a Roman hierarchy in this kingdom was a thing in some sort necessary, but in form of its present intrusion illegal, unconstitutional, unnecessary, and dangerous, still more dangerous was the aggression which had been made upon the temporal and civil independence of the country. Although the Bishop of Rome had taken upon himself to establish
 234 legate a latere. legate, legate a latere, 235 a latere, "There might have been, and there might be, Roman Catholic bishops who might be necessary to the purposes of their religion, without having cardinals. Cardinals were the mere temporal and political agents of the Court of Rome." 
 
 "Cohelli notet. Cardinalatus (Rome, 1653). "Cohelli makes this remark, in his work published at Rome in 1653: 'The Order of Cardinals;'— 
 "P. 17. Pars corporis ipsius Papæ, sic se habentes ad Papam ut senatores ad Imperatorem. "P. 17. Part of the body of the Pope, they stand with regard to the Pope in the same position as senators to the Emperor. 
 "P. 3. Auctis ecclesiæ opibus, et insuper accessione temporalis principatus, cœpit Pontifex in singulos dies consiliis et adjutoribus egere; episcopi vero tam sæpe evocari non poterant; ea propter concilia paulatim omissa sunt, totaque res ad cardinalium senatum redacta est. "P. 3. After the wealth of the Church had increased, and the accession of temporal sovereignty, the Pontiff began to want every day councils and assistants; the bishops could not be called out so often; councils on this account were by degrees omitted, and the whole business was referred to the senate of cardinals. 
 "P. 40. Ut ad institutum redeamus, ad offlcium quippe cardinalium in assistentia Romano Pontifici ad sedis apostol. negotia exequenda consistens. Cujus causa cardinales a Romana curia abesse, "P. 40. That we may return to that which has been established—to the duty, in fact, of the cardinals, which consists in assisting the Roman Pontiff for the forwarding of the business of the Ro- 236 
 
 nisi legationis causa, non debent." man see. On which account cardinals ought not to be absent from the Roman court except by reason of (being sent as) legates." Ceremoniale Sanctœ Ecclesiœ num primum correctum et commentariis auctum, De Creatione Legati Apostolici de latere, permissu superiorum, imprimatur 
 
 "De Officio Legati, in v. i. notavit inter alios Van-espen, parte i. Juris Ecclesiastici Universi, titulo xxi., cap. 1, quicquid autem de aliis generibus legatorum sit, legati a latere vocantur legati cardinales, et hoc ideo ait glossa in citato cap. 1., 'quia assumunter de latere Papæ.' Nam sicut imperator et patricii sive consiliarii faciunt unum corpus, cujus imperator est caput, et consiliarii qui sibi assistant in secretis dicuntur esse membra, ita similiter Papa est caput, et cardinales sunt membra. Ideo quando aliquis assumitur ex cardinalibus, ut mittatur legatus, dicitur sumptus de latere, et appellatur legatus de latere."—Jo sephus Catalanus, "Concerning the office of legate, Van-espen, in the 1st volume and 1st part of his  Universal Ecclesiastical Law, a latere, 237 
 
 said to be taken from (beside the side of the Pope), and is called a legate  a latere. Encyclopedia Italiana e Dizionaria della Conversazione, Opera Originate, 
 
 "Assistono in una parola al Pontefice nell' esercizio de suoi doveri come supremo gerarca della Chiesa e sovrano temporale. Talora essi vengono inviati come ambasciatori per gravissime cause ai principi della Christianita, e prendono il nome ed il grado di legati a latere.—Tom. 5; article  Cardinal; "They assist, in short, the Pontiff in the performance of his duty as the supreme governor of the Church, and as temporal Sovereign. Thence it happens that these same persons are sent as ambassadors for the weightiest causes to the Princes of Christendom, and take both the name and rank of legates  a latere." Nouveau Dictionnaire de la Conversation, "Les premiers cardinaux ne furent done autres choses que les curés de I'Evêque de Rome. … mais lorsque les Papes joignirent le sceptre des Rois à leur crois pastorale le cercle de leurs attributions s'étendit avec celui de leur autorité. Il fallut de nouveaux ministres à leur nouvelle puissance, et ce furent cardinaux qu'ils choisirent." 238 
 
 [Extract from  Le Parfaite Notaire Apostolique. 
 "Ego. … nuper assumptus in sanctæ Romanæ ecclesiæ cardinalem, ab hac hora in antea ero fidelis beato Petro universalique et Romanæ Ecclesiæ, ac Summo Pontifici, ejusque successoribus canonice intrantibus. Laborabo fideliter pro defensione fidei Catholicæ, extirpationeque hæresum et errorum, atque schismatum reformatione, ac pace in populo Christiano. Alienationibus rerum et bonorum ecclesiæ; Romanæ aut aliarum ecelesiarum et beneficiorum quorumcunque non consentiam, nisi in casibus a jure permissis; et pro alienatis ab ecclesia Romana recuperandis pro posse meo operam dabo. Non consulem quidquam Summo Pontifici, nec subscribam, nisi secundum Deum et conscientiam meam. Quæ mihi per sedem apostolicam commissa fuerint fideliter exequar, cultum Divinum in ecclesia tituli mei et ejus bona conservabo, sic me Deus adjuvet et hæc sacrosancta Dei evangelia." "I. … lately raised to (the office of) cardinal of the Holy Roman Church, from this hour, will be faithful in the aforesaid to the blessed Peter and the universal and Roman Church, also to the Supreme Pontiff and his successors canonically entering upon the office. I will faithfully labour for the defence of the Catholic faith, and the extirpation of heresies and errors, and the reformation of schisms, and for the peace of Christian people. I will not consent to alienations of the property or goods of the Roman Church, or of other churches and benefices, except in cases by law permitted; and for the recovery of such as have been alienated from the Roman Church to my utmost will I labour. I will not give to the Roman Pontiff, nor consent to advice being given, except according to (the will of) God and my conscience. Whatever shall be committed to me by the Apostolic See, I will faithfully execute. I will preserve Divine worship in the Church of (whence I derive) my title, and the goods thereof. So help me God, and these God's holy Gospels." 239 "Nicholas, by the Divine mercy, of the Holy Roman Church, by the title of St. Pudentiana, Cardinal Priest, Archbishop of Westminster, and administrator apostolic of the diocese of South-wark—To our dearly beloved in Christ, the clergy, secular and regular, and the faithful of the said archdiocese and diocese, health, and benediction in the Lord," &c. "By a jubilee is signified a period of time, during which the Church more earnestly exerts herself, through her ministers, to bring sinners to repentance, to obtain the restitution of ill-gotten property, and the reparation of injured reputations; to reconcile enemies; to make the lukewarm fervent; to awaken faith, enliven hope, and increase charity; and to renew in all the sound principles of true religion and their serious observance,"&c.—"In order to encourage the faithful to partake of the benefits of this holy time, the Church liberally opens her precious treasures, and grants to all a plenary indulgence in the form of a jubilee," &c.—"And now, beloved in Christ, we have to exhort you to one clear duty: although alms-deeds are not prescribed to you as a condi-
 240 Codex Juris Ecclesiastici, "And the said Kings in times past were wont to have the greatest part of their council, for the safeguard of the realm, when they had need, of such prelates and clerks so advanced: the Bishop of Borne encroaching to him new seignories of such possessions and benefices, doth give and grant the same benefices to aliens which did never dwell in England, and to cardinals which might not dwell here, and to others as well aliens as denizens," &c. 241 "Quod transactis temporibus in regno Angliæ I visum non fuerit, atsperatur, quod regno Anglicæ nationis ad statum et dignitatem Cardinalis per Sedem Apostolicam sublimati, post susceptam hujusmodi dignitatem ad interessendum conciliis Regiis, veluti Regis et Regni conciliarii hactenus admissi exstiterunt." "De avisamento et assensu Dominorum Spiritualium et Temporalium in præsenti Parliamento existentium concordatum fuit et unanimiter avisatum, quod præfatuis Cardinalis ad interessendum conciliis Regiis et unius consiliariorum suorum nedum admitti, sed etiam ad intendendum eisdem consiliis ex parte ejusdem Domini Regii requiri debet specialiter, et hortari; sub Protestations tamen subsequente, videlicet, quod quoties aliquæ materiæ, causæ, vel negotia, ipsum Dominum Rgem aut regna, seu Dominia sua ex parte unâ, et Sedem Apostolicam ex parte alterâ concernentia in hujus conciliis Regiis communicauda et tractanda fuerint, idem Cardinalis se ab hujusmodi conciliis absentet, et communicationi earumdem causarum, materiarum et negotiorum non intersit quovis modo"— Fidei Defensor. 242 Elizabeth, "The English merchants were, notwithstanding, through the procurement of the Duke de Guise, injuriously handled upon the coast of Britain, their ships being taken and made prizes; there was close dealing again at Rome for an excommunication to be thundered forth against the Queen Elizabeth; but Pius Quartus, bishop of Rome, thought best she should be dealt withall more mildly. For he (as I have said in the last year) solicited her by enticing letters; and now having appointed a day for the Council of Trent (begun heretofore, and by often wars interrupted) for the taking away of dissensions in religion, and allured thither all princes; even such as were averse from the Popish religion; he sent the Abbot of Martinego into England with letters most full of love and kindness; but the abbot stayed in the Netherlands, and requested that he might be admitted into England, for by an ancient law it was provided—That the Pope's nuncios should not enter into England, but upon leave first obtained, and oath also taken that they should attempt nothing in England which might be prejudicial to the King, or to the liberty of the kingdom.' And the Council of England thought it not safe to admit him, considering that so many in all parts being nuzzled up in Popery, diligently laboured at home and abroad to disturb the quiet of the State. When the abbot was not permitted to cross the seas into England, the Bishop of Viterbo, the Pope's nuncio in France, dealt earnestly with Throckmorton that Queen Elizabeth would send her ambassador to the Council; and many princes in Christendome, the French King, the Spaniard, the Portugall, Henry Cardinal of Portugall, and especially the Duke of Alva (who yet bore her singular good will) persuaded her by their letters, that she would rather rest upon the Æcumenicall Council of Trent in matters of religion, which is the only anchor-hold of Christians, and the prop of kingdoms, than upon the private opinions of a few—though never so learned. Sheanswered—'That she wished with all her heart an Æcumenicall council, but to a Popish council she would not send; with the Bishop of Rome she had nothing to do, whose authority was expelled from England by consent of the estates of the realm; neither belonged it to him, but to the Emperor, to call councils, nor could she acknowledge any greater authority in him than in any other bishop.'" 243 244 "When, in 1829, Pope Pius VIII. appointed Cardinal Albani Archbishop of Konigsberg, the first question he was asked was, whether his office included also civil authority. His reply was, only spiritual." "Thereupon he was asked to take the Oath of allegiance to the Prussian Crown. He refused to do so on the ground that he could not serve two opposite masters at once, having as a Cardinal already taken the oath of supremacy both in civil and religious allegiance to the Pope. The question then arose whether the Toleration hot, as promulgated by the Congress of Vienna, permits a foreign Prince to appoint a dignitary in Prussia who has sworn civil obedience to the laws and authority of another country. The reply of the Prussian Cabinet was in the negative. The Act of Toleration only allows foreigners the free exercise of their religion, but not of the laws of their respective countries; and as the Catholic dignitaries have sworn allegiance to the Pope, it cannot be expected that they will, in the extended sphere of their operation as archbishops especially, pay much attention to the laws of the country, whenever they should think they are at variance with their conscience, and detection improbable."— Prussian Church Archives, "It is well known that the canon law allows the Catholic bishop to absolve a subject from oath of allegiance to his Sovereign, as may be seen in Ecclesiastical History, book vi., where Gregory, Bishop of Antioch, absolved the soldiers from their oath of allegiance to Philippas, saying that
 245 Prussian Church Archives "In 1837, Drost, Archbishop of Cologne, committed a series of acts in direct violation of the laws of the country; and when remonstrated with by the Prussian Government, replied in a public document addressed to the Prussian Cabinet, that 'having sworn allegiance to the Pope, and obedience to the old statutes of the canon law, he can have but one master and one law, namely, that of Rome and the holy father; any law or even concordat established in contradiction of the canon law, or the free will of the holy father, is null and void, and so is every oath taken on matters where civil law disagrees with the canon law.' He was banished to the fortress of Minden." 246 a latere. a latere, a latere. a latere. "Translation of 'An Address and Memorial to his Eminence Nicholas Cardinal Wiseman,
 247 "They therefore ask, and they ask with confidence—1. That their ecclesiastical constitution be compounded of these four ingredients—that is, the civil law of England, the canon law (in spirituals) of the Catholic Church, the common law, and the just and equitable statute laws of their beloved country; for they are convinced that these would constitute, if properly compounded, a safe, salutary, and uniform system of ecclesiastical legislation for the Catholics of England. 2. They deprecate all spiritual interference with the civil rights of individuals, in reference to property, knowing as they do the fatal consequences arising from such interference in a country where Catholic bishops cannot exercise any civil authority whatsoever, in order to carry out the sentences of spiritual tribunals. 3. They deprecate the introduction of any mere foreign system of ecclesiastical legislation, as obnoxious to their own feelings, and as hateful to the millions by whom they are surrounded, and with whom they are in constant intercourse. 4. They implore your Eminence to oppose the establishment of any spiritual courts which may in the mode of their construction be liable to the imputation of undue influence, such courts being in England held in utter abhorrence, and in all countries condemned by men who have been matured in the principles of rational freedom. 5. The memorialists have long borne, but they have borne with an impatience subdued only by a sense of religion, the system which has prevailed in the nomination of bishops. On this point they now look forward to a complete change—a change which may give to the governed an effective affirmation in the nomination of those who are to be their governors, &c., &c. "Finally, the memorialists beg permission to assure your Eminence that they anticipate a favourable reply to this their dutiful address and memorial, for they are convinced that the contemplated restoration of the hierarchy without these measures, instead of conducing to the advancement, will be the cause of the deterioration of religion in England, &c., &c. "And the memorialists will ever pray that the contemplated government, so constituted, may be long and prosperous in reference to your Eminence, and in reference to the Church so long as the Church itself shall exist." 248 Appeal. 249 permissu superiorum. "The first part of this clause implies what other provisions of the Bill now under consideration express more distinctly (secs. 6 and 1)—that in cases where, for instance, property has been left to a bishop under circumstances which enable the Court of Chancery to presume a charitable trust, but no express objects have been provided by the donor or testator, the bishop shall be compellable to make public the administration of the fund, and on the suit of any volunteer plaintiff to account to the Court of Chancery for the same. In cases where the donor has by express direction left the distribution of his charity to the discretion of the trustee, the Bill provides that there shall be no public enrolment and no publishing of accounts (secs. 6 and 7). But that in a large proportion of Catholic charitable trusts, in which the property has in fact been left to the absolute discretion of the ecclesiastical trustee, but without any express direction to that effect, it is proposed to enforce most unreserved publicity. This your Committee consider to be very objectionable, and particularly
 250 "To compel a Catholic bishop or other ecclesiastic to produce an account before a Protestant and lay tribunal, where the donor has reposed implicit confidence in him, and has left his discretion entirely unfettered, would be in the highest degree oppressive. In many cases the best possible application of the fund might be for purposes which no bishop worthy of the name would consent to disclose, and which no threats or compulsion of the Court of Chancery, or any other lay tribunal, could wring from him." "Another portion of the clause (clause 3), though probably introduced with a different intention, is still more objectionable. It permits the Court of Chancery to sanction the usage of twenty years, so far as the same shall be found to be in accordance with the doctrines, discipline, canons, laws, customs, or usages of the Church of Rome, and not further or otherwise. By this provision a bishop can be compelled, by a suit instituted, or a petition presented, by any layman—one of his own rebellious subjects may be—to appear before a Protestant court, and prove to its satisfaction that the bishop's administration has been in accordance, not merely with the canons and discipline, but even with the doctrines of the Church; and by other clauses of the Bill every facility is given for calling bishops to account in this manner. It is no answer to this objection that, in the existing state of the law, bishops are exposed to a like inconvenience. The existing state of the law is, in this respect, a grievance of which the removal should be sought; but to make the Catholics of England parties to its extension and aggravation, as would be the case were this Bill to become law, is a policy to which your Committee can by no means consent. "In the Catholic Church the bishop, as your Committee learn, is not merely an administrator—he is a judge, acting sometimes with the ordinary formalities of courts, at other times summarily and without any formalities whatever. "The temporary court ought to derive its knowledge of Catholic canon law and usage not from its own vague and unlearned inquiries, but from the authoritative sentence or the certificate of an English bishop, in the first instance, and ultimately from the authoritative sentence of the great Roman tribunal—the highest court of appeal." "Your Committee deem the fourth clause even more objectionable (if possible) than the third. They (the terms of the clause) indirectly provide,
 251 "It is not every case of supposed criminality in which a priest is entitled to a trial before suspension. On the contrary, it is the gravest offences of all which, for avoiding scandal, gives the bishop the right of suspension without trial." "'So true is it, that a bishop can, by virtue of the aforesaid decree, for reasons best known to himself, interdict a priest from the exercise of his sacred functions, that he is not even bound to make known the cause of suspension or the crime to the very criminal himself, but only to the Apostolic See, if the suspended priest shall have recourse to that tribunal.' This attempt, therefore, by a side wind, and through half a clause in an Act of Parliament, to enforce, first, the irremovability of the clergy; secondly, the revival of the bishops' courts, with their impossible method of technical procedure; and, thirdly, the necessity of trial in all cases, even in those in which a trial is not necessary by canon law, may be pronounced wholly inadmissible and fatal to the clause of which it forms the substance." "Your Committee considers the 5th Clause extremely objectionable. When any charitable property has been wholly or in part diverted from the use to which it was given, this clause gives the Lord Chancellor power to order total or par-
 252 Roman Catholic Register, 253 Morning Herald, 254 Appeal 255 "The society of Jesuits must be looked at both in a religious and in a political point of view. In its religious character it is a society avowedly established to make war upon the Protestant religion. What wonder then, that in a small country like Switzerland, where two-thirds of the people were Protestants, the introduction of such a society should give rise to dissension between Catholic and Protestant, and should be viewed with aversion by the majority of the nation? In its ecclesiastical character the Society of Jesuits is known to be exclusive and encroaching. Can it be surprising, then, that in Switzerland, as in other countries, a great portion even of the Catholic population should look upon the Jesuits with jealousy and dislike?" a latere 256
 MR. SPEAKER : I must beg Gentlemen not to interrupt the regularity of the debate, and I hope that on a question of so much delicacy as that now under discussion, Members will abstain as much as possible from the use of all expressions tending to create excitement, or to offend the religious feelings of others.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member is himself guilty of a breach of order in the course he is now taking. I did not venture to reprimand the hon. Member for Surrey, nor did I venture to call him to order; I only took the liberty of expressing the hope that no Member, in the course of the debate, on a delicate and exciting subject, would say anything calculated to produce ill-feeling, and that every Gentleman would abstain from the use of expressions likely to irritate or offend. [ Cheers.
 MR. SPEAKER : I must say, in reply to the appeal of the noble Lord, that nothing has fallen from the hon. Member for Surrey inconsistent with the freedom of debate. ["Hear, hear!"  and murmurs of dissent from some quarters of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  having intimated that the hon. Member was out of order,
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member is mistaken in what he has now said. The hon. Member for Surrey is entitled, by the rules of debate, to use such expressions as he may think necessary, provided they do not convey any personal reflection on another Member, and are not disrespectful to the House. What I said to the hon. Member was no more than a caution—it was no reprimand.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, I must call on hon. Members to support me in the main-
 277 Great cheering. Great cheering.
 MR. URQUHART  commended the cautious manner in which the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs had exercised the discretionary power entrusted to him in the matter. With regard to the Greek, whose case had been referred to by the hon. Member for Manchester, he (Mr. Urquhart) conceived that a foreigner on returning from this to his native country was not entitled to the immunity from the obligations imposed on him by his native State which a British passport conferred. The allegiance which a foreigner owed to the Sovereign of this country while here, did not relieve him from the allegiance due to the sovereign of his native State when he returned there.
 MR. URQUHART  begged then to ask further, whether in this correspondence there had been any negotiation as to the succession to the Crown of Denmark, or in respect to the succession in the Duchies?
 MR. URQUHART  begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, the question of which he had given notice—when the papers connected with the affairs of the Duchies and Denmark will be laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. SCULLY  considered the matter of so much importance to the owners and occupiers of land in Ireland, that he could not consent to postpone it. He felt it his duty to call the attention of the House to a number of circumstances connected with
 232 l. l. s. d., l. s. d.
 MR. MOORE  spoke to order. He would suggest to the hon. Member for West Surrey that the subject of his observations was likely to excite retort and retaliation, and that it was not consistent with the dignity
 267
 MR. MOORE  was heard to exclaim—I speak to order. I do insist, with the greatest submission to you, Sir, that it is not merely a disrespect to a portion of this House and their religion that has been done, but that it is out of order in any Christian assembly to make—[ Great cries of and
 MR. GRATTAN  rose and said: I am an old Member of the House, and I call the hon. Member for Surrey to order in consequence of the improper expressions he has used. I have a right to move that his words be taken down. I ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and all the old Members of the House, and you, Sir, if I am not in order, and if there are not precedents for moving that the words of the hon. Member be taken down? [ Continued cries of
 MR. BRIGHT  explained that the Greek gentleman, whose case he had mentioned, was settled in Manchester, and had a wife and family there, and was merely going abroad for the purposes of trade.
 MR. BRIGHT  had applied for a passport for a gentleman who was a Greek by birth, but had been for many years in Manchester, was concerned in extensive business there, and was settled there for life. This gentleman was going abroad, and on application for a passport, under the regulation of last year, which did not prevent the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary from giving a passport, the passport was refused. He (Mr. Bright) could understand the refusal of passports to persons of whom the noble Lord knew nothing—those foreigners who could not get passports perhaps elsewhere, and came here for them, that they might be enabled to pass through the Continent under their protection. But if a foreigner were a settled naturalised British subject, whose character was unimpeachable, and who intended to spend his life in this country, it would be a proper exercise of discretion on the part of the noble Lord to give to such a person a passport, the same as if he were a British-born subject. He (Mr. Bright), however, did not understand that the passport gave the holder of it any claim for the interference of the noble Lord, in case he should do anything to bring himself into trouble in a foreign State. He would not ask for this Greek gentleman or any British subject the interference of the noble Lord under such circumstances, but he thought that he should have the same kind of passport, and be treated with the same kind of liberality as other British subjects. He (Mr. Bright) had mentioned this, because in Manchester there were a large number of foreigners—fifty families of Greeks, and probably as many more of other nations. Many of them were the very best of the population of Manchester, the most highly respected, having the largest businesses, and were settled there for life. He only asked, that as they were settled there, and as their presence was beneficial to the country, they should be similarly treated with other subjects.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL : I rise to order. [ Renewed confusion, and cries of 276 Loud cries of and
 MR. J. O'CONNELL : I move the adjournment of the House.
 MR. M. POWER  thought that some of the speeches which had been delivered by supporters of the Bill were better suited to the atmosphere of Exeter Hall than to a calm and dispassionate deliberative assembly. The question was whether the Pope, by the creation of a Roman Catholic hierarchy in this country, had invaded the supremacy of the Crown, the rights of the Established Church, and the independence of the nation; and unless that could be shown by the evidence of clear and indisputable facts, he, for one, would feel himself justified in denouncing the present Bill as a persecuting measure, and one that ran counter to the great and glorious principles of religious toleration. The ques-
 257 Index Expurgatorius, 258 259 260 Comedy of Errors Much Ado about Nothing 261
 MR. P. HOWARD  seconded the Motion amid the greatest confusion and calls of "Chair."
 MR. M. MILNES  supported the views expressed by the hon. Member for Manchester, and was aware of some cases of hardship which had occurred through the refusal of the American authorities to grant passports to foreigners. He was very glad
 231
 SIR G. GREY  did not think that there would exist any objection to the returns moved for; but it would recur to the recollection of hon. Members that notice of the Motion had only been given on Tuesday evening. When the notice had been given, his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland had written to Dublin, to ascertain if there would be any objection to the returns; and it was impossible for them to have an answer to enable them to proceed with the matter that night. He therefore moved that the debate be adjourned till that day week.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I am glad, Sir, a short pause has taken place in our proceedings, and I hope nothing will fall from me that may tend to disturb the gravity of this debate, and the calmness with which the great subject now before us ought to be discussed. I bend, Sir, implicitly to your decision in every matter of order. I did not think it was possible, until within the last half-hour, that anything could have aggravated my sorrow on account of the revival of this painful discussion, in which the subject of religion is iuvolved; but I must say, that what has just occurred has far exceeded my most anxious apprehensions. I have seen a Gentleman—an accomplished Gentleman and a scholar—so much heated by the subject we are now discussing, as entirely to forget what was due to the feelings of a large body of Gentlemen sitting in this House on terms of perfect equality. I will not sully my lips by repeating the words that fell from him, with respect to hon. Members of this House, in reference to their veracity, and still less shall I think of repeating an allusion—which I shudder to think of—an allusion grossly offensive to the female relatives of those Gentlemen; to ladies who have devoted themselves to the service of their God, according to their consciences, in lives of seclusion and of chastity. The orders of the House may on this occasion not have been violated in the letter; but if Roman Catholic Members are to sit here and to take part in our debates, I must say that the rules and orders of the House cannot be said to be preserved in their spirit, if scenes like these we have just witnessed are to be repeated. I say that assertions of the kind that have been made, and the tone and manner in
 281 282 283 284 "They could not have an episcopal jurisdiction—they could not introduce the canon law—they
 285 286 "Holding Ireland on our present tenure, how are we to make head against all Europe leagued for our destruction? Lord Kilwarden again spoke to Littlehales on the subject, and told him that the Catholics placed their trust in me, and insinuated that the object of my remaining in the Government, after the completion of the Union, was to carry the point for them. Whatever Lord Loughborough's opinion may be of the practicability of concession, he will, in a short time, or I am much mistaken, find it still more impracticable to resist."—(Vol, iii., p. 418.) "Timid
 287 288 289 l. 290 "This was one of the incidents which made it so difficult to legislate on this subject at all."—[2  Hansard, "He was aware this clause was no security to the Established Church, nor benefited it in any way; but it was inserted to give satisfaction to those who were disturbed by the assumption of those titles by the Catholic clergy." Ibidem, "The Duke of Wellington opposed Lord Tenterden's Amendment. He did not mean to say that it was not true that these persons were nominated as bishops, and were placed in the care of dioceses by usurped authority, But he did not, and he would not, recognise in any manner appointments of such a nature, because it was evident that these appointments were made by the power of usurpation. They knew nothing of that usurpation, nor of the assumption of those titles. It was true, as had been stated by Lord Tenterden, that the clause would have been more perfect if persons could have been prevented from using those assumed titles of archbishops and bishops in writing. But he begged their Lordships to advert, to the difficulty of carrying such a principle into effect. Let their Lordships look to their own proceedings. Let them examine their own journals, and they would find places over and over again where those titles were given in print to those individuals. It was impossible to deal with writings in such circumstances. All their Lord-
 291 Hansard, "That he had on principle always opposed Catholic emancipation; but, that point having been carried, he would not encumber emancipation with restrictions like these, which were of no use. To exclude Catholics from seats in Parliament would be a  bonâ fide Ibid. 292 Prœmunire 293 "I want an answer to this question—Has the Roman Pontiff, in partitioning the realm of England into provinces and dioceses, and establishing therein archbishops and bishops, and organising a hierarchy for the government thereof, invaded the prerogative of the Crown, and outraged the independence of the country? Had those of Her Majesty's subjects who had lent themselves to the carrying out of this great scheme, and stood by and abetted him, departed from that undivided allegiance they owe to their Sovereign, violated the law of the land, and infringed the spirit of the constitution?" 294 "They, and all the liege commons of the realm, will stand with our Lord the King, his said crown and his regality, in all cases attempted against him, his crown and regality—in all points to live and to die.  Prœmunire "1. We made choice to proceed upon a law made more than 200 years past, when the King, the Lords, and Commons, which made the laws, and the Judges, which did interpret them, did for the most part follow the same opinions in religion, which were taught and held in the Court of Rome. 2. These laws were made to uphold and maintain the sovereignty of the King, the liberty of the people, the common law, and the commonweal, which otherwise had been undermined and utterly ruined by the usurpation of the Bishop of Rome. For the Commons of England may be an example unto all other subjects in the world in this, that they have ever been tender and sensible of the wrongs offered unto their Kings, and have ever contended to uphold and maintain their honour and sovereignty. Their faith and loyalty have generally been such, as no pretence of zeal or religion could ever withdraw the greater part of the subjects to submit themselves to a foreign yoke—no, not when Popery was in her height and exultation; whereof this Act (16th of Richard II.), and divers others of the same kind, are clear and manifest testimonies." 295 296 297 Sic utere tuo ut alienum non lœdas; Volenti non fit injuria. 298 "This measure, apart from the manner in which it has been attempted, and the language which has been held officially and unofficially regarding it, and in certain well-known principles of Romanism which give significancy to what has been done and written—the measure itself is nothing of which we have any right to complain consistently with our toleration of Romanism. An Episcopal Church is not tolerated if we interfere with its liberty to appoint bishops, to determine their number and rank, and to bestow upon them any titles, provided they do not infringe on any existing rights." "It might naturally have produced more of amazement than indignation to hear a functionary of Rome declare that he governs counties of England as ordinary thereof. Some territorial division, however, is necessary for every community of Christians in an Episcopol Church, and the term for a bishop's district is 'diocese.'" 299 "The list of visitors has not yet been settled, but I can have no hesitation in saying that it will include the Catholic archbishop of the province and bishop of the diocese in which the college is situated. As I entertain a profound veneration for the character of the Pope, and implicitly rely on his upright judgment, it gives me great pleasure now to ask your Grace to submit these statutes to the consideration of his Holiness, believing as I do it may be advantageously compared with those of any similar institution in Europe." 300 "With regard to spiritual authority, whatever control is to be obtained over the spiritual authority of the Pope, can only be obtained by agreement for that end. You must give certain advantages to the Catholics, and then obtain from the Pope certain advantages in return; among which we may stipulate that the Pope should not create any dioceses without the consent of the Queen: or, on the other hand, you must say that you will have nothing to do with arrangements of that kind—that you will not consent in anyway to give any authority to the Roman Catholic religion in England. But then you must leave the spiritual authority of the Pope entirely unfettered. You cannot bind the Pope's spiritual influence unless you have some agreement. But although you may prevent any spiritual authority from being exercised by the Pope by law, yet there is no provision, no law my honourable Friend could frame which would deprive the Pope of that influence which is exercised over the mind, or which would preclude him from giving any advice to those who choose to attend to such advice. It is quite obvious that you cannot, by any means or authority whatever, prevent the Pope from communicating with the Catholics of this country. You may try to prevent such communications from being open; but I think it would be very foolish if you took any means of great vigour or energy for that purpose. If, however, such communication be not open, it will be secret; and, so long as there are Catholics in this country—so long as they acknowledge the Pope as the head of their Church—you cannot prevent his having spiritual influence over those who belong to that communion."—[3  Hansard, "That the diplomatic intercourse with Rome should be touching and concerning international, civil, commercial, and political relations." "If these words were inserted in cases where
 301 Hansard, "Dublin, March 3, 1851. "Our Church is essentially episcopal. Our sacred ministry could not be carried on without priests—we could have no priests without bishops—and no bishops but through the authority of the Pope. It is his business not only to name our bishops, but to point out the limits within which this jurisdiction is to be circumscribed. The portion, or surface, which contains the Catholic flock within those limits may be called a district, or a see, or a bishopric; and the individual appointed to ordain priests, and to carry on the other necessary functions of the ministry therein, may be a vicar-apostolic or a bishop in ordinary, with this difference, that the former is removable at pleasure, the latter is permanent,
 302 l. 303 304 Quid tanto dignum feret hic promissor hiatu? 305 Hansard, 306 307 Regium Donum, "In addition to what your Lordship observes respecting the claims of the Roman Catholic clergy, it strikes me that there is a peculiar justice in their cause, which perhaps might be too delicate in its nature to be made a ground, but surely ought to be felt as a motive. My idea is this. The English owe their original possession of Ireland to conquest; but time and events have, with respect to individuals, wrought that possession into as complete a right of proprietorship as exists in the world. It must, however, be allowed on every ground of justice and humanity, that the vanquished have their rights, and the victors, of course, their duties. These, to be sure, are generally more apparent when substantiated by compact; but where there is no compact, still there is the great law of humanity requiring that to be done which reason says should be done for the vanquished as being now objects of pity, and to be done by the victors, as having now all the sources of relief. Nor can mere time annihilate such rights, if it does not change circumstances. It has completely changed them in Ireland in all civil respects; but there is, perhaps, an unexampled continuance of circumstances in the case of the vanquished Church. In a manner, perhaps, not to be paralleled in any other instance, the moral person of the ancient Church of Ireland presents itself before us this day with as much identity as any corporation can do, showing us at once the marks of its pristine grandeur and of our triumph over it. Our identity as victors is self-evident. We possess all the funds from which the ancient Church derived its emoluments and its magnificence. Thus respectively placed it is before us as substantially existent and as miserably destitute as if we had dismantled it but yesterday, and we no otherwise changed from that period, except in greater ability to be merciful. I ask, is there in such a case no moral claim on the one hand, no duty on the other?" 308 309 Lord John Russell signified his assent.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  appealed to the hon. Member for Tipperary to withdraw the Motion of which he had given notice, for returns of certain correspondence on the subject of the employment of paupers in Ireland. He (Sir W. Somerville) wished the Motion postponed until an opportunity were afforded of communicating with the Department to which the Motion referred. He did not know that there would be any objection to produce the papers, but they could not at present enter into the merits of the matter.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that it was not his intention to lay on the table any further papers in reference to this subject. In August, last year, on the Motion of an hon. Friend of his, he laid on the table a copy of the treaty which established the foundation for the regulation of the differences between Denmark and Prussia with regard to Schleswig. And he would state the reasons why he did not think the production of any further documents to be necessary. The correpondence spread over a space of three or four years, and included negotiations between the Ministers of almost every Court in Europe north of the Alps, namely, Paris, Berlin, Petersburgh, Vienna, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Frankfort, besides many of the minor German States; and it would be impossible to give any connected or intelligible view of these negotiations without furnishing, at the same time, a mass of papers, which would occupy about two thousand pages of letterpress, and which no hon. Member would read—or if any hon. Member did read them, he would be greatly throwing away his time. These despatches were important at the moment; but in any Parliamentary discussion they lost all their practical interest, in consequence of all the questions to which they related having been disposed of. It wag not, therefore, his intention to lay any additional papers before the House, and he
 221
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : A good deal had passed in regard to these points; that was to say, in regard to the succession to the Crown of Denmark; and, as connected with that, in regard to the arrangements for the order of succession in Schleswig and Holstein. But Her Majesty's Government had studiously and systematically held themselves aloof from taking any share in these negotiations. Her Majesty's Government had confined themselves strictly to the mediation which they undertook; which was a mediation for the purpose of bringing about a restoration of peace between Denmark and the Germanic Confederation.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am sure, Sir, for my part, that I ought to bear testimony to the very temperate and useful manner in which the noble Lord has brought this question under the attention of the House. There is one point in which I entirely agree with him—that it would be most desirable if foreign Governments would abolish entirely the system of passports, which is practically attended with great vexation to the innocent traveller, and which does not afford protection to the Governments against the passing from one part of the Continent to the other of persons whom the Governments wish to examine and stop. The noble Lord has stated one instance of the inutility of passports, in the departure of Don Carlos from England to Spain. But there might have been reasons in that case which gave some peculiar facilities to that person. But there was another still stronger proof in the case of the Duchess de Berri, who travelled from Marseilles to Bordeaux. The French authorities had an interest in stopping her, yet she travelled with a passport,  en régle, 227 228 229 bonâ fide 230
 SIR F. T. BARING  said: With refer-
 341 North Star
 MR. MOORE : Before we proceed to the regular business of the House, I am compelled to call attention to a subject full of painful recollections, but upon which I am compelled by a regard to my own character and position in this House—humble as I am—to offer a few words; and in doing so I can assure you, Sir, and the House, that if yesterday, in giving expression to the indignation which I felt, and which I was constrained under the circumstances of the case to utter, I trespassed in the slightest degree upon the rules and regulations of the House, there is no person who regrets it more than I do. If I infringe upon those rules at any time, it is owing entirely to my want of knowledge of those rules, not to any indifference either to the rules of the House, or your authority, both of which I hold in the greatest respect, and which it is the interest as well as the duty of us all to maintain unimpaired. But while I say this, and bow most implicitly to your decision, that the opinion which I was about to express would have been disorderly if uttered then, I cannot allow any misconception to exist as to the opinion which I was about to express. My opinion was, that the hon. Member for West Surrey had spoken not only with irreverence, but with a levity which almost amounted to indecency, of the sacred name which all classes and generations of Christians have called "Blessed,"—that he used that name in a manner which ought not to have been permitted in an assembly of professing Christians. And yet it was of that name that the hon. Member for West Surrey applied such expressions as "false miracles and impostures." Sir, there is a decent as well as an indecent mode of conducting an argument; and I would appeal to any assembly of Englishmen whether, if instead of the Mother of God, the name of the mother of the future Princes of these realms' had been so used, the indignation of the House would not at once have checked the insult? Sir, there were other expressions which the hon. Gentleman did not hesitate to use, but in regard to which I will imitate the conduct of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, and not suffer to pollnte my lips; but I will say that to apply these terms to Christian ladies who have dedicated their lives to charity and to God, ought not to be permitted in any assembly of English Gentlemen; and I appeal not only to the accomplished and cultivated minds of English gentle-
 336
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member must retract the word dastardly.
 MR. MOORE : Repel these unmanly insinuations against the Catholic ladies of England.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : As the hon. Member has called the attention of the House to this subject, I beg, though I was not in the House at the time the interruption took place, to say a few words. I was in the House when the Speaker ruled the question of order, and it appeared to me that nothing could be more correct, nor more in accordance with the rules and regulations of the House, than the statement of the Speaker on that subject. Of course, it is not for the Speaker either to fall short of the Orders of the House, or to enforce them beyond their due meaning. For my part, I do not wish that the Orders of the House should either be enlarged, or that the rules of debate should be made too stringent. But this I must say, that every hon. Member must regret if anything fell from any hon. Member in the course of debate offensive to the feelings of other hon. Members. It must, I think, be the wish of the House that, not only from respect to their own dignity, but from respect and deference to the feelings of others, hon. Gentlemen should avoid topics which can in any way be considered disrespectful or offensive to the feelings of others.
 MR. JOHN O'CONNELL : On this subject, Sir, I have been somewhat anticipated; but I shall still feel it my duty to put to you the question of which I gave you notice. That question was—
 "An hon. Member of this House, the Member for Surrey, having spoken in terms of levity and insult of certain practices connected with the religion of other Members, which, although not enjoined upon them as of faith, are, and have long been, sanctioned by competent authority and recommended for devout observance; and the same hon. Member having proceeded to speak in similar terms on subjects usually held in reverence by Christians of all denominations—involving an allusion, the terms of which is impossible for a Christian to repeat, to the Mother of our common Redeemer—is it to be understood that such conduct, tending as it does to outrage not only right feeling and charity, but Christianity itself, was in order; and that a repetition of it will, therefore, be permitted in the British House of Commons?" 337
 SIR R. H. INGLIS : Sir, after the expressions of the hon. Member for West Surrey last night, immediately that he found the language he had used was noticed in terms of complaint, that if he had given pain to any one he humbly begged their pardon—after the speech we have recently heard from the hon. Member for Mayo, that he felt it both his interest and his duty to maintain the order of the House, and that he also was sorry for any violence he might have used, and after the statement of my noble Friend the First Minister of the Crown, deprecating the introduction of language which would give needless pain to any man—I think it would he much better that no further notice were taken of this subject.
 MR. REYNOLDS : Sir, I heard last night a second edition enlarged of this under current now running against those establishments which belong more particularly to the Catholic Church—I mean the nunneries. I heard it last night. I heard it by second-hand—I was not present—I heard it by retail, for I read it in the papers—that the hon. Member for West Surrey—and he was not interrupted by any English Member except the hon. Member for Arundel—read the phrase used in describing those convents. I am glad I was not present, because of the rule, and it is a wise one, that no man shall be called to order unless he uses language personally offensive—or at least the offence may be enlarged from one to at least fifty Members, who profess and believe sincerely in the truth of the Catholic religion, and I am one of them. It was an insult to me
 338 339
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I beg to state, after what has fallen from the hon. Member for Dublin, I understand him to say that I was here when the hon. Member for West Surrey gave offence to many Members, and that I did not make any observation on the subject in the speech which I afterwards delivered. The fact is, I was not in the House when the hon. Member for West Surrey made that observation, and not having been here, I thought it better for me to refrain altogether from alluding to it. And having stated this as the fact, as the hon. Gentleman has alluded to my speech of yesterday evening, I must say I do not concede that on a question regarding the division of temporal and spiritual concerns, I am debarred from using any argument which bears upon that point. I do not think that in putting that argument, I said anything which ought to give offence to any one. I have heard, and other Members must have heard, when questions in relation to the Church of England have arisen in this House, those topics have been freely discussed. I must say,
 340
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that in addressing himself to the question before the House, he did not hope to be able to throw out any new light on the subject:
 345 346 "Narcissa's nature's tolerably mild, To make a wash she'd hardly stew a child." 347 l. 348 In cœna Domini. 349 "If you allow to the Roman Catholics liberty to promulgate their doctrines and enforce their discipline, you should allow them to do so perfectly and properly; and as the Roman Catholic was an episcopal church, how could its discipline be carried on perfectly and properly without the appointment of bishops?" "I think that we ought to take away every thing derogatory to the position and character of Roman Catholic bishops. You provide by statute that they shall not be allowed to style themselves by the name of the dioceses over which they preside. I think that is a most foolish prohibition. You declare that Dr. Murray shall not style himself Catholic Archbishop of Dublin; but he is so nevertheless."—[3  Hansard, Arcades ambo, 350 Citizen of the World, "I would say, if mere dissent from Rome be a merit, he that dissents most perfectly is most meritorious. On many points the Protestant agrees with the Roman Catholic. That man, therefore, must be the best Protestant who protests against the whole of the Christian religion." "When oyster women locked their fish-tip, And trudged away to cry 'No bishop!'" "In fact, Sir, I would not have so much as a Popish man, or a Popish woman, allowed to remain here; not a Popish dog, nor a Popish bitch—no, not as much as a Popish cat to purr or mew about the King." 351 Hԓreticos ego persequar et expugnabo. 352 353 "Ecclesiastical, not Papal aggressions, are what the laity have to dread; and though it may suit some zealous opponents of Rome to turn their eyes in that direction, the true enemy is high Church principles, be they enunciated by Pope, bishop, or presbytery." 354 odium theologicum
 LORD NAAS : I beg to say I was not there.
 MR. B. OSBORNE : I am very glad to hear the noble Lord was not. It is to
 355 356 Christian Morals, "The spiritualised eye might expect to find the figure of the cross on all the works of the creation, and he would not he surprised if all the theoretical figures were reduced to this element—a central column, and a lateral projection." 357 l. "It is a hopeful feature of our time to see that, out of about 2,000 clergymen of the Irish branch of the Established Church, 1,500 have protested against the measures of the present Government. It is a noble thing that three-fourths of the clergy are not afraid to stand out as supporters of God's truth, in defiance of the mock liberality of the blinded head of the Administration." 358 l. Cries of "My decided opinion is, that the three religions which prevail with more or less force in this island ought all to be subordinate to the legal establishments of the country—that they ought to be protected and cherished, and that in Ireland
 359
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  must deprecate the violent language which had been made use of with respect to so great a Church and so great a body of men as the Roman Catholics; but he must lay the blame at the proper door, for his firm belief was, that the whole of the agitation had been caused by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, whose noted letter was at the bottom of all the agitation of the last seven or eight months. It somewhat surprised him to find the noble Lord arousing the "No-Popery" cry, when he recollected that the noble Lord attributed his defeat in Devonshire, not many years since, to the very same cry. He (Mr. B. Cochrane) wished to know whether, before the noble Lord wrote his celebrated letter, he had not had a communication with the Bishop of London on the subject—whether, when that Prelate expressed himself very strongly with respect to Papal aggression, the noble Lord did not remark that it was of no consequence whatever—and whether the views of the noble Lord had not very much changed between the time of that conversation and the time when he published his very mistaken letter? He (Mr. B. Cochrane) strongly condemned the mischievous and calumnious language used by the press against the Roman Catholics. One newspaper stated that there was an organised conspiracy of Jesuits in Exeter. Another justified the Protestant boys of Liverpool for hooting the Roman Catholic children as they went to school. In that High Church organ, the  Standard, 360 Morning Herald, 361 362
 MR. C. FORTESCUE  felt hound to oppose the measure, and considered that the scenes which had taken place in this country lately, as well as the lamentable scene which had occurred in that House on the previous night, ought to be a warning to politicians to avoid the dangers of religious discussion. It might be said that we were now legislating in reference to the position which the Roman Catholic Church was, for the future, to hold in Ireland. He always thought that we could not leave that Church for many years longer without a change in its position; but he must say that the liberal party never dreamt that such a measure as this would be proposed by the Government? He believed that no party pretended that the present measure would add to the efficiency of the Church either in England or in Ireland. He regarded the continuance of the Established Church in Ireland to he indefensible, except perhaps on the principle of  quieta non movere. 363 364 365 366
 MR. CHILD  asked the indulgence of the House while he said a few words on this momentous question. He approached the question with considerable anxiety, because, while he could not consent to refuse Roman Catholics the full profession of their faith, he felt he had a duty to perform not only to himself, but towards his Protestant fellow-countrymen, and could not forget that self-preservation was the first law of nature. They could not but regret the irritation which this subject had caused. Of all differences, those arising from religious quarrels were ever the most bitter; and the wounds inflicted in such strife the most difficult to heal. The question had, however, been forced upon them, and they could not avoid giving a decision. The issue bad been joined, and the question put to that House, and it must give an answer, whether for the Pope or for the Queen. They might lament the discord thus jarring the political harmony of the country; but they must be well aware how this unhappy division had arisen. The apple of discord in the present instance had not been thrown by the Queen, or by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, but by a foreign Power, and by an alien to this country,
 367 368
 MR. WYNDHAM GOOLD  trusted the House would afford him its indulgence while he briefly addressed them for the first time on the important question under consideration. A question had been asked by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General, as to why, supposing no offence or aggression intended, the Pope had not made any efforts to explain the affair, or had not come forward to apologise. The hon. and learned Gentleman, however, should recollect that it was a rule in equity that "he who sought equity should do equity." If we expected acts of courtesy from the Pope, we should treat him with courtesy in the first instance. Up to the year 1829, indeed, we had no means of communicating with Rome, or treating with the Holy See in the ordinary political relations between State and State. But since that period the existence of the Holy See was ignored as it were, and any business we had to transact with it was executed in an underhand and unworthy manner. Now, if we ignored the Pope's existence, we could not blame him much for treating us in a similar way. In fact, he could hardly be censured for adopting a sort of political  tu quoque sexu mutato, à fortiori 369 370
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, at that stage of so protracted a debate he had no intention of entering at large into the general question before the House; but he wished merely to give the reason why he could not support the second reading of this Bill, and to make a few remarks on one or two fallacies which, as he thought, had been very extensively put forward in that discussion. The principle on which he should vote against the Bill was this—it was not merely an abridgment of the toleration at present enjoyed by Roman Catholics, but, more than that, it was an infringement of the great principle of civil and religious liberty, towards which the legislation of this country had steadily tended for the last century and a half—a principle which could not be infringed in any sect or Church, not even in the most obnoxious, or in one that might have given the greatest provocation (and by no means would lie deny that a great provocation had been offered in this instance), but which could not be infringed under any provocation, or with reference to any sect or Church, without also damaging the position, and invading in some measure, directly or indirectly, the rights of all other non-established churches, sects, or denominations, whether they were those of Roman Catholics or of Protestant nonconformists. This Bill was an interference with the internal organisation of a non-established Church; that was the strong ground of his objection to it. With an Established Church they had the right to interfere. The Established Church bartered something of its Christian liberty for power, emoluments, and influence; and thereby it invited the State to interpose in its regulations, and to make its arrangements accord with the wants of the State. With a non-established Church, the principle of religions liberty being admitted as a constitutional principle and the guide of their legislation, they had no such concern; and he believed, therefore, that this measure tended in principle to invade the rights both of Catholic nonconformists and of Protestant nonconformists. In fact, that it had done so, appeared very promptly. He referred to the case of the Scotch
 371 372 373 374 375 "Bishops are of divine origin. They are the principal dignitaries in the economy of the Church. All their functions are of the highest utility, and several are absolutely necessary for its preservation and welfare. The advantages which each flock derives from having its appropriate pastor, and which the general body of the Church derives from the general body of the episcopacy, are incalculable. As to vicars-apostolic, such an institution is dissonant from the general spirit of Church discipline; but what necessity requires, necessity excuses." Sketch of the History of the Church of England, "Ireland has Roman Catholic bishops of her own who are independent of Rome, as far as Roman Catholics can be; and the members of that communion in England have much reason to complain that they have never been allowed the same benefits." 376 History of the Church in America, 377 378 379 380 381
 MR. WALPOLE :  * 382 383 imperium in imperio 384 Univers Tablet Univers Tablet 385 386 387 Cries of and in toto 388 exequatur 389 390 391 392 ipso facto, 393 394 395 396 Sic utere tuo ut alienum non lœdas Volenti non fit injuria 397 398 "You must not make a scarecrow of the law, Setting it up to fear the birds of prey; Nor let it keep one shape, till custom make it Their perch, and not their terror." 399
 Mr. ROEBUCK  said, he had been much puzzled by the peroration of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. "A free people and a free Queen," said the hon. and learned Gentleman. Was there anything capable of comparison in the relative positions of the Pope and the Queen? We were a great people, foremost in the world, with a power hardly equalled, certainly not surpassed, by any of the nations of the earth. We had a Sovereign whom all parties obeyed—before whom they were proud to kneel—and for whom they were all ready to die. And was She not a free Queen? That was one side of the question. On the other hand, did not this House, did not the country exhibit real Protestant feeling? What had they on the other? But to begin at the head, he would take this foreign prince. What was he? As a prince he was no-thing, without power, without an acre of land which he could call his own, but, if he had any power, it was merely a moral influence; and he (Mr. Roebuck) would ask how they were to deal with that moral influence by any Act of Parliament? Compare him to a free Queen and the power of this country! Talk of this country being overborne by a wandering old imbecile priest! Why, if he came into this country at all, he came in clothed only with his moral attributes. He asked what they had to fear? He wanted to deal with this
 400 401 402 403 404 brutum fulmen 405 406 407 408
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had for some time been desirous of offering some observations to the House on the subject of this debate; and he assured the House he would make the observations he had to offer as concise as he possibly could. There was one observation which had fallen from almost every hon. Member in the debate, and particularly from the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole), in which he fully concurred, namely, that on all sides of the House it was their common intention and their common wish in no respect whatever, or in the slightest degree, to interfere with the fullest possible spiritual action and liberty of conscience of any Roman Catholic in this country. He repeated that he fully
 409 410 411 412 413 414 415 416 417 Hansard 418 l 419 420 "But it may be said, that in the line of conduct which I am now adopting, I am deviating from those genuine Whig principles upon which I have acted, since my entrance into public life, and in which I hope, and still flatter myself, though hon. Members may sneer at the declaration—I shall persevere until its termination. What are these principles? I speak here in the presence of many distinguished Members of the Whig party; in the presence of a Russell, a name famed for the support of these noble principles, not more of liberty than of the Protestant religion; and if I might venture to define Whig principles as I embraced them, I should say, that they consisted in the assertion of the utmost liberty of thought and of action in all matters, whether of politics or of religion, consistent with law, order, and constituted authority. No death's head and cross-bone denunciations against the free exercise of the elective franchise. No prayer of mercy, limited to heaven, but denied on earth, to the unhappy Catholic who shall dare to vote for a Conservative candidate. No, Sir, they consist no less in love of freedom, than in jealousy of Popery as an instrument of dominant political "power, and in ardent uncompromising attachment to the Protestant religion as by law established in these realms." 421 422
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I do not object to the adjournment of this debate: but I hope Gentlemen will consider, after the length to which it has been carried, an arguments so amply used on both sides, that we may on Monday next look for its conclusion.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, the Government had done everything which they possibly could in this case. Provisions to a great extent had been sent out, and the sending out of a vessel, and that vessel a steamer, would be most ineffective, because she could carry neither provisions nor coals to last for a twelvemonth. The House would also recollect that Sir John Rossi was expected to return in August, and would most possibly bring information up
 342
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, I have no objection at once to answer the question of the hon. Gentleman, but it is a very different question from that which was put by my right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester. The right hon. Member for Manchester complained of the great length of the debate upon the Second Heading of the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, and asked whether we could not suspend the adjournment of that debate, and whether we could not take a question of other business in the meantime. That seems to me to be a question improperly addressed to the Government, I should have been glad if the debate had finished on Monday last; but the question, is one which should have been addressed to those hon. Gentlemen who wished still to speak upon the question, but who, I apprehend, will find, in the end, that the matter has been tolerably well exhausted. With respect to the question of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the county of Cork, I have no hesitation in answering that, which was, whether, assuming the House comes to a second reading, we shall proceed to the other business; of the country? In answer to that question, I say, as it has been stated before, to the House, clearly and distinctly, that as soon as the House has decided upon the second reading of the present Bill, we shall go on, on the first Order night, with the Army Estimates. We shall endeavour to take the votes of the men for the Army immediately, so that we may bring in the Mutiny; Bill; and notice will be given on the next Order night respecting the bringing forward the Budget. On the next Order day we shall take the discussion on the renewal of the Income Tax. I therefore hope that this explanation will be perfectly satisfactory.
 MR. ROCHE  wished to call the attention of the House to the question which had been put by the right hon. Member for Manchester. That right hon. Gentleman had asked whether, after Her Majesty's Ministers took the Second Reading of the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, they would be prepared to go on with the other business of the country. He (Mr. Roche) hoped the noble Lord at the head of the Government would pay attention to that question. If the noble Lord compelled the House to go into a discussion upon the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, without any regard to many other important questions, to questions respecting Ireland—more particularly that of the tenant-right—the noble Lord must not be surprised if hon. Gentlemen coming from Ireland should, however reluctantly, avail themselves of all the forms of the House in order to insist upon this Bill, after having received its second reading, should stop there until the other business of the country was proceeded with. He supposed the noble Lord had a policy; he had got a Chancellor of the Exchequer, and no doubt that right
 344
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Mr. Speaker, I wish to call the attention of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and also the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to one or two matters connected with public business. I believe it may be stated with truth, that there has been only one sitting for the transaction of Government, business, and the night of the Navy Estimates may be said to be the first night of the Session. We know that the question of Papal aggression is the cause of considerable delay of public business. The question I wished to put to the noble Lord and his right hon. Colleague is this. Inasmuch as there is only practically a certain limited duration to Sessions of Parliament, inasmuch as many important public interests have a right to be heard and attended to in this House, I now ask the noble Lord whether it is fair, inasmuch as the responsibility devolves on him as the conductor of public business in this House, to appropriate so large a portion of the whole Session to the discussion of this question of Papal aggression. I willingly admit that great numbers of respectable people do take an interest in this question, but there are others who take an equally strong interest in other important questions, and I wish to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the alleged equalisation and reduction of the coffee duties. The right hon. Gentleman gives notice that he is going to reduce the coffee duties. What, Sir, is the effect of it? Why, until that reduction is known, no business can be carried on; you at once suspend and interrupt an important trade. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer gives notice to the world that he intends to deal with the coffee duties, I say it is the incumbent duty of the Government to proceed with those resolutions, which will enable the Customs to commence taking the new duties on the article in question. It is the same with the timber duties; and, representing as I do a large manufacturing and commercial constituency, I feel it my duty to make some complaint at the unfair appropriation of public time. I do not
 343
 SIR E. N. BUXTON  said, it would not be right to risk the lives of seamen by sending any further expedition in search of Sir J. Franklin and his crew. There were at the present time eleven vessels in the North Seas in search of them, and especially he would mention one vessel, the  Investigator, Investigator.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS : I will take this opportunity of putting the question to the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty on the subject of the Arctic expedition. I admit it is not so stimulative as personal questions affecting one individual; but I think I may call the attention of the House to the fact, that in the question of which I have given notice, are involved the lives of the seamen and officers of eleven vessels, and the sympathy of the whole country. My question then is, whether there are any causes of delay which have prevented the despatch of a steamer in search of Captain Austen, commanding Her Majesty's vessel in the Arctic seas? I shall say no more than that there was an intimation that such a vessel as that would be sent out by Her Majesty's Government in the course of the present season, conveying provisions and necessaries, and naval stores, for the relief of Captain Austen and the expedition under his command. On the 7th of February last, when moving for returns on the subject, I told my right hon. Friend that this is a question which demands instant attention. I said to him that what he was going to do might be of some avail if done speedily, but if postponed for six weeks would be worse than useless. I urged then, and I have repeatedly urged since, to lose no time, if it was intended to despatch this vessel. The general opinion has been that a steam-vessel would be sent out, not an expedition, but a single vessel carrying out stores, and bringing back intelligence of these eleven vessels. I have included in that number the two sent out by our brethren in America, much to the honour of the Government, and still more to the honour of the people. I believe, as I have before stated, that it is an unprecedented act, in which a foreign Government has sent out to the relief of men, not their own subjects; and I believe if the Government propose to send out a vessel with the object I have stated, that they will be supported universally in this House.
 SIR T. D. ACLAND  did not think it fair to blame the noble Lord for the time consumed in the discussion of the question on Papal aggression, because he did not think it was his noble Friend's fault. The noble Lord had not made very many or very long speeches, and certainly no very angry speeches on the subject.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it must be obvious that protection could only be given in this country by any Bill which Parliament could pass; but the present measure gave equal protection to all, whether natives or foreigners.
 MR. W. FAGAN , having on a previous occasion expressed his sentiments at great length on the question before the House, would endeavour to compress into the shortest possible space what he had then to offer to its consideration, and he claimed its indulgence as a matter of justice. His religion had been assailed in every possible form, and it was made a subject for legislation, and therefore he felt confident that he would receive the attention of the House. He would in the first place refer to the speech delivered on Thursday evening by
 429 430 431 432 433 434 In cœna Domini In cœna, Domini "There are portions of that bull that were in force from the time of Christ; but the bull, as a bull, is not in force, nor ever was in force in Ireland, and has been rejected by nearly all the Christian countries in Europe. If that were in force, there is scarcely anything would be at rest amongst the Catholic States of Europe; and they have been as solemn and as earnest in protesting against it as we have been at any time in England or Ireland," In cœna Domini. 435 436 "If there was any act which could only be operative by reason of a person being bishop of a territorial see, and holding a prohibited title, then that act would be void, and could not be sustained in any court of law. Such an act would be prohibited by the first clause." "The Bill proposed to do nothing more than this—to say, if you make any new bishops in Ireland, they will be exactly on the same footing as the old ones; and if you make any new bishops in this country, they will be exactly on the same footing as the Irish bishops." 437 438 439 440 441
 MR. SMYTHE : I wish, Sir, to state as briefly as I can my reason for renewing my vote against what I cannot help regarding as a sham Bill, of sham pains and sham penalties, against a sham aggression. And, Sir, I entertain myself such strong opinions on this measure, that I am not surprised at the indignation of tone adopted just now by the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of Cork (Mr. Fagan). Because, what are, after all, our relations with the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland? It is in vain and idle to shrink from, or to blink, or to evade this question. It cannot be denied that within the last ten years the State, weary perhaps of a sterile, unpopular, and expensive helpmate, has contracted a left-handed and morganatic alliance, through the Charitable Bequests Act, and the Maynooth Bill, with the Roman Catholic Church of Ireland. And yet, on the very first occasion and opportunity, you now seek to insult and to repudiate the bride of your not illegitimate and certainly not impolitic bigamy. In a far different spirit the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Colonies, in the spirit of a wise, a far-seeing, and a courageous statesman, overlooking the miserable scruples of a pedantic uniformity, has not hesitated to accord to the Roman Catholic prelates in the colonies those titles which Mr. Pitt would have accorded to them; and who, knowing probably from the routine of his office that we rule St. Lucie by French laws, Trinidad by Spanish laws, Demerara, Berbice, and the Cape, by Dutch laws, has seen no good reason why Malta should not have Catholic bishops, or why Catholic flocks should be deprived of epis-
 442 de facto Dei gratiâ non voluntate hominum Dei gratiâ non voluntate hominum, in foro conscientiœ, "God bless the King—God bless the faith's defender! God bless—there is no harm in blessing the Pretender. But who is that Pretender, or who that King, God bless us all! that's quite another thing!" 443 croyans mécreans mécreans mécreans mécreans "None but himself could be his parallel." 444 bonâ fide bonâ fide 445 Quod semper, quod ubique, quod ab omnibus Hodie in ecclesiam venenum infunditur 446
 MR. M. MILNES  said, that it was not without great pain that he had come to the conclusion that it was his duty to support the measure which had been introduced by Her Majesty's Ministers. He had arrived at that conclusion after the closest investigation he could give to the subject, for he had found himself unable to deny the proposition patent upon the Bill—that there had been an assumption of ecclesiastical titles which it was right and just that Parliament should prohibit. He could not help feeling, when he heard the admirable speech of the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth (Mr. Roundell Palmer), that he could have concurred most heartily with that hon. Gentleman, both in his premises and conclusions, if he could have believed that they were justified in arguing in so abstract a manner upon this question. He could not discard all the historical bearings of the case, and reduce the question to the bare theory, such as was generally to be met with in works on political economy, which almost always set out with "Suppose a man alone on an island." Supposing the question stood by itself, without any historical associations or political incidents, the arguments of the hon. and learned Member would have been entirely
 447 448 449 450 451 452 453 454
 MR. SADLEIR  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down fell into merciful hands, for he was disposed to deal with him in a spirit of the fullest charity. The hon. Member, however, in proceeding to give his reasons for voting in favour of that Bill, relieved any person from the trouble of reply, for the hon. Member, during the course of his address, had fully answered himself The hon. Member said there was hypocrisy in the declaration of allegiance made by the Roman Catholic Members; but, with that exception, his speech was free from that bitter invective, that wretched spirit of religious recrimination, which had given this debate the character of a most humiliating discussion, and which had pervaded the speeches in support of the Bill. The hon. Member admitted that there existed a latent hatred of Popery in this country. No doubt. But the hon. Member had adduced no reason for legislating against it; and that hatred of Catholicism arose from that dismal dark religious fanaticism which had always prevailed in England above all the nations of the world, and which formed the great practical obstacle to broad and enlightened legislation for a nation comprising Roman Catholic, Protestant, Presbyterian, and other forms of religion. The hon. Member laboured to establish that the letter of the Prime Minister was harmless; but the letter of the Prime Minister had given the religious excitement of the country a character, form, and spurious dignity it never could have attained otherwise. For the full and free development of the
 455 456 "I should think there is a material difference, because the vicar-apostolic depends, as to the existence of his office, upon the will of the See of Rome. He can be removed from it at the good pleasure of the Pope; the faculties which he exercises can be restricted, or limited, or modified, just as the See of Rome may please. It is not so with us bishops; we cannot be removed; we have a title to our place, our rights are defined from the Gospel and the canon laws—defined as well as those of the Pope himself. We could not be obliged to do anything by the mere good-will or pleasure of Rome." 457 458 459 460 461 462 bonâ fide "As I understand the disciptine of the Roman
 463 l in partibus 464
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY  observed, that it was with very great pain that he-felt himself compelled, upon the present occasion, to separate himself from the Irish Members. It had been his happiness to be associated with them for many years. He was sensible of their valuable services to the cause of civil and religious liberty, and he hoped they would do him the justice to admit that they had always had his; humble but sincere co-operation. He was also sorry to think that he should have to go into a different lobby from his hon. Friends of the Manchester school, who followed the leading of his experienced Friend the Member for Montrose. He was pained to think that he should be severed from persons for whose intelligence, and capacity, and character, he bad so unfeigned a respect; but it was consolatory to him to reflect that, upon this question, he had the masses and the millions at his back, to whom they so constantly referred. He looked upon the Pope's edict as an aggression on the supremacy of the Queen, both in Her spiritual and Her temporal capacity, and, as such, he, an Englishman and a Protestant, was prepared to resent it. He considered that an Act of Parliament on the subject was necessary to express the opinion of the people of England, and to prevent the recurrence of the offence. The measure was of light construction—that seemed to him an advantage; it contained no jot of religious restriction, and nothing like persecution. He did not believe that the open aggressions of the Pope, or the overt
 465 far niente In medio tutissimus ibis. 466 Matins Vespers? 467 468 tanquam suspectus; suspicione major. Dieu et mon droit.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down had stated that the measure of the Government was supported by the millions of England; and he was not prepared to deny that it was supported by many intelligent persons in this country; but how did that argument apply to the country with which he was connected, where it was opposed by the millions of Roman Catholics? and with regard to the other great bodies, the Presbyterians and the other Protestants of Ireland, whose loyalty could not be doubted, let the House consider for a moment what their opinions were. The hon. Gentleman near him, in a maiden speech a few evenings previously, said that the province of Ulster was unanimously in favour of the measure. That might be; but nothing that had reached him could lead him to the belief that that statement was well founded. With regard to the organs of public opinion in that province, he found that the representative of the opinions of the Presbyterians—a paper of high commercial character and respectability in Belfast, and the representative of the Protestant democracy of Ulster, had both declared against the present legislation.
 469 factum valeat, fieri non debet. 470 471 472
 MR. GRATTAN  said, he quite concurred in most of the observations that had fallen from his hon. Friend who represented the county of Cavan. He (Mr. Grattan) looked upon the struggle now going on between the Government and the Catholics as a war in disguise—and the worst kind of war, inasmuch as it was sought to be
 473 474 "I have before mc the greasy emblem of stall-fed theology, with the graces of a lady's maid and the dignity of the larder—its loyalty the dregs of its patron's bottle, and its religion the dregs of its patron's understanding—brought into Ireland to devour, defame, and degrade." 475 ad nauseam? 476 prœmunire prœmunire 477 fait accompli, prœmunire, 478 l. l. "Some disloyal symptoms have appeared at the Theatre; the men in the galleries are very uproarious; they clap for Buonaparte." "A high gallows on a windy day, For little John to swing away." 479 Cries of Laughter. 480
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  did not rise to incumber the debate with any argument on any topic immediately before it. He repeated, he would attempt no fresh arguments in an exhausted discussion. He simply rose to repudiate a most unwarrantable attack which had been made a few nights ago, in that House, upon the Roman Catholic faith—an attack which he held to be most disgraceful to that House. He rose, as an indignant Protestant, to repudiate emphatically such aid as had been offered to their glorious Protestant cause by the hon. Member for West Surrey. He maintained that the speech spoken by that hon. Member was a disgrace to any cause that was ever brought under the deliberation of any assembly. Let the House for a moment inquire if that was a pure vessel from which such a stream of religious vituperation had been poured. Let the House understand whether that bird of ill omen, which had attempted to foul the nests of others, did not himself reside in a nest which would not bear being looked into. When the hon. Member for West Surrey delivered the unworthy attack upon the Roman Catholics of the United Kingdom, he ought to have been perfectly certain that he himself did not reside in a glass house. The hon. Member accused the Roman Catholics of idolatry and of bigotry, and taunted them with their belief in alleged most ridiculous, miracles. Now, had the hon. Member himself never expressed a faith in supernatural agencies? Had the hon. Member never confessed a belief in the ghost which haunted Albury Park? Had the hon. Member never believed—perhaps because of the multiplication of mirrors in the rooms—that ghosts haunted his own mansion? Had not the hon. Member, in his belief of a ghost, gone the length of pulling down several of the old apartments? [ Cries of 481
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  had no wish to put himself forward in the debate, as he had nothing new to suggest; but he felt himself bound to express his opinions on the subject, that his constituents might know what they were, and his reasons for entertaining them. In any observation that he should make, however, he deprecated the slightest feeling of asperity or unkindness, and would not willingly say a word to wound the feelings of any one. To his Roman Catholic fellow-countrymen he would say, that, as far as religion was concerned, he could have no sympathy with them. There was a great gulf between them, which could not be bridged over. He had too firm an attachment to the pure and apostolic branch of the Catholic Church in which he had been reared, to entertain any such sympathy. But while he respected the convictions of his fellow-countrymen, at the same time that he differed from them, he could hold out the right hand of fellowship, and refer to the time when, within the walls of that House, he had fought with them side by side in defence of religious liberty. Mindful of the legacy left him by the great statesman whose name he unworthily bore, he was now proud to stand side by side with his Roman Catholic fellow-countrymen on the same platform—the floor of that House—in defence of civil and religious liberty. It was with sentiments of gratitude he had heard that night, from one bearing the name of Grattan, justice done to the memory of Lord Castlereagh, in the acknowledgment that that eminent statesman had been the friend of civil and religious liberty. With regard to the Bill before the House, the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs expressed his surprise that any one could object to it, it being, he said, so small a measure. The noble Lord, however, was hardly a fair judge of that. The people of Ireland viewed it with feelings of great indignation. The House at first was anxious for a strong measure; but now it seemed disposed to accept anything. The voice of the whole people of Ireland were against the Bill, and surely the Govern-
 482 "Ireland, with all those blessings which Providence has so profusely showered into her lap, has been under our stewardship for the last 120 years; but our solicitude for her has appeared only in those hours of danger when we apprehended the possibility of her joining our enemies; or when, having no enemy abroad to contend with, she raised her standard, perhaps in despair, and we trembled for our own existence. It cannot be denied that the sole object of England has been to render Ireland a safe neighbour. The greatest mockery of all, the most intolerable insult, the course of pe-
 483 "I should implore any Government to pause before it enters upon the task of withdrawing from the Irish Roman Catholics privileges already granted. We cannot replace the Roman Catholics in the position in which we found them when the system of relaxation and indulgence began. We have given them the opportunities of acquiring education, wealth, and power. We have removed, with our hands, the seal from the vessel in which a mighty spirit was enclosed; but it will not, like the genius in the fable, return within its narrow confines to gratify our curiosity, and enable us to cast it back into the obscurity from which we evoked it. If we begin to recede, there is no limit which we can assign to our recession. We shall occasion a violent reaction—violent in proportion to the hopes that have been repeatedly excited. It must be coerced by new rigours, provoking in their turn fresh resistance. The re-enactment of the penal laws, even if practicable, would not suffice. The trial by jury must be abolished; at least the Roman Catholic must be incapacitated from serving as a juror. What would be the ultimate issue of this contest? A more marked separation of the people of Ireland into distinct and mutually hostile classes; a more complete monopoly of every civil right and franchise for the Protestant—unmixed and unqualified degradation for the Catholic."—[2  Hansard
 MR. A. J. B. HOPE  would detain the House a very short time. Under ordinary circumstances, he would not have again addressed the House, after speaking on a former stage; but the whole history of this Bill had been so abnormal as to justify deviation from common rules. In all
 484 l. entente cordiale entente cordiale 485
 LORD J. RUSSELL , said, hon. Members must feel that the debate had been carried on a sufficient time to enable the House to come to a decision. He found that twenty-six Members had spoken against the Bill, and twenty-two Members for it. They had heard the ablest arguments which could, he thought, be urged against further proceedings with the measure. He thought, if six days' debate were added to those which had been already gone through, they could not have more able arguments. He did trust, therefore, that if there were any hon. Gentlemen who wished further to address the House, that they would he heard now.
 MR. MOORE  would take the liberty of calling the noble Lord's attention to the; great number of Members who still wished to speak. In the noble Lord's estimate, perhaps he had forgotten that the representatives of Ireland had occupied but a very small portion. They had not occupied above five or six hours of the whole I debate, and many Irish Members no doubt wished to speak. The House would recollect that at least twelve or thirteen hours had been occupied in support of the Bill; and the Irish Members having occupied so small a portion of time, he thought they had a right to an adjournment.
 MR. SCULLY  begged to remind the House that the measure was one affecting the interests of 7,000,000 of Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects in this kingdom. There were some thirty-five or forty Catholic Members in that House, only seven of whom had spoken on the question; and he thought that was a sufficient reason for a further adjournment of the debate. The question was one which affected the Roman Catholics only, and they should therefore have the fullest opportunity afforded them of stating their opinions and arguments, before the House came to any decision. He thought it most desirable for the interests of the people of Ireland that the measure should be fully discussed; and the Government would be acting most wisely if they did not press the House to a division upon the Bill that evening.
 SIR G. GREY  said, it appeared from the record kept at the table, that fourteen Irish Members had addressed the House upon this subject; and the time they had occupied, instead of being only 5 or 6 hours, had been 11½ hours. But the question was not what time they had occupied.
 487
 MR. OSWALD  had no wish unnecessarily to prolong the debate; but, as this Bill affected Scotland, and only one single Member for that part of the United Kingdom had addressed the House during the discussion, he was anxious to hear from some of the Scotch representatives who sat behind the Treasury bench their reasons for desiring that the measure should be extended to Scotland, where there had been no Papal aggression, and where the whole state of the case was very different from what it was in England.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  said, they had been told by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary that which they knew very well, and of which they were determined to avail themselves, that those hon. Members who had not yet spoken would have opportunities of doing so on other stages of the measure. He had risen two or three times during the progress of the debate, but he had not been fortunate enough to catch the Speaker's eye, and he, as an Irish Roman Catholic Member, claimed his right to be heard. [ Cries of
 The EARL OF ARUNDEL AND SURREY  said, he agreed with the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that it was desirable that this debate should be brought to a close as soon as possible; but, at the same time, he must call on the noble Lord
 488
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that when the noble Lord appealed to him not to divide against the adjournment of the debate, it seemed to him (Lord J. Russell) that there was but little chance of their coming very soon to that result which the noble Lord had himself admitted, and he (Lord J. Russell) agreed with the noble Lord was most desirable. He must remind the noble Lord that there were several notices of one kind or other on the paper, which it was desirable should; be considered; and as the seven Irish Roman Catholic Members who had spoken, had taken six nights to do it in, if the remaining thirty were also to speak, he knew not when the debate would terminate.
 MR. REYNOLDS  begged to remind the House that the adjournment of the debate had been moved by an English, and not an Irish, Member; and that though the noble Lord had counted forty-eight Members who had spoken upon this subject, those who were opposed to this Bill had not been charged, up to that hour, with having offered any factious opposition to the measure. ["Oh, oh!"] He repeated that phrase. Now, the course that should be pursued that night would have the effect of deciding whether the Bill was to receive a factious opposition for the future. The principle of the Bill was to be discussed on the second reading. Let him, then, remind the House, that many Irish Members, themselves anxious to speak on this question, and yet equally anxious to hear the sentiments of English Members upon it, had given them the precedence in the debate. But, without recurring to all
 489 490
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  moved that the House "do now adjourn."
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  seconded the Motion.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the hon. Members who had just spoken seemed to be anxious to have the glory of conducting a factious opposition; but he saw no reason why the House should indulge them in that desire. The House had, by a majority of 414 against 64, very clearly pronounced that whatever might be the disposition of speakers to go on speaking, the listeners were quite satisfied. Having said this much, and declared his entire satisfaction with the expression of opinion which the House had just made, he would only add, that, as the debate had continued so long, he would not now oppose its adjournment till a later period of this day. [ Cries of
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  would withdraw his Motion, on the understanding that the House should adjourn till Five, the usual hour.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  then moved the adjournment till Twelve o'clock.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  moved as an
 491
 COLONEL RAWDON  hoped that the hon. Member for the city of Limerick would not persist in his Amendment. He had made this request, having been one of those who voted in the minority; and he had voted in the minority on the ground that this was the first time that a great question affecting the religion of the Roman Catholics had been mooted in that House since the Roman Catholics had seats there. He could not be accused of anything like factious conduct, when he stated that his intention was to vote for the second reading of the Bill. At the same time he thought it important that the entire Roman Catholic Members of the House should, if they wished it, be enabled to express their opinions on the Bill before the House, especially after the extraordinary expressions that had fallen in the debate, and more particularly from the hon. Member for West Surrey, on a point in the Roman Catholic religion on which they must be peculiarly sensitive; and these expressions, although apologised for, he was sorry to say had not been retracted. He therefore thought it but just—but courteous as Gentlemen at all events—that Roman Catholic Members should have an opportunity of defending themselves, and repelling these charges. He did hope, therefore, that the hon. Member for the city of Limerick would withdraw his Amendment, and allow the noble Lord to fix the hour of Twelve, as a full opportunity would, by that means, be accorded to every hon. Member who wished to address the House.
 MR. MOORE  did think it important that a question of this kind should not have the appearance of heat or haste. He was quite sure that it should not have the appearance of being forced unduly through the House. They should proceed in the usual way.
 MR. O'FLAHBRTY  said, that it was then past one o'clock, and yet the Irish Roman Catholic Members were called upon to be there at Twelve o'clock to discuss a Bill which affected them so vitally. It was thus they were treated when their religion and their country were at stake.
 MR. LAWLESS  said, that a great mistake was made by the noble Lord when he called the opposition now offered to his Bill a factious opposition. There were sixty-four
 492
 MR. KEOGH  thought that, upon a fair examination of the time which had been occupied, not only by the Irish Members, but by the Roman Catholic Members, who were peculiarly interested in this question, it would not be found that they had occupied an unreasonable time. On looking at a statement which had that evening been furnished to hon. Members, he found that those hon. Gentlemen who had spoken in favour of the Bill had occupied a much longer time than those who had spoken against it. He therefore put it to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, whether it was reasonable or fair that, this Debate having lasted till half-past one o'clock, they should be called upon to meet again, in hot haste, at Twelve o'clock that morning, as if this were a Coercion Bill which the noble Lord was anxious to press. He (Mr. Keogh) had assisted the noble Lord in carrying measures when the necessities of the country demanded speed; but considering that the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford, and the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon, were expected to speak upon this question, and, not at all speaking in a jocular spirit, he might also add the name of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Windsor, as likely to speak—indeed, as the first Irish law officer of the Crown, the Irish Members had a right to demand the benefit of the legal opinion of the right hon. Gentleman; and in these circumstances he would venture to submit that the Motion of the noble Lord ought not to be agreed to.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  said, he had consented to withdraw his Motion, on the understanding that the debate should not be resumed until the usual evening sitting this day. He regretted that an advantage had been taken of the course to which he had consented. The noble Lord had accused his brother, the hon. Member for the
 493
 LORD J. RUSSELL : The hon. Member did not quite understand me. I understood the hon. Member for the city of Dublin to say, that unless the Debate was adjourned, he intended to make a factious opposition. The hon. Member might have said that he intended to propose the adjournment, but that he did not consider that conduct to be factious. With regard to what has been said by the hon. and learned Member for Athlone, I may observe that I merely desire that the Debate should be proceeded with this evening. From a I statement which was made to me, in the course of debate, I was induced to believe that it was the intention of the hon. Gentlemen to bring on their Motions this evening, so that the adjourned Debate should not come on. However, if it is understood that the Debate shall have precedence of other business, I have no objection to the House not meeting till the usual hour.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, the noble Lord was mistaken in supposing that he could be a party to a factious opposition. He begged also to state that the party with whom he acted had determined not to obstruct by a factious opposition the second reading of this Bill.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  moved the Second Reading of this Bill, for the purpose of having it printed.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to know if the Bill gave the same protection to the
 494
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wanted to know whether English exhibitors were to be protected from piracy in foreign countries?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would oppose the Motion. It was a Bill for the aggrandisement of foreigners at the expense of Englishmen. The Exhibition Commissioners had cut down enough of trees in Hyde Park to hang the whole lot of them.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  hoped the hon. and gallant Member would not insist in opposing this Bill. Everybody must agree that it was desirable to give adequate protection to designs intended for the Exhibition against piracy. The Bill had been referred to a Select Committee in the Lords, and all the law Lords had approved of it. He, therefore, hoped there would be no objection to the second rending of the Bill.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  had no doubt but in the event of any similar exhibition being attempted by any other country, full protection would be secured to English exhibitors by foreign Governments.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the Bill gave protection equally to all persons exhibiting, whether English or foreigners. He had received many applications from manufacturers in various parts of the country in favour of the Bill.
 MR. WESTHEAD  thought the Bill was of great importance to a large portion of the industrial classes in this country; and therefore he hoped, the second reading would be proceeded with. Any objections to the details of the Bill could be fully discussed hereafter.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, there was no security to the English manufacturer that foreigners who visited the Exhibition might not pirate his goods when they returned to their own country.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL : I did not say so.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL : What I said was, that the Roman Catholics themselves had put it on that ground—asserting that territorial titles were essential to synodal action; so that taking away those titles such action would be prevented.
 The EARL OF ARUNDEL AND SURREY  rose, but was informed by Mr. Speaker that he was not entitled to reply.
 MR. LAWLESS  considered that every Member representing a Catholic constituency was bound to raise his voice against the present Bill, and he felt himself the more bound to do so because he was a Protestant representing a Catholic constituency. He felt doubly impelled to participate in that discussion, for he was acutely affected by the insult which was offered to his Roman Catholic electors and fellow-countrymen, and their venerated clergy, by the present system of legislation. When the noble Lord now at the bead of the Government succeeded to office, bonfires of rejoicing were lighted up throughout Ireland, because the people remembered the opinions he had expressed in Opposition, and especially his declaration that Ireland was occupied, and not governed. There were now, however, other bonfires in Ireland, and in every one of them the noble Lord was burnt in effigy. It might be said this was but a proof of the fickleness of popularity, and of the capriciousness of the people. That he denied. It was the noble Lord who had been capricious, for he had not fulfilled his promises. The noble Lord had given the Irish people Arms Acts and Coercion Acts; and he (Mr. Lawless) had the authority of Mr. Berwick, a revising barrister in the south of Ireland, for stating that the Franchise Act passed for Ireland, would, so far from operating beneficially, be a disfranchising Act with regard to a large portion of that country. Then in the terrible famine with
 534 535 536 Times, Times 537
 MR. S. HERBERT  said: As the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary has alluded to me on a matter of fact, perhaps the House will allow me to state the facts. The right hon. Baronet read two documents for which he held me responsible. I objected to the first, and never heard of the second until the right hon. Baronet read it. I suppose it had been adopted after I left the meeting. In moving the resolution which the right hon. Baronet read, and which I stand to, I pointed out to the meeting what I have attempted to point out to the House, that the way to meet spiritual aggressions is not by Acts of Parliament; and I argued as strongly as I could argue, that penal enactments would fail, and that it was by spiritual resistance on the part of those opposed to Popery that this aggression must be met.
 MR. S. HERBERT : He could save the right hon. Baronet much trouble, if he would allow him to say that be had distinctly declined to sign the Address, because he could not agree in its sentiments.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I quoted that as the opinion of Dr. Twiss.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I have borne a sincere testimony to my desire not to intrude upon the House, by last night voting against the adjournment of the debate; and I hope, under these circumstances, late as is the hour, and considering that few of those Gentlemen with whom I have the honour to act have addressed the House—trusting perhaps to my feeble expression of their views on the subject—I hope I may be allowed the opportunity, with extreme brevity, of expressing my views as to the general question which has been mooted, and as to the particular measure which is now offered to our consideration. We have been informed by the Minister that an aggression has been committed on the supremacy of the Sovereign and the honour of the nation; and by the same means that this information was conveyed to us, we were apprised that that aggression had been committed by a Prince of no great power. Following this intimation of the noble Lord, the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield talks of a poor and feeble priest; and more than one hon. Gentleman have taken opportunities of reminding us that the present possessor of the Papal See is surrounded by French bayonets; and they have founded upon those reiterated circumstances a reason for countenancing that aggression which the Government announces to have taken place. Let me remind the House that more than three centuries ago the Pope of Rome was not only supported, if I may use that expression, by French bayonets, but that Rome itself was taken and sacked by a French Prince, and that the Pope of those days suffered indignities greater than any that have been experienced by Pius IX., and humiliations more
 598 599 600 601 602 603 604 605 turning to the interruptor
 MR. HAWES  said, that the despatch was received on the 4th of January, 1851, and no answer had yet been returned to it. When an answer was sent, it would be laid on the table of the House. With regard to the paragraphs pointed out by the hon. Baronet, he had to say that the copy of the letter laid before the House had been printed from the copy of the Bishop's letter transmitted by the Governor General of Australia, and the words to which he I had referred were not printed as a quotation. With regard to the word "not," in the last paragraph, it was a typographi cal error on the part of the printer, and I which arose in this way: the copy sent to the Government had a marginal note with the word "not" inserted, and a mark of doubt along with it, but it was printed with it. The document had not come under his (Mr. Hawes's) notice, and he was not aware of the circumstance until the hon. Baronet had pointed it out to him. On being made acquainted with the error, he had immediately ordered a corrected copy to be laid on the table. If there was any variance between the copy sent and the original document, he of course could give no account of that; all the Government could do was to lay on the table of the House that which was sent to them.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the lion. Gentleman was in order. He was only stating facts, and not giving opinions.
 MR. SCULLY  thought the speech of the hon. Member for Birmingham was fitted for such times as those that had preceded the passing of the Emancipation Act, attacking as it did the Roman Catholics both in that House and out of it, as well as the Supreme Pontiff, whom they were bound, as their spiritual head, to love, honour, and respect. The hon. Member had said that they had all acknowledged that there had been an act of aggression on the part of the Pope; but surely, if he had paid attention to hon. Gentlemen, professing another creed from the Roman Catholic, who had spoken during these debates, he ought to have had grounds for forming a very different I opinion on that point from that at which he appeared to have arrived. How the so-called aggression affected the pockets or persons of any one in this country he could not understand. The Roman rescript only gave to England what had existed in Ireland for fourteen centuries. Besides, there was just as much aggression in appointing vicars-apostolic as in appointing those bishops, as had been shown by the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth. The number of Roman Catholics having increased from 67,000 in 1760, to upwards of 1,000,000 now, their chapels exceeding 800, and colleges, monasteries, and other institutions having sprung up, were good reasons why a change should be made in the mode of governing the Roman Catholic Church in this country, from vicars-apostolic to bishops in ordinary. What had been done could not be undone. The total withdrawal of a bull or rescript was very rare; and there I was no reason for the withdrawal of the rescript establishing a hierarchy, the establishment of which, for the above reasons, he thought fit and proper. As a friend of religious liberty, he opposed this Bill. Let it be passed, and he felt that a Roman Catholic in the united kingdom would stand in a very different position from his fellow-religionist in any other part of the British
 542 543 544
 SIR F. THESIGER : I said the noble Lord himself had called it so.
 SIR F. THESIGER  believed it to be the general desire—he wished he could say it was the general expectation—of the House, that they should come to a division to-night. He felt that he was about to speak upon an exhausted subject, and to a wearied audience; and he certainly would not have ventured to present himself under these disadvantages, but I that he most earnestly desired to have an opportunity of explaining his views of the measure now before them, in order that the course he had determined to pursue should not be mistaken. This was not a discussion into which one would willingly enter, for it was impossible to express an opinion freely upon it without giving offence to the religious feeling of a large portion of their fellow-subjects, whatever inclination or endeavour there might be to avoid it. He trusted nobody would think for a moment that he was capable of wounding the feelings—particularly the religious feelings—of any one; but it was impossible to do justice to the subject without touching on topics that necessarily and unhappily would produce that effect. On the one hand, the Protestants believed there had been an unjustifiable aggression committed against them; the Roman Catholics, on the other hand, felt that the course which was adopted for repressing that aggression involved in it an invasion of their civil and religious liberties. It was out of the collision of those opposite opinions that the result of their deliberations was to be elicited. Now, he had been most anxious during the whole of this debate to hear a satisfactory explanation given of the mode in which the Bill now under consideration would carry out the proposed object of the noble Lord. He had heard aggression denounced in strong and emphatic language by all who considered that legislation was necessary; he had heard the insolent and haughty tone of the Papal briefs spoken of, even by those who opposed the present legislation; but he had not heard one satisfactory explanation of the mode in which the measure of the noble Lord would either repress the present aggression, or would raise any barrier to prevent aggression in future. They had been told that it was a wise and politic maxim not to legislate beyond the necessity. He agreed in that point; but the question in every case must be, what is the necessity? If there be a mischief and inconvenience, arising from the present state of the law, the obvious remedy was to change the law, and to repress the evil; but sup-
 551 552 553 554 in partibus. 555 556 exequatur, "Let us suppose that there is some bull introduced into this country similar to those we heard of in former days—let us suppose, and it would be almost extravagant to suppose it, that there was any attempt of the Pope to assert any sovereign authority in this realm, or interfere with the Queen's authority—my belief is, that no such bull would be observed by any Roman Catholic, but that it would be a dead letter. I am sure that if any person acted contrary to his alle-
 557 Hansard, "There is an assumption of power in all the documents which have come from Home—a pretension to sovereignty over the realm of England, and a claim to sole and undivided sway, which is inconsistent with the Queen's supremacy, with the rights of our bishops and clergy, and with the spiritual independence of the nation, even as asserted in Roman Catholic times." 558 559 Ecclesia suam retinet jurisdictionem in omnes apostatos, hereticos, et schismaticos, quanquam ad illius corpus non jam pertineant. Societas Protestantium sese a schismatis reatu excusare non potest. 560 "Your beloved country has received a place among the fair churches which, normally constituted, form the splendid aggregate of the Catholic communion. Catholic England has been restored to its orbit in the ecclesiastical firmament, from which its light had long vanished, and begins now anew its course of regularly-adjusted action round the centre of unity, the source of jurisdiction, of light, and of vigour." reculer pour mieux sauter. 561 562 563 564
 MR. MUNTZ  explained that what he had intended to convey in the course of his speech was the opinion that the Pope had no right to do in this Protestant country what he had not been permitted to do in any other country, Catholic or Protestant.
 MR. MUNTZ  thought it a thousand I pities that the Government connived at, or, at all events, did not protest against the occupation of Rome by French troops; I because, if they had done that, the Pope would have had other duties to attend to than to make aggressions of this kind, by appointing cardinals, archbishops, and bishops, and thereby injuring and disturbing all society in this country. He would not support this Bill as being a mere question between Catholics and Protestants. He had a right to his own religion, and the Catholic had the same right to his; and if the Catholic chose to treat his religion as ridiculous, he could return the compliment and call his ridiculous. The fact was it came to the old story, that orthodoxy was every man's own doxy; and other men's doxies were heterodoxy. But the real question before the House was—has the Pope committed an aggression against the Sovereign, and also against the people of this country? One extraordinary fact manifested in that discussion was, that almost every hon. Member, without an exception, who opposed the Bill of the noble Lord, had admitted that an impudent, an arrogant, and an insolent aggression had been committed. All had made that admission but those who were under the influence of the Pope; and they could not expect that Catholic Members, under such influence, would regard that as an aggression which they thought was for their own good, and which was done by order of
 538 539 540 541
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  rose to order. The hon. Baronet was raising questions to which there was no doubt another side, which there could be no opportunity of presenting to the House.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  was willing, on behalf of his Roman Catholic brethren, to make any declaration, however strong and comprehensive, for the purpose of satisfying his Protestant fellow-subjects, that the Pope had no temporal jurisdiction in this kingdom. He regretted the continuance of this protracted discussion, as likely to add to the venom of religious discord already too active; but all the blame rested with the noble Lord at the head of the Government. The Roman Catholic religion had been attacked by the Bill, and the Roman Catholic Members should of course stand up in its defence. All the old exploded calumnies had been revived against them and their religion, and accusations the most insulting and untrue had been levelled not only against the
 527 528 529 splendide mendax 530 531 "They have been a scourge and reproach to the country, and no one can think of the evils which have been caused by them without shedding bitter tears." "While we are obliged to give to God the things which are God's, so we are to give to Cæsar the things which are Cæsar's; that is, it is our clear duty to be submissive to the established order in the land in temporal things. Even when groaning under awful persecutions, the early Christians thought it right to submit to the ruling Powers of the day. If any persons refuse to listen to your instructions in these things, give me their names, and I will give you the power to pass on them the awful sentence of excommunication, by which they shall be cut off from the bosom of that Church out of which there is no salvation." "It is better to suffer death itself than to commit the slightest sin." "We may lawfully endeavour to get our grievances redressed; but, in doing so, we are never to take vengeance into our own hands, or resist the State powers, whatever they may be." 532 533 "It is highly derogatory to the Roman Catholic bishops and clergy, that you now provide by statute against the former being called by the name of the diocese over which they preside. Such distinctions are, I think, foolish. You deny Dr. Murray the title of Archbishop of Dublin, but he is Archbishop of Dublin nevertheless."
 MR. HUME : He did no more than has in effect been done by other sects.
 MR. HUME  said, that as the hon. Member for Birmingham had ventured on the rash assertion, that nobody except some person who was under the direct control of the Pope would be found to express an opinion against this unfortunate Bill, he, whom no one would suspect of being under the influence of the Holy See, would, with the permission of the House, take leave to place on record his emphatic and unqualified denunciation of the measure. He was perfectly free from the influence of the Court of Rome. He was a Protestant and an Englishman, and in each
 545 546 547 548 549
 MR. HUME  said, that reflections had already been thrown out on certain parties, and he objected to such statements being made, as they could not then be answered, and therefore went forth unanswered.
 MR. PORTAL  said, he was fully sensible of the disadvantages under which he laboured in presenting himself to the House at this late period of the debate; he had
 524 525 526
 MR. P. HOWARD , amidst loud cries of "Divide!" protested against the imputation that the Roman Catholics of England and of the sister country claimed by the institution of the hierarchy any temporal authority. Still more decidedly did he protest against those expressions of the right hon. Gentleman, that he was about to impose the "brand" of illegal conduct upon a third of the inhabitants of the country.
 MR. HOBHOUSE : Sir, in moving the adjournment of the debate at the close of our last sitting, I beg to assure the House that I was not actuated by any personal vanity, but I took this step because there was a general understanding that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, and others of considerable influence, were anxious to state their opinions upon this subject. I will now take the opportunity of saying that the more I have listened to the arguments which have been addressed to the House, the more time and leisure I have had to examine and sift the question, the more have I become fortified in my original conviction, which was always been opposed to any legislation in the case. Sir, if I
 515 per clerum et popu-lum. 516 History of Scotland, "In August thereafter [ i. e., 517 518 reductio ad absurdum 519 "1. Has the Pope, or Cardinals, or any body of men, or any individual of the Church of Rome, any civil authority, power, jurisdiction, or preeminence whatsoever within the realm of England? 2. Can the Pope, or Cardinals, or any body of men, or any individual of the Church of Rome, absolve or dispense with his Majesty's subjects from their oath of allegiance upon any pretext whatsoever? 3. Is there any principle in the tenets of the Catholic faith by which Catholics are justified in not keeping faith with heretics, or other persons differing from them in religious opinions, in any transaction either of a public or a private nature?" "struck with astonishment that such questions should, at the end of this eighteenth century, be proposed to any learned body by inhabitants of a kingdom that glories in the talents and discernment of its natives, answers every one of them in the negative." "It follows, that the sovereign power of the State is in no wise (not even indirectly, as it is termed) subject to or dependent upon any other Power, though it be a spiritual power, or even though it be instituted for eternal salvation; "and adds," which she believes that, at this day, there is no society of learned men, nor any one learned man, in the whole Catholic world, who would not he ready to subscribe to them, as it is said, with both hands." "In this censure the other faculties of the University of Paris, and several other universities in France, as Toulouse, Valence, Bordeaux, Poictiers, Caen, and Rheims, concurred with great applause." 520 lex sub graviori lege, 521 Analogy. 522 523
 MR. GLADSTONE : Mr. Speaker, have listened, and I believe the House also has listened to the speech which has just been delivered by my hon. and learned Friend, with gratitude to him for the information he conveyed to us with regard to his views of the state of the law, and at the same time with the admiration which I never fail to experience, not only for his talents, but for the fairness and ingenuousness with which he states his views, and which in him, at least, as in many others, is united with the character of a highly distinguished and accomplished lawyer. But the view of my hon. and learned Friend, as I understood it, is a view formidable indeed. I am obliged to him for his clear disclosure of his view, because I think it is well that this House, which is now invited to enter on a new path, of which we see the beginning it is true, but of which no man among us may see the end, should at least consider the direction in which it tends. That was to me an ominous part of the speech of my hon. and learned Friend which described the course of events in this country during and since 1829. What did he tell us of benefits abused and defences surrendered to the inroads of the enemy?
 566 567 568 569 Cries of 570 571
 MR. GLADSTONE : My hon. and learned Friend says the noble Lord himself so described his own measure. I must leave the noble Lord to settle that matter with his supporter. But, passing on from these epithets, I come to the representations which have been given of this Bill by the highest authorities. No one has spoken of the Bill more cruelly than some of those hon. Members who have made ingenious speeches in its favour. No speech was more ingenious and straightforward than that of the hon. and learned Attorney General. And how did that hon. and learned Gentleman deal with it? He told us, in regard to the state of the law, that we had a law to prevent the introduction of bulls into England, and that an act which was illegal had been committed; but that there was no law to prevent the Pope's parcelling out of the kingdom into dioceses, and the assumption of territorial titles therein. Well, then, an act illegal has been committed, and another act not illegal; and the illegal act—the bringing in bulls—you are now asked to leave unscathed; while the innocent and lawful act—the assumption of territorial titles—you are asked to render penal by an  ex post facto 572 573
 MR. GLADSTONE : I have no doubt now as to the hon. and learned Gentleman's denial, and will not therefore believe the evidence of my own hearing in opposition to it.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Dr. Twiss is, no doubt, a very great authority; but I should very much like to know whether the noble Lord adopts the opinion of Dr. Twiss. The noble Lord does not appear to be disposed to throw any light upon that point. What I say is this, the fact of the episcopal office for a long period of years having annexed to it civil incidents, does not justify you in treating that office as civil when those incidents are removed from it. If the appointment of bishops is  per se 580 581 582 583 "We take it to be clear, in point of law, that His Majesty's supremacy in ecclesiastical affairs, being a branch of His prerogative, does take place in the Plantations, and that synods cannot be held, nor is it lawful for the clergy to assemble as in a synod without his royal license." 584 585 586 "The gradual failure of the hierarchy was felt, and a plan to divide England into two districts, with certain arrangements of order and subordination, was formed. But to this the regulars objectted, as tending to interfere with their special exemptions and privileges. In 1586 the matter advanced further. There were three plans: bishops in ordinary, bishops  in partibus, "In fact, so generally was it understood that the appointment of bishops would be acceptable to Elizabeth and her Ministers, that the Catholic opposers of the measure used this very circumstance as an objection to it, observing that it was impossible to suppose that any plan could be acceptable to their adversaries if they did not foresee that it would essentially prejudice the Catholic religion. At first, however, the whole Catholic
 587 "It appears by a letter of Father Augustine, Prior of the English Benedictine Monks at Douay, that two clergymen, soliciting the appointment of bishops, were then at Rome." "The measure was not displeasing to the King, provided they chose a man of moderate principles, and not disagreeable to himself." 588 589 "A government unknown to Christendom, and having no independent power, which was dependent on the Pope's will, and therefore arbitrary and uncertain." [Now listen again,]" And because the government by vicars-apostolic was against the spirit of the ancient laws of England," whereas "an ordinary bishop will be obliged to espouse his Majesty's and the kingdom's interests in the duo execution of the said laws." [And lastly,] "that the very name of a vicar-apostolic will raise in his Majesty's Protestant subjects an apprehension of the kingdom's being subjected to the immediate jurisdiction of a foreign Court, against the provisions of which Court, either ecclesiastical or civil, all his Catholic ancestors thought themselves obliged to stand upon their guard." [And James's answer was,] "I will admit of no bishops from Rome, but with ordinary powers, nor shall Mr. Leyburn be received in the character of vicar-apostolic." "Did he think the Catholics of England so depended on the will of the Pontiff, or were so completely a part of his stock, that without their consent he could dispose of them, or give them away, as he may his sheep, that roam for food over the putrid plains of the Campagna, or on the parched sides of the Appenines?" 590 "To pave the way for having bishops in ordinary elected"—[I am going to read words that doubtless you will take advantage of]—" elected by the clergy, on two grounds; first, on account of the great utility of the change in the present circumstances of the English Catholics; secondly, on the supposition that the Legislature might soon require that change to be made." 591 "That the See of Rome was ready to recede from the nomination of apostolic vicars, in whom, at present, was vested the ecclesiastical government of the Catholics of Great Britain, and thus to liberate Her Majesty's Catholic subjects from all vicarial or delegated power." pro tanto, 592 593 594 "Scilicet et tempus veniet, cum finibus illis Agricola, incurve- terrain molitus aratro, Exesa inveniet scabrâ rubigine pila: Aut gravibus rastris galeas pulsabit inanes, Grandiaque effosis mirabitur ossa sepulchris." 595 semper eadem; 596 597 and
 MR. GLADSTONE : I remember the hon. and learned Gentleman referring to
 574 575 Ironical cries of Cries of and 576 577 578 579
 SIR GEORGE GREY  rose to reply, and said that at that late hour, and after the protrated debate they had listened to, he was unwilling to trespass on the attention of the House, but he felt it his duty to make some observations in reference to some of the arguments which had been employed. He felt it impossible not
 606 607 608 "In order to take into consideration the propriety of giving expression to the almost universal public feeling with regard to the recent proceedings of the Homan hierarchy, by the adoption of an Address to our gracious and beloved Queen, by petitioning both Houses of Parliament, and by the adoption of such other measures as may be considered advisable,' the high sheriff of the county in the chair. It was moved by the Hon. Sidney Herbert, seconded by the Rev. the Dean of Sarum, 'That this meeting regards with profound indignation the present attempt of the Court of Rome to establish, by the authority of a foreign potentate, a Roman Catholic hierarchy in England; that it considers this aggression on the Protestantism of this nation to be repugnant to the spirit of the constitution of this realm; that it involves an unwarrantable usurpation of the Royal prerogative, and a gross insult on the British people; and that it imposes, therefore, on all who value the blessings to the country of its Protestant institutions, the duty of uniting promptly, firmly, and uncompromisingly in the most determined resistance." 609
 SIR G. GREY : Well, then, he had nothing more to say on that subject, except that the Address very closely corresponded to the language of the resolution. But the meeting had also agreed to petition Parliament—he did not know whether unanimously—praying Parliament to take measures to prohibit the use of titles, whether civil or ecclesiastical, implying temporal power, conferred by any foreign prince or potentate, and also to prohibit the introduction of Papal hulls against the Royal authority. He had referred to those documents in order to show that the right hon. Gentleman was not a very safe guide to trust to when he asked the House to reject this Bill on the grounds he had stated. Then followed from the same quarter the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon (Sir James Graham), who began by making a large admission, that first the language of the Papal brief and the Cardinal's pastoral was arrogant in the extreme, and offensive to the Protestantism of the nation; and further that the act of the Pope was not one that the Government could pass over with indifference, or with the contempt recommended by several of his friends about him. The right hon. Baronet passed in review the various propositions made from different quarters for meeting the aggression of the Court of Rome, but, it would be remembered, without committing himself to the approval of any one of them, and leaving
 610 611 612 613 Hansard, 614 615 616 617
 SIR G. GREY  explained that he had not said one word about placing a brand upon one-third of his fellow-subjects. He said, that these titles were the badges and emblems of jurisdiction claimed and exercised in virtue of the undivided and sole authority of the See of Rome; and he asked the House, by passing that Bill, to put a brand of illegality upon those badges and emblems.
 SIR J. GRAHAM  begged to be permitted to say a word in explanation. His hon. and learned Friend had stated that he was not present when he (Sir J. Graham) addressed the House on a former occasion, though he had, nevertheless, undertaken to contradict him. He (Sir J. Graham) held in his hand the paper which he then read: it was an extract from the debate which took place on the 8th of April, 1829, in the House of Lords, and he (Sir J. Graham) then read these words, which were given in the report of that debate in  Hansard Hansard, 565 Mirror of Parliament.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had stated from the Chair exactly the course which he (Sir R. H. Inglis) considered he was adopting. In the copy of the document which the Secretary of State had laid on the table, the word "not" was inserted in the passage he had cited, thus altering the whole character of the sentence. He wished to know from the hon. Under Secretary whether in the original the word "not" were inserted before the word "subject?" The first paragraph of the same letter of the Bishop of Sydney was as follows:—
 "I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of the letter addressed to me by the hon. the Colonial Secretary, by direction of your Excellency (29th June, 1849, 49–48), inclosing a copy of the despatch received from the right hon. the Earl Grey, Her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Colonial Department, wherein his Lordship desires, that according to the true construction of the directions respecting the precedence of Roman Catholic prelates conveyed in the despatch of the 20th November, 1847, the Bishop of the Church of England in New South Wales ought to have precedence of the Roman Catholic Archbishop.'" 514
 SIR R. INGLIS  apprehended that he had not violated the rules of the House; he had not asked for more than the courtesy the House usually gave. The despatch to which he was about to refer contained an enclosure, dated Sydney, 29th of May, 1850, and it did not appear that any answer had yet been returned to it by the Secretary of State. His first question therefore was, "whether any answer had been returned to the despatch (with an enclosure) addressed by his Excellency Sir Charles FitzRoy on the 30th of July, 1850, to Her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Colonies (en-
 513 "The present occupants of all sees, and then-successors therein, hold, and will hold, the precedence which their only lawful Sovereign has as-signed to them, [not] subject to abatement at the will of a foreign Prelate, whenever and as often as it may please him to constitute within any of these dioceses a Metropolitan, and, therefore, in accordance with Earl Grey's directions a superior in acknowledged rank in virtue of his ecclesiastical office."
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  rose, pursuant to notice, to ask the Under Secretary for the Colonies, whether any answer had been returned to the despatch (with an inclosure) addressed by his Excellency, Sir Charles FitzRoy, on the 30th July, 1850, to her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for the Colonies (endorsed as received in Downing-street on the 4th January, 1851), and if no answer shall have been sent, to explain the cause of the delay; and also to call his attention to certain inaccuracies in the printed copy of the said communication, as laid before this House, in answer to their address of the 24th February, 1851, and ordered to be printed (No. 105) March 10, 1851. A few, words of explanation were requisite to place the matter clearly before the House, and he hoped therefore
 512 Cries of
 SIR F. T. BARING  was afraid that it would be impossible for the Committee to undertake inquiries of that kind in addition to their more immediate duties. They would overload the Committee, and lead to infinite delay.
 MR. PRINSEP  thought the words of the resolution exceedingly wide; and he feared that justice would not be done to Australia by an inquiry that bid fair to be very protracted. Would the Government feel justified in suspending its measures merely because the Committee was sitting?
 MR. MOFFATT , in seconding the Motion, said, that he could confirm all that had been said by the hon. Mover with respect to the unfair operation of the differential duties imposed by Spain. About two years ago, Spain made an alteration in her tariff, principally, it was said, with a view of lessening the duties on articles of consumption. The duty on salt fish imported in Spanish vessels was, however, slightly increased, while the duty on salt fish imported in British vessels was very largely increased; in one instance, while the increase as to fish imported in Spanish vessels was 17 per cent, the increase as to importations in British vessels was 37 per cent. Now, that was one of the main ar-
 669 tabula rasâ
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, it appeared to him that that case might be met by a clause in the existing Navigation Act. That Act gave Her Majesty in Council a retaliatory power against these foreign countries which did not reciprocate our mode of dealing with the shipping in-
 673
 Mr. R. C. HILDYAED  would ask hon. Members how it was that the Bill repealing the Navigation Laws was got through the House? He believed it was carried very much on the faith reposed by hon. Members in the assertion of the Government, that they would be ready if foreign nations did not act with reciprocity towards this country, to give effect to that clause. The House ought to consider what would be the effect on the shipowners of this country when they found that that provision about which so much parade had been made had been ineffectual. He would give the House some statistics with respect to the trade between Spain and this country in the year preceding the repeal of the Navigation Laws and the year following that repeal. In the year ending 5th Jan., 1850, the vessels that entered inwards from Spain were 117, and their tonnage was 17,842. That was the year preceding the repeal of the Navigation Laws. In the year succeeding the repeal, the number of ships that entered inwards from Spain had increased from 117 to 150 and the tonnage had increased from 17,842 to 23,742. It had been stated in the course of the debate, that out of 23 vessels clearing outwards from London to Spain, 19 belonged to the Spanish nation. The House had also been told that the trade between Newfoundland and Spain was altogether monopolised by the Spanish nation. Then he would ask was that clause in the Act repealing the Navigation Laws introduced by the Government in good faith, or not? If it was introduced in good faith, he would ask if there was any case in which it could be carried into effect more stringent and more palpable than the case now before the House?
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he agreed with his hon. and learned Friends that this was not the proper occasion to express any decided opinion as to the merits of this Bill. He agreed with the noble Lord in the opinion which he had expressed, that it was not desirable that there should be a permanent Judge in the Court of Chancery as a Judge of Appeal, because the powers entrusted to such a Judge were too great to be placed in the hands of any individual, however eminent he might be. He thought that there ought to be more than one Judge sitting in that Court. He must say, however, that he could not approve of this scheme, because he thought it might have the effect of closing the Court of the Master of the Rolls as a court in the first instance. He must object to any delay in the ordinary proceeding of the business in Chancery, He knew one case in which
 711 l
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  dissented from the views of the hon. Baronet, for several reasons. In the first place, when settling the salary of a Judge, and his retiring pension, they should inquire what was the sum which would secure the efficient discharge of the duties of the office. No gentleman, he ventured to say, had accepted the office of Vice-Chancellor without a very great diminution of income, and in some cases to a larger amount than the House would think probable if he named it. He thought the amount of salary at present given to the Vice-Chancellors was no more than sufficient to secure high judicial ability. Indeed it was said, and he believed truly, that there were instances in which the highest judicial services had been lost to the country because of the lowness of the sum fixed as salary. The reason why they obtained Judges at the cost of reduction of their incomes was mainly by reason of the certainty and security against calamity which was afforded by the retiring allowance. If that allowance were diminished or taken away, they would either be obliged to pay higher salaries, or, what would be a great injury to the public, they would lose the service of persons the most efficient to discharge judicial duties. Another con-
 714
 MR. REYNOLDS  objected to proceed-
 715
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  denied that the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of Dublin spoke the sentiments of the Irish people in opposing the second reading of this Bill, which was one for the better administration of justice in Ireland. The House ought at once to agree to the second reading, and amend what was defective when the Bill came before them in Committee. He would be no party to the factious opposition shown by some Members to every measure brought forward, whether for the benefit of the country or not, because it came from those who happened at present not to act in accordance with the opinions of certain individuals who assumed to themselves the character of being the only real Irish representatives. He protested against the conduct of those individuals, and would tell them that, as an Irishman, he was prepared to support every measure brought forward by Government that he thought would be for the benefit of Ireland.
 MR. ROCHE  opposed proceeding with a Bill to consolidate fifty Acts of Parliament, that contained 158 clauses, and extended over 100 pages, at that hour in the morning.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, that the Bill was brought in in pursuance of a pledge which he gave to the hon. Member for Cork last Session but one, and of an intimation which the right hon. the Home Secretary gave to a deputation of Irish Members who waited upon him last year to press this subject upon the attention of the Government. If the principle of the Bill was opposed, there was no wish on the part of his right hon. Friend to press the second reading at that time.
 MR. KEOGH  thought that the course pursued by his hon. Friend the Member for the city of Dublin was misunderstood by
 716
 MR. HATCHELL  said, he thought he had a right to complain of the manner in which he had been dealt with in this discussion. When he introduced the Bill, he stated that its object was, in the first place, to consolidate and codify fifty Acts of Parliament that had existed for nearly a century; he explained these parts of the Bill that were new; his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Dundalk was present, and made some observations on the Bill, and his impression was, that all the Irish Members were in perfect possession of the contents of the Bill. He was disposed not to propose the second reading that evening, but he was pressed to do so; then when hon. Members opposite objected, he offered to postpone it, but that did not appear to suit them, and so he again proposed it. In fact it was not on the Bill, but upon him (Mr. Hatchell) that they wished to express their opinion. He asked the assembled Commons of England—English Gentlemen and Irish Gentlemen—whether this was a course of conduct that ought to be pursued, This course of conduct must and, as far as he was concerned, would be resisted if repeated. It was admitted that the principle of the Bill was unquestionable; he was, however, quite prepared to postpone the second
 717 Cries of
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, that what the Irish Members complained of was the habitually late hour at which Irish legislation was brought on in that House.
 MR. C. ANSTEY  hoped his hon. Friends would consent to the second reading, in order that the Bill might be referred to a Select Committee.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the House was sometimes occupied with discussions on which there was really a difference of opinion, but it was very hard indeed they should be kept up so late (half-past one) when there seemed to be no difference of opinion whatever. His right hon. Friend first said he was ready to postpone the Bill. That course was objected to, and his right hon. Friend was met with cries of "Go on, go on!" and yet when he was proceeding with the Bill, he was told he ought not to bring it on at so late an hour. It did seem most unreasonable that hon. Gentlemen would not accept the liberal offer of his right hon. Friend, and consent to the postponement.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that one of the objects of the Bill was to carry into effect the recommendations of the Committee on Salaries in the Court of Chancery, and to effect consolidation, which would diminish expense. With reference to the main subject of the Bill, no doubt various opportunities would arise, during the discussion upon it, which would enable them to put it into such a state as to meet the wishes of both sides of the House.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, it was perfectly competent for the Government to establish this communication if they chose. They had already expended 100,000 l
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, the noble Viscount had expressed himself anxious to bring before the Committee the various lines between England and Australia, and likewise India and Australia, so as not to exclude any line which might be proposed by the Goverment, or be suggested by any company to connect England with Australia, either by way of Panama, the Cape, or otherwise. Now, from experience of a former Committee, he was afraid that the terms of the Motion might restrain the Chairman of the Committee from entering into the question of any future contract which might be made, and that the Committee would feel themselves bound by the terms of the Motion carried by the House from considering any other contract which might be entertained. If the previous Committee had not felt itself hampered in that manner, perhaps there would have been no necessity for the Committee now asked for by the noble Viscount.
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY : MR. Speaker, I rise to put a question, with a
 636
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, he wished to ask whether one of the Common Law Judges would be permanently selected?
 MR. S. WORTLEY  said, that the subject was of great importance. He subscribed to every sentiment which fell from the noble Lord, and could only express his regret that the Government should feel itself crippled by that which his hon. and learned Friend had very properly designated a false economy. He regretted that the Government should be influenced by a false feeling of economy, which was, in fact, the real great impediment to an efficient reform of the Court of Chancery—a feeling for which he believed the House itself was mainly responsible, he said it was a most glaring inconsistency that there should be no less than fifteen Judges to administer the Common Law of the land—a number not at all greater than was necessary—and that the whole business of the Court of Chancery—a business which was increasing, whilst that at Common Law was decreasing—should be administered only by five Judges. Whilst the Government adhered to this principle of false economy, it was idle to talk of effecting any useful reforms in the Court of Chancery. He fully concurred in the statement of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. R. Palmer) that it would be most inexpedient to take away one Common Law Judge to assist the Lord Chancellor. If that were done, how could the business of the circuits be provided for? Persons of less dignity than a Judge, Sergeant, or Queen's Counsel, would have to sit, or during the whole time of the circuits the Lord Chancellor would be deprived of the assistance of the Judge whose aid it was now proposed he should receive; and he did not think that would be a satisfactory arrangement. There was one other point to which he wished to ad-
 710
 LORD J. RUSSELL : One will be summoned from time to time.
 LORD J. RUSSELL : I can only say that I am much obliged to the lion, and learned Gentlemen who have been so good as to take a part in this discussion. I am convinced that the objections which they have mentioned are intended in a friendly spirit, and I can only say that they shall he carefully considered. I omitted to state one point, namely, that there are officers under the Lord Chancellor with respect to whom a considerable reform may be effected by consolidating their duties, still preserving for the Lord Chancellor a sufficient number of officers to give him assistance in some of his most important duties. The Lord Chancellor will give every attention to this matter with regard to the appellate jurisdiction. I can only say that I made no proposition on that subject, because I think it is one which had better be left to the discretion of the House of Lords.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I rise for the purpose of bringing before the House a most important subject, for leave to bring in a Bill for the better Administration of Justice in the Court of Chancery. If the proposal I have to make solely concerned the administration of justice, I certainly should have been disposed to ask those who are more familiar with the proceedings in our courts of justice, to undertake the task on which I now propose to enter. But feeling that the office of Lord Chancellor, and all that is connected with his functions, deeply affect the whole of the government and legislation of this country, I have undertaken this task myself, thinking it better that the whole views of the Government on this important subject should be stated to the House, than that our view should be solely confined to the present distribution of offices and functions in the Court of Chancery. In bringing this question before the House, I should first state the changes that have been made during and since 1812, when the Bill appointing a Vice-Chancellor was passed by Parliament. In 1811 it was found that the duties which were then performed by Lord Eldon were of so laborious a nature that, notwithstanding the known industry and learning of that eminent Judge, it was considered to be impossible that he could perform all his duties in the Court of Chancery, together with those ditties which belonged to him as the Supreme Judge of the House of Lords as a court of appeal. Lord Redesdale accordingly moved for the appointment of a Committee of the House of Lords on this subject, which resulted in the Bill to which I have referred. It is stated by Mr. Twiss, in the  Life of Lord Eldon 686 Hansard 687 688 689 690 691 692 693 694 "If of the three Judges who are to preside in equity two have the law kept constantly in their mind by regular attendance in Court, and the third only refreshes his memory by looking back into text-books and precedents, just so as to enable him to decide a dozen or two of causes in the year which might be brought before him upon appeal—it is obvious that this effect must be produced—that the appeal will be from a Judge having perfect mastery of the law, to one who has but an imperfect recollection of it." "But still the Lord Chancellor of Ireland has not so laborious an office as the Lord Chancellor of England?—The answer was—'Certainly not; but the Chancellorship of Ireland is quite sufficient to occupy any man's energies and time. The public is not aware of the pressure which
 695 696 697 l l l 698 "The administration of Justice in the several Departments of Law and Equity will, no doubt receive the serious Attention of Parliament; and I feel confident that the measures which may he submitted with a view of improving that Administration, will he discussed with that mature Deliberation which important Changes in the highest Courts of Judicature in the Kingdom imperatively demand." 699 l l l 700
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  wished, before the House came to a division, to say a few words respecting the form and substance of this Motion. With respect to the general question of the Navigation Laws, whenever the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire chose to enter into that subject, lie would find that the result of a more liberal system of policy bad been favourable not only to the Americans, but to the commerce of every nation in the world. There were exceptions; but these exceptions were very few, and did not include any of the great maritime Powers. With regard to the advantages that America might have derived from the repeal of the Navigation Laws, he believed that this country had derived greater advantages still, and he was sure he was not at all sorry if the United States of America had derived advantage from the change. It was to be desired that both countries should derive advantage from the repeal of these laws. An hon. Member had said, in the course of the debate, that the House could no longer listen to trifling negotiations. If that were so, the proper course would be to call, against the opinion of the Government, for all the despatches on this subject, all the treaties between Spain and this country, and then the House would form its own opinion upon the whole ques-
 683
 LORD NAAS  said, he rose to propose an Amendment, the effect of which would he to oblige the Committee first to take into consideration the Australian part of the question, and afterwards the Indian portion of the subject. His noble Friend had, with his usual ability, made out a most excellent case for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the first branch of his subject; but he thought that, as far as the Australian branch was concerned, his noble Friend had not been so successful. The questions of steam communication with India and Australia had little to do with each other—one had been for some time established, the other was yet in embryo, and, as he thought, had been most cruelly delayed by the remissness of Her Majesty's Government. His noble Friend should therefore beware, lest, by proposing this Committee, he should be depriving for some further period of time our Australian colonies of the long-desired benefits of steam communication. That
 647 l 648 l bonâ fide l l., l l 649 l., 650
 LORD NAAS  was most desirous that the branch of the subject connected with Australia should have been allowed to engage the first inquiries of the Committee; but as such a course appeared to be considered unusual, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. ANDERSON  felt much difficulty in addressing the House on a subject in which his personal interests were, or might be supposed to be, concerned. As a director of the Peninsular and Oriental Company, however, he felt it his duty to allude to some statements of the noble Viscount who had moved for the Committee. The noble Viscount was kind enough to say that he had no feelings of hostility towards the company; but he had made an  ex parte
 MR. ANDERSON  replied: With regard to the Motion, he said, that he regretted to find from the observations of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, and his right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester, that, notwithstanding his (Mr. Anderson's) explanation of the difference in principle between an endeavour to obtain free and fair competition for our merchant shipping, and to remove obstructions to international commerce—an endeavour perfectly consistent, as he considered, with the principles of free trade—they persisted in confounding it with the levying of retaliatory duties on foreign produce, because foreign countries might levy high duties on our produce. He maintained that the proposition which he had brought forward rested on a totally different principle. It was calculated to promote the freedom of trade by free and fair competition. He would never for an instant be so absurd as to propose, that because Spain, for instance, thought proper to levy a duty of from 100 to 150 per cent on the produce of our fisheries, as he had already stated, we should therefore put a duty of 100 to 150 per cent on her wool, and thus obstruct and enhance the cost of our manufacturing industry. His object was to cheapen the cost and improve the means of maritime transit, and to show that we could do so without detriment to any other British interest.
 MR. ANDERSON  then proceeded with his argument, contending that the subject was one of very considerable national importance. Differential duties, he might state at the outset, were not duties imposed for the purpose of revenue, but to secure a monopoly of the carrying trade to the ships of the country imposing such duties, and consisted of higher rates of duty levied on goods when imported or exported in foreign ships, than when imported in the ships of such country, with the object of excluding foreign ships from participating in its carrying trade. Spain had carried this exclusive policy to a much greater extent than any other country in the world; and while we have been relaxing our navigation laws in favour of her shipping, she has been proceeding in a directly opposite course in regard to our shipping, until at last her differential duties had driven British shipping to a large extent out of the trade with Spain and her dependencies. Not only the shipowners, but the merchants connected with Spain, had for many years felt this aggressive and obstructive policy of Spain towards British navigation and trade to be a serious grievance, for the removal of which they had a right to call for the interposition of the British Government. Numerous representations to that effect had been from time to time made to the Government, but without effect, and they considered that the time had arrived when Spain ought to be made to feel that she can no longer be permitted to pursue this hostile course of policy with impunity. He would, by a statement of some facts, contrast, somewhat in detail, the treatment of British vessels in Spanish ports with the treatment of Spanish vessels in British ports, as stated in the petition he had presented. From the year 1824, when the relaxation in our navigation laws, made by the late MR. Huskisson, took effect, Spanish vessels had been admitted to import goods from Spain into the ports of this kingdom, on the same terms in respect to the duties on such goods as British vessels; and since the 1st January, 1850, under the provisions of the last Navigation Act, the whole carrying trade of the world with this country bad been thrown open to Spanish vessels on precisely the same terms as to British vessels. But what had been the conduct of Spain towards British vessels during this long
 662 l s l ad valorem s d s d s 663 ad valorem l l s s 664 s s s s 665 666 "People and subjects of King of Great Britain and King of Spain shall have and enjoy in the respective lands, seas, ports, havens, roads, and territories, of the one or the other, and in all places whatsoever, the same privileges, securities, liberties, and immunities, whether they concern their persons or trade, with all the beneficial clauses and circumstances, which have been granted, or shall be hereafter granted, by either of the said Kings, to the Most Christian King, the States General of the United Provinces, the Hans Towns, or any other Kingdom or State whatsoever, in as full, ample, and beneficial manner as if the same were particularly mentioned in this treaty." 667 "All duties, impositions, or customs whatsoever, relating to persons, goods, and merchandises, ships, freight, seamen, navigation, and commerce, as subjects of France or any other foreign nation." "The said subjects (British) shall not anywhere pay higher or other duties than those which his Catholic Majesty's subjects pay in the same place." 668
 MR. ANDERSON  rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the differential duties levied on British ships in the ports of Spain. Having first presented a petition on the subject from merchants and shipowners of London, the hon. Member was proceeding to explain his views upon the question, when he was interrupted by
 MR. ADDERLEY  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that there was no use in discussing this Motion and the Amendment, because they were all agreed upon the necessity for some inquiry. He (MR. Adderley) said, however, that they were not all agreed as to what needed inquiry, or how the inquiry should be conducted. Far from it. They might all be agreed that it was important and useful to this country and the colonies that a Committee should be appointed on the large question of steam communication with all the world; but what they were not all agreed upon was as to the need of inquiry about Australia. He would ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer why Australia should be included in this inquiry at all; and if he could not tell why Australia should be included, it would be still more difficult for him to tell why Australia should be put at the fag-end of a perfect encyclopædia of the whole eastern world. Nobody asked for this Committee with regard to Australia—nobody wanted it but the Chancellor of the Exchequer himself, to get himself out of a scrape. Australia did not want it—it repudiated it, because the question of Australian communication was understood and settled already. Who had asked for Australian inquiry? Not the noble Viscount the Member for King's Lynn; it was tacked on to his inquiry without any desire on his part, but merely because of the
 656 l 657
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he could not understand the consistency of the hon. Member for Bridport, if he did not support the Government in enforcing the provisions of an Act which be was instrumental in passing. With reference to an observation that bad fallen from the hon. Member for Montrose, that the Americans had had the worst of the bargain since the repeal of the Navigation Laws, he (Mr. Newdegate) was prepared to maintain that the result of the repeal, so far as concerned England and the United States, showed that the Americans had had much the best of the bargain. Was not the House aware that America bad proposed a tariff of additional duties on foreign manufactures, and that it was only defeated in the Senate by a factious system of delay? He contended that no country in the world could dictate the commercial policy of the world. They might sacrifice their manufactures and their shipping, hut it was not the will of Providence that all nations should be governed by one system, but, like families, each nation should consult its own interests, and do that which it considered best for its own prosperity.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that that depended on whether the hon. Member for Orkney intended to conclude with a Motion for leave to bring in a Bill. If he did, then the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose was a correct one; if not, it would not be necessary.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, if the hon. Member meant to propose increased taxation, that should be done in a Committee of the whole House, but it was not necessary that he should have the recommendation of the Crown; but for an increase of the estimates
 661
 MR. SPEAKER : Hon. Members are aware that the rule of the House with regard to freedom of debate is part of the unwritten law of the House, and that it is a privilege which it is most important to preserve inviolate. At the same time it must be acknowledged that there are restraints which are not imposed by the actual rules of the House. Those restraints are founded upon the good feeling and courtesy of hon. Members, which ought to prevent, as much as possible, any Member from wounding the feelings, and especially the religious feelings, of other Members of the House. But I beg to state that in all cases of this description it is quite competent for the House to pronounce an opinion at the time upon the words spoken. For if any hon. Members are not satisfied with the decision of the Chair, it is competent not, for one hon. Member, but for the House, to call upon the Speaker to desire the words to be taken down; and then the sense of the House may be taken upon them. I entertain however, the greatest confidence that hon. Members, feeling the importance, as well for the satisfactory discussion of all important subjects, as for the preservation of the dignity of the House, that those restraints to which I have alluded should be observed, and, knowing that they cannot be enforced by any of the orders of the House, will see the greater necessity of not disregarding them.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he bad so drawn the terms of the Motion—"the best mode of establishing steam communication with the Australian Colonies"—that it would include the route by Panama, and all the other points involved in the question.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it seemed to him, considering that on the whole they were all agreed on this question, that they had occupied more time than was necessary to obtain an object with which nobody in the world differed, because nobody denied the extreme importance of steam communication with the Australian colonies, and the importance that it should be established as speedily as possible. He had told the noble Viscount that he thought inquiries before a Committee might be beneficial in putting the House and the Government in possession of information, and in enabling the Government to do that which it had yet been unable to do. The importance of the subject he had never denied, and it had always been his endeavour, as far as possible, and as rapidly as possible, to carry out a steam navigation to our Australian colonies. But he could not allow the statement to pass unnoticed that it was his duty to provide the requisite communication, totally regardless of the expense. What he felt
 653
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished that the hon. Member for North Staffordshire had made his attack before he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had spoken. With the appointment of this Committee he had had nothing to do; the Motion was that of the noble Viscount the Member for King's Lynn. What he had distinctly stated was, that it was perfectly impossible to consider the question of Australian communication except in connexion with some other. He had never concealed his own opinion as to what was the best mode of effecting that communication; but it did not rest with him to carry it out. He hoped the information elicited by the Committee would be such as to induce other parties to concur in his views. The hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Harwich, being a Member of the East India Company, was in a position to do more for promoting that communication than he could.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought the general words were for the best. If they began to specify this or that place, other hon. Gentleman would want others added—the Feejee Islands, perhaps.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the question was about being referred to a Committee, which would consider most of these points; and, if they confined their attention to the main questions, they would be occupied but a very short time.
 MR. CARDWELL  was also in favour of the most general words possible.
 MR. CARDWELL  thought they were much indebted to the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward this Motion. When they had opened their ports to the commerce of all foreign countries, and when they had not received reciprocal advantages, it should be known that the House of Commons was not asleep on the subject. He trusted that no Gentleman would speak on this question with any other motive but to obtain that right course of policy from the Court of Spain, which it was the object of this Motion. He made that remark, in consequence of the observations of the hon. Member for Dorsetshire, but he gave him entire credit for taking no step with regard to the debate, except that which would conduce to the object in view, namely, to obtain freedom for British ships in the ports of Spain. The question before the House was not that they should express their indignation at the want of reciprocity on the part of Spain. The Motion if carried would do this—it would take the matter out of the hands of the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary, and place it in their own hands. The question was, whether they were more likely to carry their object by encouraging the noble Lord, and by strengthening the hands of the noble Lord in doing the duty they had intrusted him with, or by taking the matter into their own hands? The question was, whether having, in the last Session of Parliament but one, placed in the hands of the Executive Government a certain power, and the Government having now come forward and told them they were doing their utmost in the matter, they would step in
 680
 MR. CARDWELL  took it that the real object was that the Committee should be free to go into the whole case in the widest possible manner. They did not propose ending merely in a blue book, but in satisfying all the colonies and the commercial communities interested, and in having that object effected as quickly as possible. It was desirable, as the Committee was to be appointed, that it should; be universally understood on the part of the public that the order of reference should include the question as to the route by Panama, and the route to unite the Australian colonies with China. The terms of the Motion should be enlarged, so as to embrace the colony of the Mauritius, and all the other places which it was desirable to connect in the communication which was to go by Australia.
 MR. DIVETT  said, that though he was as anxious as any one to extend the benefits of steam communication, he entirely disagreed with the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken. It was utterly impossible to do justice to the Australian colonies themselves without a full inquiry, owing to the difficulties of carrying out the communication in an efficient way. He knew that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was most anxious last year to carry it out as a distinct question; but the conduct of the East India Company having thrown obstacles in the way of that
 658
 MR. BANKES  said, the noble Viscount had made a very amusing speech, but a great part of it was far wide of the very narrow question the hon. Member for Orkney had brought forward for their consideration. They had enacted a proviso for the purpose of protecting British interests, and he called upon them to enforce it, Spain being of all other nations the one they had the best right to enforce it against, for they had been subjected to a long course of injury from that nation. That was the nation that had turned out their Ambassador in a summary way, and inflicted upon them the greatest insult that had been inflicted upon them in all their history; that was the nation that had repudiated their debt, and not only injured them, but added insult to the injury by the manner in which the chief Minister of the Crown proposed to satisfy the creditors, he said the payment of the debt was a matter of inclination on their part, and if they did not take one-half of it they would get none. He was by no means satisfied with the assurance of the noble Viscount that he had the matter under consideration, especially as he had not condescended to give them so much as an outline of the negotiations. He would certainly resist the withdrawal of the Motion. If the proviso was worth anything, and was ever to be exercised, now was the time. He had listened with satisfaction to the account given by the right hon. President of the beard of Trade of the competition between the Spanish and English vessels. It was certainly a great triumph to our vessels,
 679
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he would move
 660
 MR. AGLIONBY  thought they were fighting with a shadow instead of a substance. He trusted there was no intention to refuse to consider the want of communication with Australia at as early a period as possible. He approved of making the proposed inquiry an enlarged one, as the best mode of carrying out what had so long been anxiously desired. He hoped that New Zealand would not be for-
 659
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that both
 670 671 672
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that what he had stated was, that the discriminating duties on goods brought into Spain in foreign vessels, which were, as he understood, 33 per cent, had been reduced to 20 per cent when the tariff was altered in 1849.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  replied that, having had notice of the question, he had made it his duty to inquire whether any report had been received from Sir Henry Bulwer, our Minister at Washington, and he found that no despatch had been received from him since the date of these transactions; but he had seen in the newspapers an account of the proceedings to which the hon. Gentleman's question referred, and he had no reason to doubt the correctness of that statement. The proposed alteration of the tariff, however, had not passed into a law by the Legislature of the United States. It had passed only one branch of the Legislature—namely, the House of Representatives, and had not passed the Senate.
 MR. MACGREGOR  regretted exceedingly that the Committee should be moved for at all, because, if agreed to, the whole question of the communication with Australia would remain entombed there until the end of the Session. He thought that the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Kildare ought to have been agreed to at once, and that the Australian colonies should not be reduced to the necessity of appealing to the United States to afford them a direct steam communication. He had no doubt, when he saw the fleet of ships that the Americans had within the last few months sent into the Pacific, that they would be perfectly competent to undertake the office; but he felt certain that the delay upon the part of the British Government, which must necessarily arise before the Report of the Committee could be made and acted upon, would be such as to create the greatest discontent in the colonies. He hoped the Government and the House would at once adopt measures for establishing direct steam communication with the colonies.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  did not think it was ever contemplated that by a clause in an Act of Parliament they could change the whole commercial policy of any country. The Spanish Government did not mean to insult them by the establishment of these differential duties, but it was their policy to propose differential duties as between Spanish ships and the ships of all foreign countries. Suppose they retaliated on the Spanish Government, did they think it would stop there? It would not, but, on the contrary, the Spanish Government would go on retaliating against them until the annual export of British manufactures to Spain was entirely done away with. His right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester was perfectly right in the advice he had given to the hon. Gentleman by whom this Motion was brought forward; for how could the condition of the inhabitants of the Orkney and Shetland Isles be benefited by levying a tax upon their fish? The hon. Gentleman was going to tax their own fish for the benefit of his constituents; but when the matter came to be
 681
 MR. J. STUART  said, that at that late hour, and on a subject of so much importance as that introduced by the noble Lord, and with a Bill which proposed materially to alter, and was intended to improve, the administration of justice in the Court of Chancery, it would be unpardonable in him to trespass on the time of the House, particularly on a measure so perfectly new, with many observations. He merely rose to say that the noble Lord, in that part of his speech which related to the office of Lord Chancellor and the administration of justice in the Court of Chancery, and the various measures which heretofore had been proposed with the view of improving the administration of justice in that court, had expressed himself with sentiments so just, with a view so clear and so accurate of the duties of that great office, that although he (Mr. Stuart) highly disapproved of the latter part of the speech, and, so far as he could judge at the moment, of the measure proposed, he could not withhold his admiration of the opinions enunciated by the noble Lord on the general subject. He regretted deeply that so humble an individual as himself—one who had no other claim to the notice of the House than that of being the senior member of the Chancery bar present—should be the first person to rise to make an observation on the noble Lord's speech. He regretted that no statesman on that bench, and with whom he usually acted, was present to state his views on this question—a question important to laymen ten thousand times more than it was to the legal profession. The views of the members of the bar were, in his opinion, of considerable importance; but the importance of their duties depended entirely, and beyond all power of estimate, on the authority and qualifications of the Judge before whom they appeared on behalf of others to solicit justice. He did not presume to form this opinion from anything said by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), who expressed just views on that part of the measure to which he (Mr. Stuart) was alluding. Concurring in the views of the noble Lord with respect to
 701 702 703 704 705
 MR. WAWN  would support the Motion. The question was whether the British shipowner was to he left to suffer an intolerable grievance. Pie taxed the right hon. Member for Manchester with indifference to the interests of the shipowner, who could not enter any port he pleased, like the right hon. Member in his yacht. If the proviso in the Navigation Act was anything more than a tub to the whale, let it be acted on.
 MR. HUME  said, no country in Europe owed so much to England as did Spain; and lie saw with regret the very little gratitude which her Government entertained towards this country. As the best means of exposing that ingratitude, he would wish to see the correspondence that had taken place, and the steps taken by Her Majesty's Government to obtain that reciprocity. He would like to see the correspondence for this reason, that nations, like individuals, often yielded to shame what they refused to justice. He did not wish it to be understood, however, that lie was an advocate for retaliation, ft was a question rather for the Spanish Government and the Spanish people, whether they were acting wisely in imposing a
 674 l l.,
 MR. HUME , who said, that with a view to save the hon. Gentleman trouble, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman in the chair, whether it would not be necessary that they should go into Committee of the whole House, to consider the provisions of the two Acts referred to in this Motion?
 MR. HUME  trusted the House would adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford not to tie the Committee up to
 652
 MR. HUME  understood that when they took the line to Australia by the Cape, they would of course include all the intervening colonies.
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, if he wished to treat the measure in a spirit of opposition to the Government, he should rather choose to address the House on the second reading, especially at that late hour of the night; but feeling, as he did, most deeply the importance and difficulty, and wishing, if possible, rather to assist any Government in dealing with, such a question, than to offer any obstructions in the attempt to overcome these difficulties, he was quite sure the House would give him credit for a sincere desire to con-
 706 707 708 709
 MR. BOOKER  wished to ask a question of the right hon. President of the Board of
 635
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, it would, in his opinion, be most unfortunate if, after having abolished the Navigation Laws, they were to withhold from Spain these privileges which they gave to all other nations. This would be to imitate what took place under the old Navigation Laws, which gave certain advantages to all other countries by allowing them to send goods in their own ships to the British colonies. But they withheld these advantages from Spain for twenty years, for in April, 1828, an Order in Council was issued, declaring "that vessels belonging to Spain were not to be allowed to carry on any direct trade between Spain and the British possessions abroad." What, might be expected, as the effect of their withholding from Spain in particular for twenty years, privileges which they gave to the rest of the world? Why, this, at least—that it was no reason to make Spain less restrictive, or more liberal towards this country—and it was only by adopting and carrying out a liberal policy, that Spain could be expected to move in the direction of free trade. Having been in the Shetland Isles last autumn, lie received certain information there which made him doubt whether the constituency of his hon. Friend approved of the proposition made by him on the present occasion. And for this reason—the constituents of his hon. Friend found it difficult to get a market for their fish in the ports of Spain, although there was a great demand for fish there, in consequence of the high differential duty on British vessels, and they felt this to be a great evil and hardship. But if, in addition to this differential duty on British ships arriving in the ports of Spain, there was to be also a differential duty on Spanish ships here, the consequence would be that they could not take their fish into the ports of Spain, either in British ships or Spanish ships, except under a high duty. As they were probably not far from a general election, he doubted whether this was a popular Motion for his hon. Friend to make. He hoped his hon. Friend was not in earnest in bringing forward this
 676
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, he hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Orkney, after having heard the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the beard of Trade would not press his Motion to a division. The Hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Westmoreland, thought that retaliation was a good policy. But though retaliation were a good policy—which he did not admit—was the time come for retaliating on Spain? Let them remember what a struggle they had in this country to carry a free-trade policy—that the alteration in their own Navigation Laws had taken effect but twelve months ago—and they would then probably make a greater allowance for foreign nations, and give them more time to come to the same conclusion as they had themselves come to. He would consider it a most precipitate and improper preceding if the Government of this country were to adopt a policy of retaliation against Spain under the existing relations between the two countries. The right hon. Gentleman informed them that Spain had made many
 675
 MR. M. GIBSON  wished also to ask another question, as to a point of order in connection with this subject. The hon. Mover, he said, wished to increase duties; but if so, ought he not, in accordance with the rules of the House, to be in a position to say that he had the assent of the Ministers of the Crown to the introduction of the Motion—that was, provided he was going to proceed by an Address to the Crown?
 MR. MITCHELL  said, his constituents were very deeply interested in this question, their trade with Newfoundland having been seriously injured; but after hearing this debate, he was quite content that the question should be left in the hands of the the noble Lord the Secretary of Foreign Affairs.
 MR. GLADSTONE  hoped the noble Lord would not press his Amendment, as it was not very desirable as a general principle to tie the hands of a Committee, but rather to leave it to exercise its own discretion as to the order of its proceedings. No doubt there was great force in the noble Lord's observations as to the urgency, in point of time, of the Australian part of the question; but it would be better to allow the Committee, at its first meeting, to ascertain what witnesses are ready to be first examined, and what pre-
 651
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said, that the public wished to see the abolition of fees in the Court of Chancery, and the payment by salaries substituted.
 SIR H. WILLOUGHBY  said: The Motion I have to propose is that the retiring pension of the office to be created under this Bill shall be an annuity not exceeding 3,000 l., l l l l l l l c l.; l.; l.; l l l l l., l l l., l l l.; 713 l l., l; l l., l l l
 SIR T. D. ACLAND  said, that at present the letters leaving Liverpool in the evening were divided at Birmingham into London and west country letters, which arrived precisely at the same hour at Southampton and Plymouth. Supposing a vessel sailing that afternoon from Southampton to touch at Plymouth or Falmouth, there would be a gain of a whole day from the north western parts of the island. Again, letters leaving London, at eight or nine at night, arrived at Plymouth at six in the morning, within an hour or two of the time that the steamer leaving South-
 655
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he could make no promise that the case of Australia should be first taken into special consideration, and reported upon separately by the Committee. He thought the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been very unfairly attacked; and when the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Staffordshire said, that his Motion had been framed by the right hon. Gentleman, he must say he had had no communication whatever on the subject with the right hon. Gentleman till within the last three or four days.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  was much obliged to his right hon. Friend for suggesting that alteration in the terms of his Motion. That suggestion would carry out his object better than his own proposition. He could assure the noble Lord the Member for Kildare that no one felt more strongly than he did the importance of speedily establishing steam communication with the Australian Colonies; but he must say he thought it would be very improper to fetter the discretion of the Committee by prescribing a specific course to regulate the order of its inquiries.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, that he had already altered the original shape of his Motion, and he considered that he had framed it so as to embrace the object of the noble Lord the Member for Kildare.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  begged to move for a Select Committee, to inquire into the question of the existing steam communications between England and India. He believed that he had no reason to expect opposition to his Motion from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Ex-
 637 638 "Your Committee recommend great caution either in renewing the existing, or in forming new I arrangements. They suggest that if it be decided to renew the existing contracts, the most strict and searching inquiry should be instituted, by some responsible department of the Government, into the cost of the execution, into the manner in which the service has been performed, and into the profits resulting from the several transactions to the companies by which they have been respectively carried on; and if it should be decided to put up the several contracts to public tender, the most ample notice, and most full particulars, of the terms and conditions of the service required should be given to the public, as being the means most likely to secure a real and true competition by responsible parties." 639 640 l l 641 viâ l l l l., l l l., 642 "In proposing to undertake such an extensive range of mail communication at so diminished a rate of remuneration, the directors desire me to observe that they do not expect that the new service, even with all its advantages of combination for commercial purposes, will be, of itself, adequately remunerative; but they are led to hope that, with the benefits the company's already established lines may receive from it, they may be enabled to derive such a profit on the whole of the company's operations as may yield a moderate dividend to the proprietors of the company's capital." 643 "The objections of the court seem mainly to apply to the proposal for transferring to private contractors the service of the mail in the line between Suez and Bombay. I therefore hasten to state that one portion of the conclusion to which Her Majesty's Government have come is to leave that service at present in the hands of the East India Company. In coming to this determination they have been influenced, not only by a regard to the efficiency of the Indian Navy, but by the consideration that in case of any accidental failure on the part of the Peninsular and Oriental Company, the East India Company's Navy will still be available in the same manner as Her Majesty's ships occasionally employed in Europe, as a contingent remedy for any casualties occurring to the mail contractors." "Showing the difference of a fortnight between the date on which the mail arrived, compared with the receipt in another; and it is unnecessary for us to dwell upon the great inconvenience and loss which this uncertainty of the mail's arrival must occasion to those concerned in mercantile operations, for, although the Bombay express does in the majority of cases outrun your steam-
 644 645 viâ "Many of our influential settlers are gentlemen who have paid our colony a visit, and, liking the climate and country, have sold out and become permanent residents." viâ Bosphorus 646
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, New Zealand was included in the route by Panama.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he quite agreed with his right hon. Friend the President of the beard of Trade that the question which had been brought forward by the hon. Member for Orkney was one of very considerable importance to a large portion of this community. He also quite agreed that we had good cause of complaint against the Spanish Government for the course they had pursued—a complaint which, however, applied more to a long course of prejudice with respect to commercial matters than to any recent disposition on the part of Spain to pursue an unfriendly course towards this country. Indeed, as his right hon. Friend the President of the beard of Trade had stated latterly the Spanish Government had been rather relaxing than increasing the restrictions of their tariff. It was well known that Spain and Portugal were very far behind most other countries in regard to the principles of their commercial policy. But the Spaniards were beginning to move. They must not be expected to move more quickly than the captain of the merchantman who had been alluded to. They would not move on the first change of wind. They might not move until the wind had blown steadily for several days from the same quarter. But he hoped they would not delay so long as that Spanish captain they had heard of, who lay in Ramsgate harbour looking at the weathercock while the English merchantman went to Bilboa and came back. The Spanish Government at present kept 20,000 men, a strong and useful part of the population, employed as custom-house officers, while an equal number were engaged as smugglers in defeating the labours of the custom-house officers, and these 40,000 men were employed in preventing revenue from coming into the Spanish Treasury. He trusted the Spanish Government would begin to pursue a course more advantageous to the interests of Spain,
 677 678
 MR. HEADLAM  thought that hon. Gentlemen who were not lawyers could not have the slightest difficulty in forming as good an opinion on this subject as lawyers could. The fifty-first section stated, that notice of the time that the Committee would be sworn, should be published in the Votes not less than fourteen days before the day on which such Committee was appointed to be sworn. They were appointed to be sworn on the 25th of March; but the notice was not published till the morning of the 11th of March. It appeared by the Votes that the House did not rise till three in the morning on the 11th of March, and the Votes, therefore, of the 10th could not be in a state to be published till the morning of the 11th, and therefore fourteen days' notice was not given. He thought the matter might be referred to a Committee to consider what was the best course to adopt.
 MR. ARMSTRONG  said, he presented a petition from Aylesbury in which the same point arose. The expression in the Act was, not less than fourteen days, and authorities had been cited that that was fourteen clear days. Notice had been given on the 11th, and therefore fourteen clear days' notice had not been given.
 MR. BERNAL  quite agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, that when the Committee was sworn, their appointment must remain unquestioned; but there was a difficulty. These five Gentlemen should have been sworn yesterday. [No, no!"] Well, then, to-day; and they could not be sworn after four o'clock. The Act provided that they should be sworn on the first business day after their appointment, and yesterday was the first day the House had met after their appointment on the 25th. However, the point was, were they in the habit of subscribing to the doctrine of the Court of Queen's Bench or Common Pleas in its construction of legal technicalities? He remembered a case—the name of which he could not at that moment call to mind—in which the House had held that in calculating the days one day should be inclusive and the other exclusive, and it was curious that with respect to private Bills the order said seven clear days.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he had now, for the fifth time, to ask the House to vote the necessary sums to provide for the expenditure of the Army during the ensuing year. In former times considerable constitutional jealousy existed on the part of the House with reference to the standing army proposed to be maintained, but that feeling had been superseded by a very just feeling of national pride regarding the services, the conduct, and the discipline of the Army of this great country. He had no wish to disparage the troops of other countries, or exalt unnecessarily those of our own; but he would make bold to say that there was no army in the world more remarkable for its discipline, more patient under privation, more gallant in the assault, or more steady under fire, than the British Army. It was for the Government to state what, in their opinion, the number of men should be; but whatever opinions might be held upon this point, there was no economist near him who could bring forward or substantiate one single charge of bad discipline against the Army, or of failing to do their duty to the country when called upon. With respect to the strength of the Army, it was always the duty of the Government to keep the amount of force at what they considered the lowest possible point consistent with the exigencies and honour of the country; and it did not appear to his colleagues or himself that during the ensuing year they could propose, with any due regard to the public interest, that a smaller number of men should be maintained during the year ensuing than during that just past. He, therefore, should propose that the Committee should vote for the present year 98,714 men, being within 414 of the number voted last year. A reduction to a certain extent took place last year, but he was told on that occasion that it was partial, and confined to men in the ranks, and that the Government had not made a proportionate reduction in the number of officers. This year the decrease of 414 consisted of 101 officers, 25 non-commissioned officers, and 288 rank and file. Among that number would be found the office of Colonel-in-Chief of the 60th Regiment, which was filled by the late Duke of Cambridge, but which appointment, upon the recommendation of the Committee upstairs, had been abolished. The force of 98,714 men was distributed into two parts—the regiments who were serving at home, and those abroad. The force serving within these islands amounted to 59,598, while
 749 l. in prospectu, l. l, 750 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. d. d. 751 l., l. 752 l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l., l., l. l. l., 753 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l., l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l., l. l. l., 754 l. l. l., l. l., l., l. l. l., l. l. l., l. l.; l., l. l., l. l.; l., 755 l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l. l. l.; l.; l. l. l.; l. l.; l.; l. l., l. beau ideal
 MR. HUME  was gratified not less than the right hon. Gentleman at the economy which had taken place in the Army of late years. The economy had been of the most practical character, for they found that while the charges had decreased, the available force at the disposal of the country had been greatly increased. He had gone carefully over the returns of all the departments, and he was glad to perceive that in the system of accounts, as to correctness and character, the Army was far before the Ordnance or Navy—any comparison with the Navy being, in fact, quite out of the question. They had no doubt made considerable progress; but he was still not satisfied, and he only accepted what had been done as a proof of how much more could be accomplished. He saw no reason whatever why the civil organisation of the Army should not be still further improved. He saw no reason whatever why the Ordnance should not be placed, as in all other armies, under the Commander-in-Chief, in order that they might thus get rid of the expense of that costly and most useless establishment in Pall-mall, and save a clear million at least. He would not place reliance on the evidence, for it was interested, the witnesses being military men, who saw the advantage of the country in the increase of their establishments. The Governments successively had always urged that relief was wanted in the colonies, as the excuse for keeping up the numbers of the Army; and it seemed as if the same or an increased number was always to be required in the colonies. But changes had taken place of late in our colonial policy which should induce the House of Commons to change the system also; and the Government had admitted that the colonies should pay some part of the expenditure for military supplies. Formerly, in colonies with a mixed population, as in the West India islands, residence was not safe without a stationary military force, if only as police protection; but within the last few years Her Majesty's Government had determined, that whenever our colonists adopted the institutions
 759 760
 MR. W. WILLIAMS , in seconding the Amendment, must condemn the financial conduct of the Government as having been more extravagant in every branch of the public service than any of their predecessors. Unless the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War could show that there was something in the state of the country which required such a large force, he (Mr. Williams) did not think the House would be justified in voting the number of men which the right hon. Gentleman had proposed. The average of the eleven years from 1829 to 1839, had been much below what was proposed for this year. The average of these eleven years had been—of cavalry and infantry, 85,140 men; of artillery, 8,550, making together 93,690 men. There were proposed for this year, cavalry and infantry, 98,714; artillery, 14,570, together 113,284 men; being rather more than 20,000 men required this year above what had been the average required by the three Governments who had preceded the present Administration. Besides this, too, there had been an increase in the Irish police and the coast guard, amounting to 36,000 men, which, with the increase of 20,000 in the artillery, infantry, and cavalry, made the force asked by the Government for this year more than 56,000 above what had been required by the Governments of the Duke of Wellington, Earl Grey, and Lord Melbourne. He (Mr. Williams) must give the right hon. Gentleman credit for the clear and intelligible manner in which his Estimates were usually drawn up; but he should like very much that the right hon. Gentleman would point out what necessity existed for this increase of force. He (Mr. Williams) begged the House to observe that in the year 1839 this country was in a position
 761 Essay on the Constitution. "When it is urged that it is necessary to assimilate our peace establishment to that of Continental Powers, and that a large Army is rendered necessary by the increase of the population, then it is time for the people to arouse themselves and shake off, before it be too late, the burden of a military government." 762 l. and
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, he would confine himself to the proposal by his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) to reduce the military force of the colonies by 5,000 men. In the year 1835 a Committee of the House had been appointed to inquire into the colonial military expenditure of the country. That Committee was composed of Earl Fortescue, Sir Henry Hardinge, Sir Henry Barlow, and the hon. Member for Cocker-mouth, and they recommended that there should he the strictest economy observed in our colonial military expenditure. At that period the number of troops in the American colonies amounted to 5,399 men, including artillery and infantry, maintained at a cost of 337,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 763
 LORD J. RUSSELL : In reference to what has been said by the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Molesworth), I may state that the actual number of men in our North American colonies, including Newfoundland and Nova Scotia, is 8,079. The hon. Baronet proposes to reduce the number by 5,000, which would leave a totally inadequate force.
 SIR W. MOLES WORTH  said, he had included artillery and engineers.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, he believed that we could not suddenly withdraw from the colonies 5,000 men, though at the same time he believed that the chief reduction in the Army must be from the forces in the colonies. He contended that, in the North American colonies, all that we required to maintain was merely a few companies at Quebec, Montreal, Upper Canada, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick, to serve, in case of need, as the framework to form regiments in those provinces. He did not think that they could, during this year, withdraw 5,000 men from the North American colonies, for the withdrawal of them would occupy a great portion of the year; and they could not withdraw them all at once, without throwing the men into a state of destitution. He would prefer leaving the Secretary of State for the Colonies, in the first instance, and afterwards the Secretary at War, to make those reductions. He had listened to the right hon. Gentleman's statement with great satisfaction, and he
 764
 MR. HUME  said, in order to remove the difficulty which his hon. Friend felt with regard to the reduction, he would state that the recruiting was to the amount of 12,000 men a year, and if they stopped that they would accomplish the object. The House did not seem to be aware that this Vote involved a large expenditure for the Ordnance. Taking the five years from 1834 to 1838, inclusive, he found that the expense amounted to 61,274,159 l. l., l. l.
 MR. HUME  protested against proceeding further that night, it being now a quarter past twelve o'clock. He should move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, the 5th of April was fast approaching, and although they might have money in hand for the present year, that money, very properly, could not be applied to the expenditure of the ensuing year. He hoped his hon. Friend would now allow the Votes to be taken.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to show the injustice of several of the items, and especially with regard to the differences of rank. He wished to go into detail. ["Oh, oh!"] He had a duty to perform, and he should not be prevented from performing it by clamour.
 MR. MOWATT  said, he had an additional reason why the question should not be further debated that evening. It appeared evident that the House was not disposed to enter upon such a discussion
 767
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that if the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Williams) would take the trouble to read the evidence given before the Committee last year, he would find every explanation that he could require, not only given in a far better manner than he could do, but illustrated by documents from the War Office. He hoped the House would consent to the Vote.
 MR. WILLIAMS  protested against the voting of 3,500,000 l.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that the lion. Member being so inflexible in his determination, he (Lord J. Russell) had nothing for it but to acquiesce. He would, therefore, offer no further opposition to the adjournment; but he should feel it his duty to propose, that on Monday evening Supply should have precedence of all other Orders. This would necessarily interfere with the arrangements he had previously made, and he should be compelled, in consequence, to postpone the Motion of which he had given notice, for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the relations of this country with the Kaffir and other tribes on our South African frontier. He must, however, be permitted to say that he thought the conduct of the hon. Member for Montrose very unreasonable.
 MR. HUME  wished the noble Lord to understand that it was his intention to move, on Monday evening, that unless Government brought forward their financial
 768
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the question for which he had given notice for a Select Committee to inquire into, was most essential to the interests of the empire. It need not be a long question, or require a long debate. He should have brought it on to-day, but the noble Lord at the head of the Government asked him to give way, assuring him that he should bring it on the first thing on Monday; and he acceded to the request out of deference to the noble Lord. The discussion on the Budget would be coming on, and he should like to know whether he would be allowed to refer the subject to a Committee before going through the Supplies.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, it was quite right that the hon. Gentleman should receive an explanation. According to the Orders of the House, after an amendment had been put and divided upon, no other resolution could be proposed; the only Motion that could be put was, that the Speaker should leave the chair. The Speaker himself had decided so that night, in reference to the Motion of the hon. Member for Lincoln (Colonel Sibthorp), which stood before that of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Adderley). Therefore it was impossible that his Motion could come on. He certainly intended to have proceeded on Monday, before any other business, with the Estimates. The hon. Gentleman would see the position in which the House stood. On the 5th of April any monies that might remain, not having been paid in the expenses of the year, would be returned to the Exchequer. Therefore, unless the House now consented to vote certain sums, there would not be, on the 5th April, any money for the emergencies of the service. As the hon. Member for Montrose knew that, he hoped he would not persevere in his opposition.
 MR. HUME  said, that to show what he intended to do, he would state that he meant to put on the books a notice, before
 769
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was not at all certain that the opinion of the course pursued by the hon. Member for Montrose, being very unreasonable, would be participated in out of doors. Generally speaking, the public impression was, that if any part of the business of that House was done in a slovenly, unsatisfactory manner, it was the voting of large sums of money. It might be all very well that this money should be voted in the sums now proposed; but it certainly did not appear right to those paying the taxes that those sums should be voted without consideration and inquiry. The noble Lord at the head of the Government ought not to lay all the blame on the hon. Member for Montrose of the interruption to public business. He had kept the House himself, ever since the 4th of February, running after a hare which they would never catch, and trying to do that which was wholly impossible. And if the public were favourable to the noble Lord's project, they must be ready to submit to some little inconvenience with regard to the rest of the busines. If there was any occasion on which it was necessary to make some stand, and demand some inquiry and discussion, it was in voting these large sums of money; for it was only in these large Votes for Naval and Military expenditure that it was possible to secure for the country any reduction of expenditure.
 MR. HUME  said, he would not press his Motion.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he really hardly knew how to deal with the question before the House. Hon. Gentlemen talked as if he had proposed to expunge from the Estimates the Vote for Kilmainham Hospital altogether; but if they would turn to the Army Estimates, they would find that the Vote to be taken was exactly the same for this year as for the preceding. But he must say, as the question had been raised by his hon. and gallant Friend, that he was one of those who had formed a very deliberate opinion that the system of in-pensioning was one that was not popular with the soldiers of the British Army; and that being so, he should like to know why it was that the British Parliament should be called upon to vote money for the purpose? It was quite true that when Kilmainham and Chelsea Hospitals were instituted, they were the only refuge, with the exception of certain invalid companies, for those soldiers who were disabled in action. With standing armies, it was necessary to provide refuges for those who were disabled in action; certain buildings were therefore allotted as residences for disabled soldiers; invalid companies were instituted into which they were drafted, and the Hospitals of Chelsea and Kilmainham were established. It had been said that those establishments were paid for by the soldiers themselves. That was an assertion which had been made both with respect to Kilmainham and Chelsea, but which had been contradicted over and over again; and he fearlessly asserted, that no soldier, prior to the year 1795, ever contributed a single shilling of the pay due to him for the erection and
 736 l. 737 738
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that the authority on which he stated that the Irish soldiery were not called upon to pay anything to the maintenance of the establish-
 740 —"that this would not be an increase in the expenditure, because it was in lieu of the sum heretofore paid by the soldiers to the support of that hospital, but repaid to them in another way; the military then received their full pay by another arrangement, and while it was the same thing to the expenses of the country, it was more satisfactory to the soldiers, who imagined that because their daily advance was less than their nominal pay they were unfairly dealt with."
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that what he had written to Dublin was, that no vacancies in Kilmainham Hospital should be filled up without a communication being had with him. He had since received communications with respect to two vacancies which he deemed it essential should be filled up, and they had been filled up.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, the Committee on this question had not acted without having precedents for the course they had taken. In 1845, a petition for trying the election for Dartmouth had been presented, and a Committee had been appointed exactly under the same circumstances as the present one, and no objections had been made. In 1846, the Committee for trying the election for Wigan had been appointed under the same circumstances, and it was remarkable that in that case, as in the present one of St. Albans, Mr. Coppock had been the agent for the defence, and he had then taken no objection. In 1848, the Committee for trying the election for Horsham had been appointed in the same way: there had been the same agent for the defence, and no objection had been taken, nor had any complaint been made. The objection made in the present case was, that fourteen clear days had not elapsed between the intimation and the nomination of the Committee. Notwithstanding all he had heard, he was still of the opinion that the Committee had discharged their duty correctly and properly; and, moreover, he hoped he would not be out of place in saying that he considered this to be a question which should be decided rather by the good sense of the House itself than by legal opinion. On the 10th of March, previous to four o'clock, the day had been fixed and settled that the General Committee should meet on the 25th of March to name the Select Committee in the cases of St. Albans and Aylesbury. The matter had been duly intimated at the Journal Office on the 10th, and it had been
 724
 LORD J. RUSSELL : Sir, if it be now convenient to the House, instead of answering the question of the hon. Member, I will state the course I propose to take for the conduct of Public Business; and, in doing so, I shall afford an answer to the question. It is absolutely necessary that we should proceed to-day to the consideration of the Army Estimates; and that the House should receive the report of the Committee of Supply to-morrow. I propose to go into Committee of Supply, on Monday, on the Army and Ordnance estimates. On Friday, my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will state the alterations he proposes to make in the financial arrangements; and on the same day he will move, in Committee of Ways and Means, a Resolution in respect to the continuance of the Income Tax. We can then go into debate on the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford, unless the right hon. Gentleman should think it inconvenient to do so, at a late hour in the evening, when we can take on Monday evening the debate on
 721
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, he did not recollect having given any understanding, or made any promise, that the Government should bring forward the Budget before they had got the supplies. He certainly thought that, according to the theory of the lion. Member for Montrose, the Government, having a surplus in hand, would be perfectly justified in proceeding with the Estimates before the Supplies.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  said, that before the House divided he wished them to consider the result of the Vote to which it was proposed that they should come. The House was pleased two years ago to refer the question of the Naval and Military Expenditure to a Committee of the House. The Committee had sat for two years, and it was again reappointed in the present year. That Committee had not yet made their Report on this subject, and therefore
 742 l. l. l. 743
 LORD J. RUSSELL  declined to pledge himself to any arrangement of that nature.
 LORD J. RUSSELL  was very sorry that there had been any misunderstanding with the hon. Member for Montrose on this subject; but he had always considered it to be understood that the Estimates were to be taken immediately after the conclusion of
 745
 LORD NAAS  said, that as the answer of the right hon. Secretary at War was based on the principle that he was about to do away with in-pensioners, he begged to ask him if he had issued a similar order with respect to Chelsea to that which had gone to Kilmainham? If this order of the Government was based on the principle of doing away with the system of in-pensioners altogether, he thought that that should be done contemporaneously in Ireland and England, and that no preference should be shown to Chelsea over Kilmainham. Notwithstanding it had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman that the Irish Army did not pay to the maintenance of the Kilmainham Hospital, it would be found on reference to the Charter, a copy of which was to be found in the Parliamentary paper he held in his hand, that at the time the Charter was granted to Kilmainham Hospital, a poundage of 6 d.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the noble Lord had put this question on the ground that a Committee was sitting upstairs, and that it would not be wise in the House to come to any decision in this matter till that Committee had reported. But the right hon. Secretary at War had already decided. That Committee also was appointed at the instance of the Government, and not at the instance of the House, as stated by the noble Lord. He looked upon this as a question of the same nature as the question for the abolition of the Lord Lieutenancy, though it was of smaller proportions. The question seemed to him to be whether they were to have a great system of centralised government, or whether they would retain their local institutions.
 MR. SPEAKER  having put the question for going into Committee, a division was called for by Mr. HUME, but no division took place.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member could not make that Motion, as the House had decided that the question, "That Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair," stand part of the Question.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the Resolution was not in order, because the Motion of the hon. Member for Portarlington was now before the House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  then rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice—
 "To call the attention of the House to the Treasury Minute authorising an additional grant of 500 l. l. l. 746
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he felt very much obliged to his hon. and gallant Relative. He must in the first place thank him for the expressions which he had used in reference to himself, and still more must he thank him for the testimony he had borne to the merits of an individual whose conduct was known to the House. Whatever might be his hon. and gallant Friend's opinion of the Government, he was glad that he bore witness to the merits of Mr. John Wood, for a more deserving officer did not live. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was glad an opportunity had been given him to state what the whole arrangement entered into was, of which this only formed a part. It was not quite fair to single out one particular measure without taking into consideration the whole arrangement. Without the able assistance of this gentleman, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could not have effected so large a reduction in the public expenditure as the Board of Inland Revenue had enabled him to do. Many years ago the Boards of Stamps and Taxes wore consolidated, by which a great saving in the public expenditure was effected. About four years ago he had carried into execution a further consolidation of the Board of Stamps and Taxes with the Excise, forming a Board of Inland Revenue, by which a still further saving of a large amount was effected. He said most distinctly that if it were not for the great exertions of Mr. John Wood he dared not have undertaken that great consolidation. It was doubted much whether such an arrangement could be carried into effect. It was, however, owing to the zeal and exertions of Mr. John Wood that it was ultimately effected. The effect of the whole consolidation of these boards was to cause a saving to the public of about 250,000 l., l. l. l. l. 747
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not think the request of the hon. and gallant Gentleman by any means a reasonable one, and he considered that it would not be for the advantage of the public service that he should now state what was the course he meant to propose. The hon. Member for Montrose must he aware that, according to the system recently introduced, of paying over into the Exchequer all balances on the 5th of April, the close of the financial year, it would be utterly impossible that any payments could be made for the great public services after that date, unless the money was voted by the House. Besides, it must be remembered that the Mutiny Bill must be passed before Easter, and the number of men also voted before the 5th of April. He did not mean to say that he could not make the financial, statement as well on Monday as on Friday, but it was indispensable to proceed at once with the Estimates, unless a stop was to be put to the public service on the 5th of April.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Baronet was not accurate in supposing that there had been the understanding which he stated.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the original foundation of the establishment at Kilmainham, under Charter granted by Charles II., and the buildings now called the Royal Hospital, had actually been erected by deductions of sixpence in the pound from the
 732 l. l.; 733 l. l. l. l. l. l. 734
 MR. AGLIONBY , who rose amid cries of "Withdraw," said he should not withdraw the Motion, as he thought it well to take the decision of the House. The right hon. Gentleman the Chairman of the Committee had quoted three precedents; but the House would be surprised to learn that out of 36 nominations by the General Committee, 27 were free from this objection. He apprehended that in common law and common sense the House were bound to vote for this Motion.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that, as the point of law involved in the case of Aylesbury, and that involved in the petition in reference to St. Albans, which he (Mr. Aglionby) had presented yesterday, were nearly the same, he would be content that the decision of the House in the one case should rule the other. He did not know how many Committees had been named under similar circumstances; but he knew that the matter involved the seats of at least two Members who sat on his side of the House. The House, however, in considering the question, would discard from their minds all considerations as to who would be affected by the decision. In referring to these petitions, he would only trouble the House with a statement regarding that which he had had the honour of presenting yesterday—the St. Albans. The petition stated that "an informality had been committed; that the petition against the return of the Member for St. Albans had not been addressed to your Honourable House, nor to any court or tribunal whatever; and the conclusion, that it was intended for your Honourable House, can only be drawn from the reading of the entire petition, and is merely an inference, not a positive averment." If it had been a petition on an ordinary question, it would have been at once thrown aside. By the Act, it was required that intimation of an intention to nominate the Committee should be published with the Votes "not less than fourteen days" before such nomination. The question, then, was simply as to whether "not less than fourteen days" meant fourteen clear days, or not. The practice, he was informed, was to construe the "fourteen days" to mean one day exclusive, and the other inclusive. Assuming this to have been the practice, it would not influence the House if that practice were wrong. The question had never, however, been before the House; and the House had never, of course, expressed a decision on the point. No lawyer would tell him that the Courts of law considered "not less than fourteen days" to mean anything else than fourteen clear days.
 723 v. v. ab initio,
 MR. GRATTAN , in seconding the Motion, said, he considered the right hon. Secretary of War, in proposing the abolition of Kilmainham Hospital, was acting most illegally. This was not only a violation of the law, but the most presumptuous interference of the Government he had ever heard of, in issuing an order against the admission of further pensioners to Kilmainham Hospital. If the officers of the establishment wore well advised, they would just take the order of the Government, and tear it in pieces before the men. Judges Blackburne and Crampton had declared that the lands were held under Charter. The Government might as well seize the estate of a private gentleman, as abrogate a Royal Charter. The right was not only founded on the Charter, but on the fact of deductions having been made from the soldiers' pay in support of the Hospital. In 1835, an attempt had been made to induce the pensioners to go out, but very few would consent to the proposal.
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, that there was more to be considered in this case than economy. His right hon. Friend the Secretary at War had talked of the superior comfort which the out-pensioner met with at home, but he thought that was partly attributable to the bad management of these institutions. These institutions were established by the Monarch as a sort of monument of the glorious deeds of the Army; and as it would be a very unpopu-
 739
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he wished to know by what authority the right hon. Secretary at War forbade the further admission of inmates into Kilmainham Hospital? He believed that he had no authority in law, as he certainly had none by the Charter. The Hospital at Kilmainham was very popular with the Irish soldiers, who were at least one half of the British Army. He had heard the number of Irish soldiers in the British Army estimated at 40,000 or 50,000 some years since. He thought that some consideration should, therefore, be shown the feelings of the Irish soldiers. Were they not, after fighting for their country, and losing their legs, arms, or health in her cause, to have no sanctuary in their old age? It was not economy, but centralisation—a desire to deprive Ireland of every vestige of her ancient honour and nationality—which was at the bottom of this measure. The right hon. Secretary at War would not venture to transfer the English warrior to Kilmainham; and why, therefore, did he propose to transfer the Irish warrior to Chelsea, when he had enlisted in the Army almost on the understanding that he would have this sanctuary in his old age? He appealed to the generosity of the Irish and Scotch Members not to permit this aggression on Ireland.
 MR. REYNOLDS  stated, that, during the greater part of the Session 1848, a Select Committee sat upon the subject of Ministers' Money in Ireland. They examined several dignitaries of the Protestant Church, who were favourable to the abolition of that impost, on a substitute being provided; and it was understood Government intended to introduce a Bill for providing that substitute. In pursuance of notice, he would ask, at what time did the Government intend to introduce any measure with a view to the abolition of Ministers' Money? That money amounted to 16,000 l. l.
 MR. BROTHERTON  thought that there was no stronger feature in real economy than a well-timed liberality. He had known Mr. John Wood for about twenty-five years, and he bore testimony to all the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said respecting him, having watched his conduct closely during all that time. He believed him to be a very valuable public servant.
 MR. HUME  could only say that he, and a great many near him, were of the opinion he had expressed; but if such was not the general understanding, he would not press the question to a division.
 MR. HUME  said, if the Government would bring forward the statement on Monday, he would withdraw his opposition.
 MR. HUME  thought that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War had been unfairly dealt with on the present occasion. He did not see why they should go to the expense of keeping up those Hospitals, when they could not get individuals to fill them. There was a strong disinclination on the part of retired soldiers to go into Chelsea Hospital. That was the case with respect to Chelsea, and if a proposition was made to do away with Chelsea Hospital, he would vote for it. He believed that the comforts of the soldier could be better provided for elsewhere. He did not think that this proposition and the proposition for the abolition of the Lord Lieutenancy were at all analogous. He denied that there was any insult offered to Ireland in abolishing the Hospital at Kilmainham. He believed that his countrymen did their duty in the Army—and yet Scotland did not feel that she was insulted because she had not a military hospital. The Government were acting wisely in reducing the military expenditure, and applying it to other purposes. He hoped hon. Gentlemen would not allow themselves to be led away by their feelings, and that they would see the folly of keeping up military hospitals which they found it difficult to fill.
 MR. HUME  said, he must press upon the Government the propriety of making the financial statement before any more of the supplies were granted. He knew the whole country was anxious for it. There was not a town throughout the United Kingdom that did not expect it; and when such anxiety existed on the subject, he asked the House to agree with him in declaring that they would not vote any more supplies until the financial statement was brought forward. The statement must have been prepared; it could not possibly be that the Government had not made up their minds what they would do; and if so, why delay one hour in bringing it forward? Whether there was a pledge or no pledge, the understanding certainly was, that before the Government asked the supplies, the financial statement should be made. The Government had had two or three weeks for consideration, and there was no reason why it should not be made before they got any more money. He might be told that the 15th of April was approaching, and that the Mutiny Bill must be passed; but there would be no difficulty in passing the Mutiny Bill when the financial statement was made. He would therefore propose that the House should not proceed to Committee of Supply until the financial statement had been made.
 MR. HUME  said, he understood that the Budget was not to come on on Monday evening, and that he considered was a breach of the understanding made with the House, and therefore a breach of good faith. When his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth submitted his Motion, he seconded it for the purpose of asking him to withdraw it, in order to allow the Chancellor of the Exchequer to make his statement. But if now the Budget was postponed, what security would they have? They would have the Navy, the Army, and the Ordnance Estimates, which were the principal votes of Supply, passed, and then the Budget was to come on. He did not think that this was treating the House fairly. He considered, therefore, that the House should not proceed with the Votes until they had the Budget before them. If the thing had been unexpected, it would have been a different matter; but the Government had had two or three weeks to consider the matter, and consequently they had no excuse. In fact, it looked as if they were taking advantage of the disposition of the House to forward their objects; and they (the Members) would be liable, if they acquiesced in it, to the suspicion of neglecting their own duties. He begged, therefore, to propose—
 "That this House is of opinion that Her Majesty's Government ought, agreeably with their
 729
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, he would never pledge himself to stop the supplies, whatever constituency he might represent. At
 730
 MR. WALPOLE  believed it was the rule of the House of Commons that technical objections, through slip or mistake, should not interfere with justice. The parties in this case were the sitting Member and the petitioner; the judges were the House of Commons; and if the General Committee appointed to select a Committee to try the petition had made a slip or mistake, which was not absolutely fatal according to the Act of Parliament, it became the House to rectify the slip or mistake, so that no injustice should be done to either of the parties. The Act required the notice to be "not less than fourteen days" before the time when the Committee was selected. His opinion was, according to the decision of the Courts of Law, that fourteen days meant fourteen clear days. If" the Act was exhausted in consequence of the fourteen clear days' notice not having been given, no further proceedings could be taken; but he was of opinion that the Act was not exhausted. The clause respecting the notice was merely directory. The appointment of the Committee was not made to depend on the validity or invalidity of the notice. The notice was required to be given to the sitting Member, in order that no injustice might be done him; and that being so, on the day appointed for the selection of the Committee he or his agents ought to have objected to the appointment of the Committee; but having neglected to do so, the objection was waived. If that
 726
 MR. C. ANSTEY  said, that the Act required publication, and publication did not consist in the mere printing. What the Act required was publication with the Votes, and it recognised our existing method of printing with the Votes; and the real question was, whether or no the practice of the Courts of Common Law and Equity was identical with the practice of that House in regard to Election Committees; for if that were so, he had no hesitation in saying that the statute was exhausted in the present instance, and they had no power to proceed, not having reserved to themselves by Act of Parliament for the trial of election petitions, any of those powers once inherent in this House.
 MR. HOBHOUSE  wished to warn the House that whatever decision they might come to might be overruled by the Courts of Law, and this circumstance conferred great importance upon the decision at which they might arrive. He should suggest, therefore, that his hon. and learned Friend should withdraw his Motion, and consent to refer the matter to a Select Committee. He had no political bias on this matter, but he would not consent to sacrifice their rights. Ever since Sir Robert Peel's Act, controverted elections had been determined with an impartiality that had never been known before, and he had no other object in view but that they should avoid the difficulty which he foresaw of coming possibly into collision with the Courts of Law.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that when it was announced that the Government intended to bring forward their Budget very early in the Session, the greatest satisfaction was experienced. The right hon. Gentleman did bring forward his Budget, and, unhappily, it gave satisfaction to only a few. Some time had now elapsed since it was announced that some now financial arrangement would be proposed. He concurred in the views expressed by the hon. Member for Montrose. He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would appoint Monday next for that statement.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that there were only 175 men in Kilmainham Hospital, and there were forty-six officers over them, including seven nurses and four assistants. The whole cost was 8,600 l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  could not avoid expressing his surprise that the Budget had not been considered before they had been called on to vote any further portion of the Supplies. He was surprised that the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer should for one moment have delayed to bring forward his financial statement. The right hon. Gentleman stated on a recent occasion that he intended to reduce the duty on Timber and Coffee, and also to take the duties entirely off seeds. The right hon. Gentleman must be aware, at all events, this was about seed-time; and that in consequence of his statement that important trade was paralysed. He (Mr. Williams) believed it had always been the custom in such cases to take off the duty provisionally, and give a guarantee. However, the result had been very much to inconvenience the trades to which he had referred; and he considered that the delay was totally unnecessary, for the Government had had plenty of time to consider what course they would take. With regard to the feeling out of doors on the subject of the Budget, the Government must be aware that several Members in the House had been called upon to oppose every vote of supply unless that most odious and obnoxious tax, the Window Duty, should be repealed. If the hon. Member for Montrose should take an opportunity of moving his Resolution, he should certainly support it, for he considered its principle most salutary.
 SIR B. HALL  understood the noble Lord, after the division the other night, that he would take the Army Estimates, and that he would then state when the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would make his financial statement. In the earlier period of the Session, however, he had distinctly understood the noble Lord to say that he would take the Navy Estimates, and that he would then lay before the House his financial views. Now they ought to have that statement before they proceeded to grant any of the Estimates. They were fast approaching Easter, and as a night would be taken up by
 731
 SIR D. DUNDAS  advised the House to be afraid of nothing that might befall them from the Courts of Law. He had not a doubt that the legality of the appointment of a Committee when once sworn could not be called in question upon any ground whatever. But he was not of the same opinion with the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, or with the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst; for, having looked into the Act of Parliament, he considered that the words to which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred were not in that enactment by way of directory language, but that they were imperative upon that House, and described a rule which was as clear as the words of an Act of Parliament could make it. The hon. and learned Member had avoided all allusion to the publication "in the Votes," and this
 728
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should make his financial statement on Monday. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had given notice of a most important Motion for that night; but there was a subject of far more importance and of much deeper interest than the Kaffir war to the inhabitants of the metropolis and of the I large towns, namely, the Window Tax. The proposition of the right hon. Baronet on that subject had given universal dissatisfaction; and he believed that that proposition would be altered. If, however, he was mistaken, he should be glad to be informed that such was the case. He must concur, however, to some extent, with the right hon. Baronet with respect to what he said as to stopping the public service; and he believed that the number of men to be proposed was not an extra or improper number.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, the two grounds which the right hon. Gentleman put forward for the proposed change were, those of economy, and of its not being popular with the Army. The principal cost incurred in both establishments was from retirements to officers of high rank, granted on account of their services during the last war, and totally unconnected with the maintenance of the private soldiers. Deduct those allowances, and it would be found that both establishments were extremely economical, especially the Irish one. He denied that these establishments were kept up merely for show. Who that had visited Paris doubted the policy of keeping up the Hotel des Invalides? And yet that institution did not provide for the whole of the pensioners of the French army no more than did Kilmainham and Chelsea for the whole of ours. No establishment would accommodate the 80,000 pensioners of our Army, and it was right that arrangements should be made for allowing those who desired it to reside in the country; but there were, nevertheless, associations connected with these institutions which should not be broken in upon. He admitted that the great majority of pensioners preferred to be out-pensioners; but still he thought that the 500 or 600 men in Chelsea, and the 200 or 300 in Kilmainham, who, aged and infirm, but covered with honourable wounds, preferred to reside in these establishments, should not be deprived of these refuges of their old age, because a saving of 2,000 l. l.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  also expressed a hope that the Government would give a promise to bring on the financial statement on Monday.
 MR. GROGAN  said, it was unworthy of Her Majesty's Government to make this attempt in the present state of Ireland. A proposition to somewhat the same effect was made in 1833; and Lord Stanley, then the Irish Secretary, very truly said it deserved to be well considered whether the pecuniary advantages attending the proposed change wore not counterbalanced by the injurious impression which it would produce in Ireland. Those arguments were to this day unanswered. Was the city of Dublin or was Ireland in a better position now than in 1833, so as to justify them now in prosecuting a measure which they then abandoned? He hoped, however, that it had been taken up hastily, and
 735
 SIR G. GREY  said, he regretted this case had been brought before the House, because he did not think that House was the best tribunal for settling a nice point of law. This question of reckoning fourteen days' notice had come before the Courts of Law, and he believed there had been conflicting decisions upon it. At the same time they were bound to decide the question that had come before them. He agreed with his hon. and learned Friend (the Member for Midhurst) that the party petitioning the House and asking the
 727
 SIR H. VERNEY  said, that the assertion that this measure was an insult to Ireland on the part of the Government was quite unfounded, because it was clear that the arguments of the right hon. Secretary at War applied to Chelsea as much as to Kilmainham. He, however, believed that this measure was much disliked both by the soldiers and the people of Ireland. He believed that the hon. Member who spoke last was near the truth when he said that nearly half the soldiers in the Army were Irishmen. A friend of his made a bet with the late Duke of Gordon when Marquess of Huntly, that half the men in the 42nd
 741
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that a wrong act done in former years could not justify a similar act at the present time, and they must be entirely guided by the construction of the Act of Parliament. He would limit himself to the question whether the requirement of the Act, as to publication, had or had not been fulfilled. Now could there be a publication more complete than the statement made in the House by the Chairman of the Committee of Selection, that he and his colleagues had fixed the Committee? If that was done, and an
 725
 MR. W. MILES  thought the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington premature. The Estimates had been before the Committee of the House for the last three years. He had asked the Government the other night whether it was their intention to call together the Committee for the purpose of their making a Report, and the answer he received was in the affirmative. It was therefore, he thought, premature to discuss this question until that Report was received. He would not say one word respecting Kil-
 744
 LORD M. HILL  brought up the Report of the Committee of Supply.
 MR. ELLICE  said, as a Member of the Committee to which his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose had referred, he
 795
 MR. VERNON SMITH  complained that the Debate was very irregular; and that the lion. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had been speaking neither to the original Motion nor to the Amendment. He, for one, must deprecate the practice of taking Votes on account. The result he bad always found to be, that when the first part of the sum was taken, the discussion was postponed; and of course when the other part was asked for, it was always too late to debate upon it. Thus there was no discussion either at one stage or the other. His right hon. Friend the Secretary of War quite chuckled at the idea, and certainly the notion of promoting discussion by taking a Vote on account was the strangest course he had ever heard of. He did not think that the Committee which had been referred to, supplied any reason for a Vote on account. He thought the Committee might be able to report this Session upon some matters, as to the question of the consolidation of offices, with regard to which their opinions might influence the decision of the House, and he therefore considered it advisable that such Votes should be for the present postponed.
 COLONEL ESTCOURT  wished to draw the attention of the right hon. Secretary at War to the injustice of withholding good-conduct warrants from sergeants in the Army: 1 d. d. 810
 MR. W.WILLIAMS  said, that, even after the long discussion which had taken place, he was not satisfied on the subject of the advantages with reference to pay, & c., 816 l.; l.; l. l. l.; l. l.; l.; l. l., l. l., l. l., l., l. l., 817 l.; l., l. l., l., l. l.
 COLONEL ANSON  said, that when the Ordnance Estimates were under the consideration of the House last year, he entered into some details, more than usually required, on account of the changes which had been made in them arising out of the recommendations of the Committee appointed to inquire into the Army and Navy Estimates. He would endeavour on this occasion to compress his remarks into as concise a form as possible consistent with the duty which devolved upon him. The amount demanded for the present year was
 831 l. l. l., l. l. 832 l. l. 833 d. l. l. l. l., 834 l. l.; l., l., l.; l., l. s. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. 835 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 836 l.; l.; l.; l., c. l. l. l. l., l. 837
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  seconded the Motion, and hoped that his hon. Friend would, under all circumstances, persevere in it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not mean to taunt the hon. Member with desiring to institute inquisitorial proceedings, but he very much feared that many of the returns for which he called would merely tend to gratify the idle curiosity of persons less inquisitorially inclined than the hon. Member. To some of the returns moved for, he would offer no opposition; but he must positively refuse to enter into minute explanations with respect to the returns under Schedule D. The gross accounts under that Schedule had already been presented, and were on the table, but he could not consent to the production of returns for districts and towns. Such a proceeding would be contrary to the uniform practice of that House, which, following the rule which it had always set down for itself, of discouraging disclosures respecting the incomes of individuals, had, in 1816, ordered the income tax papers to be burned. If these returns were granted, the disclosure of the incomes of private individuals would be the inevitable result, and against that the House had at all times set its face. With regard to Schedule B, it would be impossible to give the information which the hon. Gentleman required, because the returns were only made triennially; but if lie would kindly give his support to the renewal of the income tax, on precisely the same terms, he would be able to get the information from the new assessment which it would he necessary to make in the present year, lie would be compelled to resist the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, but he was quite willing to give him all the information he could, consistently with the principle upon which those returns were made.
 MR. HENLEY  hoped the hon. Gentleman, if he could not get all that he asked for, would forego having any at all, otherwise he would be placing before the country a state of facts leading to a false inference. The assessment under Schedule B continued the same for three years; and therefore any return for the last two years would
 843
 MR. SPOONER  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press for a return under Schedule B.
 MR. BOOKER  said, that Schedule B was what he particularly wanted in the returns. The income tax was so unjust an impost, and the assessment, it appeared, so little able to hear the light, that he must be excused from pledging himself to adopt the right hon. Gentleman's suggestion to support him in its renewal. He would not now, however, press his Motion to a division, having already drawn the attention of the House to the anomalies of the tax.
 COLONEL REID  thought that military men had great reason to complain of the regulation which had been recently introduced, rendering it necessary for them to
 820 821
 COLONEL REID  wished to explain that he had not intended, for an instant, to display the presumption of setting his own opinion against that of the greatest military authority of the age. But, in truth, he did not view the measure as emanating
 823
 COLONEL REID  said, he must deny that there were more officers in the Life Guards than in the regiments of cavalry of the line. It was the rule that no small detachments of soldiers should do duty in the metropolis except under the command of a commissioned officer, and this rendered a great number of officers necessary. The officers of the Guards, he maintained, positively served the State gratuitously. They paid largely for their commissions; and after deducting the interest of the money, and taking into account the regimental charges, there was positively not a farthing of their pay at the disposal of the officers.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  begged to introduce again to the notice of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, the case of that most deserving body of men,
 813 l. d., d.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  said, that having had the honour of being frequently appointed inspecting officer of the yeomanry cavalry, and having performed that duty sixty-nine times, he was anxious to address a few words to the House on this subject. He could assure the House with honour, truth, and sincerity, that he had ever found the yeomanry a most zealous, active,
 830
 MR. FOX MAULE  could not agree with the hon. Member for Bristol in the aspersions which he had cast upon the yeomanry cavalry. He could not concur with him in thinking them "impostors" as soldiers, for the reports which he had seen from experienced officers of the Army warranted him in stating, that if well drilled and well disciplined, the yeomanry would perform any duty that any body of men could be called upon to perform. He regarded them as an admirable force.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he did not propose that evening to bring forward any more of the Army Estimates, as it was now necessary to proceed with some of the Votes on the Ordnance Estimates.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that he had not yet made up his mind as to the policy of transferring the recruiting system to the pensioner corps. The matter was still under his consideration.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that according to the return for the year 1850 the number of depositors in the savings banks had been 7,859, and the amount deposited had been 94,961 l. 811
 MR. FOX MAULE  was understood to say that the number of troops now in New South Wales had been reduced, as far as the Government deemed necessary. Earl Grey had been gradually reducing the
 807
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he had heard many objections made to the new system of education in the Army, but the gallant Officer who had just sat down was certainly the first who had had the courage to defend the old state of ignorance among the officers of the Army. The fact was that now that they had begun to educate the private soldiers of the Army, it was quite requisite that the officers also should be more highly educated in proportion, or else the men would speedily be excelling those who commanded them in all the branches of information requisite for the profession; and if that ever happened, the next step would be that the men would begin to entertain a thorough contempt for the officers who were set over them. The Commander-in-Chief had, however, taken steps to avert such a state of things, by affording to officers every opportunity of acquiring in-
 822
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, it must be borne in mind that this asylum was for the instruction of those children of soldiers who could have obtained instruction in no other mode, and that the education which they there received was such as would train them for becoming schoolmasters in their turn, which was the case in not a few instances. With respect to the Hibernian School it was peculiarly defensible, because from the number of Roman Catholic soldiers in the Army the number of orphans of that persuasion was very great, and in the Hibernian School they had an opportunity of receiving instruction in the tenets of their own religion without any interference from the authorities. He thought that this establishment stood on grounds different from Kilmainham Hospital, to which he had alluded on a former evening. He believed the school was a model institution, and that it was regarded with the deepest feelings of interest by all the public authorities of Ireland.
 MR. FOX MAULE  regretted that, after the discussions which had taken place as to the relative merits of the Guards and regiments of the line, the hon. Gentleman had thought it right to renew the attack on the regiments of Guards. He hoped, however, the House, at all events, would not go into that vexed question. Both parties had pleaded their cause; and the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Portarlington (Colonel Dunne) put forward the case of the regiments of the line with great fairness and temper. He
 818
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that reductions in the general staff had been effected in Canada, the Cape, Australia, the Leeward Islands, and St. Helena. It was necessary that there should be general officers even where the number of troops was small, to carry out the military law.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that the duties were not so light as the Gentleman supposed, seeing that questions relating to Courts Martial came before the Judge Advocate General, and that he had to see that proper justice was done to those tried by those courts, it was therefore necessary that he should have an assistant.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, his intention was to proceed with the Army Estimates in the usual way, and to submit each Vote  seriatim 805 l. l.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, on former occasions he had not the least objection to taking a Vote on account; and on this occasion, if he saw any advantage to be gained by adopting the Amendment of his hon. Friend, he should not have the least objection to it; but he did not believe that any advantage would result from having again to go into Committee of Supply on this Vote. It was true the Committee upon Naval and Military Expenditure had yet to make their Report upon the various subjects on which they had been engaged taking evidence during last year; but he did not think that any recommendation of theirs could be carried into effect within the present financial year. The only thing he could promise would be that the Government would be prepared to adopt any recommendation of the Committee in the ensuing year. He, therefore, thought the House would save its time by at once agreeing to the Vote.
 MR. FOX MAULE  was understood to reply, that it was intended to diminish, as far as possible, the objectionable practice of married men occupying the same room with unmarried. Now, if he recollected what he stated in evidence, it was this, namely, that he was aware the allowance was insufficient for the purpose of providing them separate accommodation. He proposed, therefore, to double the amount of the sum; and he intended to ask the Committee to double the grant for that purpose. At the same time, he thought that if, by increasing the allowance, three of the soldiers might be withdrawn from the room, accommodation might be found for the other three without making them the allowance.
 MR. FOX MAULE,  in reply to the question of the hon. Member, begged to state, that the force in New South Wales had been in course of reduction for several years; and that Earl Grey had intimated a desire, on the part of the Government, that it should in future be kept as low as the wants of the public service would admit.
 MR. GRENVILLE BERKELEY  said, that as a former officer of the line, he could say that he believed there was not the slightest jealousy between the line and the Guards.
 COLONEL LINDSAY  could not allow the remarks of the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington (Colonel Dunne) to pass without expressing his dissent from them. The hon. and gallant Member said there
 809 l.; l. l. s. d. l. s. l. s. d.; l. s. d. l. s. d.; l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l s. l. s. s. d.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War had
 800
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, if he was not supported in his opposition to the Vote by the hon. Member for Montrose and his friends, he would not be at their beck and call, and would not give the House the trouble of dividing.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, there was no more gross waste of public money than under the head of "civil contingencies." A great deal of money would be expended upon what he had always regarded with great jealousy—that miserable Crystal Palace, that wretched place, where every species of fraud and immorality would be practised. It was an insult to the English nation. He objected to any Vote of public money on account; it was a very dangerous thing, for when the money went out they could not get it back again, and his maxim was, "Holdfast is a good dog."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the object of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, as far he could understand it, was to obtain a repetition of the pledge which his noble Friend had given on a former occasion that the financial statement should be made on Friday next. He could assure his hon. Friend that there was no man in that House so anxious that that statement should be made as he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was, because he was anxious to say what he had to say in explanation and defence of the course he had adopted. Unless any unforeseen circumstances should arise which he suggested as a contingency, the Financial Statement would be made on Friday next. There had been no delay on his part. But his hon. Friend knew as well as he did that a considerable length of time had been occupied by the discussion of a measure in which an overwhelming majority in that House had by their votes shown they had great interest. His hon. Friend knew that the financial year closed that day, and from that day forward no money could be issued from the Exchequer for the payment of the Army, Navy, and Ordnance, until it had been voted by the House, and therefore it was requisite that these Votes should be come to on that day. His hon. Friend must know that whether the statement was made on that day or on Friday, it was perfectly impossible that the points to which he had referred then could be decided. A considerable time must be occupied in the discussion of those various points, and it was impossible that either on Friday or on Monday those points could be settled. If, therefore, his hon. Friend was really anxious, as he believed him to be, to despatch public business, he would allow them to proceed with that which really was the business of the night.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought he had been sufficiently explicit. His noble Friend had stated, that on Friday he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would make his financial statement. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had just stated again that he should do so; and he now stated, for the third time, that he should bring it on on Friday next.
 MR. F. H. BERKELEY  said, it might be expected he should say something, but he would not occupy more than two minutes, in answer to the attack made upon him by the gallant General—he begged pardon, he did not exactly know the dignity of rank held by the hon. Member—[Mr. W. MILES: Colonel.] Well then, in answer to the attack of the gallant Colonel, he need occupy but little time. He hoped, however, that the gallant Somersetshire corps would not prove to be merely the vanguard of the enemy, to be followed up by the mournful and dangerous troop to which he had occasion to allude last year; because it would be a sad affair to have to encounter the whole band of yeomanry Gentlemen in that House. His ease reminded him of Hudibras, when he exclaimed—
 "Oh! what dangers do environ The man that meddles with cold iron!" Bristol Gazette, 829 Bristol Gazette Bristol Gazette,
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the large proportion of officers in the Guards was most unjust. The evidence taken before the Committee on the Estimates showed that, in the Guards, the proportion of superior officers to the men was 1 to 74; while in the cavalry it was 1 to 337; and in the regiments of the line 1 to 617. That was a most unjust disproportion; and the result was, that the higher ranks and rewards of the service were given chiefly to Guardsmen. The pay of a colonel of the Guards was 496 l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. s. d.
 COLONEL DUNNE  begged to he allowed to explain. There were 68 lieutenant-colonels for the Guards, and only 158 for the whole of the line. That he had called a hardship to the line, and he would repeat it. But the hon. and gallant Member for Wigan (Colonel Lindsay) had considered the majors of the line as if they were lieutenant-colonels. Now, what he (Colonel Dunne) complained of was, that the captains of the line were not allowed to rank exactly like the captains of the Guards. With regard to the amount which the hon. and gallant Officer's regiment had to pay for its hospital, what he (Colonel Dunne) had to say was, that he thought the Government ought to provide these sums for building and repairing hospitals, and he thought Government ought also to provide the Guards with barracks, as they did for all other troops. He wished unfair advantages to be given to none. He did not object to the Guards receiving more pay, because their living in London was an excuse for it; but they ought not to have superior advantages to all other regiments serving in every part of the world.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he could not agree to sweep away a number of the items with which the hon. Member for Lambeth found fault. What he objected to with respect to the regiments of Guards was the rate of promotion, and not the pay which they received.
 COLONEL DUNNE  wished to express his great gratitude for this measure of education. With regard, however, to what had been said about the professors writing books and publishing them, he thought that such a course was absolutely necessary, because we really had no manuals on such subjects in this country, and officers were obliged to pick up their information from French and German works.
 MR. MOWATT  hoped to have some further explanation, not only with reference to the troops in New South Wales, but also as to those in Canada. The reduction of these troops would be a legitimate means of reducing the number of the Army without impairing its efficiency; within the last two or three years two regiments had been withdrawn from New South Wales, which had virtually increased the numbers of the Army, just as though they had voted 2,000 additional men in the Estimates. From his acquaintance with New South Wales, he was convinced that the greatest boon and advantage they could render to that Colony was to take away every soldier. When that was done, the Home Government would be compelled to give the colonists what they had been so long promised—the management of their own affairs, and they would then flourish and progress in a ratio of which no idea could now be formed. The Colonies would then become what they were intended by nature to be—the real outlets for the productions of this country. He wished to know whether the remaining troops were to be removed from New South Wales; and if not, whether this country was to be relieved altogether from the cost of their maintenance? Earl Grey, in his despatches, pointed distinctly to the intention on the part of the Homo Government to throw the cost of the troops on the colonists themselves. He wished to know the number of troops left in New South Wales, when they were likely to be removed, and when the same system would be applied to Canada?
 MR. MOWATT  said, he understood his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose had already stated that, supposing the Government fixed a day definitively, he did not intend to press his Motion to a division; and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given an assurance that he would make his statement on Friday next. Both the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Coventry and the right hon. Gentle-
 797
 MR. MOWATT  said, that a large portion of the hon. Gentlemen who cheered the noble Lord were not present on the occasion referred to, and therefore he could not bow to their decision on the point. The Committee would perhaps allow him to explain. The noble Lord would recollect that between twelve and one o'clock on Saturday morning, there having been only three Gentlemen who had made any observations upon the Estimates, it became very evident that the Committee—he would not pretend to investigate or analyse the cause—refused to hear any further observation or argument whatever upon the subject. Upon that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) said that in addition to the unusual course of granting after twelve o'clock so large a vote as 3,000,000, the Committee was wholly indisposed to allow any discussion to take place. Upon that the noble Lord rose and said that they (the Liberals) were very unreasonable. He (Mr. Mowatt), for one, had not opposed the first division—with reference to the number of men, feeling that the period was drawing so near when the Army could not be kept together any longer unless the money and the Mutiny Act were voted. He therefore felt more strongly the unfairness of preventing the further discussion of the subject. He did not mean to say the noble Lord had himself joined in the interruption—looking at the position he held, it could not be expected that he would—but the noble Lord appeared to receive the interruption with much pleasure. He therefore did think that he was not abusing language when he said the noble Lord availed himself of the obstruction to prevent their expressing their opinions.
 MR. MOWATT  asked if the right hon. Gentleman would give the Committee some explanation with reference to the troops for the colonies. The Committee was aware that within the last few days there had been published copies of the correspondence that had taken place with reference to withdrawing the troops from New South Wales. That correspondence had been going on for some years, and he believed commenced as far back as 1846. He wanted to know if the right hon. Gentleman would give some information on that subject; for if they were going to
 799 ad misericordiam
 MR. MOWATT  wished to know how many regiments there were in the colonies, and when it was intended to reduce them?
 MR. EDWARDS : It was not my intention to have offered a single remark upon this question; but finding, as I do, that the hon. Member for Bristol, notwithstanding the severe castigation j lie received last year from various Gentlemen in this House, has again reiterated the insults he then offered to every member of the Yeomanry Service here and elsewhere, I cannot remain silent; and I only regret that we have not a division, so that the country might judge of the support the hon. Member would receive at our hands. In referring to the services of this | arm of the service, I have only to quote the authority of the two Gentlemen who have I just sat down—the right hon. the Secretary at War, backed as he was by the hon. Member for Cork, who has himself been appointed no fewer than sixty-nine times Inspecting Officer of Yeomanry Cavalry, for: convincing proofs of its efficiency in times of general disturbance. Being myself connected with the Yeomanry, I hope and trust we may never have the hon. Member for Bristol amongst us. The hon. Member, in speaking of its officers and men, has thought fit to designate us as "impostors," "hogs in armour," & c., c. '
 MR. MACGREGOR  wished to make some observations on this as a financial question. Considering that 3,000,000 l. 808
 MR. HENLEY  wished to know whether the 94,961 l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he believed the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War would find, on further examination, that a sum of 9,600 l. l.
 MR. HUME  said, that the statements which had been made with respect to the position of the different corps, showed that the Government ought to take the matter into their hands with a view to place it on a more satisfactory footing. Another point to which he should direct the attention of the right hon. Gentleman, was the cost of the recruiting system, which at present amounted to more than 100,288 l.
 MR. HUME  said, it was his intention to divide the House on his proposition to vote 2,000,000 l.
 MR. HUME  wished to draw attention to the fact that it required 114 persons to take care of the 350 boys in the Royal Military Asylum, and 41 persons in the
 825
 MR. HUME  still thought that it was a misapplication of the public money, when for the same sum at least four times the number of children could have been maintained. He should be inclined to recommend the shutting up of the institution, and dispersing the children throughout their own countries.
 MR. HUME  said, if there was any one thing in the conduct of his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War which entitled him to the gratitude of the country, it was the arrangement he had introduced for the better education of the Army. To hear a gallant Officer complain of Government having adopted a course of instruction for the officer of the British service, was to him a matter of astonishment. Still more was he surprised to hear the gallant Officer say that because the Duke of Wellington had not during the forty years he had been at the head of the Army thought proper to introduce the system, therefore it was wrong for any one else to bring forward such a measure. It was to be regretted that the Duke of Wellington had not long since taken the course which had at length been adopted. The British Army was noted for its ignorance. ["Oh, oh!"] Its officers were, at any rate. ["No, no!"] He would say, "Yes." Take the officers of any battalion of the British service, and let them compete with the officers of a battalion of the French Army; and the former would have no chance whatever in regard to professional knowledge. The French officers went through a much more severe course of professional study than the British officers, and their education was of a higher quality. He did not blame the British officers for their inferiority to the French in these respects, for they had not the opportunity of acquiring the same degree of knowledge. When instruction was being given to the non-commissioned officers and privates of the British service, was it right that the officers should remain uninstructed? In the Royal Military College there were only 180 cadets, and he did not think it was necessary for that
 824 l.
 MR. HUME  said, that he never objected to the pay of either officers or men in the Army. He thought that the pay was not enough either in the Army or Navy. What he complained of was this, that a number of men more than was necessary for the service was maintained. He also objected to the inequality which existed between the regiments of Guards and the line. He considered it would be better to have one uniform system for all. It was in that view, and not as regarded particular items, that he should support the Amendment.
 MR. HUME  complained that the general staff officers were kept up to an amount beyond what was necessary. He found that there were general staff officers where there were only a few hundred men.
 MR. HUME  complained that the recommendations of the Committee, which sat some eight or nine years ago, in favour of the appointment of a Minister at War, were not carried out. These recommendations stood on the books, but that was all. He did not think there was any use in Committees sitting, if what they recommended was not attended to. He believed, if they had a Minister at War, that a great deal of the confusion in their military system would be got rid of.
 MR. HUME  said, that upon looking over the whole of the Ordnance Estimates, he found that there was only a saving of 22,920 l. l. l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l. 838 l. l., l. l.
 MR. HUME  hoped that the House, after the speech of his hon. Friend (Mr. F. II. Berkeley), would be prepared to dispense with the Vote altogether.
 MR. HUME  could assure the hon. and gallant Member that not a farthing of the Vote proposed was for the Crystal Palace.
 MR. HUME  must complain that opportunities for bringing on subjects were very rare. He had been trying for three years to bring on a single question, namely, the reduction of the number of admirals from 155 to 100, but without success. Their only chance was in going into Committee of Supply; and, therefore, he wanted hon. Members to interest themselves in these very expensive establishments. He wished to know whether the time had not come when they ought to consider how they could maintain these 98,040 men at the least possible cost, consistently with the efficiency of the force? Why should they, then, keep 351 Guards at home, with an allowance of 32 officers, when they had only 40 officers for 1,000 or 1,200 men engaged in active service abroad? The aristocratic influence, however, was so strong, and their interest in keeping up this useless expense was such, that Government never would alter the system unless the House took the matter into their own hands. He found, on looking at the estimates, the following analysis of our
 802 morale l. 803 l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. 804
 MR. HUME  said, he did not wish to cast any reflections on the Guards, he only meant to say that the other troops were as good. He had complained of the number of officers, and the consequent increased expense of the Guards; and to that the right hon. Gentleman made no allusion. The right hon. Gentleman had hinted that it would be very inconvenient for officers of the line to come to London to do Court duty. He should not wonder if it was under the present system by which the Guards were looked on as a superior race, and whose example the officers of the line might feel it necessary to emulate. But it would not be a very difficult matter if it was established as a regular routine of duty. He was ready to admit the great forbearance of the Guards in times of popular disturbance, but here again he denied; that they had behaved better than the other troops. The expense of British troops was nearly double that of the same number of troops belonging to any other country in the world. He could not see what objection there could be to taking a Vote on account, and leaving an opportunity for further discussion.
 MR. HUME  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. HUME  said, the House would recollect that during the last two Sessions they had adopted the course of giving a Vote on account. If that course were taken now, there would be time to consider the recommendations of the Committee before the Session was closed. He should therefore move as an Amendment, that 2,000,000 be granted on account.
 MR. HUME  said, the House would re-callect that on Friday night, after voting 98,714 men, a proposition was made to vote 3,521,070 l. l. 793 l. l. l. l. l. l. 794
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he did not understand the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to give a distinct pledge that the financial statement should be made on Friday next. What the right hon. Gentleman said was, that if nothing unforeseen occurred, he would make it. He did not think the terms made use of by the right hon. Gentleman were sufficiently distinct. He wished to know whether it was really his intention to make the statement on Friday next? He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that there was a great deal of dissatisfaction on the subject, and he did not know why the statement had not been made before, seeing that the right hon. Gentleman was himself so anxious to make it. The right hon. Gentleman had made in that House a distinct proposal for the repeal of the window tax, and the public thought that that tax was virtually repealed.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  cordially supported the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. He thought it was a principle that the House should insist upon, that the means of defraying expenditure should be stated to, and determined upon by, the House before they agreed to the expenditure. That was a principle they ought most particularly to insist upon under existing circumstances. The Budget which was brought in at the commencement of the Session was so objectionable that the people would not have it. They ought to know what the alterations were before they agreed to any Votes. He thought that there ought to be only a Vote on Account. There were other reasons. It was an established axiom of the constitution that the representatives of the people should have some satisfaction with regard to the redress of grievances before they voted any money. With regard to the question of reform, the noble Lord had made a kind of promise that that question should be considered in the next Session of Parliament; but they did not know whether the measure to be proposed would be of any value or not. The noble Lord had said, he was satisfied with the working of the Reform Bill, and that a franchise founded on numbers would be dangerous to the House of Peers. He wanted to know what kind of a measure the noble Lord, with these fears, would bring in. He also wanted to know what the noble Lord intended to do with the measure proposed by the hon. Member for East Surrey, and whether the noble Lord's measure would include the ballot or not. Then there was another important grievance connected with Ireland, the question of Landlord and Tenant. That question had been held in suspension by Government for years, and he wished to know whether they really intended to bring forward a Bill this Session or not. These were questions which be, as a representative of the people, was entitled to put, and if answers were not given, he hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose would press his Motion.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had entirely mistaken his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. The complaint was, that the right hon. Gentleman had not made his statement before the Votes for the Army, Navy, and Ordnance, were asked for. He was astonished that the right hon. Gentleman had not some compassion on those important trades—the Timber trade and the Coffee trade, which were now quite at a standstill. He had no hope whatever that any good would come of the recommendation of the Committee which had been sitting for three years. Whatever they recommended, he did not believe Government would pay any attention to. The present Government required 20,000 men more for our forces than any former Government had; and if the noble Lord could not carry on the Government as economically as other Ministers could, the House must insist upon his doing it.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must complain of the number of men that were to be voted. Connected with the Artillery, was a pet corps—the Royal Horse Artillery—which was of no service whatever, but was a most costly affair. The 602 men in the Horse Artillery cost the country 8,000 l. l. l. 839
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  complained, in reference to the pay of the Commander-in-chief, which was 6,016 l,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not see why the country should be burdened with the expense of a Deputy Judge Advocate General, when the duties were so light.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  had not had the opportunity of hearing the whole of the speech of the hon. and gallant Officer (Colonel Reid), but he understood the gallant Colonel had endeavoured to cast odium on the right hon. Secretary at War for the introduction of a system which, if the right hon. Gentleman were responsible for it, would, in his (Sir De L. Evans's) opinion, greatly redound to his honour. It would, as his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) had said, be a new era in the history of the British service. Hitherto money alone had been the means of promotion, but henceforth they might expect that efficiency and merit would be taken into consideration.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that it afforded him much gratification to find that there had of late years been a decided improvement in the sanitary condition of our troops, lie was afraid, however, that nothing had yet been done to render the condition of the barracks at Barbadoes less unhealthy than it had been. A dreadful mortality had taken place two years ago in Barbadoes, and that mortality was distinctly traceable to the barracks. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would endeavour to rectify that evil.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he thought that officers of the line laboured under one manifest disadvantage as compared with officers of the Guards. It had
 812 l.
 SIR DE L. EVANS  wished to ask a question with reference to the allowance to married soldiers. He had understood the right hon. Gentleman to say he would reduce the number of men to whom such allowance was paid, and increase the sum to each; that then he would wait to see what would be the result upon the morality of the troops; and that he would after-
 801
 SIR H. VERNEY  said, that officers of the Guards were not always men who led inactive lives. Colonel Mackinnon, who was at present entrusted with so important a command at Kaffraria, was one of those officers; and officers of the Guards did good service on the Sutlej. He did not deny that officers in the Guards obtained promotion more rapidly than officers in the line, but the latter officers did not complain of that. With regard to the expenses of the two kinds of service, he should observe that a return had been made out some years ago of the cost of maintaining 1,200 men in the line, and 1,200 men in the Guards; and he believed, that if that return were produced, it would be seen from it that there was but a very slight difference in the two charges.
 MR. W. MILES  expressed himself much satisfied with the just tribute which his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War had paid to the services rendered by the yeomany of this country, and felt sure that his right hon. Friend would not do anything that would impair the efficiency of that body of men. Having himself (Mr. Miles) the honour of commanding a regiment of yeomanry, he wished to call the attention of his right hon. Friend to the short period which was allowed for them to exercise during this year, and also to the insufficiency of the pay. The period for which a regiment was called out was only five days for this year, and the pay for the man and his horse was only 5 s. 826 s. Hansard, "He (Mr. Berkeley) would now show the Committee what the yeomanry were worth on an emergency. They all remembered the Bristol riots; and he thought hon. Gentlemen were not so ignorant of geography as not to he aware that Bristol was in two counties, Gloucestershire and Somersetshire, in both of which counties yeomanry abounded, arid very finely-dressed gentlemen they were. They wore a vast deal of hair on their faces, and they looked desperately fierce. But Bristol was on fire for three days, and was, during that time, completely at the command of lawless men, while the yeomanry were of no more use than a set of old applewomen. What aid did Bristol receive, in her three days of dolour and distress, from the voluntary heroes of Somersetshire? During that time about ten of the Somersetshire yeomanry marched into Bristol, and they were kindly locked up by the authorities to pre vent the mob from harming them."—[3  Hansard, 827 828
 MR. W. MILES  explained. The yeomanary could not be called out without a magistrate's order, and it was by order of Alderman Daniels that they retired to the riding-house.
 MR. SLANEY  said, he was afraid the hon. Member had somewhat prejudiced his case by his allusion to free trade, and by speaking as if the measure related to advances out of a public fund. Now, the object of his hon. Friend's measure was simply to allow private persons to advance their money, and to give them facilities for so doing on landed property, for the improvement of lands, and the erection of farm buildings. He could state most certainly that many persons were desirous of obtaining loans for this purpose, and that many others were ready to make advances on good security. The difficulty which presented itself was the complex state of the law; and the object of his hon. Friend was to overcome that difficulty, and enable persons to advance such loans without the investigation of title and other machinery of a complex nature. Under the present Loan Act the difficulties were so great that the only advancing parties were large companies. He trusted that in Committee a clause would be introduced which would have the effect of removing that difficulty. Now, in what way were the repayments to he made? [Mr. B. Cochrane: Out of the rent-charge.] He supposed, therefore, that the rent-charge would have to be gathered without the advantage of the assistance of a Government officer; because from inquiries made of the Enclosure Commissioners he had ascertained that the lender would not be able to receive it back through the Government officer, but would have to collect it himself. If this difficulty could be removed, very considerable accommodation would be granted to landed gentlemen who required assistance; it would confer a great boon upon them without any expense to the public. If the difficulty to which he had alluded could be removed, many small capitalists would be ready to advance sums of 500 l l
 MR. FERGUS  trusted the House would pause before entertaining the principle broached by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cochrane). The only excuse for lending
 888
 SIR B. HALL  said, he understood the hon. Gentleman that it was public money that was to be granted, and if it had been, lie should have opposed the introduction of the Bill; but after the statement of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Shrewsbury, he thought it extremely desirable that such a Bill should be introduced. He was surprised at the observations of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, seeing the amount that Scotch gentlemen had got of the public money. There was one objection of the hon. Gentleman's which he thought scarcely tenable, which was, that the security for the money to be advanced was to take priority of all mortgages. Supposing it did, the advancing of this money had enhanced the value of all the property, and he thought it was but fair that it should take the priority. He hoped the Bill would be so framed that it would be productive of beneficial effects.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it would he unnecessary to see that the money was applied to the purpose for which it was borrowed. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Slaney) spoke of the Enclosure Commissioners as the tribunal in England; but he (Colonel Dunne) knew no tribunal by which it could he applied in Ireland. It was quite clear that free trade had altered the system of cultivation in Ireland. Wheat had ceased in a great measure to be cultivated, and flax was cultivated instead. He had received a letter that morning from the chairman of a poor-law union, in which it was stated that in that district the cultivation of wheat had entirely fallen off, and flax was
 889
 Mr. ELLICE  said, if landowners chose to tic up landed property by all kinds of restrictions, they ought to see, at all events, that, as far as legislation could effect it, means should be taken to prevent the country from getting into a state of dilapidation, and prevent large districts from being absolutely without the means of improvement. He was consulted some time about an estate strictly entailed, and to which a. gentleman succeeded at a certain time of life. The estate was out of order, the buildings generally dilapidated; and the question arose how could this gentleman, with so short a tenure, find the means of putting it in order? He remembered particularly one proposal made was to lay out a sum of 3,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that lie should not have said a single word if the hon. Gentleman had not talked at him, and he should not have opposed the Bill though he thought it impracticable. The hon. Gentleman would remember that when this Bill was discussed last year, it was rejected by a majority of two to one, and he found that if was rejected by three to one of the English county Members who voted, lie should leave it in their hands. He should not oppose the introduction of the Bill, but he thought it right to give his opinion en it.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he was one of the majority last year who voted against the Bill for what he considered good and sufficient reasons; but he was much surprised afterwards at the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exche-
 890
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, what he stated last year was, that so far as the Exchequer was concerned he was perfectly indifferent. He left it to the English Members to decide for England, and to Irish Members to decide for Ireland. The English county Members, by three to one, rejected it, and lie put no obstacle in the way on behalf of the Exchequer; and therefore the hon. Gentleman had not rightly stated it.
 MR. DEEDES : What the right hon. Gentleman said was that he saw very great difficulty in preventing fraud in certain instances, and afterwards he allowed a similar Bill for Ireland.
 MR. OSWALD  said, he had had communications from Scotland that a Bill of this kind was much wanted. The money advanced for drainage would be useless unless they could erect farm buildings.
 MR. B. COCHRANE  said, he would read to the House what the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer did say last year. He would do so, because it was an important argument in the ease The right hon. Gentleman said—
 "With regard to contracting loans for the construction of farm buildings in Ireland, lie was willing, as it appeared to be the general wish of Gentlemen connected with that country, and as there were possibly circumstances in relation to Ireland, which did not exist with respect to England, to assent to that proposition."
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  assured the hon. and gallant Gentleman that there was not the smallest objection to affording the information for which he asked. The fact was, however, that the whole of it was already on the table of the House in a perfectly accessible form. The lion, and gallant Member would find it in the appendix of the Report of the Committee upon the Privy Seal and Signet Offices, which was presented last Session; but if the hon. and gallant Colonel should discover that it was at all deficient on any point, the additional information should be furnished on a future day. He, therefore, hoped the House would not consent to a Motion which would entail needless expense.
 MR. LENNARD  said, that he should support the Motion of the hon. and gallant Officer; at the same time he regretted that much extraneous matter had been introduced by him. The evils of the patent laws had been pointed out in the evidence of a Committee of which he was Chairman many years ago. Some of those evils had been removed by Lord Brougham, but many still remained; of those the chief was the want of a tribunal competent to decide on the merits of inventions, and of the claims of applicants. Such a tribunal should be composed of a mixture of scientific men and lawyers. But the want of arrangement in the present patent offices was so bad that it was often impossible, for want of good indices, to ascertain whether the invention had been patented or not already. But the great evil was the expense—amounting to above 350 l. 894
 MR. AGLIONBY  thanked the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) for his statement; and lie hoped that, as the hon. and gallant Colonel had often objected to the expense of unnecessary returns, he would not press his Motion.
 MR. ALDERMAS SIDNEY  regretted that the Government had objected to the returns, for he thought the fact, that the House would soon be called upon to consider a measure on the subject, was a reason why it was advisable to reprint the information in a separate form. He considered that the present law was a disgrace to the country.
 Mr. S. CRAWFORD  thought the returns should be granted, for the informa-
 895
 Mr. CAREW  said, that papers had been laid on the table within the last ten days, containing every item of the information for which the hon. and gallant Member now asked. He alluded particularly to the evidence of Mr. Capelain, the patent agent, before the Committee of the House of Lords, a copy of whose proceedings had been communicated to that House.
 SIR G. GREY  said, his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade had stated that if the hon. and gallant Member could point out any information which Members were not already in possession of, he was perfectly ready to supply that information; but there was clearly no use in calling for trade returns setting forth that which was already well known to the House.
 MR. DISRAELI  hoped that his hon. and gallant Friend, having attained his object, for he understood that the Government virtually conceded all that his hon. and gallant Friend required, would not now press his Motion. The object was one of importance; and as the Government had promised to complete all information concerning it, he took for granted that his hon. and gallant Friend would not think it necessary to divide.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was resolved to take the sense of the House, if it were only for the purpose of stimulating the Government, and enforcing their attention to this important subject.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  rose for the purpose of asking the right lion. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, "whether his attention has been railed to the number, character, and proceedings of certain persons, not being subjects of Her Majesty, but at present resident in this country and claiming its hospitality?" In order to make the question intelligible, it would be necessary that he should state a few facts. A powerful statement had been made last week on the subject elsewhere, the effect of which he would not weaken by repeating. He might, however, state that he had in his possession evidence of the existence of a wide-spread conspiracy in Europe, a branch of which had been established in this country, under the name of the Committee of Central European Democracy—
 MR. S. WORTLEY  was not aware that he had been offending against the rules of the House. He had been merely stating facts which had come to his own knowledge. There existed at this time a body in this country and in this metropolis who styled
 883
 Mr. VESEY , although he had many objections to the details of the Bill, would not offer any opposition to it at its present stage, or at least to that portion of it relating to dispensaries. But he could not understand why the infirmaries were to be included in this Bill. The infirmaries were not in the same degree dependent on voluntary subscriptions as the dispensaries; and he was afraid that if the hospitals were placed under the boards of guardians, the effect of the Bill would be to shut out a large class who at present received relief from the infirmaries.
 LORD NAAS  would not oppose the second reading of the Bill, for he considered it a measure somewhat necessary in all parts of Ireland. The measure was certainly an improvement upon the Bill of last year, and he was glad to see the Medical Board united with the Poor Law Board. By the Bill, as he understood it, all the infirmaries would be done away with, and all the bequests, grants, subscriptions, donations, and other property now belonging to those infirmaries would be handed over to the management of other bodies. This, he thought, was an important alteration, and that the Government was bound to make out a strong case in its favour; he thought, also, that full time ought to be allowed for a careful consideration of the best mode of administering those charities; and he could not help suggesting that it might be doubted whether the same sort of relief would be given in the new hospitals as had heretofore been afforded in the infirmaries. According to his understanding of the matter, the district hospitals might not be, like the infirmaries, open to any poor person, but rather be limited to cases of destitution, and confined solely to paupers—in a word, the labouring classes might not be benefited to the same amount by the new institutions as they were by the old. The words of the Bill were vague, and might be differently interpreted in different places. The Government were bound to show why they had taken those funds out of the hands of the persons who had hitherto administered them; and if a strong case of mismanagement were not made out against them, he would be inclined in Committee to propose the Amendment he had submitted to the House last year, namely, to exclude county infirmaries altogether from the operation of the Bill.
 MR. B. COCHRANE  begged to ask if the Government had any means of obtaining the names of foreigners in Loudon ', Was the Secretary of State aware, for instance, that Signor Mazzini was at present in London?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that any hon. Member might make whatever statement of facts came within his own knowledge, provided he did not trench on the field of argument.
 MR. F. FRENCH  thought that his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland had some reason to complain of the attacks made on him on account of the changes which he had introduced into the Bill. They all agreed in the principle of the measure, and they seemed to wish it pressed on as speedily as possible. In this he concurred for several reasons, and for this among others, that those portions of the country which stood' most in need of medical relief were the portions most neglected. He thought it important, if possible, to get through the Bill before Easter.
 COLONEL DUNNE  would follow the example of the other Irish Members who had spoken, and not offer any opposition to the second reading of this Bill. He believed, with them, that legislation was highly necessary; but there were parts in the Bill, very nearly affecting its principle, which ought to be discussed in Committee, and which they ought to have ample time to consider. He therefore trusted that the Bill would not go into Committee before Easter.
 MR. SCULLY  said, the present mode of administering relief under the medical charities in Ireland was very partial, bad, and inoperative, and he believed that the principle of this Bill was an excellent one. But he thought there were certain alterations that ought to be made in the details of the measure, such as in the mode of paying the medical officers of the different districts, their residence, and the appointment of the governors; but these were matters, perhaps, which it would be better to consider when the Bill was in Committee. He would, therefore, ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland to give the Irish Members another early opportunity of discussing the Bill in Com-
 896
 SIR J. YOUNG  wished to know what classes would be entitled to relief Under the Bill?
 MR. M. GIBSON  rose to order. It would be very desirable that they should know the position in which the House stood with regard to this question. He had no desire to prevent the right hon. Member (Mr. Wortley) from making any statement which was to make his question intelligible; but he (Mr. Gibson) wished to know whether they were to have a statement of facts on the one side, and no answer or reply on the other?
 MR MONSELL  said, that in many districts the poor possessed no means of medical relief, and, unfortunately, it was but too true that at present dispensaries, owing to the impoverished state of the country, were not kept up as in times past. There were two points in the Bill to which lie wished to direct attention. One of these related to the management by the board of guardians. Now, he knew no reason why they should have anything to do with the management. Why should they have anything to do with the districts within which medical relief was to be administered? In his opinion, that ought to be left to the central authority. The second point which he wished to notice was the appointment of medical officers. Why, he would ask, should that appointment rest with the board of guardians? On the contrary, it was his opinion that the district committee ought to appoint the medical officers, for they were the persons most interested in the proper discharge of the duties to be performed by those officers.
 SIR G. GREY : We have no regular means of obtaining the names of foreigners in London, but we know the names of several of the principal ones.
 Sir G. GREY : Sir the question which has been put by the right hon. Member (Mr. Wortley) is one of undoubted importance. I shall answer the first part of the question I
 884 885
 SIR P. NUGENT  concurred with hon. Members in approving generally of the principle of the Bill; but as regarded the existing infirmaries, he thought great care ought to be taken in dealing with vented interests
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he apprehended the Bill was not at all intended for the pauper classes; but the same classes who, under the present system, received relief, would still be entitled to receive it. Under the poor-law medical relief could be administered to persons in the character of paupers; and an attempt had been made to stretch that provision, so as to include those who were not strictly paupers. That attempt, however, had failed, and hence arose the very necessity for this Bill.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he agreed with those hon. Members who regarded this as one of the most important Bills that could be proposed for the benefit of Ireland, and he had endeavoured, in conducting it through the House, to conciliate the feelings of the Irish Members as far as possible in framing its provisions. The House was aware that several Committees of both Houses of Parliament had at different times sat to investigate this subject; and the general recommendation of those Committees had been that a separate medical board should be constituted to superintend these establishments. In bringing in his Bill of last Session he had introduced a provision in conformity with that recommendation; but as the Bill was passing through the House, he collected the feeling of the majority of the Irish Members to be that a single board should be entrusted with the management of these medical charities. Therefore, whatever his own opinion might have been, he bowed to the judgment of the House, and he had endeavoured in framing this Bill to comply with what he had believed to be the opinion of the Irish Members. He was glad to find the principle of the Bill in its altered state generally assented to; for the present state of the law was utterly inefficient, and it was unjust to the ratepayers, pressing heavily on the charitable and humane, and enabling those who were contented to neglect their duty to escape without paying any tax whatever. It was unjust also to the medical profession—a highly-educated body in Ireland, who were heavily worked and badly paid. He had introduced the infirmaries into the Bill because he thought the two systems of medical charity ought not to go on separately; and great as were the abuses of the dispensaries in Ireland, the abuses of the infirmaries were not much less. He did not speak of the way in which the infirmaries were managed—that, he thought, was highly creditable; but he thought the infirmary system emi-
 899 900
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  moved the Second Reading of the Bill.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  wished very much that due time should be given to Members of that Souse connected with Ireland to give the revisions of the Bill their careful so as to possess a fair opportunity their opinions, and he pressed this the more because the law respecting fever hospitals was in a very unsatisfactory state; and he hoped, therefore, that the Session would not be allowed to pass away without those hospitals being properly provided for.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that in clause one, it was proposed to insert after the words "full amount, "the words" on account of any rates in respect of such premises."
 SIR W.CLAY  objected to the Amendment.
 MR. HEADLAM  fully approved of the principle of the Bill, which he considered was very important; but be altogether dissented from the manner in which that question had been brought forward, He was willing to admit that he was one of those who believed in the promises of the noble Lord at the head of the Government; but be did not think it would be of any benefit to the country if the noble Lord were to make any intimation just then of the nature of the reform which he contemplated. If the House went to a division he would vote for the second reading of the Bill, but would not do so from any distrust of the noble Lord.
 MR. RICK  said, that although he had voted for the introduction of the measure, he agreed fully with the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone, that it was not desirable that the question should be pressed at that moment. He thought, too, after
 926
 MR. CLAY  had heard with pleasure the proposition made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Maule), and he must say that he was unwilling to see any step taken which would embarrass the party by whom reform was likely to be given, or to encumber the great measure of reform with which they were promised by coming to a decision now upon only a small part of it. If the hon. Member for East Surrey was determined on dividing, he (Mr. Clay) would vote for the Bill; but he should do it un-
 928
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said: I am one of the gentlemen under difficulties, alluded to by the Member for Manchester. I am sent here with a special charge to support two objects, the cause of free trade, and that of the extension of the suffrage; and for these I must conscientiously do my best. In pusuance of that conscience, I must vote against a movement which, after the declarations of the noble Lord, appears to be what military men I think call  décousu, 929
 MR. PIGOTT  was aware the House was naturally impatient, and tired of the numerous explanations offered by hon. Members for the votes they were about to give;
 932
 COLONEL ROMILLY  wished to state the reasons that would influence his vote on the present occasion. In his opinion the time that had elapsed since the passing of the Reform Act, had been so usefully employed by the people; their advance in education, in knowledge, and civilisation had been so great; their progress in habits of morality had been so steady; whilst the evidence they had given of their attachment to order, and their submission to good government, had been so unmistakeable, that they had fully established a claim to more free admission to the privilege of political representation. Holding this opinion, and thinking that it would be both safe and advantageous to grant a considerable extension of the suffrage to the people, be had thought it his duty during the short time he had had the honour of a seat in that House to vote on all occasions for such measures as appeared to him safe and reasonable, having
 930 931
 MR. LABOCHERE  said, that he did not rise to oppose the Motion of his hon. Friend; but, at the same time, he could not allow the Motion to pass without making a few observations upon the subject. He deeply felt the importance of having some efficient system of railway audit; but he could not disguise from himself, or from the House, that he was at variance with his hon. Friend as to the principle which he thought should animate the House on this subject. His opinion was, that do what they might, they would never enable the railway shareholders of this country to establish a real and effective control over the accounts in cases where the boards of directors were not trustworthy, or where they wished to deceive the public and the shareholders. He came, therefore, to the conclusion, that the audit of railway accounts should be founded on some principle beyond the railway companies. He thought that there should be an independent audit; he did not say a Government audit, for he agreed in the position that Government should not interfere in matters of this description. And he always most anxiously recommended the House to disentangle the Government from any such connexion. But he thought that the Bill of Ids hon. Friend, founded as it was on a different principle from that which he had stated, would not protect the shareholders or the public in those gross and flagrant cases where the board of directors were either dishonest or incapable, and where they desired to deceive the public and the company as to the real state and position of its affairs. And it was to be recollected that it was for these extreme eases they were bound to provide. He therefore would never be a party to the bringing forward of any measure for the establishment of a railway accounts audit which was not founded on something independent of the railway company itself. He was afraid that the present measure would be found to he a delusion—more plausible, perhaps, in appearance, than the existing system—but which would not work in the way intended by his hon. Friend, and would not give the public or the shareholders any real protection in the
 946
 MR. GLYNN  said, that though he thought a great many of the scandalous transactions to which the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade alluded, might have been sooner discovered or altogether avoided, if the existing powers intrusted to railway companies had been properly exercised, yet he begged to state, as the representative of a largo railway interest, that they thought it their duty to avail themselves of a considerable portion of the Bill, and that they had brought it into action in the large concern to which he referred. He should vote for the se-
 947
 MR. FOX MAULE  had been in great hopes that his hon. Friend who had moved the second reading of this Bill would have been content with the opinion which had been already expressed by the House, and would not have pressed further, during the present Session, the progress of a measure which he perfectly understood his hon. Friend to have undertaken in a  bonâ fide 917 918
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  declared his confidence in the noble Lord, and would
 940
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he had but little to add to the speech made by his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War at the beginning of this discussion. His right hon. Friend stated, as he himself had stated on a former occasion, that he had no reason to question the respectability and intelligence of the class proposed to be included in the measure before the House. But the ground on which he argued this question was, that the admission of these persons would not be an improvement in the system of representation. In the same way, if it were proposed that 40 s s l 936 937
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I regret that the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay) has found it necessary to introduce these words. I understand that the proposition is to obviate the inconvenience occasioned to voters, and which actually does deprive them of the right of voting by reason that they are called on at every fresh rate either to tender again or pay the rate. I understand that to be the evil which the Bill is intended to remedy. On the second reading of the Bill, the hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) said he was willing to remedy that inconvenience; he only wished that these compound householders should not be in a better position than persons who were rated to the full rate. I
 904 "It shall be competent for the person rated to h e relief of the poor in respect of such premises to claim to be on the registry, and upon such occupier so claiming, tendering the full amount of the rates then due, the overseers of the parish are hereby required to put the name of such occupier upon the register for the time being."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  had not expressed any opinion as to whether it might not be desirable to make the alteration suggested, and thus give the franchise to the numerous class of persons to whom reference had been made. What he said was, that it was understood, on the second reading of the Bill, that the words of the Reform Act, were to be adhered to. The hon. Member for Oxfordshire concurred in that view; and many hon. Members who came down to oppose the second reading, assented to it on that condition. No notice was given that any alteration of this kind j would be proposed. He certainly had received no notice. But the hon. Member for Manchester seemed to have had some intimation on the subject. What he (Lord John Russell) now said was, not that this I alteration was a wrong one, or unfounded in principle, or not likely to be beneficial in its operation, but that in point of fairness it ought not to have been introduced without notice.
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, the tendencies of three parties out of four in that House were to extend the franchise; and as the noble Lord at the head of the Government had stated that he would bring the subject forward next Session, he (Lord R. Grosvenor) thought it would tend to economise the time of the House if this
 908
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that but for some observations which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Secretary at War, as to the conduct of hon. Members sitting on his (Mr. Disraeli's) side of the House, he should have been disposed to allow the question to go to a division without trespassing upon the attention of the House on this occasion. But the Secretary at War, with almost a convulsive effort to reconstruct a reform party, described those who sat on that (the Opposition) side of the House,
 938 l l 939
 MR. NEWDEGATE  explained that his intention was to prevent such abuses as had been carried on in the borough of Lambeth; and having drawn attention to the subject, he did not wish to press the Amendment.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  hoped that the accusation which had been brought against him, of being opposed to the extension of the suffrage, would be considered as neutralised by the support which he was about to give to the Bill. At the same time, he thought that the effect of the measure would be greatly to facilitate the manufacture of fictitious voters who had no regular connexion with the constituencies at all. It had indeed been shown that this took place to a considerable extent under the present system; and he thought they ought not to encourage the intrusion of such foreign influence. The people of Birmingham would not like a wholesale importation of Manchester men but the effect of this Bill would be to bring into Southwark or Lambeth a number of persons who did not belong to it, but who only took lodgings of a sufficient amount to satisfy the requirements of the law. He did not think that sufficient precautions were taken to ascertain whether the claimants actually resided in the borough in which they claimed to vote; and he did not think that would be sufficiently provided for by leaving it to the revising barrister's court. If the scheme of the hon. Baronet were adopted, the franchise might be obtained by lodgings in a borough on a particular day. He proposed to insert these words in the clause, "In case the claimant himself should pay the rates." That, he admitted, would not be an adequate safeguard; still, it would be adequate sort of security against the unjust inroads on the privileges of others proposed by this Bill.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the question before the Committee was not whether compound householders should have the benefit of the Reform Act, but whether they should have the benefit of the composition of rates. What was that benefit I but a reduction of the amount paid? And if so, it was perfectly clear that if they
 903 boâa fide
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  wished to express his hope that the hon. Member for East
 924
 MR. F. H. BERKELEY  concurred with the previous speaker in asking the hon. Member for East Surrey not to go to a division in the face of the declaration made by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, as well as by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War.
 MR. AGLIONBY  contended that the Committee was not bound by any understanding which might have been come to between two hon. Members, but that each hon. Member was perfectly at liberty to propose such amendment as he might think desirable. He approved of the alteration suggested by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, and should give it his support; but thought the better course would be for the hon. Member to withdraw it for the present, and give notice of his intention to propose a clause on bringing up the report.
 MR. H. BROWN  said, that he should move the addition of certain clauses in Committee and the omission of others, with a view of affording greater protection to proprietors.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought they were wandering from the matter under discussion. They were not met to discuss whether they should divide or not, but whether they should go on with the Bill, and not simply whether it was desirable to bring forward an important question when hon. Gentlemen opposite were in the House. He had no expectation at all that a measure of that kind could be smuggled through the House, nor did he think it desirable that it should be. It would be far better to turn their attention to the measure itself, than to what had taken place on the last discussion, or what would be the result of a division that day. He had listened with considerable gratification to the speech of the right hon. Secretary at War. He was frank in his declaration of something to be done; and from the tone of his remarks, it might be supposed that it was to be something considerable. But the noble Lord at the head of the Government had not hitherto indulged the House with anything so distinct. On the last occasion he had agreed that, to a certain extent, the class of persons sought to be introduced to the franchise by the measure of the hon. Member for East Surrey might be so introduced consistently with the spirit of the Reform Bill, and with the good government of the country; but he had concluded by expressing a very decided opposition to
 921 l 922 l l 923
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was afraid the observation of the noble Lord at the head of the Government would not lead the Committee to suppose that his proposition for reform would be one which would satisfy the country. He (Mr. Bright) understood it was a common thing in Committee to introduce a clause to remedy some other matter than that which was strictly considered the question, and it was for the Committee to consider whether the proposition introduced by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets was worthy of adoption. He understood that the measure was rather to declare the law than to enact the law, because he understood from his hon. Friend that with regard to the metropolitan constituencies, it was not customary to con-
 905 906 l
 MR. HENLEY  said, there had been no understanding upon the subject but what the Committee was fully in possession of. He had distinctly stated on the second reading that he had no objection to the principle of the Bill, so far as it related to the removal of technicalities standing in the way of the due and proper exercise of the franchise. This proposed Amendment, however, went further than that; it extended the franchise to parties who at present had no right to it, and as that was not within, the scope of the Bill, as it was originally understood, he should oppose it; but he hoped that course would be obviated by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets withdrawing the Amendment.
 MR. HENLEY  objected to the Amendment on the ground that compound householders did not pay the full rate. A compound householder of 10 l
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the House had decided that it was favourable to the principle of the measure, although there was considerable difference of opinion as to the mode of working it out. He objected to the mode proposed by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay) in the Bill now before them. Th3 proper mode for a person in the situation of a compound householder to adopt would be to make his claim in the time prescribed by the Reform Act. The householder's claim should be made to the overseer before the 25th of August in each yeah This would be a much simpler process than that proposed, for if the claim were a fair one, the party could find no trouble in being put on the Register. There were in many parishes about four or five rates made in each year, and to be compelled to claim at the making of each rate was 4 Very troublesome matter.
 MR. HUME  was sorry the hon. and gallant Officer had retired, because he thought he would never have been found declining combat on such occasions. The right hon. Secretary at War had made an excellent speech, after the lapse of many years' silence on this subject on the Treasury benches; but he (Mr. Hume) had been too long in that House to take the promise of the right hon. Gentleman for the realisation of the whole of their views, as some hon. Gentlemen appeared to do. He could not accede to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Marylebone, because if the Government should bring forward only a mere fractional measure, they would have shut the door against the discussion, of any further measures of reform. Every Member who voted against the second reading declared constitutionally against giving the franchise to the persons included in this Bill. The right hon. Se-
 925
 MR. HUME  thought the Bill would have a different effect from what the right hon. Gentleman seemed to anticipate. He had not a railway share in the world, and be was therefore in a position to give a candid opinion.
 MR. LOCKE,  in moving the Second Reading of the Bill, said the circumstances and transactions out of which the Bill arose were so notorious, that it would not be necessary for him to detain the House at any length. He thought the House would agree with him that the fact of that notoriety rendered it absolutely necessary that some legislation should take place on the subject. In the year 1848 a noble Lord in another place introduced a Bill for the establishment of a Railway Audit. That Bill passed the House of Lords, but was rejected when it came before the House of Commons. In 1849 the same noble Lord introduced another Bill, which likewise passed the House of Lords. That Bill was founded on the principle that railway proprietors were not able to manage their own concerns, and that it was necessary to place them under some external control. The railway interest then found it necessary to take some steps in regard to this measure, and they determined to resist the Bill. Accordingly a meeting of deputies from the various railway boards was held, at which a resolution was come to adverse to the proposition for the establishment of a Government board to investigate the accounts of railway companies. A deputation from that meeting waited on the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and if he (Mr. Locke) were correctly informed, the noble Lord stated that ho was not anxious to interfere with the management of railway property or affairs, provided he had an assurance that a Bill would be brought in which would give satisfaction to the great body of railway shareholders. On that understanding the Bill then before the House was withdrawn, and the railway directors convened the different bodies of proprietors, with a view of ascertaining their sentiments. The result was, that they found an unanimous opinion to prevail amongst the proprietors against any Government interference, although there was great diversity of opinion with respect to the measure which would be satisfactory to them in regard to the audit of the accounts. In consequence of this difference of opinion, the directors did not think it necessary to proceed any further in the
 944 l. l. 945
 MR. MULLINGS  wished for some test of the value of tenements, and that was found in the amount of rate paid.
 MR. HEYWORTH  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HEYWORTH  would vote for the second reading of the Bill, and called upon all who were sincerely attached to reform to take this opportunity of extending somewhat the basis of the franchise.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said many appeals had been made to him not to press the House to a division; but he begged leave to inform the House that the Bill was in their hands; and, although he was unwilling to take upon himself the responsibility of pressing the question to a division, yet, if hon. Gentlemen wished to do so, he of course should acquiesce.
 MR. LOCKE KING,  in moving the Second Reading of the County Franchise Bill, trusted ho might claim the indulgence of the House; for he felt that he did it under somewhat peculiar circumstances.: He must say, he deeply regretted that, in the majority which had voted in favour of the introduction of this measure, the names of Her Majesty's Ministers did not appear; for he was confident that no one thing could have tended more to strengthen Her Majesty's Government and make them popular in this country than to have given a good substantial proof of their desire to extend the franchise by supporting this very simple and just measure. He had been blamed by one or two hon. Gentlemen for having pressed the House to a division upon that occasion, and having thus exposed Her Majesty's Ministers to the mortification of a defeat; but he begged to assure those hon. Members that he had never intended this Motion to he a mere show, a sham, a flash in the pan, but a reality. He had felt that great interests were at stake—that the great cause of free trade was in danger, owing to the great diminution which had already taken place in our county constituencies; at the same time, he had never had the least intention of embarrassing the Government in any way, much less of endangering its existence. Could it be supposed that he could wish to see the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire occupying the post which the noble Lord now occupied? Certainly, if he wished to see a sudden, violent, and complete revolution effected in our institutions, and if he, wished to see protection established as the means of bringing about such a revolution, then, perhaps, he might wish to see the hon. Gentleman and his party upon the Treasury benches. Now, he must say, that they who advocated this cause of reform stood in a much better position in consequence of that decision than they had ever done before; for the principle of a substantial extension of the franchise had been admitted, not only by a majority of two to one of the Members of that House, but also by the subsequent statement of two of the most eminent and distinguished statesmen. The noble Lord at the head of the Government, who voted against the measure, at the same time, said—
 "I do not think any reasonable objection can
 911 912 913 l l l l l s 914 915 Le moyen de rendre les revolutions plus rares, ce serait de rendre les reformes plus faciles
 MR. P. HOWARD  thought that the Bill would confer upon a very large and very important portion of the community that Parliamentary franchise from which they were at present unjustly debarred. It would grant the franchise to a large number of professional men, who were now entirely excluded from the franchise. It would confer the franchise upon civil engineers, medical men, and others of a similar grade in society. It might be said that it was within the power of every individual, by an outlay of between 40 l l 916
 MR. B. OSBORNE  hoped he should be allowed to say, that he questioned very much the discretion of hon. Gentlemen who supported the proposition of the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat. It was all very well for the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. L. King) to assert that this was not a flash in the pan—a sham Motion; but, with great respect for that hon. Gentleman, he maintained it was. for all useful purposes, a sham Motion, inasmuch as he could never carry it. It might be very well to give the Government a fillip; but, like the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), he was not prepared to assert his want of confidence in them. He (Mr. B. Osborne) had much
 933
 MR. SPOONER  said, the hon. Baronet had asked the House to deal with his measure in a very irregular manner. Would it be a convenient course to discuss an important portion of the Bill on the bringing up of the report?
 MR. SPOONER  maintained that the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster had not fairly stated the principle of the Reform Bill, for the principle of the Reform Bill was to connect the value with the rate paid. Compound householders to be entitled to the franchise ought to pay rates in the value of 10 l
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  had often had the honour of introducing to the House propositions for the reform of the Reform Bill, and be generally moved them in the shape of resolutions to the effect, that the Reform Bill having disappointed the expectations of the people, and not being accounted a final measure, the House should proceed to take the state of the representation into its consideration. Now, they must forgive him, if on the present occasion he had, to a certain degree, doubts as to the extent to which the Government proposed to carry their intended Reform Bill. He had not received that consolation from the speech of the right hon. Secretary at War which other Gentlemen seemed to have got, because he had not told them whether it was the magnitude or the inefficiency of the present measure that Her Majesty's Ministers objected to. He told them, certainly, that it was a very respectable class to whom the Bill proposed to extend the elective franchise; but the way he showed respect for that class was by voting a direct negative to the measure by means of which that franchise was proposed to be conferred upon them. Then, if he had read aright the speech which the noble Lord at the head of the Government made on this measure, there was a very considerable discrepancy between the noble Lord and the Secretary at War with regard to this class of voters. The noble Lord said they would be a dependent class, and ought not to have the franchise; but the right hon. the Secretary at War said they were a class possessed of intelligence and integrity, and entitled to the franchise; and then they were told that the state of public business was the only reason why Government had not introduced a Reform Bill of their own. That was not the reason, however, which the noble Lord gave on a former occasion. The noble Lord stated, and it was satisfactory to the House and to his supporters, that Her Majesty's Cabinet had had before them a Bill for the
 927
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY : It was notorious that the last election for the borough of Lambeth resulted in the turning out of the hon. Member for Kinsale (Mr. Hawes), and the seating of the Solicitor for London, Mr. Charles Pearson, owing to the circumstance of there having been placed on the Register a number of persons qualified only by being lodgers, and by having compounded for the payment of rates with householders. There was no society in the borough of Lambeth for expunging the names of such parties from the Register. Thousands of such persons were on the Register at the election which took place in 1847.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  had no apology to make for pursuing the same course with regard to this Bill which he had done in the division upon its introduction. He had voted with the hon. Member for East Surrey because he concurred in what the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had himself admitted—namely, that the persons contemplated by the Bill were fairly entitled to be entrusted with the franchise. He considered the measure neither democratic nor dangerous; on the contrary, he viewed it as a Protectionist and Conservative measure. He found that in the metropolitan districts only one householder in three got on the Register. In the counties of England and Wales, the number of houses rated at from 10 l l
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY,  whilst anxious: to extend the principles of the Reform Act, wished the Committee to consider whether the proposition now before them would not create great injustice in the parochial burdens throughout the country. The present measure, if passed, would—have a material effect in placing persons on the burgess roll the municipal towns. He had not the slightest objection to any measure that would practically increase the franchise of the country—he believed such a measure would be wholesome and good; but he objected in the strongest manner against any attempt by a side wind to place persons on the Register who did not conform to the provisions of the Reform Act. He trusted the hon. Member would withdraw the Amendment, and thus relieve him from the painful necessity of opposing it.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  was not going to make a speech upon the general question, but simply to make an observation or two on the very edifying discussion which had just occurred, in the justice of which he felt satisfied that the fair mind of the House would readily concur. He had listened with some amazement, and with some amusement, to the singular profession of penitence on the part of hon.
 934 l
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  would have thought the hon. and gallant Colonel who had just spoken, the last man to become a compromiser upon this question, and he deeply regretted the course he had thought it his duty to take. The Bill now brought before them was not brought forward as a sham or a delusion, and he called upon hon. Members who voted for the introduction of the measure to stand upon the ground they then maintained. No inducement should lead him to withhold his vote for the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire was under a misconception in supposing that any number of persons had taken lodgings in the borough of Lambeth to qualify themselves to vote at the last election.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the proposition of the noble Lord was, that the House was to do nothing, and that they were to wait for the Government doing something. Now, they had no security that the noble Lord at the head of the Government would bring forward any measure next year; and he hoped that the House would not accede to the proposition of the noble Lord (Lord R. Grosvenor) to drop this measure.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the provision of the Reform Act was, that every person who occupied a house of the clear value of 10 l l l l l l l
 SIR B. HALL  wished to explain, after what had fallen from the hon. Member for Montrose, that what be had stated was, that after the speech of his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War, it would perhaps be better to throw the onus of this measure on the Government. If, however, the hon. Member for East Surrey insisted on dividing the House, he (Sir B. Hall) bad not said he should vote against him.
 SIR B. HALL  thought it a matter for consideration whether the sense of the House should be taken on the second reading of the Bill after the division in which the hon. Member for East Surrey, who had introduced the measure, had been so successful. The speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Maule) placed the matter on a totally different footing. If the noble Lord at the head of the Government
 919
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  could not avoid concurring in the sentiment just expressed by the hon. Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall), that it would be inexpedient to press the second reading of this Bill to a division. He had voted with the hon. Member for East Surrey on the former occasion, but without feeling the remotest distrust of the intentions of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, in whose promise to introduce a measure early next Session to extend the franchise he reposed every confidence. The hon. Member for East Surrey, whose Motion had elicited those promises, was entitled to the thanks of all the Reformers in the country. But he concurred greatly in the observations of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Maule) and the hon. baronet (Sir B. Hall), though he thought there was nothing to be regretted in the division which had occurred, or the debate which had arisen. The hon. Member for East Surrey would incur a serious responsibility if the Motion were pressed to a division now; the advantage gained by the former division would, it might be feared, be lost.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, the objection of the hon. Member (Mr. Henley) was based on the assumption that compound householders paid less rates than others. This, however, was not a valid objection, for the principle of the Reform Bill was this, that every occupier of a house of the yearly value of 10 l
 SIR E. BUXTON  said, the very object of this Bill was to prevent those persons whose rates were compounded from being
 909
 SIR G. PECHELL  thought this Bill showed the necessity of the noble Lord coming forward with a measure which would do away with the necessity of paying the rates and taxes for the purposes of the franchise. The younger Member for North Warwickshire had stated that the measure would open a wide door to abuse; but the
 907
 SIR W. CLAY  said, the hon. Gentleman had correctly stated the object of the Bill, and all that the proposed Amendment would do was to declare what was the meaning of particular words in the Reform Act. With the distinct understanding, however, that hereafter there would be no objection to the introduction of a Bill to accomplish the object which the Amendment had in view, he would readily withdraw it.
 SIR W. CLAY  did not think that the question as to the amount of rate paid was one which would be likely to arise, for most compound householders were parties who paid from 15 l 1 902 l
 SIR W. CLAY  did not admit the validity of the objections made by the hon. Member (Mr. Henley), but he would not be at all averse to availing himself of any proper suggestions. He was not insensible to the difficulty there existed in legislating on some of the points which the Bill embraced. He thought they should at once go into Committee on the measure, and they would have an opportunity of considering the nature of the Amendments proposed.
 SIR W. CLAY  said, he would for the present strike out the clause altogether, with the view of its being reintroduced on the bringing up of the report. The first clause had been so much altered that he considered this course necessary, with the view of giving him time to consider what would be the effect of those alterations before he asked the House to adopt the second clause.
 MR. WEGG PROSSER  begged the indulgence of the House for a few moments, while he explained the motives which actuated him upon this subject; and he would at once avow that the difficulties of the question were such that he saw only one way of escaping from them, namely, by abstaining from voting. He took it for granted that the House would remember that this proposition was the same
 1015 1016
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, that any man who took out a patent in this country was obliged to specify his invention. Any foreigner might come and take that specification, and obtain a pa-
 1024
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, as some objection had been taken to this clause, he would withdraw it for the purpose of substituting another, providing that protection shall be extended to all new and original designs, which shall be provisionally registered and exhibited, notwithstanding such designs may have been previously published and applied elsewhere than in the United Kingdom, provided that such designs have not been publicly sold or exposed to sale previous to such Exhibition. He now proposed to strike out the 7th Clause.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS : Provided they have not been exposed for sale.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  thought it would be very absurd to object to the recognition of the Exhibition in the preamble, after the House had expressed approval of seven clauses of the Bill, which had no other object than to protect the interests of exhibitors.
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  could not conceive how any precedent could be established by the mere mention of the word "Exhibition" in the preamble. It might be said, that the use of the word implied a pledge, but then it should be remembered, on the other hand, that the noble Lord at the head of the Government distinctly said last Session that he would be no party to making application for any grant of public
 1028
 LORD J. RUSSELL  thought the House was hardly in a state to enter into this question, either as to the various measures upon which the hon. and learned Gentleman had touched, or as to the whole question of the government of India. He considered that the hon. and learned Gentleman had clearly mistaken the position
 988 989
 Lord J. RUSSELL : I rise, Sir, pursuant to notice, to move for a Committee of the whole House, to take into consideration the mode of administering the Oath of Abjuration to persons professing the Jewish religion. But I must first request that the Resolution ordered to be entered in the Journals of this House on the 5th of August last be read.
 LORD J. RUSSELL?  I rise, Sir, in consequence of that Resolution, which was voted by the House in the last Session of Parliament, to move that the House resolve itself into a Committee to consider the disqualifications affecting the Jews. I have so often stated the reasons why I think the Jews ought to be relieved from those disabilities, that it is not necessary now that I should go at any length into the arguments on this subject. But there are some circumstances which require to be stated, as they place this question in a somewhat different position from that in which it formerly stood. The House will remember that the hon. Member for the city of London, Baron Lionel de Roth-
 1007 1008 "That every person who now is or hereafter shall be a Member of either House of Parliament, before he sit in Parliament, shall, from and after the 1st day of July 1657, take an oath before persons to be authorised and appointed by your Highness and successors for that purpose, in the form following:—'I, A. B., do, in the presence of and by the name of God Almighty, promise and swear, that, to the uttermost of my power, in my place, I will uphold and maintain the true reformed Protestant Christian religion in the purity thereof, as it is contained in the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testament, and encourage the profession and professors of the same; and that I will be true and faithful to the Lord Protector of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland, and Ireland, and the dominions and territories thereunto belonging, as chief magistrate thereof, and shall not contrive, design, or attempt anything against the person or lawful authority of the Lord Protector, and shall endeavour, as much as in me lies as a Member of Parliament, the preservation of the rights and liberties of the people.'" 1009 1010
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the objection of the hon. Member for Dublin was, that the Bill would give a patent right of protection to articles exhibited, which articles were to be sold at the shops. ["No, no !"]
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the last time he had heard the right hon. Member for Manchester on an analogous subject to that before the House, was on an appeal to the House to do nothing as against Papal aggression, and quietly submit to the insults of the Pope. Now, however, the hon. Gentleman not only urged the House, in a fever of energy, to press the measure before them with a vigour which he (Mr. Newdegate) felt persuaded was not in sympathy with the feelings of the House, but actually demanded that the House of Lords should
 1017
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he should support his hon. Friend (Mr. Arkwright) in his opposition to this Bill. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade said his hon. Friend (Mr. Arkwright) was the last person who ought to have risen in opposition to this Bill. Now he thought the hon. Gentleman had done himself much credit, and had shown a proper feeling towards his country, and that he was not to be dictated to by a mercenary Treasury bench. They held together  per fas et nefas. Much laughter 1023
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  thought the Government, instead of proposing the present measure, ought to have introduced a Bill for reducing the heavy fees paid by poor men on taking out patents for inventions.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the course he proposed to take to-morrow was this. He had on the last occasion moved a Committee of Ways and Means, and had submitted a Resolution for the renewal and continuance of the Income Tax for a limited time; and he proposed to-morrow, with permission of the House, to go into Committee of Ways and Means, and to restate the financial arrangements he proposed for the year. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Herries) had given notice of a Resolution in Committee of Ways and Means, as an Amendment on; the proposition he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had moved. It was understood that the right hon. Gentleman's Resolution would be more appropriately brought forward and discussed in the House than in the Committee; and therefore he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) proposed to-morrow to make his statement in Committee of Ways and Means, and to
 969
 MR. ARKWRIGHT  said, he objected to the House making a temporary law of this kind for the benefit of any class of individuals, however influential that class might be. He had heard no reason given why this Bill should be introduced: in fact he did not think that a Bill of the nature was at all required. He thought, too, when he referred to the evidence which had been taken before the
 1020
 MR. ARKWRIGHT  objected to the preamble of the Bill, inasmuch as he wished that it should contain no allusion to the forthcoming great Show. He moved as an Amendment, that the preamble be, "Whereas it is expedient that such alterations in the law as hereinafter specified should be made," leaving out any further words.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  brought up the Report of the Committee appointed in this case.
 MR. MUNTZ  did not rise to complain of Her Majesty's Ministers for introducing this Bill; but he must say that he doubted the policy of the Bill, and the wisdom of those who sought for it. His experience of the patent laws would prevent him from exhibiting anything for which he subsequently intended to take out a patent, and every man who did would repent his folly. The Englishman who exhibited under the protection of this Bill, would have his patent in England secured to him; but the foreigners could take away the invention and obtain patents for it, if they chose, in every country in Europe. The foreigner who exhibited would be protected by this Bill from English competition, and would suffer no loss in his own or in foreign countries. In his opinion, it was a Bill decidedly to the advantage of the foreigner.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he hoped the House would not agree to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, but would allow the Bill to be considered in Committee. He need not remind the House that the Bill came down from the House of Lords, where it was very carefully considered by
 1021
 MR. LABOUCHERE  thought that the preamble correctly described the object of the Bill, and therefore could not assent to the Amendment.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  would not dispute what the hon. Gentleman had just stated. All he maintained was that it was preferable to have a suitable preamble to having an unsuitable one. The intention of the Bill was to protect exhibitors, and it was desirable that the preamble should state that intention. As to making any application for a grant of public money, the only pledge that the Government had given or ought to give was that there existed no in-
 1029
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he had, the last Session of Parliament, brought a Motion before the House of a different form to that which was now under its consideration. That Motion was confined to the proposition that a Commission ought to be sent to India for the purpose of inquiring into the obstacles that prevented the growth of cotton in that country, and collecting information as to its economical
 998 999 1000 l. 1001 l., l. l., l. l. l. 1002 1003
 MR. HERRIES  wished to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer what was the course the Government intended to pursue to-morrow on the proposal of the amended Budget—in what way they meant1 to introduce the subject—and whether it was their intention, as he believed it had been suggested, that the debate on their proposal should take place on Monday, so that there might be some time to consider that proposal?
 MR. HERRIES  had no objection to the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, provided it were with this clear understanding, that if they suffered a Vote to be taken to-morrow on the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, it should be considered distinctly to be  pro formâ,
 MR. PLUMPTRE  hoped the House and country would show themselves in earnest, determined to reject this Bill; and he could not but express his deep regret that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), in again pres-
 1014
 MR. HENLEY  said, the continuance of the conversation strengthened his apprehension and alarm. They had two hon. Commissioners, one of whom most strenuously asserted that he had no intention to apply for any money towards the Exhibition, but still he struggled to get the wedge in. The right hon. Commissioner on the Treasury bench only said, that there was less chance at present that such an application would be made than there was last year. That was not very satisfactory. He did not see why they should not pass over the Exhibition without any notice whatever, and as nothing that would afterwards give the Government a pretext for asking for a grant. As to the necessity of making the preamble agree with the Bill, he would suggest that that might be done by inserting in the preamble the expressions used in the first clause.
 MR. HUME  said, he had given notice that whenever the period should come that the House should resolve that the Income Tax should be renewed, he should move that the duration of the renewal be limited to one year. This Motion he would move after the Bill was introduced, for that, he considered, would be a course more convenient to the House than moving it on the Resolution of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer being brought forward.
 MR. HUME  said, that although he was obliged to the hon. and learned Member for bringing forward the subject, he did not agree in many points adduced by the hon. and learned Gentleman; but, looking at the immense interests of India, its population, and situation in connexion with England, he could not help thinking that
 990 prestige 991 l. 992 l.
 MR. MULLINGS  was surprised at the struggle which was made to retain the objectionable words. Would any one venture to say that the principle of the Bill would not be equally effectual if it only contained the words "whereas it is desirable to enact the things hereafter mentioned?" He suspected that there must be some secret motive for the introduction and retention of the words objected to.
 MR. SPOONER  denied that any declaration had been made by Her Majesty's Government to the effect that no application should be made to Parliament for a grant of money to the Exhibition of 1851. He had twice pressed the Government to give such an assurance; but the only reply he had received was, that at that time there was no intention of making such an application.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that the objection of the hon. Baronet the Member for Petersfield seemed directed not so much against the Bill as against the Exhibition. He agreed with him, that there was a great deal of danger to be apprehended from the Exhibition; but, without a Bill of this kind, the danger would be still greater.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he hoped his hon. Friend (Mr. Arkwright) would not object to this Bill going into Committee. There were many imperfections in the Bill, but he thought they might be remedied. He could fully concur in what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the President of
 1022
 MR. SPOONER  feared that the recognition of the Exhibition in an Act of Parliament would hereafter form the foundation of a grant of public money. On his
 1027
 MR. SPOONER  understood that, if a foreigner had exhibited goods abroad and came here, he would have the same protection as if they had not been exhibited.
 MR MANGLES  begged to say, that, on his examination before the Committee, to which the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had referred, it would appear that everything he had said, which might appear unfavourable to the Government of India was credited and relied upon, while the testimony he bore to the proper administration of that Government seemed to be entirely discredited. He had admitted frankly that they had not done all that should have been done for the improvement of the country; but still that they had done a great deal, and were doing more. There was an enormous expenditure on the embankments necessarily kept up for the protection of the country from inundation; and when the hon. Gentleman talked invidiously of the vast revenues of the Government, and the small sum they laid out, did he really know what the expenditure of the country was? There were the expenses of the police, and of the judicial administration, and the expenses necessarily incurred in giving every other benefit resulting from good government to
 1004 l. l.,
 MR. WALPOLE  thought there was much in the hon. Member's suggestion, and would move that, instead of the phrase now objected to in the preamble, there be inserted the words used in the first clause.
 MR. ANSTEY  had no objection to the proposed Committee, but he was still of opinion that no inquiry into the operation of the Charter Act of 1833 could be effectual, unless conducted by a Commission sitting in India. The Indian authorities themselves—as the newspapers of that very morning told us—were setting the example. The strongest and most important of the recommendations contained in the Report of the Cotton Committee of 1848, was as to "the propriety of losing no time in remedying past neglect in returning to the people in the form of suitable means Of internal communication a fair portion Of the revenue derived from them." There were more useful public works surely than the gaols of which the hon. Member for Guildford had been speaking with So much rapture. Two years have now elapsed, and what is doing by the Indian Government to carry out this recommendation? They have only now begun to stir themselves, and their first measure is a Commission of Local Inquiry. The hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton had misrepresented some of his (Mr. Anstey's) statements, and had not attempted to answer others. His statement of the Salt monopoly was not that no change had taken place, but that it was merely colourable; and his complaint as to that of opium was
 1005 l. l. l. 1006
 MR. C. ANSTEY  rose to move an Address to Her Majesty, on the government and management of the Indian dominions of the Crown by the East India Company. The propositions which he had to submit were two. The first was, that before the Act of 1833, by which the Government of our East India territory was provided for and regulated, should he renewed either in its present shape or with such amendments as Parliament might think proper, it was
 970 971 "The question will be taken up in haste, decided in haste, and we shall crowd the discussion into a few weeks, and postpone all discussion until the eve of decision." "Twenty years ago it was never dreamt that in any Charter for the East India Company, we should acknowledge the political existence of the natives. Now, however, it would be unjust, in legislating for the eastern dependencies, to forget the political existence of the natives." 972 "That is rather a matter fit for the consideration of the Governor General and his Legislative Council, and I trust he will be able, with the accession of power we propose to give him, satisfactorily to dispose of the general question. The particular subject of ryot rent, however, is, I should think, more a subject for the consideration of the Law Commission." "I am happy to be able to assure the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wilbraham) that the Government, both at home and in India, have agreed that the taxes on opium and salt shall be removed." 973 "We are the people of this country, inheriting this land for thousands of generations; from our industry its wealth is supplied; by our arms it is defended from foreign foes; by our loyal obedience to the established Government its peace and its safety are maintained." "The very low and abject condition of the cultivators of the soil, the absence of capital, and the extent of the Government demand for rent or revenue, circumstances which were brought prominently under our notice, rendered it necessary for your Committee to enter at considerable length into an inquiry into the system of land assessment, and to take the evidence of several officers of the Indian Government on the subject. It appears from the testimony of almost every witness, that the condition of the cultivating population of India is one of extreme poverty; and this is stated to be the ease in every part of the country to which the evidence with regard to cotton cultivation specially refers." 974 l. l. 975 976 977 s. s. d. s. s. 978 979 980 l., l. 981 l 982 vivéx00E2; voce 983 984 985 l. 986 l. l. 987 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, representing that it is now necessary that the true condition of the territories under the government or management of the East India Company, and the real feelings and wishes of our fellow-subjects inhabiting those territories, as to such government or management, should be fully ascertained; and for that purpose, praying Her Majesty to take measures for the appointment of a Commission of Inquiry, with full powers to take evidence in India as to the operation and results of the laws now in force, touching the government and management of the said territories, and to report such evidence, together with the opinions of the Commissioners thereon, to Her Majesty in Parliament."
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, that having been one of the supporters of the introduction of the former measures, he did not wish to delay the present Motion by any argument on the question which had been raised by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford. He was surprised, however, that—if the hon. Baronet considered it so important that all the Members of the Legislature should be in a Condition from their faith to legislate, as he called it, for the interests of the Church and of religion—he should be contented with so imperfect a security, merely amounting to this, that if a man would only say he was a Christian, the hon. Baronet would believe him, and at once admit him into Parliament. But his (Mr. Gibson's) object in rising was merely to call the attention of the House to the position in which they were placed with reference to this question—a position, he would presume to say, somewhat humiliating. In fact, persons out of doors hardly gave them credit for being in earnest on the question. Let him remind the House that Baron de Rothschild was first elected at the general election of 1847, and now they were in 1851, and in the middle of 1851 bringing in a Bill with the view of removing the tests which prevented Baron de Rothschild now taking his seat and representing the interests which had sent him there. Twice he had been elected, and twice had a Bill passed that House legalising his admis-
 1013
 MR. KEOGH  did not see any objection to the use of the word "Exhibition." He thought that they had had quite enough of Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, and the questions to which it related, and that there was no occasion for the illustration which the hon. Member for the city of Dublin had drawn from that subject. But as the matter had been alluded to, he (Mr. Keogh) wished to state that the Act of Parliament of which the hon. Member spoke, had been first brought forward as a justification of certain proceedings of the Government by a noble Lord in another place, who occupies the post of Colonial Secretary.
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  seconded the Motion.
 MR. GROGAN  would support the Amendment, especially after the evidence read by the hon. Gentleman who moved it, and the speech of the hon. Member for Birmiugham, with whose remarks he completely concurred. He thought there was more in this measure than struck the eye. A large shop in Regent-street had just been opened; and it was covered with placards in French, English, Spanish, German, Italian, and other languages, announcing that goods sent to the Exhibition, and others which had come too late, would be sold there. Here, then, was a bazaar, part and parcel of the Exhibition—an off-shoot from it—for the express purpose of receiving similar goods and exhibiting them for sale. What would be the result? Suppose a person going to the Exhibition; he would behold there a great number of very beautiful specimens of jewellery, silk, or whatever it might be, that would please his fancy or suit his wants; and he would see an advertisement telling where he could procure them. Thus a vast quantity of foreign goods would be disposed of in England to the prejudice of the native producers.
 MR. GROGAN  thought that the Bill would be equally effectual whether the words objected to in the preamble were retained or not, and they might, therefore, as well be omitted. If it were said that the words in the preamble of a Bill could not be employed as a precedent, it might be remembered that the insertion of the words "Archbishop of Dublin" in a private Act of Parliament had been, in the mouth of one of the great luminaries of the Roman Catholic Church, made use of as a justification of the proceedings that had taken place.
 SIR G. GREY  put it to the House if it was worth while to divide on such a question? He must say, if they were afterwards to ground an application for money upon the preamble as it now stood, it would be the weakest pretext that ever Government relied on. He thought they were not exhibiting themselves to any great advantage in thus shrinking from openly stating what was their objection to this Bill.
 SIR J. W. HOGG  could assure his hon.
 993 994 l. l., l., l. l., l., l. 995 996 l. 997
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that he, too, would follow the example of the noble Lord, and abstain from entering into a general repetition of those arguments which had been adduced on former occasions. Yet he need offer no apology for resisting the present proposal of the noble Lord; inasmuch, as on principle, he had for the last twenty years opposed every measure of a similar kind, and had seen increasing reason to continue that opposition. His noble Friend had begun by stating the origin of the introduction of the words, "On the true faith of a Christian;" but he forgot to say, that, whether those words were omitted or not, the obligation would have been equally conclusive as regarded the Jews; because, at the very time when they were introduced, the oath must have been taken on the book of the Holy Evangelists. He defied any person to contradict him when he said, that, from the earliest period of English history, no oath for the admission to any legislative situation whatever had ever been taken except on some symbol of the Christian faith, if not on the Holy Gospels. But this measure was not merely for the admission of Jews into Parliament, but for the admission of men of all religions, or of no religion, as far as profession was concerned. He could hardly understand that doctrine, even if applied to a new country, much less to this; and he should hold it to be a base dereliction of their duty to that God
 1011 1012
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  was reminded, by the pause in the manner of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade when he got up to oppose the Amendment, of the way in which Dr. Johnson used to poise his sentences, so as to make it impossible sometimes to know whether he was going to answer a question in the affirmative or negative. He thought his right hon. Friend seemed uncertain, when he rose, what answer he would give. In his opinion, it would be far better that the House should not recognise in the preamble of any Bill the Great Exhibition, which it was declared, during last Session, should not be supported by any grant of public money. The recognition of the Exhibition in the preamble of this Bill might be employed as a reason for an application for money at a future period.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  said, the effect of the clause which it was proposed to insert, like that of all the other clauses, would be more for the protection and benefit of the foreigner than of the Englishman. They could not, by any measure of theirs, effectually interfere with the rights and interests of foreigners; and he therefore thought it unprofitable and unwise to attempt to legislate on the subject.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he would not occupy much of the attention of the Committee, as many occasions would be afforded hereafter for the discussion of the Budget; and it gave him extreme gratification that he might now be very brief in his remarks. In 1845 he first brought the question of the window tax under the notice of the House of Commons. Since then he had delivered many speeches on the subject; and he had generally been met by the several Chancellors of the Exchequer with anything but a satisfactory reply. On the present occasion, however, it gave him much satisfaction to hear, in far more eloquent terms than he could use, and that from his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, a detail of the deep injuries the window tax inflicted on the working classes of this country. The noble Lord the Member for Middlesex had expressed his surprise at the burst of indignation with which the previous Budget had been met. He (Viscount Duncan) had joined in the burst of indignation, but he could not now concur with those who regarded this second proposition as exactly similar to the former one. On the contrary, the two propositions were very distinct, differing totally from one another; and, therefore, it was very possible that different opinions of both would be entertained by the country. He believed the Committee would agree with him in thinking that the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex was influenced by a sense of public duty; at all events, he (Viscount Duncan) recollected with pleesure the several occasions on which he had received from that noble Lord the most disinterested support. With regard to the propositions in the first Budget, it would be recollected that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had endeavoured to retain two-thirds of the window tax on the old houses, and that the new houses were to be treated in a very different man-
 1082 l
 MR. BROWNE : Mr. Bernal, as many Gentlemen will be desirous of speaking on the Budget on Monday, I avail myself of the opportunity of saying a few words on the subject now; but first let me put the hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Henley) right, as to the surplus of the year. From the window duty it is 568,000 l l l 1089 1090 1091 l l l
 COLONEL THOMPSON  did not know whether the noble Lord had a large party or not; but this he knew, that he had one which kept a large party at bay, and he trusted would long continue to do so. And he foresaw one consequence from the speech of the Chancellor, namely, a large accession to that party; and he trusted that there were no Members of that House who professed themselves supporters of the manufacturing and commercial interest, who would fail to evince their support of the right hon. Gentleman; for if they did, they would display a degree of mental obliquity almost amounting to evidence of a providential dispensation. For three Sessions of Parliament he had witnessed with bitterness of heart the miserable feebleness of the defence made on the great question of commercial freedom, while he had, on the contrary, to admire the zeal, the talent, the combined action and energy displayed by Gentlemen on the opposite side who attacked it. If the free-traders were finally beaten, they would have themselves
 1111 l
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that so far from throwing any difficulties in the way of the appointment of a Select Committee upon this question, he thought his hon. Friend deserved the thanks of all the Members connected with Scotland, for drawing attention to the grievance he so justly complained of. He was quite ready to admit that very little justice had been shown towards them, and he would not only support the Motion, but would be prepared to render every assistance in his power to the deliberations of the Committee.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  complained of the great inaccuracy of some of the earlier surveys of the southern counties of England. In his own county a turnpike road was laid down on the Ordnance map at the distance of a quarter of a mile from its true position. He would suggest that the early surveys made in the southern counties and the neighbourhood of the metropolis should be recommenced.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, the hon. Member for Huntingdon, who has just resumed his seat, has expressed a great deal of indignation at the course pursued by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Sir, that course was this. My right hon. Friend stated that he wished to maintain public credit, and that it was desirable not only to have that revenue which was required for the expenditure of the year, but also to have sufficient in case of any contingency or demand that did not belong to the year, and could not be foreseen—sufficient to meet these contingencies without incurring fresh debts or imposing new taxation. So far the principles stated by my right hon. Friend entirely agree with those of the hon. Member. But then what did my right hon. Friend propose? In the present year there will be sufficient to meet these demands; for he is expected to have a surplus of 900,000 l l 1101 l l l l l l l
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I am exceedingly sorry that my hon. Friend the Member for Marylebone has thought it necessary to bring before the notice of the House the case which he has stated. With
 1034 1035
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the Bill to which the hon. Gentleman referred did not affect any religious question; it only concerned civil and political liberties. As
 1036
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  said, he had never joined some hon. Gentlemen with whom he usually acted in their opposition to the Income Tax. He had always considered it desirable that there should be more of direct taxation than there had formerly been. In the course of the debates on the Income Tax, he had declared the principles on which he supported its imposition; and he would now again state that nothing would give him greater satisfaction than to see that tax permanently imposed on the country; provided it were fairly assessed. When his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer was assailed from so many quarters, he (Lord R. Grosvenor) told him that he thought his Budget was a perfectly honest and practical one, not framed so as to catch popularity, but based on principles which the House had sanctioned. He considered the feeling of the right hon. Gentleman to be that of relieving industry and taking off taxes which rendered articles of prime necessity dearer to the people; and in order to carry out that policy, it was absolutely necessary that direct taxation should be maintained. He confessed he had never been more astonished than he
 1072 l l l,
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  hoped that after the extraordinary charge which had just been made against him, the House would permit him to say a word in explanation. He appealed to hon. Members whether the charge was not utterly destitute of foundation. The hon. Member for Lambeth accused him of having said that the metropolitan Members were "out of their senses." Now, what he (Lord R. Grosvenor really did say was this: he expressed a hope that the metropolitan Members "would come to their senses." In order to vindicate himself, the hon. Member for Lambeth had said that he (Lord R. Grosvenor) was so thoroughly tied hand and foot to the present Ministry, that if they were in their senses, he was in his senses. Now, he did not feel it necessary
 1081
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : I rise to order. I wish to ask if the hon. Baronet is at liberty to enter into the circumstances of this case?
 MR. DISRAELI : All the best speeches, Sir, in the House of Commons, are generally speaking, after-dinner speeches—and I have never found the noble Lord more happy than in an after-dinner
 1102 l 1103 l l l l
 MR. DISRAELI : Then I say that is a most fortunate circumstance that the present Administration has returned to power to secure the payment of a claim which they might otherwise have left to their successors. But with this claim of 400,000 l l 1104 1105
 MR. FREWEN  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the early part of his speech, had expressed the strong objections which he entertained to sending a regiment of excise officers throughout the country to collect taxes; but the Chancellor of the Exchequer did that very thing during last winter. In the county which he (Mr. Frewen) had the honour to represent, there was an agricultural parish, in which a great number of the farmers had been served with writs because they were unable to pay the hop duty. It was quite impossible for him to give a true description of the distress and ruin which had been caused in that county by the present system of administering the affairs of the country. During the last three days he had received no less than 60 letters, complaining of the distress which existed in that part of the country to which he had referred; and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was welcome to read the whole of them. Many of the farms were unoccupied. One landowner had received only a fourth of his rent, and a great many had received nothing at all. Several of the farmers had been reduced to a state of ruin; 100,000 l l 1108
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he fully participated in the approbation expressed by many hon. Members of the expressions of the noble Lord; but he thought it was quite evident that the noble Lord did not restrain his followers from bringing the subject before the House, and they had a distinct pledge by two hon. Members that the whole question of the discipline of the Church was to be discussed within these walls very soon. Now, he wished to ask the noble Lord when it was his intention to bring on the second reading of the Bill for the admission of Jews into that House, because he (Mr. Newdegate) intended to move on that occasion that the Bill should be read a second time on that day six months; and, if anything could prove the absolute impropriety of admitting into that House those who so fundamentally differed from the creed of hon. Members who now sat in that House, the discussion they had just had, and the discussion which they were promised, were evidence of the fact.
 MR. SPEAKER : I understand the hon. Baronet to be only stating facts upon which he might found a question. He is, therefore, in order.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he was not surprised at this second edition of the Budget of his right hon. Relative. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had said the present Budget would confer a boon on the agricultural interest by the repeal of the duty on seed. However such a boon might be pretended, he could not believe that any was intended, and the proposition, such as it was, had been withdrawn. What was the reason of this? It was party. The Government could not do without party; and, in his opinion, if the Government and its party were put into a sack together, shaken up, and thrown out heads and tails, it would be very difficult to tell
 1110
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The day before.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in reply, said, that the proposal of Government was to renew the income tax for the same term for which it had hitherto been renewed, viz., for three years. With
 1084
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER :  * 1040 1041 1042 1043 1044 1045 l 1046 l 1047 l l l l l 1048 Cheers from the Opposition benches. 1049 l 1050 l l l l l 1051 1052 Laughter. 1053 1054 l l 1055 l l l Ironical cheers 1056 "The revenue derived from the window duties we do not desire to see wholly abolished; the burden falls upon the owners of house property, and would be borne without a murmur, if imposed in a less objectionable form." s d s d l 1057 l l s l s d l l l 1058 d d s d d l l l l s d l 1059 l l l l l l l l l l l l 1060 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1061 "A house tax, if justly proportioned to the value of the house, is one of the fairest and most unobjectionable of all taxes. No part of a per-
 1062 l d s s s s d l l l l l l 1063 l l 1064 l l 1065 l l 1066
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was surprised, that of all persons the hon. Member should not know what was the uniform operation under the Act of Parliament for the purpose of paying off the national debt. Surely the hon. Gentleman must know that one-fourth of the surplus was the only part of it annually applied for paying off the national debt.
 MR. SCULLY  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland the following questions respecting the condition of the Kilrush Union:—Whether the workhouse in that union had accommodation for 4,654 inmates, or thereabouts, from the 8th of March last? Whether there were not upwards of 5,000 within, the house at that date? Whether the deaths within the house for the 21 days ending the 22nd of March did not exceed 200? Whether paupers to the number of between 100 and 200 were not in the habit of seeking for relief within the house upon the admission-days? Whether many of such were not in a most destitute and nearly starving state, and, after having walked some 12 Irish miles, were refused admittance? Whether any steps were taken to afford them, so refused, any assistance whatever? Whether the Poor Law Commissioners are aware of this state of things; and, if so, what measures they have taken, or intend to take, in order to correct them?
 MR. HUDSON  said, that the arguments of the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken were equally strong against the repeal of any tax which would jeopardise the repeal of the malt tax. He (Mr. Hudson) had presented a petition, signed by every shipbuilder in Sunderland, stating that they suffered great distress, and praying for the
 1113
 MR. HUDSON  said, he admitted the fact although it did not follow that the shipbuilders had made a profit. He had been engaged in the trade himself, and had made no profit for two years. It was impossible for a shipbuilder, any more than a farmer, at once to retire from his business.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he did not mean to enter into the general discussion, but to confine himself to the proposal for the renewal of the income tax. He had heard with regret that it was not the intention of the Government to make any reduction or modification of that tax, but that it was to be reimposed with all the original objections. He had been somewhat surprised to hear some of the arguments by which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer sought to recommend the measure to the House. The right hon. 1077 "I do not wish to say one word in favour of the continuation of this tax beyond the three years. I do not think the House will agree that the income and property tax as now imposed ought to be permanent.—[3  Hansard, "One of his reasons for asking the House to consent to a continuance of the income tax for three years longer was, that last year, in a time of peace, they had been obliged to add 10,000,000 l Hansard, 1078 l l l
 MR. LABOUCHERE  wished to state one simple fact, that during the past year more ships, and larger and better ships, had been built at Sunderland than were built in any former year.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  desired to say a few words with regard to the statement made by the hon. Member who had last spoken, concerning the condition of the shipping interest. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman, that it was right to give the shipping interest fair play, but he must, at the same time, repeat what he had stated when the repeal of the navigation laws was under discussion; he then expressed his complete belief that, looking
 1109
 MR. HERRIES  said that, after what had been stated on the previous night, he did not expect that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have taken the present opportunity of provoking that debate which, by common consent, it was yesterday agreed should not be taken until Monday next. But not content with vindicating his own proposition for a renewal of the Property Tax that night, be had attacked—not the policy with regard to that tax alone—but the general policy of those who were opposed
 1067 1068 "So far from being a tax which pressed exclusively on the rich, he believed it pressed on the labouring population by diminishing the means of giving them employment. He did not believe that Sir Robert Peel himself could think it was a tax which bore exclusively on the rich; for, if he did, why did he not impose it in Ireland?"—[3  Hansard, "He declared that the question should be fully and fairly discussed whether the tax was to be regarded as a permanent one or not. Let that point be discussed on its own merits; and let not the House be led step by step into a course from which afterwards it would be impossible for it to be extricated." 1069 l l l 1070 1071
 MR. MACGREGOR  had heard several extraordinary statements from both sides of the House; but the statements and inferences of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down appeared to him by far the most extraordinary. As he (Mr. Macgregor) viewed the question now before the Committee, he considered that there were two proposals—first, that they should go back to protection; secondly, that they should go forward with that system of policy which had been so ably expounded that evening by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He, for one, must confess that he had been delighted to hear the speech and the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, and was fully prepared to support the policy of the Government. He could not conceive on what tenable grounds the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Henley) could suggest any risk to the public credit in consequence of the present proposals of the Government. It was true that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would leave himself in possession of only a small surplus; but he (Mr. Macgregor) believed that that surplus would be rapidly augmented; and he did trust that it would be still further increased by large reductions in the various branches of expenditure. He was glad the right hon. Gentleman had resolved upon continuing the income tax; but, at the same time, he hoped that it would not be renewed without many and extensive modifications, He was glad also that a sounder principle had been adopted with regard to a house tax. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Henley) had contended that the financial policy of the right hon. Gentleman, relieved to too great an extent large classes of the community from the house
 1086 s.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that when the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylobone (Sir B. Hall) addressed the House on a comparatively insignificant subject, he was heard in perfect silence; but when his hon. Friend the Member for Tippcrary brought this matter under the notice of the House, and while also the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland was speaking, they were not heard in silence. It was not his intention to detain the House at any considerable length, but he claimed his right to speak on a question which involved the life or the death of his fellow-countrymen and countrywomen. What was the ques-
 1038 Times Laughter. ex officio ex officio 1039
 MR. STANFORD  said, he did not agree with the hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Brown) that the House was not to judge of the merits or demerits of this new proposition propounded by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but that it deserved their support on the ground that it emanated from a Ministry of progress. He (Mr. Stanford) did not think that was a principle on which to conduct the business of the country. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had propounded his scheme, and it was for hon. Members to consider whether that scheme was for the benefit and tended to the welfare of the country, and not whether it was calculated to keep the Ministers in their places or not. He had listened with great attention to the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the occasion of the first Budget, when it appeared to him that the right hon. Gentleman himself felt—if Ministers ever did feel, which was a physiological problem he would leave to others to determine—that he had committed, and it appeared to him that the right hon. Gentleman had committed, what the witty Talleyrand had called worse than a crime—namely, a blunder. What the essential difference was between the proposition now made by the right hon. Gentleman and that which he had brought forward on the
 1093 1094
 MR. STANFORD : No, and I did not say so.
 MR. STANFORD : You certainly have.
 MR. STANFORD  said, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wakley) had represented him as stating that the agitation of any subject was unconstitutional. He had not said this, but he had said that the course taken by the hon. Gentleman and other metropolitan Members, threatening to stop the supplies if the Ministry did not repeal a particular tax—that he had said was unconstitutional.
 MR. TRELAWNY  was of opinion that they should endeavour, if possible, to apply 2,000,000 l 1076 l l
 MR. WAWN  said, that the Budget was certainly not based upon the policy of Sir Robert Peel; for that eminent statesman's principle was, that whereas he imposed duties upon manufactured articles, he admitted the raw material duty free. Two years ago they repealed the navigation laws, and ships might now be built in any quarter of the world, might be purchased by English shipowners, and might have all the rights of British vessels, without having paid a farthing duty. Whilst, however, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed thus to admit the manufactured article free, he had only expressed an intention to remit one-half of the impost on the raw material, timber. He thought the least the right hon. Gentleman could do would be, to allow a drawback on the timber used in shipbuilding. In other respects he approved of the Budget, which, in spite of the observations of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), would considerably relieve the agriculturists. For instance, a house in the country of 20 l l
 MR. WAWN  explained that he had not said a word about the prosperity of the shipping interest, or about iron steamers; but he must protest against his right hon. Friend stating that the British shipowner was now in a prosperous condition. He had means of proving that, for the last hundred years, the British shipowner had never been in such a distressed condition.
 MR. HENLEY  considered that the extraordinary statements made that evening by the Chancellor of the Exchequer were of a tendency most destructive to public credit. The right hon. Gentleman started with a theory that it was indispensable, for the preservation of public credit, that in all financial arrangements, a large margin should always be left available at the disposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but the right hon. Gentleman had totally failed, in his present proposals, in carrying that theory into practice. The right hon. Gentleman, oppressed with the "Stand and deliver" agitations of the hon. Gentlemen behind him, devoted the greater proportion of his surplus to the removal of existing taxes, and what was left, he hinted, would only be sufficient for contingent demands upon him; for instance, for the Kaffir war, which the last time cost this country 1,100,000 l 1085 l
 MR. HUME  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had complained that he (Mr. Hume) had proposed something that would endanger the public credit, but he sat down without
 1073 l l
 MR. HUME  declared that it was on that ground he wanted to exhaust the surplus by the reduction of taxation. It was because the Act of Parliament directed that the surplus should be so appropriated that he desired to have no surplus while there were taxes unrepealed that press heavily upon the people. The right hon. Gentleman said he would continue the tax upon property for the purpose of affording relief to the working classes; but would, paying off one million a year of the capital of the debt relieve the poor man? [An Hon. MEMBER: Yes, there would be less interest to pay.] He wished to know in what way? The reduction of the interest would come round very seldom, and if the soap tax were removed, would it not confer more benefit on the working classes than by paying off a million of the national debt? He thought they should take off the tax on paper and advertisements, and even on the stamps on newspapers, before they proposed to pay off the capital of the debt? The noble Lord who spoke last, seemed to be satisfied with the right hon. Gentleman's statement; but he (Mr. Hume) would call attention to the mode in which it was proposed that the house tax should be levied. Was it, he asked, fair that a heavier tax should be laid on old houses than on new and more valuable
 1074 l l l l l l l l l l l l 1075 l
 MR. L. HEYWORTH  objected to the reimposition of the income tax as proposed, and the mode in which the surplus was to be appropriated. The working classes paid 10 per cent in indirect taxation, while wealthy men only paid 5 per cent. If the national debt was to be repudiated, it would be by persisting in such an injustice as this. The sooner they came to direct taxation the better, for the present system made every one poorer. All increase of wealth resulted from the operations of trade and commerce. Why, then, not stimulate these interests by abolishing the import duties on coffee and other articles? So long as these duties were continued, the demand for the labour of the people was lessened, and the poor rates increased.
 MR. SPOONER  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he meant that tenant farmers were to continue to pay the income tax on an assumed rate of profit, though they might be farming at a loss?—whether he meant to make any modifications so far as life interests and professional incomes were concerned?—and for what period he intended to impose the tax?
 MR. ALCOCK  did not rise to express gratitude to the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer for any boon which he had granted to the agricultural interest; but he could not avoid saying that he thought the Budget in its amended form would give greater satisfaction to the people at large than as it originally appeared. The income tax as it at present affected the tenant farmer was most unjust and unfair, but he could not join in asking for its total abandonment. On the contrary, he hoped that the country would step forward
 1112 l l s. s. l s. s.
 MR. T. BARING  had not intended to address the House, but after the speech of the hon. Member for Finsbury he could not congratulate the Government on having such a supporter. The hon. Member said
 1098 1099 1100
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  did not quite understand the arrangement proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in respect to the house tax, as it would affect shops. He should like to know if the advantages conferred on houses in connexion with shops would be extended to warehouses and manufactories? He appealed to the right hon. Gentleman whether he really was prepared to continue in its present state a tax inflicting such great injustice upon a largo class of Her Majesty's subjects as the shopkeepers, and he would ask why those who had not paid the window tax were now to be called upon to pay this new tax. For the house he occupied he paid at present 21 l s. l l l l l 1087 d. "This has always been considered essentially a war tax, and imposition is not justified by any circumstances short of those of peculiar danger in our foreign affairs." 1088 "It seems that the State requires great sacrifices. I grant it. But I ask if the necessity be such as to require this great injustice?" l
 MR. WAKLEY  thought it was quite clear that the Committee had before it an improved Budget, and the improvement was not owing to any agitation in the Marylebone vestry, but was to be attributed to the opposition which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had received from his own friends and his ordinary supporters. He (Mr. Wakley) therefore approved of agitation, and he considered that in this, as in many other instances, it had been highly conducive to the interests of the community. During the reverie in which he (Mr. Wakley) had been indulging, he had been doubtful as to whether the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer were really a good one; for it appeared there was something which had given mortal offence to Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House. What was this? Was it the Budget? No, it was not the Budget; but it was the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. It was the speech which he had delivered that night which had called forth so much anger and bitterness on the opposite side. In the Budget there was but little that was new, but that which was new was very good. The improvement which the right hon. Gentleman had made on his first proposition for a house tax was most decided. It was a highly beneficial alteration, and he (Mr. Wakley) had been delighted to hear of it. He knew not how it would be received out of doors, but he would state his views and opinions honestly to his constituents; and if they were satisfied, he hoped that hon. Gentlemen opposite would not feel called on to complain. He had wondered, when the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been making his speech, what it was that was coming which was so new, for it had been intimated that something very new had been introduced. As the right hon. Gentleman had advanced, it had been evident that his six weeks' incubation was to be productive of something good. The right hon. Gentleman had that night delivered a speech which he could assure the Government and the right hon. Gentleman would give very great satisfaction in the country. The sentiments which the right hon. Gentleman had spoken
 1096 1097
 MR. WAKLEY,  then, had misunderstood the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that with regard to the shopkeepers of Marylebone, he (Mr. Wakley) was very much dissatisfied with them already, and, therefore, did not require the aid of the hon. Member (Mr. Stanford) to make him more so. But if the hon. Gentleman was dissatisfied with the metropolitan shopkeepers, he (Mr. Wakley) could assure the hon. Member that he (Mr. Wakley) was very much dissatisfied with the shopkeepers of Reading. He begged, however, to ask if the hon.
 1095
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the people of England were now anxiously expecting that some change, in accordance with the expressed feelings of the inhabitants of the large towns, would be made in the amended Budget; but he believed that great surprise would be felt at finding that no change had been made. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had boasted that he was now placing the house tax on a rational footing; and, no doubt, if the principle of a house tax were admitted, the right hon. Gentleman had placed it on such a footing; but he (Mr. Williams) contended that there was no necessity for the imposition of any house tax at all, and therefore he should give the proposal the most decided opposition in every stage of its progress. A most extraordinary error had been made in the right hon. Gentleman's calculations, for he had assumed that the falling off in the revenue would equal the amount made in the reduction of taxation. This principle was entirely erroneous, as would be seen on reference to the past. In five years, from 1822 to 1826, 13,500,000 l l l l l l l l 1080 l
 SIR B. HALL : Sir, as the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford has made a Motion for the purpose of giving Members an opportunity of saying something upon this subject, I wish to make a few observations on what has fallen from my hon. Friend. He says, most justly and truly, and I entirely acquiesce in the remark, that this House is not the proper arena for discussions of this nature. But, Sir, there may be times and circumstances when matters are to be brought under the consideration of this Assembly, which are forced upon our notice because we have no other place where the representatives of the people can call in question the conduct of high functionaries, who, so long as they are the ministers of a Church in connection with the State, must be subject to the cognisance of the House of Commons. I do not wish to enter at all into my hon. Friend's opinions, but I have no hesitation in declaring my own; and when he says that this matter is put forward for public opinion and discussion, I say he is under a great mistake, because, although
 1033
 SIR B. HALL : I merely stated a fact on which I intend to base my question. The clergyman refused to baptise the child without immersion; and notwithstanding the statement of the father, the mother, and the nurse, that immersion would be dangerous to the existence of the child, he persevered in refusing to baptise it in any other way. The noble Lord added that his child had been refused admission into the Protestant Church unless at the risk of its life, that risk having been declared by a competent person. Now I will put the question of which I have given notice. The question I have to ask my noble Friend is, if he can tell us whether, during the last six weeks, he has had any communications with the Archbishops and Bishops of the Established Church in reference to the continuance of certain forms introduced into our churches by different clergymen, and against which certain of the bishops have charged their clergy; and whether it is the intention of the Archbishops and Bishops to take any effectual steps for the purpose of suppressing such practices, which the Bishop of London in a recent charge has denounced as histrionic performances? I wish to ask the noble Lord if he can tell us whether the archbishops and bishops intend to take any steps
 1032
 SIR B. HALL : Mr. Speaker, I now take the opportunity of putting the question of which I have given notice, to my noble Friend at the head of the Government. I understand that the right rev. Prelate the Bishop of London has stated in another place that, in consequence of the extreme pressure of public business, it is not his intention to bring on any measure during this Session for the correction and control of clerks in certain cases, but that it is his intention to bring in the Bill which was rejected by Parliament in the last Session. Now, before proceeding to put the question
 1031 Times Cries of
 SIR B. HALL,  as one of the metropolitan Members who had lately been "out of their senses," begged to remind his noble Friend that he might rather have said it was the Chancellor of the Exchequer who had been out of his mind, for the metropolitan Members had not changed theirs. He recollected a remarkable speech made by the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty, when out of office, with reference to the income tax; and there was a general impression, when that right hon. Gentleman took office, that it was almost a guarantee that there would be a different arrangement with regard to that tax. Before saying anything upon the window tax, he must allude to what
 1083 l
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, with respect to the duty on timber, the shipping interest was one of the most important in the country; and after the abolition of the navigation laws, he presumed that interest had very strong claims on the consideration of the Government. But he was not equally satisfied with regard to the house tax; and as he happened to have been engaged about sixteen years ago in repealing the former house tax, he should feel it difficult to vote for a renewal of that tax. But he must confess that the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was a very great improvement on that which preceded it; and so far he (Sir De L. Evans) could not help
 1092
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  had but too much reason to believe that life had been sacrificed to a fearful extent in the Kilrush union; but it must be kept in mind, with reference to the poor-law guardians of this union, that they laboured under extreme and almost overwhelming difficulties; they had 5,000 persons to provide for out of the resources of the union—the Government aid having of late been withheld—and that eleven shillings in the pound had been paid for poor-rates in Kilrush, and Colonel Vandeleur was surrounded with the greatest possible difficulties. The union had received very largely of Government aid; but that having been withdrawn, and the union thrown upon its own resources, this distress had been the result. He hoped the subject would be further discussed when the Medidical Charities Bill (Ireland) should be brought before the House on Tuesday next.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, he hoped he might be permitted to take that opportunity of moving that the House on its rising do adjourn to Monday next. He did so with the view of enabling hon. Members to take part in the very important question which had been introduced by the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone. He apprehended that it was competent for him to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice at that time, and thus to acquire the right of saying a few words upon the question. Knowing nothing of the case which the hon. Baronet had mentioned, except the statement to which he had referred, namely, a letter in the  Times,
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, he would give as much information as he could in reply to the several questions which the hon. Gentleman had placed on the paper, and within the limits that he thought he ought to occupy under present circumstances. In answer to the first question of the hon. Gentleman, as to whether the workhouse for Kilrush union had accommodation for 4,564 inmates in March last, the information which the hon. Gentleman had received on that point was correct. As to the subsequent questions, he had no precise information which he could give to the hon. Gentleman. The Commissioners had not been able to get any precise information respecting them. As to the last question, which was the important question, as to whether the Poor Law Commissioners were aware of this state of things, he had to state that of course they were perfectly aware that this state of things existed in Kilrush. The Commissioners had constantly remonstrated with the board of guardians on this state of things, and they urged them in the first place to provide additional workhouse accommodation; and, failing that, to resort to a system of
 1037 "Referring to the week ended the 30tU of March in the previous year, I find the deaths amounted to 56, with 3,357 inmates, being about the same rate of mortality as at the present time. The season has been unusually wet and inclement, and the health of the poor generally is, I regret to say, unsatisfactory. Many of the paupers do not seek admission to the workhouse until they are exhausted by disease."
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  felt painfully the great disadvantage which he, unaccustomed as be was to speak in that House, experienced in following such eloquent
 1106 l l l. l 1107
 MR. PRINSEP : Sir, I have listened with great attention to the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as well as to that he delivered on Friday last, and I have carefully read also the financial statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in February, before I had the honour to sit in this House. I have not been able to discover in any of these financial statements reasons
 1149 l. l.
 MR. PRINSEP : Never mind; the more offensive the better.
 MR. PRINSEP : If the right hon. Baronet had allowed him to finish his state-
 1150 l. l., l., l. l., l. l. l. 1151 l. 1152 l. l., 1153 1154 l. l. l. 1155 s. 1156 1157 La proprieté ce'st le vol. 1158 l. l. 1159
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House, that the Serjeant-at-Arms attending this House bad a communication to make to the House.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  informed the House, That William Lines had, on Saturday last, been guilty of great prevarication in his examination before the Committee, and that he had, by direction of the Committee, by Warrant under his hand, committed the said William Lines to the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms, to await the pleasure of the House.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  further informed the House, that the witness, William Lines, had been brought before the Committee this day, in the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms attending this House, and had answered, to the satisfaction of the Com-
 1118
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  further informed the House, that it appears on evidence taken before the Committee, that George Sealey Waggett, who is declared by the Counsel for the Petitioners to be a most essential witness for the elucidation of their case, has evaded all attempts to secure his attendance before the Committee; that a reward has been offered for his discovery, both in the  Times Hue-and-Cry
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  then said, he had a Motion to make with respect to the other persons named—George Seeley Waggett, John Hayward, and Henry Edwards. It had been distinctly proved before the Committee that Waggett had knowingly abstained from giving evidence before the Committee, and had concealed himself for the purpose of avoiding the service of their summons. It had also been proved that Hayward and Edwards were parties to his concealment, and had conjointly given him money to induce him to absent himself. He therefore moved, in accordance with the precedent in the Shrewsbury case, that George Seeley Waggett, John Hayward, and Henry Edwards, be respectively taken into the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms attending the House, and that Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant accordingly. Perhaps there might be some difficulty with
 1119
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, he thought the House ought to pause for a day at least before agreeing to the Motion which had just been made by the hon. Member. He admitted in the fullest sense the accuracy of the statement which the hon. Member, on the part of the Committee, had made to the House. But still, he apprehended, it required written evidence—a Report of the Committee—to justify the House in interfering with the liberties of these parties. He did not understand that there had been a Report from the Committee.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, the document he had produced was the unanimous Report of the Committee.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  thought it had been simply a Motion.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that it was a Motion on the Report of the Committee.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, he had brought up the Report of the Committee, and it was in pursuance of that Report that he had made the Motion.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the question was, whether any power which the House possessed would be lost by a little delay. It was quite clear that this person ought not to be allowed to get beyond the jurisdiction of the House: and if that was not likely to be the case, he thought it would be desirable to have the Report printed. He would suggest the propriety of adjourning the further consideration of the matter until to-morrow, when the Report might be in the hands of hon. Members. He did not know whether the Chairman of the Committee concurred in that suggestion.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, it was not for him to dictate to the House the course which it ought to take; but the Committee, not being lawyers, were placed in a very difficult situation as regarded the course to be taken with respect to these persons: it was for the House to decide. He had merely reported on behalf of the Committee the circumstances which they had thought it right to state to the House, and on which they had founded their instructions to ask for the apprehension of these parties. He believed the Speaker's
 1120
 MR. T. GREENE  said, there could be no doubt that parties giving money to keep witnesses away, and prevent them from giving evidence which they were bound to give, were guilty of a breach of the Privileges of the House, and that being the case, he could not see the necessity of abstaining from taking immediate proceedings.
 SIR B. HALL  said, the Committee, after due deliberation, had decided that the proper course was to make a Motion, in order that the case might be taken into full consideration by the House.
 MR. H. E. ADAIR  said, the evidence brought before the Committee was such as would convince hon. Members, if it were laid before them, that the Committee had done no more than their duty.
 MR. SOTHERON  said, it appeared to him they ought without delay to vote that this was a Breach of Privilege. He moved that George Sealey Waggett, Henry Edwards, and John Hay ward have been guilty of a Breach of the Privileges of this House.
 SIR CLERK  said, there could be no doubt that if these parties had been instrumental in keeping another party out of the way, they were guilty of a Breach of Privilege. In the case of the Ipswich election, in 1835, a great number of persons were charged with being instrumental in keeping others out of the way, and they were declared guilty of a Breach of Privilege. The only difference between the two cases was this—that the Ipswich Committee made their Report respecting the Breach of Privilege at the time they finally reported determining the merits. The present, he believed, was the first instance in which a Committee had felt called upon to make a special report in consequence of their inability to obtain witnesses. There could be no doubt as. to the propriety of the House declaring that persons instrumental in removing witnesses from the jurisdiction of the Committee were guilty of a Breach of Privilege.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  did not think there could be any doubt that parties instrumental in thus removing witnesses were guilty of a Breach of Privilege and contempt of the House.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that they were not only guilty of a Breach of Privilege, but of breaking the law of the land.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  wished to remind the House that there was a difference
 1121
 SIR G. CLERK  said, that, in the Ipswich case, a person who had been induced by other parties to keep out of the way, was declared guilty of a Breach of Privilege.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that, when the parties were taken into custody, of course they would be ordered to attend at the bar of the House.
 SIR G. GREY  said, the first matter to which the attention of the House had been called was now comparatively unimportant, as the House had ordered the discharge of the prisoner. But some course must be taken in consequence of the issuing of the writ of  habeas corpus.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  was most happy to acknowledge the assistance he had received from the Irish Members in passing the Practice and Process (Ireland) Bill. The proposed Bill was to extend that measure to the Exchequer Chamber, and there were certain officers connected with that Court who might be affected by this Bill; and if they should be so affected, it was only fair that they should receive compensation. He hoped, therefore, no objection would be pressed to the Committee going into the subject, and then no doubt they would have the names, offices, and salaries of the officers to be compensated. No doubt the hon. Member for Carlow (Mr. Sadleir) could give them all these particulars.
 LORD CLAUDE HAMILTON  would call the attention of the House to the fact that the greater part of the time of the House had been occupied with discussions quite irrelevant to the proposition before the House. What was the subject before the House? It had no reference to any proposition for a retrograde movement from free trade. The right hon. Gentleman had proposed nothing of the sort. He would ask the now full attendance of hon. Members whether they had well weighed and considered the question on which they were about to vote? He would ask hon. Members who intended to vote for the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say whether they believed they were to vote for this tax for three years only, or to make it permanent. That was the real question at issue, and that was the question hon. Members ought to ask themselves before they went into the lobby. It must be recollected this was the fourth time the House had been called upon to vote for a three years' continuance of the tax. The proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford embodied this principle: which was right, with a surplus, to apply a portion of that surplus to the reduction of a temporary tax, or to the abolition of a previously imposed permanent tax? He advocated fairness and openness—he was not willing to vote for a tax ostensibly for three years only, when, in reality, the tax was to be made permanent. He rejoiced that the window tax was to be abolished; but then there was a higher economical principle at stake, which he had referred to, and which hon. Members ought carefully to keep in view. If the Government spoke out manfully, and said the tax must be permanent, and if the House sanctioned this principle, let the House at least first begin by abolishing its inequalities. Let them not be deceived by party appeals, let them not look upon the question as if it were a vote for or against the masses of the people; the question they had to consider was this, were they or were they not voting to make this tax a permanent one? Were they prepared to rivet this impost on the country as a permanent burden to the property of the empire? If they intended to make it permanent, let them do in political as they would do in private life, let them do it openly, fairly, and professedly. He did not believe that any Gentleman who in-
 1195
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the course proposed would be convenient. He understood the hon. Gentleman to agree that the Report on the Resolution then before the House should be received, provided his right hon. Friend assented to the debate and division on the hon. Gentleman's Motion being taken on Friday, which would be a convenient course.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, if the hon. and learned Gentleman had any objection to the Resolution, he did not see why he could not at once state such objection.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he did this on the distinct understanding that the Government would bring forward their Resolution on Friday.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had given notice of an Amendment upon the question now before the House, and he wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman opposite, whether it would not be more convenient to him to take the debate and division on his Amendment at a future stage of the proceedings rather than at present, probably on Friday next? Assuming that the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed on that day to go into Committee on the window tax, he thought it might be more agreeable to the right hon. Gentleman to take his (Mr. Disraeli's) Amendment on that day than go on with it now.
 MR. DISRAELI  repeated that he understood he was to proceed with his Amendment on Friday next; and now, with the permission of the House, he would state the precise terms of that proposition, which were as follows:—
 "That, in any relief to be granted by the remission or adjustment of taxation, due regard should be paid to the distressed condition of the owners and occupiers of land in the United Kingdom."
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that it was not his intention to abandon his Motion, of which he had given notice, of the exemption of tenant-farmers and officers of the Army and Navy from the income tax, hut to persist in it, although the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had subsequently introduced a Motion of almost similar character.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would not object to an arrangement for the greater convenience of the House, but wished it to go forth to the public that he did not shrink from bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought, that at some future stage of the Bill the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln would have a more convenient opportunity to raise the question which he proposed. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was afraid that it would be impossible to bring in the Bill for the continuance of the income and property tax before Easter. There were only a few days before Easter over which the Government had command for business of that kind. He proposed to take the house and window tax on Friday, on which the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Disraeli) would raise a Debate. He hoped that Debate would be concluded on Friday, but he could not promise any measure until he knew when that Debate would conclude. He thought it convenient for the House, and he was quite prepared to give notice of the precise nature of the Resolution he should propose.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that what was called a window tax was a house tax levied on inhabited houses, according to the number of windows or lights that they contained. The Resolution which he intended to propose to the House was, that the tax, instead of being levied according to the number of lights, should be levied according to the annual value of the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the course he proposed was this—that the Resolution should be reported now, to enable the Government to bring in a Bill founded upon it; and in its future stages many discussions would, no doubt, arise. On Friday they proposed taking
 1201
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had already, on a former evening, expressed his conviction that the right hon. Gentleman would fairly and candidly bring forward his views on the question he had now brought before the House; and he would now do him the justice to say that his speech that evening had fully answered his expectations. The right hon. Gentleman had on the present as on former occasions, made numerous references to the opinions which had been expressed by him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) and other Members of the Government. Now, he could assure the right hon. Gentleman he did not in the slightest degree deprecate the fullest reference to  Hansard, 1136 "Such has been the increase of the revenue from permanent sources of income during the existence of the income tax, that we might have avoided making this experiment; we might have provided for the supplies of the present year without making any application to Parliament in respect to increased taxation; but we propose to continue the income tax for a further period, not for the purpose of providing the supplies for the year, but distinctly for the purpose of enabling us to make this great experiment of reducing other taxes."—[3  Hansard, 1137 "We are now told that this tax (the income tax) was imposed to carry through a great experiment of taxation. I do not object to continuing it on those grounds." "The ground which I then (in 1842) stated of my opposition was, that the income tax was too high a price to pay for the benefits which we were to receive from the change of taxation which was then proposed. But I said, in 1842, in opposing the tax, that if an alteration were made in the duties on corn, on sugar, on timber, and on other great articles of consumption, I should be ready to vote for direct taxation, and even for the income tax. Now, the duties on sugar, corn, and timber have been so altered; the circumstances which I have said would justify the imposition of an income tax have occurred; and, therefore, with perfect consistency with the principles which I advocated in 1842 and 1845, I now support the renewal of that tax."—[3  Hansard, 1138 d. l. d. l 1139 l. l. 1140 1141 1142 l. 1143 ad valorem l. 1144 l. 1145 l. l. l. 1146 1147 s. 1148
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Nothing could be further from his wish than the intention to say one disrespectful word. He thought it would be more courteous to the hon. Member to repeat what he had before stated, which was, that the surplus of this year was 2,500,000 l., l., l.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It will perhaps save the hon. Member from blundering on—[ Loud cries of from the Opposition benches.
 MR. GOULBURN : Did the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer intend to move his proposition in a Committee of Ways and Means, or did he mean to propose a Committee of the whole House to consider a repeal of the window tax?
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he could quite understand the hon. Member (Mr. Baring) not supporting the plan of the Government, but could not comprehend the hon. Member supporting that of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Herries), for the reasons which the hon. Member had given for rejecting the Government plan told equally against the Amendment. The hon. Member had said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had, in 1842, declared that he opposed the income tax because it had been proposed to make up a deficiency in the revenue, but that he would have supported it if it had been proposed in order to reduce more objectionable taxes. What his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated was, that although he had an objection to an income tax, yet he would have been willing to vote for the tax if it had been to repeal the monopolies in sugar, timber, and corn. The hon. Gentleman had also said, the reduction of the duty on tea was resisted, because it was not a protective duty. It was so; and he (Mr. Wilson) thought justly so; for this reason, that in the case of tea, or any other duty not protective, all that the public paid went into the Exchequer; whereas in a protective duty a portion only found its way there, the rest finding its way into the pockets of persons for whom it was not intended. Notwithstanding the caution of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Herries) to prevent the question from being considered one of protection, subsequent speeches had
 1176 l. l., l. l. l., 1177 l. l. l.; l. l.; l. 
 
 In 1830 £46,200,000 
 In 1842 64,200,000 
 Increase in twelve years  £18,000,000 
 
 In 1830 £38,250,000 
 In 1841 47,000,000 
 Increase in twelve years £8,7,30,000 1178 l.; l. l. l. l l. l. l. l., l.; l.; l. 
 
 In 1841 the Customs duties produced £21,898,000 
 In 1850 20,412,000 
 Decrease £1,456,000 l. 
 
 In 1841, Excise duties produced £13,678,300 
 In 1850 14,316,000 
 Increase £638,000 l. 
 
 In 1841, total revenue £48,084,000 
 In 1850, total revenue 52,810,000 
 Increase £4,726,000 l. l., l. 1179 
 
 Taxes reduced £10,251,294 
 Reduction in debt 4,221,000 
 Balances in Exch. 1841 £1,390,000 
 Balances in Exch.1850 9,245,000 
 Increase £7,855,000 
 Deficiency Bills, 1841 £6,606,000 
 Balance in hand, 1850 1,012,000 
 Difference in favour of 1850 £5,594,000 
 
 Official value of imports, 1842 £64,300,000 
 Official value of imports 1849 105,800,000 
 Increase £41,500,000 
 
 The real value of exports, 1842 £47,000,000 
 The real value of exports, 1850 70,000,000 
 Increase £23,000,000 
 
 In 1842, total tonnage(inward and outward) 7,347,000 tons. 
 In 1850 12,020,000 tons. 
 Increase 4,673,000 tons, or 63 per cent. 
 
 Taxes repealed, first period £8,437,000 
 Taxes repealed, second period 10,251,000 
 Recovered in the first period £6,437,000 
 Recovered in the second period 9,477,000 
 Increase of national debt, first period 7,778,000 
 Decrease of debt, second period 4,221,000 l. 
 
 Balances in Exchequer, end of first period £2,340,000 
 Balances in Exchequer, end of second period 9,807,000 
 Deficiency of Income over Expenditure at end of first period 2,500,000 
 Surplus at end of second period 2,500,000 
 Increase of imports, first period 18,000,000 
 Ditto ditto second period 41,500,000 1180 l., l. l. 1181 1182 Cries of and l. l., l. 1183 s. s. 1184 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l.
 MR. HATCHELL  thought a most unusual discussion had been got up on that occasion, and he trusted the Committee would be allowed to go into the question and dispose of it.
 MR. HATCHELL  said, the object of the Bill was, that by a provision of the Process and Practice Act of last Session, officers of the superior courts of law in Ireland who might be deprived of their offices, or whose emoluments might be diminished under the operation of the Act, should receive due compensation. The Judges, having had doubts whether the officers of the Exchequer Chamber were comprised in the Act, suggested that a Bill should be introduced by which all doubt should be removed, and the rules which they had laid down be extended by express warrant to the Exchequer Chamber.
 MR. HATCHELL , in reply, said, that the number of officers in the Exchequer Chamber was a fact that did not come within his knowledge.
 MR. HERRIES  said, the difficulty which now existed had arisen from this circumstance—that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland, in proposing the introduction of the Resolution, had not given any explanation of the grounds on which it was founded.
 MR. HERRIES  wished the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer to state whether he intended to bring forward the Bill for the continuance of the income and property tax before Easter. He would suggest to the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln, that when the House was in Committee on that Bill, he would have the best
 1202
 MR. HERRIES : I rise, Sir, to propose an Amendment to the Resolution which has just been read. I propose, after the words which recite the duties which are to be levied, to insert the Amendment of which I have given notice. In moving this Amendment I may be permitted to say that I have seen with great satisfaction the announcement in the public prints that the revenue of the country, as exhibited in the Returns for the quarter just expired, is even in a more satisfactory condition than that which the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced when he last addressed the House on this subject. I rejoice, Sir, in that announcement, not only as an indication of the prosperity of I the country, as to which I never entertained any doubt or anxiety—I rejoice in that prosperity for the sake of the country—and I also rejoice in it as a consideration that adds force and weight to the proposal which I have to make. It is precisely on account of that prosperity and of the means which that prosperous state of | the revenue will afford to the Government and to the House of accomplishing an act of good faith and of justice, that I now offer the proposition which I have just laid before you. I will endeavour to confine myself, in my observations, to the subject itself. I will endeavour to repay the attention which the House may give me while I unfold the proposition, by confining myself strictly to the arguments which come within the exact scope of my Motion. I will not touch the subjects of free trade or protection—these subjects have, in fact, nothing to do with the question immediately before us. In one sense it is a purely economical question, but it is also a question which involves the good faith, the honesty of Parliament, and, as I think, the principles of sound policy. I will, in pursuance of this intention, Sir, entirely exclude, at least from my share of the discussion, all inquiry into details. I will not involve myself in a controversy of figures with the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In order more entirely to set aside any discussion upon these matters of subordinate importance on this particular occasion, I will dispute none of his statements of the actual condition of the revenue, nor of his estimates of its future probable produce. I
 1123 pro hac vice, l., l., l. 1124 l l., 1125 argumenta ad homines, 1126 "The evil of a Tax such as the Income tax was not confined to the sum drawn from the community; the great objection to it was that which was universally felt and stated, and that was a better argument against it than the most refined that could he used in that House—viz., its inquisitorial character."—[3  Hansard, "But the strongest objection of all was, that it had always been considered everywhere as a tax to be resorted to only as a last resource." 1127 "I have always been accustomed to consider the Income Tax as a tax necessary, indeed, in times of great emergency—necessary, for instance, in carrying on a war of an arduous and costly nature—but, at the same time, that it was a tax subject to some of the gravest objections that could be urged against any tax. I have always been of opinion that inequality, vexation, and fraud, were inherent in such a tax."—[3  Hansard, Hansard, "God forbid that under present circumstances the financial difficulties of the country should appear such as to require that House to adopt such an extreme measure. I would resort to almost all other means before I adopted a scheme of taxation which was alien to the habits of the people of this country, which must be carried into execution in an inquisitorial manner, and therefore which must be attended with vexatious proceedings, infinitely more annoying than the amount taken from their pockets."—[3  Hansard, 1128 "I think that upon every principle of justice, and of good policy, we ought to resist the imposition of any new burdens, and more especially that of a tax in its very nature so exceedingly odious as that proposed to us."—[3  Hansard, "We are told taxation ought to be equal; can anything be more monstrously unequal than the tax recommended to us?"— Ibid. Hansard, Hansard, "Though he retained all his objections to the tax, yet, with such a deficiency in the revenue, he was not prepared to throw difficulties in the way of carrying it; for, bad as the tax was, there was one thing still worse—and that was a revenue permanently deficient." [3  Hansard, 1129 1130 1131 1132 1133 l. l., l. l. l. d. l. l. l. l. 1134
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that he had voted for the income tax in 1848, but he now intended to vote for the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Herries). ["Oh!"] He would show the reason. The proposal was, to renew the income tax for three years. The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer stated, that it was not his intention to extend the tax to Ireland at present. "At present!" [THE CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Not at all] He inferred the translation of these words, "at present," to be, that, at some future period, the right hon. Gentle-
 1191 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1192 l. l. d. d. d. d. Hansard "Another objection which I have to the tax is the admitted inequality of its operation. This inequality of its operation is not denied by any one; and, indeed, it would be impossible to deny it. It is obvious that if you take three or four persons having each 300 l. Hansard —"very hard to take from a trader so circumstanced the same proportion of his trading profits as yon take from one whose income is permanent and secure?" 1193 "There is one proposition that has been made—a proposition, too, which has been mooted in this House—a tax which it is not, perhaps, desirable to adopt if there is no absolute necessity, but a proposition which appears to me to be based upon sounder arguments, and a tax which appears to me to be fairer, better, and more just than that put forward by the Government—I mean the proposition that has been mooted of submitting the succession of real property—the succession, I say, of real property to the same probate and legacy duty which attaches itself to the succession of personal estate." 1194
 MR. REYNOLDS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. REYNOLDS  wished to know the officers of the Exchequer Chamber who would he affected by the Bill, their names, their rank, and their salary. He also beg-
 1205
 MR. REYNOLDS  would not consent to the Vote without knowing the amount involved, and must move that the Chairman do now leave the Chair.
 MR. REYNOLDS  must persist in his intention to press his Motion, that the Chairman leave the chair.
 MR. SADLEIR  was unable to give the House any information of the kind.
 MR. SADLEIR  was glad to find that information was at last being furnished, though it came from the English and not the Irish functionary. Perhaps another division would procure the names of the officers, an account of their duties, and a statement whether they held any other offices in the public service. He thought it unreasonable to bring forward Irish measures at so late an hour; but as the Irish Members were beginning to be of some little importance in that House, they were determined to put a check to such a course of proceeding. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department knew that the Irish Members had evinced on all occasions a wish to co-operate with the Government; and the right lion, and learned Master of the Rolls could testify how sincere a desire they had shown to carry out law reform in Ireland. But they would not submit to have Irish Bills postponed to an hour when it was impossible to discuss them fully.
 MR. HUME  would give every opportunity to hon. Members expressing their opinions that was in his power.
 MR. HUME  said, that the House having now resolved to renew the income tax for a time to be limited, he should, in Committee on the Bill, propose that the limitation should be for one year, with a view of having a Committee appointed to inquire whether it was not possible to remove some of the grounds of complaint now felt with regard to it.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose had stated his intention to move the limitation of the income tax to one year, to afford an opportunity of revising it and levying it more equally. The hon. Member was not opposed to direct taxation; he wished the income tax to be so framed that it could be made a permanent tax. That, he believed, was the hon. Gentleman's view. [Mr. HUME assented.] Now he (Mr. Cobden) was well aware that a large portion of Members were opposed to the income tax, and would vote with the hon. Gentleman to limit it to one year, from very different motives. He took it for granted that his
 1203
 MR. SPOONER  would not follow the hon. Member for Westbury (Mr. Wilson) through his speech, full of figures as it was, and upon the whole but little to the purpose. Neither would he attempt to follow his hon. Friend (Mr. Slaney) through all the subjects to which he had adverted. He rose rather to bring back the attention of the House to that which was the real question before it. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had a surplus to dispose of; and the right hon. Gentleman proposed one way of dealing with it, and his right hon. Friend (Mr. Herries) proposed another. What the House had to do was to chose between the two—which they preferred. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Herries) said he objected to the plan proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon two grounds especially: the one was, that it put aside from the consideration of the House the object which Parliament had in view when it granted the property tax for an emergency, and he called upon the House to act upon the principle that the tax should be got rid of as speedily as possible. His right hon. Friend objected to it also upon the grounds adduced by the noble Lord the First Lord of the Treasury, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he called upon the noble Lord to answer this question, which had not yet been answered by the Chancellor of the Exchequer—upon what principle he justified the renewal of a tax which he himself, when out of office, denounced as full of inequality, vexation, and fraud? Now, he (Mr. Spooner) asked the noble Lord—was the nature of the tax changed, or were the opinions of the noble Lord changed? He did hope, then, that the noble Lord would give the House very shortly an explanation upon that subject. Was the tax unjust, vexatious, and full of
 1190
 MR. SLANEY  said, that he bad derived, both by birth and habit, all he possessed from agriculture, and that he would hesitate before he adopted any line of conduct which, in his opinion, would have the effect of injuring that great interest. He admitted that the change recently made in our commercial policy had been effected too hastily, and that the
 1188 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1189
 MR. WALPOLE  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not insist on dividing the Committee. This was a mere matter of form, and would not pledge the House to anything in the Bill.
 MR. T. BARING  had listened, as no
 1170 l. l. l. l., 1171 l; 1172 l.; l. 1173 l., 1174 s. l., l. 1175
 MR. BOOKER  would not attempt to follow the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House through the long labyrinth of statistics which he had quoted; but would endeavour to bring back the debate to its legitimate object by confining his observations to the subject of the Amendment. He should treat the ques-
 1185 l. 1186 l.; l. l. 1187 "If you could appeal to us with all the authority of undivided councils; if you could show us it would he for the advantage of England that she should he the workshop of the world—if you could prove to us it would be for her advantage that her country should be intersected with railroads, and that manufacturing and commercial towns should take possession of those fields that hitherto have been the sources of our industry and our wealth, we should deeply regret it. We should still have many happy remembrancers that it was under the system of protection cultivation was carried to the hilltop, and all the blessings we had enjoyed under it had not been antagonistic to, hut concurrent with, the development of commerce and manufactures."
 MR. GLADSTONE : Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would likewise have the goodness to place on the Votes the terms of the Resolution he would propose on Friday. What he had stated was perfectly clear; but if the terms of the Resolution were placed on the Votes, it would be perfectly understood.
 MR. KEOGH  thought it unreasonable to grant compensation to officers of whom the House had heard nothing, and therefore moved that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. KEOGH  said, the only notice which the House had of any intention to vote this compensation was in the words "Exchequer Chamber (Ireland), Committee thereupon." Now this certainly gave no explanation of any intention to move a large sum by way of compensation. He might retort on the noble Lord and say that some reason ought to be assigned for giving this compensation. Not one word by way of explanation had been given from the Treasury bench.
 MR. KEOGH  must protest against proceeding with this question at one o'clock in the morning. He should move that the Chairman do now report progress.
 MR. KEOGH  thought it unreasonable for the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls to expect the hon. Member for Carlow to give information which the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland confessed that he know nothing at all about. The House ought to know who these officers proposed to be compensated were, and what were their emoluments, salaries, and duties, before assenting to a clause to give them compensation. Without such facts before them, he objected to proceeding with such measures at that hour in the morning.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that he had not received any satisfactory explanation of the object of the Bill, and he should therefore press his Motion.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  wished to explain his reasons for the vote he was about to give. The real question was, whether he would vote for this tax to be continued for three years more, with all its imperfections and oppressiveness. Now he did not feel justified in continuing such a tax, for he knew that his constituents felt it to be a grievous oppression. He was friendly to a property tax—to a tax upon income derived from real property; but he was not friendly to a tax upon the incomes of professional men. He knew, abundantly well, that if they gave any Government free license to raise taxes, they never would have retrenchment. There might be retrenchment sufficient to dispense with the income tax, if his views on retrenchment were adopted, and, therefore, he felt compelled to vote against the imposition of this tax, and in favour of the Amendment of the right hon. Member for Stamford.
 MR. F. PEEL  was quite sensible that there were a great many Members in that House whose sentiments upon a question like the present it was of much more importance that the House should be made acquainted with than his own. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford stated that they had to make their option between his plan and that of the Government; but as the conclusions to which he (Mr. Peel) had brought his mind, after giving to the subject the best consideration of which he was capable, obliged him to dissent from the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman, while at the same time he was far from being able to express unqualified approval of the financial policy of Her Majesty's Government, he hoped he might be permitted to state very shortly the grounds on which he rested the conclusions to which he had brought himself, and to modify the vote he should give on that occasion. In the first place, under what circumstances had the proposition for a renewal of the income tax been brought before them? The Chancellor of the Exchequer told the House on Friday that he wished to abide by the estimates he had made in his first financial statement; and it would be in the recollection of the House that the right hon. Gentleman estimated the probable income of the then ensuing year, now the current year, namely, that ending on the 5th of April, 1852, speaking in round numbers, and setting aside the income tax, at 46,750,000 l., l., l. l.; l. 1161 l. l.; l.; l. l., l. 1162 l. l.; l.; l.; l. l.; l., s., l. l. l., 1163 1164 1165 1166 d. s d. 1167 l. l. l. 1168 l.; l. 1169
 SIR G. GREY  said, it seemed to be the wish of some hon. Members for Ireland that information should be given respecting the nature of the Bill, and the amount of compensation which would be granted under it. It was impossible to state the exact amount of compensation, because that was left to the Treasury to determine; but he was informed that there would be only three officers who would be affected by the Bill, the highest of whose salaries was not more than 500 l.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the Committee was only asked to pass a Resolution to enable the House to consider the clauses of this Bill on a future day. As, however, some hon. Members thought it consistent with their duty to oppose what was a merely formal proceeding, and as he did
 1207
 SIR G. GREY  said, the Resolution which had been proposed was substantially identical with the second clause of the Process and Practice (Ireland) Bill, which was in the hands of hon. Members, who might, therefore, have been aware that it was intended to give compensation to certain officers; but, according to the rules of the House, it was necessary to agree to a resolution in Committee for granting such compensation before the clause could be proposed in the Bill.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  agreed with the noble (Lord C. Hamilton) that the discussion had not been confined to the two propositions before the House, which he had correctly defined as a proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to continue the income tax for three years, and a proposition of the right hon. Member for Stamford to impose so much as might be considered sufficient to meet the necessities of the public service, and to maintain public credit. He (Sir R. H. Inglis) considered that if the income tax was inquisitorial, unequal, and unjust, it was equally inquisitorial, unequal, and unjust, whether they took 3¼ or 2¼ per cent, or 3 d. d. l.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, he could have no possible objection to the Motion, but he could throw no more light on the subject than he did yesterday, unless the House should order the shorthand writer's notes to be printed. This person, Henry Edwards, was committed by the House, not as an absent witness, but for having concealed others, and by corruption. It was on that ground this man had been declared guilty of a Breach of Privilege, and that he was committed to the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms. It was the unanimous opinion of the Committee that he should be committed, and he was quite sure the Committee would be unanimously of opinion that he should not be discharged.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  informed the House, that the Agent for the petitioners having been examined before the Committee, has declared that the evidence of
 1228
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, the depositions of these people were taken upon oath, and the Agent swore that their evidence was necessary to substantiate distinct acts of bribery; that after haying made those depositions, warrants were issued against them, which were sent to their homes and their places of occupation; but they were absent, and had not hitherto returned to them. Advertisements had been inserted in the newspapers offering a reward, the police had been put on their track; but notwithstanding all these steps, they were not to be found. He contended, therefore, that they were wilfully absent, and under these circumstances he made this Motion.
 MR. A. B. HOPE  did not mean to have troubled the House with any remarks upon this occasion; but after what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis), and the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), he must express the regret with which he heard the former hon. Member express so much dismay at the question of Church Rates being inquired into. The hon. Baronet was far too learned in the history of the Church not to know that the laws that affect Church Rates were laws passed at a time when the constitution of England was very different from what it is now. The law
 1256 1257
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  thought it was a great pity that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland had not waited to listen to the speech of the hon. Member for the city of Dublin. He would probably have seen, had he given close attention to the subject, that if they went into Committee, the fight would not be between Ministers and their opponents, but between different sections of the Irish Members; like an interpleader suit at law, the parties would not be opposed to one another, but would be against themselves. He could not help saying that there appeared to him a great deal of justice in what was said about distress in Ireland proceeding from the free-trade measures of 1846, and the Poor Law of 1847, but he thought any attempt in those directions to retrace their footsteps would be ruinous to the population of Ireland. For other reasons he was sorry that the right hon. Baronet had refused to agree to the Motion. He
 1291
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he could not agree to the suggestion that these two subjects should be referred to one Committee. The two subjects were not of the same nature, the Church Rate having been imposed for the purpose of keeping the churches in repair; whereas, the Annuity Tax in Edinburgh and Montrose was the means by which their ancestors paid the salaries of the clergy. A considerable correspondence had taken place on the subject, and a friend of his had been sent down to Edinburgh to negotiate between the parties on the subject of this tax, These negotiations had not been successful; but the Government had exerted their authority to bring them to a favourable issue, and he was not without hope that the parties might be yet brought to agree amongst themselves.
 LORD ASHLEY  had now to bring under the consideration of the House a subject very homely in appearance after the stirring questions that had so lately agitated the public mind; but one which he thought he should be able to show was of vital importance to large classes of the community. Twenty years ago it would have been necessary to state many principles, and urge
 1259 1260 "It is filled to excess every night, but on particular occasions commonly 50, sometimes from 90 to 100 men, are crowded into a room 33 feet 9 inches long, 20 feet wide, and 7 feet high in the centre. … The whole of this dormitory does not allow more space, that is, does not admit of a larger bulk of air for respiration, than is appropriated in the wards of the Fever Hospital for three patients." "On my district is a house containing eight rooms, which are all let separately to individuals who furnish and relet them. The parlour measures 18 ft. by 10 ft. Beds are arranged on each side of the room, composed of straw, shavings, rags, &c. In this one room slept, on the night previous to my inquiry, 27 male and female adults, 31 children, and two or three dogs, making in all
 1261 "These houses are never cleaned or ventilated; they literally swarm with vermin. It is almost impossible to breathe. Missionaries are seized with vomiting or fainting upon entering them. 'I have felt,' said another, 'the vermin dropping on my hat like peas. In some of the rooms I dare not sit, or I should be at once covered.'" "From a ministerial experience of thirteen years, first in a parish of 7,000 souls, then in a parish of 20,000, and now in a parish of 10,000, I am perfectly satisfied of the close connexion subsisting between the sanitary and moral condition of our poorer classes. At Fulham, Maidstone, and Dover, I found, without any exception, the worst demoralisation in the worst constituted dwellings and neighbourhoods, the one being-traceable from the other directly as effect from cause. I affirm, in conscience, that to raise them while they live in such places and under such circumstances as they do now, is impossible. No sense of decency or self-respect can struggle against the difficulty; and the chief force of our pastoral ministrations is rendered nugatory. I may add, that I have very rarely met with a parish priest, accustomed to minister in a large town, who has not fully felt the same conviction. The relieving officer for Charlton stated—'There are 650 houses, or rather substitutes for houses—hovels. The whole parish is one receptacle for filth. In reference to Barwick's-alley, where there are about fifty separate small huts, built in steps, one over the other, against a steep hill-side, there are but three privies attached, and there is only one very dirty draw-well to supply the whole neighbourhood with water. The horrid state of this alley is beyond description." 1262 "In Lumsden's-lane I found lodging-houses dirty and crowded, one of which was over a large ashpit, the same where the woman had died of cholera. At the head of Lumsden's-yard there are also open middens and privies, the drains from which pass under the adjoining cottages." "This state of things surrounds the poor inhabitants with a surface of visible filth, and also keeps them in an atmosphere of foul gases, where the seeds of disease most readily ripen. Fever, according to the medical evidence, is almost constant in these places; and cholera, as shown, is first developed in such rooms as that over the privy and ashpit situated in Lumsden's-lane. This undue crowding is as destructive to the property as to the health of the poor inhabitants. The wet and damp retained by the middens generate rot, and the surface filth is trodden into the houses, the cleansing of which is consequently neglected, and the result is rapid decay. If a labouring man is compelled, for want of better accommodation, to reside in such tenements, he loses his health, loses his labour, and the owner cannot obtain payment from a family reduced to pauperism, and so he loses his rent." s., s., s. 1263 "The table will show the narrow space afforded to each, but it can give no idea of the actual state of the rooms, or the scenes they exhibit. Those that offer beds have these articles of luxury filled with as many as can possibly lie upon them. Others find berths below the beds, and then the vacant spaces on the floor are occupied. Among these is a tub filled with vomit and natural evacuations. Other houses have no beds, but their occupiers are packed upon the floor, in rows, the head of one being close to the feet of another. Each body is placed so close to its neighbour as not to leave sufficient space upon which to set a foot. The occupants are entirely naked, except rugs drawn up as far as the waist; and when to this is added that the doors and windows are carefully closed, and that there is not the least distinction of sex, but men, women, and children lie indiscriminately side by side, some faint idea may be formed of the state of these places, and their effect upon health, morals, and decency. Fevers prevail, and the sick-ward of the workhouse is filled with typhus in its worst form from these places." "was a house containing one room, with one bed in it, and no fewer than eight persons were found occupying it. In the same yard was another house, comprising two rooms, and containing three beds, and 31 persons were occupying them, giving an average of more than 10 persons to each bed. In that yard there were several other houses, in which three, four, or five persons occupied each bed. In a semicircle, drawn in a radius of about a quarter of a mile, they found 222 such lodging-houses." "In some of these cellar-dwellings, of about four yards square, there were collected sometimes 20 persons, some in beds, some on the floor; some naked men and women together; children in the smallpox in the midst of them. One of these lodging-house keepers had been fined a few days before for having taken in so many. 'Sir,' said he, 'what is to be done with these people? there are not houses for them; can I let them lie in the street? 'I am told,' said his informant, 'that supposing Bradford to contain 60,000 people, at least One-fourth are at this moment thus lodged.'" 1264 "a picture in detail of human wretchedness, filth, and brutal degradation. In these wretched dwellings, all ages and both sexes, fathers and daughters, mothers and sons, grown-up brothers and sisters, the sick, dying, and dead, are herded together. Take an instance: House No. 2, size of room 14 feet long, 13 feet broad, 6 feet high; rent 8 s. d. s. s. 1265 1266 "In a certain number of registered lodging-houses, the history of which has been traced, there occurred annually, before registration, which involves supervision, prevention of overcrowding, and attention to cleanliness, 150 cases of fever. During the late epidemic there occurred in these houses only 98 cases of cholera, while the total cholera cases in the town were to the fever cases of the preceding years referred to as two to one. So that cholera after registration was only in the proportion of one to three as compared with fever before registration." s. d. l. s., "The average rent paid in Snow's-rents, Westminster, 'a vile place,' was, in 1844, 2 s. d. 1267 s. d. s. s. d. s. s. s., s. "As near as I can judge, the average price paid per week for the wretched rooms occupied by the lowest poor in the vilest neighbourhoods is about 2 s. d. d. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s. 1268 l. l. s. s. s. d., l. l. l. 1269 1270 Self-imposed Taxation, l.
 LORD C. HAMILTON  seconded the Motion.
 LORD C. HAMILTON,  as a member of the Metropolitan Building Association, could inform the hon. Members who had preceded him, that much good could be effected without the aid of Acts of Parliament; and he could tell the hon. Member for Reading that steps had been taken to introduce the improved system of the association into that town, where he hoped it would have his support. His opinion was, that direct interference was not the duty of the Government, and that the removal of obstacles and difficulties was all that the Government should attempt. One main difficulty was in the expense of commencing an association, and he could state that the obtaining of the charter for the association he belonged to had cost 1,200 l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I don't wish, on this occasion, to follow the hon. Gentlemen who have moved and seconded this Motion, into the various arguments they have used in reference to Church Rates; if I were to do so, too, I fear I should differ with them on some points to which they have referred, and in the conclusion at which they have arrived. It does seem to me, however, after the statements and the references they have made, and the Reports of the several Commissions, that it is desirable there should be some attempt made to settle this question of Church Rates; and that, if they should not be able to effect that object, they, at all events, should endeavour to make some improvement in the law. Holding these opinions, therefore, and having been myself a party to one or two attempts to settle this question, but without success, I think the proposal now made is one which will lead to a practical benefit, and to which I willingly give my consent.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that it seemed to him very practicable to introduce
 1249
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I am afraid that the House would not have any very clear or definite remedies before it if it went into a Committee of the whole House. The hon. Member for the city of Waterford (Sir H. W. Barron) proposes to go into a Committee of the whole House to consider the state of Ireland, and he refers more particularly to the famine, to the laws which admit foreign corn, and to the Poor Law in Ireland; and it appears that the hon. Member thinks, if we were to restore protection, and to repeal the Poor Law in Ireland, that we should be in a fair way for the remedy of some of the distresses of that country. Another hon. Gentleman gets up to support this Motion, but he says he would rather give greater laxity, and a more liberal system of relief—and, in fact, he would extend the limits of the Poor Law farther than it is at present. Now, I hardly think that we are
 1293 1294 l.; l. 1295
 MR. COWAN  suggested that the city of Edinburgh should be included in the Motion. In that city the rate was charged on a large majority of the population who were driven out of the Established Church, and he was quite sure that they ought to receive the sympathy of that House.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he was not entitled.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Motion was not that it come on at twelve to-morrow, but that it come on to-morrow.
 MR. URQUHART  begged to ask the noble Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs what progress had been made towards the settlement of the frontier between Turkey and Persia, and whether the rumour that Astrakan had been ceded to Russia was correct; and also whether there was any truth in the report that the Turkish Go-
 1229
 MR. FRENCH , seeing the anxiety of the House for a division, would not detain them more than a few moments. Though he doubted that the authority of Mr. S. G. Osborne would be increased by his having been taken by the hand by the hon. Member for Dublin, still he could not allow them to go to a division without expressing his dissent to that hon. Member's eulogy on Mr. Osborne, and his attack on those who, under circumstances of great difficulty, were endeavouring to carry out the provisions of the poor-law in Ireland. When that hon. Member next expatiated on the merits of this rev. gentleman, he should not forget his conduct at Ballinasloe. His strictures on the management of the workhouse of that union were not only declared by the guardians to be totally unfounded, but were contradicted by. Mr. Osborne's own written approbation of their management, entered in their book. His clerical duties would, in his (Mr. French's) opinion, be more effectually discharged by giving more of his attendance to them, instead of performing a part which seemed much to his taste, that of a newspaper correspondent. His hon. Friend the Member for Waterford had not been fairly treated in asserting that he had taken the date of 1845 as a period of prosperity for Ireland. It was necessary to take that date as a starting period, in order to show not only the present condition of that country arising from the famine (the effects of which he fully admitted), but also to show how it had been aggravated by the course of legislation which had been adopted. Poor-law extension, to which he might add the Incumbered Estates Act, and other Acts equally fatal to the interests of Ireland, were heaped over each other: a policy exactly the reverse of that pursued towards England whenever difficulties of a similar nature had overtaken her. His right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland had stated that there was nothing new in the present aspect of affairs in Ireland, or differing from other periods in which similar inquiries, had been moved for. He must admit that the intensity of
 1296
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he should move that the petition be considered to-morrow. A member of the man's family had felt it very much—his wife.
 MR. AGLIONBY  must appeal to the right hon. the Speaker, whether this man, being in custody, and asking for his discharge on certain allegations, was not entitled to be heard?
 MR. AGLIONBY  wished to call the attention of the House to a petition which had been put into his hands from Henry Edwards, who had been committed to the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms under Mr. Speaker's warrant. The petitioner stated that he was now in custody; that he had never, to his knowledge, committed a Breach of the Privileges of that House; and submitted that he ought not to be condemned unheard, nor punished by imprisonment, without having an opportunity of making his defence. He further stated
 1227
 MR. AGLIONBY  replied that he had done so.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  said, he begged to move that that House should resolve itself into a Committee, to take into consideration the state of Ireland. In doing so he would attempt to describe the distressed condition of the great majority of the people of Ireland, and would compare her condition in 1845 with her condition at the present moment. He took 1845, because it was immediately after that year that the three great causes to which he attributed the present distressed condition of Ireland had occurred. The first cause to which he alluded was the famine, the second was the change in the corn laws, and the third was the disastrous poor-law which had been inflicted in 1846. To commence with the poor-law, he found that in 1845 the poor-law taxation in Ireland amounted to 310,000 l., l., l. 1277 l.; l. l.; l.; l. l., l. l. l. l. 1278 l. l. "In the present impoverished condition of our city (Dublin)—while our charitable institutions of prime necessity are, as you well know, languishing for want of adequate support—when the very rent which is duo for your parochial house has not, from the decayed state of the parish, been yet collected, I cannot bring myself to call on the poor labourer and the struggling shopkeeper
 1279 Dublin Evening Post "If the Papal Aggression Bill were abandoned, there would still remain agricultural distress. This is an evil, and a most formidable evil, for which there seems no hope of remedy. Still we hold it to be our duty to publish accounts of this distress, and to force the well-grounded complaints of the Irish landowner and farmer on the attention of the public. The exhausting effects of famine and its inordinate taxation have left the Irish farmer helpless in the struggle to hold his position against still deficient crops and unremunerative prices." l. "The resignation of Ministers has been received here, and I regret to say that it has been received with universal satisfaction. The Whigs have been very unfortunate in the government of Ireland. Trade is smashed, the landlords ruined, the towns broken, and the labourer in the poor-house. Those of the people who have the means left are flying out of the kingdom by parishes. To
 1280 "Can it be a mark of the prosperity of a country when tens of thousands of industrious men, women, and children, are collecting together the wreck of their fortunes, and flying from penury and distress at home, and carrying with them what they have been able to save out of their diminished capital and property, to enrich, not our own colonial possessions, but foreign countries, with their industry and capital, and, in too many cases, their blighted affections also." l. l. 1281 l. l.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  rose to reply. He denied both what the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland, and what the noble Lord at the head of the Government had said, and also what the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, he believed, had said, namely, that he (Sir H. Barron) had stated in his speech that he wished to have the Poor Law repealed. He had stated nothing of the kind, or in the remotest degree leading to it. He had objected to the outdoor system of relief, and had alluded to nothing else. It had also been alleged by both the noble Lord and the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, and he believed by the hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. M. J. O'Connell), that he (Sir H. Barron) had proposed in his speech that they should return to the old system of protection. He had never said anything of the kind. He had left the House to draw their own inferences. He had purposely avoided proposing any remedy, because it was not the time. But let them go into Committee, and he would be prepared then to do so.
 SIR H. W. BARRON : The right hon. Gentleman has totally misapprehended what I said. What I stated was, that in corn—including peas and beans—according to the returns of Captain Larcom, there were, in 1847, 3,313,579 acres of land under cultivation for these crops; and, in 1849, 2,174,480 acres; leaving a decrease of 1,139,000 acres.
 SIR H. W. BARRON  stated that he had no objection to the words proposed by the hon. Member for Rochdale being added to his Motion.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, it would be a bad precedent to accede to a petition on the ground of family circumstances.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the amount of the expense in that instance had been owing to peculiar circumstances, especially the great length of the charter, and a legal error in the course pursued by the association. Certainly, however, the expense of unopposed charters was at present too great, and the attention of the Government had been directed to the subject. He felt that whatever check might be imposed on the formation of such associations, it ought not to be in the indirect form of a heavy pecuniary fine, but rather with the discretion exercised by that department of the Government which was entrusted with the regulation of such matters. It was unfair to impose a heavy fine, in the shape of expenses, upon a charter the granting of which that department must have already decided was a public benefit. He believed the expenses would
 1276
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that had he known it was the intention of the hon. Baronet (Sir R. H. Inglis) to refer to the statement made by him (Mr. Bright) on a previous occasion, he would have been prepared to enter into the more precise details of that particular case. However, he should dispute altogether the view of the hon. Baronet, that he had no right to bring forward that case in a discussion on another subject. He thought he had a perfect right, inasmuch as whilst they were discussing the aggression of one Church, it might be as well to call attention to the aggressions of another. The hon. Baronet had stated that the chairs and tables to which he (Mr. Bright) had on a former
 1252 l. s. d. l. s. 1253 l. 1254 l. l. l. l. 1255
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Somerville) had stated that he could find no tangible proposition in the Motion of the hon. Member for Waterford (Sir H. W. Barron). He (Mr. Reynolds) had listened to the speech which the hon. Baronet had made, and he had the same fault to find. But he could not forget, and the House could not forget, that the right hon. Secretary for Ireland had informed them that thirteen Committees had sat on the affairs of Ireland. [Sir W. SOMERVILLE: Sixty-three.] He thanked his right hon. Friend for having multiplied it by eleven. [ Laughter. 1288 Times, 1289 ex officio s. s. d. s. d. l. 1290 l. l. s. s.
 MR. STANFORD  said, for some years his attention had been directed to the subject; and he had in his own parish endeavoured to promote the object they had in view. He had, however, experienced much opposition from the ratepayers, and he was persuaded that the Government ought to interfere, and that it was impossible for individuals or associations to attempt the work without the aid of an Act of Parliament. He could confirm the statements of the noble Lord (Lord Ashley), and believed that great advantage would result from his measure—not merely from the lodging of a certain number of persons, but from the effect of the example of thirty-four model lodging-houses in the different parishes of the metropolis, which would compel landlords to improve the dwelling houses they let to the poorer classes. Such measures were far more important than political rights, for it was impossible to arrive at and improvement of the religious and moral state of the poor while they were badly clothed and housed, and unable to practise proper cleanliness and decency.
 MR. TRELAWNY  rose for the purpose of moving the following Resolution;—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider the law of Church Rates and the difference of practice which exists in various parts of the Country in the assessment and levy of such Rates; and to report their observations to the House." 1230 Hansard; 1231 l. "That it is the opinion of this Committee, that for the repair and maintenance of parochial churches and chapels in England and Wales, and the due celebration of divine worship therein, a permanent and adequate provision be made out of an increased value given to Church lands." 1232 v. v. "The repair of the church is a duty which the parishioners are compellable to perform; not a mere voluntary act, which they may perform or
 1233 "We do not enter into the discussion whether a rate made by the churchwardens at the parish meeting, where the parishioners were then met, would have been valid or not; or how far such case might be analogous to a corporation aggregate, of which some members protesting and refusing to vote, as bound in law to do, are held to throw away their votes, and the act of the minority, in conformity to law, holds good without them." V. 1234 "It was contended that the country was bound to provide the means of carrying on the war; and then it was sought to infer that (other means failing) a tax might be laid on without Parliament. Mr. St. John, the counsel for Hampden, admitted the general principle, but denied the inference. We are morally bound, at all events, to support the Crown by votes in supply; but what would be thought of an attempt in these days to dictate to the people what should be the amount proposed?" 1235 1236 1237 l 1238 s. "If a Quaker refuse to pay church rate, and if any churchwarden complain of such refusal, and the Quaker have had a reasonable warning of the complaint, one justice of the peace may summon him to appear before any two justices. These two justices may examine upon oath or affirmation, the truth and justice of such complaint, and ascertain what may be due from the Quaker, and may order payment of any sum not exceeding 50 l. s. l. "The churchwardens take my furniture, generally nearly three times more value to me than the amount claimed. The expenses are extremely heavy: as most respectable auctioneers refuse to meddle with such doings, the job is given to parties who sell the goods at a sale-room, where the lowest class of furniture is sold." "About two years ago I had a dmand for about 21 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. lz. s. 1239 s. l. d. l. s. l. s. l. l. s. l. s. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. l. s. l. l. s. l. l. s. 1240 prepositi or posts, ex parte 1241 vestigia nulla retror-sum. 1242
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said: Sir, I confess that when my hon. Friend last year was time after time unsuccessful in his attempt to bring on the question of Church Rates, I felt considerable disappointment, which was, I believe, shared not only by lion. Members within the walls of this House, but by a large class of persons out of doors. But, considering, as I do, the objections which exist against making questions of this kind mere annual Motions of course, and bearing in mind also how large has been the advance in public interest on matters of ecclesiastical reform, my disappointment has been very much diminished, for I think the interests of this question will have been better served by the omission of a year, than they would have been by a discussion last year, followed by another this. Last year we had heard nothing of the question which has since usurped the place of all other questions. This year the fears of Protestants are awakened by what they consider to be a common danger; and I think I see symptoms of a desire on the part of the more liberal party in the English Church to sink all minor differences, and make up existing quarrels, with a view to close their ranks against what they consider to be an insidious and a dangerous enemy. But I see another reason, and a more serious one, for judging
 1243 1244 1245 l. 1246 "That the law in its present state inflicts a serious hardship on the owners of property, in distinct and separate parishes and district parishes, by compelling them for twenty years not only to provide for the expenses of their own church, but to contribute towards repairing the mother church." "In the case of a chapelry district, cut off from a distinct and separate or district parish, the grievance is still greater; for although the inhabitants, during that period of time, pay a double rate, namely, to the mother church and to the distinct
 1247 Nonconformist. 1248
 MR. HENLEY  said, the hon. Gentleman said the Agent stated that the evidence of these witnesses was necessary; he did not say that the Agent stated upon his oath that he had any knowledge these parties had absconded.
 MR. HUME  said, that while the House was engaged upon this question, he wished to call the noble Lord's attention to the case of the Annuity Tax now raised in Edinburgh. He had repeatedly called attention to this tax before, the collection of which had led to acts of violence requiring the military to he called in to suppress them, because the feeling of the community was opposed to the continuance of the tax. He had hoped, from the promise he had received last year, that the noble Lord would have introduced a Bill on the subject. Ireland, also, was subject to a tax called Ministers' Money, amounting to about 18,000 l.
 MR. HUME  had listened with great attention to the statement of the noble Lord (Lord Ashley), and he must confess that it was a great reproach to that House that the state of things should exist of which the noble Lord had given such a painful description. Knowing the attention the noble Lord had paid to those matters, he (Mr. Hume) would ask any man whether he could have believed that such things existed in this country? Who were to blame? Not the unfortunate wretches who became the victims of badly-drained localities and ill-ventilated dwellings; but the Legislature, who had the power to prevent or remedy such evils, but had not exercised that power. The noble Lord had referred to the United States of America. There every man was taught to read and write; and what was there, he asked, inherent in the Englishman to prevent him from equalling the American? He remembered when 75 per cent of our whole taxation was levied from the working man, and it was not until within the last ten years that any attempt had been made in the direction of a more Christian and humane legislation. One great means for removing the present wretched state of things was the carrying out of the commercial policy of the late Sir Robert Peel; for the change of our fiscal system had proved very much calculated to improve the state of society. Another means was the promotion of education—an object, alas! too much obstructed by the opposition of rival sects of religion, who could not agree as to the system to be adopted, and so resisted any. In Manchester he was happy to find an attempt had been made to conquer this obstruction; and in Leeds, Liverpool, and other large towns, endeavours had been made for the diffusion of education, which deserved all praise. But the Government ought not to leave this great work to individuals. It was the duty of the Government to enforce the proper instruction of the people. Such measures as that before the House were useful; but it must be a general change alone which could remove a general evil, and until the various Christian communities united in the object of diffusing education among the masses, it was hopeless to expect any general improvement. The present measure could only be of any effect in distant parts of the country, by way of
 1272
 MR. HUME  wished to ask if the petitioner had not voluntarily surrendered himself?
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he should support the Motion of the hon. Member for Tavistock. He did not think the ground taken by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford was at all tenable; for if it was a good argument that the Church Rate, being a tax on property for a long time, and property having been bought subject to it, ought not to be repealed, what right had the Chancellor of the Exchequer to repeal the window duties? If the hon. Baronet's argument was good, they could not repeal anything.
 MR. SLANEY  said, having himself been one of the visitors in fourteen large towns of the country, when he had the honour to be a member of the Board of Health, he could bear his testimony to the miserable condition of the working classes, arising from no fault of their own, but from the close and noisome courts and alleys in which thousands of them were unhappily located. He remembered, while in Wolverhampton, on visiting a small court there, a person with whom he conversed as to its condition, told him that he had seen all the inhabitants of that court transported twice over. He felt assured that permission would be given to bring in this Bill to allow them to direct their efforts to the mitigation of such enormous evils. One great difficulty arose from the law of partnerships, which prevented persons joining together to improve their dwellings; but he hoped there would be a remedy for that difficulty. The House should remember
 1271
 MR. LENNARD  was gratified that the Motion for a Committee was granted by the Government. The settlement of the question would be a great boon to society, for there was no more fertile source of irritation than the question of Church Rates. The notice of a contested rate was a notice of a parish war, and led to the greatest heartburnings and irritation in parishes. It had been said that the Dissenter bought his house or land subject to Church Rate. It was, forgotten, however, that it required the vote of a majority in vestry to make a rate. True, if no rate was made, the churchwardens might make a rate; but if the majority chose to make ever so small a rate, no Court would interfere, so that, in effect, the rate might be really and effectually evaded. He did not think that the rate, even if it could be raised, was worth the contest. Our churches would be better repaired if the whole responsibility of
 1258
 MR. W. FAGAN  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, there was a strong necessity for direct legislation, even more direct than that now proposed. The extension of education might, as his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose had stated, do much for the eradication of existing evils, but could not do all that was required. Instances occurred by hundreds of thousands of persons tolerably instructed coining to largo towns for the sake of employment, and forced by necessity into those dens which had been alluded to, there to herd with the wretched inmates, and to have their whole moral being degraded and debased. It was impossible for the poor of themselves to resist the inevitable effects of the evil and powerful influence of circumstances thus brought to bear upon them. There were two great difficulties which made direct interference on the part of the Government necessary. One was that the working man was limited in the range of his residence, being forced to sleep within a certain distance of his place of employment. The other was, that the farming out of old houses in the loathsome way which had been described, was a
 1275
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  said, that it was usual, when an hon. Member moved for a Committee of Inquiry, to give some information as to the causes of the evils which were deprecated, and as to the remedies which were suggested; but in this case the hon. Member for the city of Waterford had not given any such information to the House. If, however, hon. Gentlemen gave their attention to the extensive infor-
 1292
 SIR G. GREY  said, he gave a willing assent to the introduction of the Bill; the subject being, he was aware, intimately connected with the well-being of the great body of the people. He feared that the system which prevailed in the metropolis, and the other large towns, of crowding to-together masses of people in ill-constructed and in ill-ventilated houses, was destructive alike of their physical health and moral welfare. As to the measure proposed by his noble Friend, of course the House must suspend its judgment till the Bill was before it. He understood, however, that it was permissive, and was framed upon the principle of the Baths and Washhouses Act, which had in so many cases effected so much benefit. But he thought that the House could not look to any measure of this kind to remove the evil which existed in the country; and his noble Friend himself had indicated the means by which greater good could be done—that is, by encouraging associations for the promotion of these objects, and, to this end, removing the obstacles, fiscal, legal, or otherwise, which had hitherto stood in the way of the working of such associations. His hon. Friend (Mr. Slaney) had directed his attention to this subject, and had presided over a Committee last Session (another similar one having already been appointed), for the purpose of considering especially the expense of the obtaining of a charter by any such association. The attention of the Government bad been directed to this subject, and measures would be taken shortly to reduce that expense within reasonable limits. Such measures were more to be relied on than any direct legislation. He had been glad to hear his noble Friend state the importance of the alteration of duties like those on timber, and acknowledge the advantages arising to the working classes from the repeal of the window duties. And he was persuaded that by proceeding in this course, and removing obstacles in the way of the construction of lodging-houses for the poor, more good would be
 1273 1274
 SIR L. O'BRIEN , in seconding the Motion, said, he believed that little was known in this country of what was passing in Ireland at the present moment. He was glad that the affairs of the Kilrush Union had been brought under the notice of the country, by the letters of the Rev. Mr. Osborne, which had detailed some most frightful and heartrending scenes, and to which he would beg to direct the attention of the Government; but he thought an undeserved censure had been thrown upon the Chairman of that Union, whose exertions were most praiseworthy. There were hon. Members who spoke of the poor-rate of 11 s. s., s. s. d. 1282 s. d. s. s. d. s. s. l. l., l. 1283 l.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that the objection which he might feel even to a Committee on this subject, as tending to unsettle the question, was a very different objection from that which he should have felt had a Resolution been proposed pledging the House to a particular course of action in the matter. It was not necessary for him to advert in detail to the three attempts which had been made in that House to settle the question of Church Rates, inasmuch as the hon. Member for Tavistock (Mr. Trelawny), although he had referred to them, did not at present propose to revive any of them. With respect to the statement, that 600,000 persons had petitioned for the repeal of these taxes, he apprehended that, if the fact of petitioning against a tax would ensure its repeal, there were few taxes for the repeal of which three times 600,000 signatures could not be easily obtained. The hon. Member for Colchester said that these 600,000 formed but a very small portion of the persons affected by the grievance; at first, he said that the Dissenters were one-third of the population of England, and afterwards that they were one-fourth; but he admitted that, in consequence of their being chiefly of the middle classes, their contributions to the Church Rate did not amount to more than one-sixth of the whole sum levied. But he (Sir R. Inglis) had always understood that, if the principle of a tax were unjust, the number of those upon whom it pressed was not a thing to be taken into consideration. Now, be contended that there was no property in England which had not been bought and sold subject to this burden; and the present holders of the property could not fairly claim to be exempted from its payment. The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had, during the debate upon the Papal Aggression, asked if the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) thought that the Church which he desired to protect was a tolerant Church—"the most tolerant of Churches"—when forty chairs had been taken from a Friends' meeting-house in the City, and sold for Church Rates. Now, what were the facts of that case? The parish to which the hon. Member referred was that of Bishops gate; the tithes of
 1250 s. d. l. l. l. l. l l. l. s. l. s. d. 1251
 Sir R. H. INGLIS  said, then, as there were several other matters which would take up a great deal of time, this would not come on at all.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  wished to know if the matter was to come on at twelve tomorrow?
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE  said, the hon. Baronet who introduced this Motion had done so in a somewhat ingenious manner. He commenced by fixing on a period from which he said be would start, and by stating that between that period and the present he intended to make a comparison, and to draw the conclusion which he wished to offer to the House. The hon. Baronet stated that he attributed the present distress to the famine, to the repeal of the corn laws, and to the poor-laws. After stating that opinion, however, he commenced an attack on the poor-laws, and from the general tenor of his speech it was not difficult to observe that the Hon. Baronet attributedt he whole distress to those laws. [Sir H. W. BARRON: No, no!] He (Sir W. Somerville) would not now dwell on what was the condition of Ireland in 1845; but to hear the hon. Baronet, they would have supposed that it was then in a state of perfect prosperity—but on that point he need only refer to his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Hamilton), to the hon Member for the city of Londonderry (Sir R. Ferguson), and to the other Members of Lord Devon's Commission who had framed that Report and collected that evidence, which showed what in 1845 was the condition of the Irish people, and particularly of the labouring population. The period at which the hon. Baronet had commenced his comparison, was, in the opinion of the Devon Commission, that in which the position of the labouring population was everything that was miserable, wretched, and degraded. The hon. Baronet drew a comparison between the poor-rates levied in 1845 and those made in 1851; but he omitted the intermediate periods, the fact being that there were 80,000 or 90,000 paupers less now than there were then. He held in his hand a return, for which he had moved in the beginning of the present Session, giving the expenses of the
 1284 l.; l.; l.
 SIR W. SOMERVILLE : Yes, the hon.
 1285 1286 
 
 1849. 1850. 1851. 
 January 1,810. 1,017 919 
 February 1,686. 1,124 960 1287
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that if the hon. Gentleman would, in private, in-form him what specific details he required for any purpose he might have in view, they should be readily supplied to him. The House was aware that the British and Russian Governments had for some years past been mediating between Turkey and Persia in relation to various differences that had threatened to involve those Powers in war, both of which insisted very pertinaciously, and often very wrongly, on their supposed rights; but he was happy to say that an arrangement was very likely to be made which would settle the main question, and leave only the local matters to be decided by the commissioners. The mediation, in fact, commenced under the late Sir Robert Peel's Government. By this mediation a treaty of peace had been effected, in which certain lines of boundary were described, and under which certain towns, which had been matters of dispute, were to be given up on either side. Four commissioners, an English, Russian, Turkish, and Persian, were appointed to mark out the boundaries indicated in the treaty, but no satisfactory progress had for some time been made, owing to the tenacity with which the Mahomedan commissioners insisted on their respective pretensions. Tie understood, however, that of late better progress had been effected, and that the survey was advancing towards completion. With respect to the report that Astrakan was to be ceded to Russia, he had to state that it was entirely unfounded. It most probably had arisen from the wish of the Russian Government to maintain a number of hostile buildings on their frontier. As to the loan to Turkey, nothing could be farther from the intentions of the British Government than to have anything to do with a foreign loan. The experience of the last few years had been quite lesson enough. There had certainly been a proposition submitted to various private persons, but the Government had nothing to do with it.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, the evidence was confined to two witnesses. It appeared to him the matter should be disposed of as soon as possible; because if the man was right, it was clear he ought not to be taken into custody, and the course the House took now would govern the proceedings of the Committee.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, he felt it his duty to vote against the second reading of this Bill. There were now two Bills before the House for its consideration. One was the measure proposed by the Government in accordance with the recommendation not only of a Select Committee ap-
 1301 1302 l.,
 MR. ALDERMAN SYDNEY : The cost would be only 245,000 l.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER : When they looked at the enormous quantity of property that would have to be taken away, and other buildings erected, the cost would no doubt amount to 1,000,000 l. 1303 l. 1304 1305
 MR. FITZROY  begged to second the Amendment. It was evident that the light had so far fallen, at least, upon the city authorities themselves, that they had Conceded the question of the atrocities of Smithfield by proposing to carry it some 200 or 300 yards further westward; but this would not do. By whom was the city plan supported? First of all, by the city authorities themselves, who claimed a prescriptive right to hold the exclusive management of the market in its own hands. Now the ancient history of the city showed that when the whole of its population was
 1306 1307 l. l. l. l. l. l. d., d., d., d d., s. d., 1308
 SIR C. KNIGHTLEY  could not, for the life of him, understand what had induced his hon. Friend, who had just sat down, to meddle with either of these Bills, for he did not think the hon. Gentlemen had ever fattened an ox or a sheep in his life. He (Sir C. Knightley), however, had been in the habit, for the last forty years, of sending cattle to London to the amount of a hundred in the course of a season, and he positively declared that he never had a loss or an accident of any sort or kind during the whole of that period. Independent of that he must avow, with respect to the money-takers, that he had never known a department more admirably managed, and that he had never lost a farthing by them, or had a dispute with them in his life. Hon. Gentlemen had talked of the serious
 1309 abattoirs d.
 SIR H. VERNEY  said, that he had endeavoured to do his duty upon the Commission which was issued two years ago for the purpose of investigating this subject and reporting to the House; and he felt bound to express his gratitude to the city authorities for the courtesy with which they had afforded the Committee all the assistance and information in their power. He thought the question to be considered
 1310 s. s., s
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought the inhabitants of the metropolis had much reason to congratulate themselves that a change in the existing state of Smithfield market was at length about to take place. He himself recollected more than thirty years' agitation of that question, and it was important, if they were to settle the matter finally, that they should do it so as to afford satisfaction to the public. He, however, would vote for referring both Bills to a Select Committee, from whom they would receive full and deliberate consideration. He certainly could not give his assent to the Government Bill in its present form, because it gave powers to the Commissioners which, in his opinion, ought not to be vested in any such body. The Bill proposed to empower the Commis-
 1311
 MR. KER SEYMER  thought that as the Bill now under discussion, and another which stood on the paper, appeared to be competing measures, they ought to be referred to the same Committee. He considered that the circumstance that the corporation of the city of London were interested in this measure, ought not to be allowed to prejudice the question. It was true that the corporation were a very powerful and an unreformed body, and that they had exerted their influence upon this subject; but he considered that if the corporation brought forward the best scheme, they ought to have credit for it. His own opinion was that the corporation had brought forward the best scheme. No one could have been more strongly prejudiced than himself against the existence of Smithfield market; all his sympathies had been in favour of the removal of the market; but when he came to examine the question in detail, he found that it was not to be disposed of so summarily. As an example of the prejudice that existed, he might state that the first sentence of the leading article of the  Times argmentum ad hominem 1312
 SIR J. DUKE  wished to correct a statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Lewes (MR. Fitzroy), namely, that nearly the whole of the inhabitants of Fleet-street had signed the petition in favour of the removal of Smithfield market. Now, it had so happened that he sat on Monday in St. Dunstan's church for two hours, being unfortunately engaged in hearing the cases of defaulters in their rates; the whole of the parochial authorities were present, and every one of them expressed a hope that the Corporation Bill would succeed, and he thought they were very fair exponents of the feeling of the entire parish on this question. The hon. Member for Lincolnshire had argued. this question entirely with reference to the present market, and kept altogether out of view the the new plan of the corporation.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, he had stated that the area of the present market was six and a half acres, and by the new
 1313
 SIR J. DUKE : The hon. Gentleman had stated that the graziers and butchers could not look at their cattle, and spoke of the nuisance of driving the cattle through the streets. That surely was arguing upon the present market; and much as the City had been blamed for this—he admitted—unpardonable nuisance in the streets, it should be stated that an existing Act of Parliament would not allow any part of the present Smithfield market to be closed until three o'clock in the afternoon. Now, the corporation of the City asked to be allowed to build a market that would be walled round, and from which not a single bullock would go out after eight o'clock in the morning. Was that anything like the present market? He wished the plan of the City authorities to have every investigation, and he hoped the Government would allow both Bills to go before a Select Committee: but he should object to the Government having the selection of the Committee, the fairest course, he thought, would be to have the Members of it chosen by the Committee of Selection. He was alderman of the ward in which the market was situated, and he knew that there were occupations there half a century old which would be destroyed by the Government measure if it was carried out, and many respectable gentlemen would be entirely ruined. The City had reason to complain of the Government proposal, because it shut up Smithfield, leaving Islington market open, and thereby giving Islington a preference. The hon. Member for Lincolnshire complained of the injury done to the cattle, and the loss which the grazier sustained. Now, the City did not object to the Government making a market; they might establish a dozen new ones. Only allow the City to have theirs, and the corporation would not be dissatisfied. The Government Bill gave the power of appointing five commissioners, a secretary, an inspector, clerks, and a large establishment, without defining in any way what their salaries were to be; and it also gave them power to decide upon the site of the market, without indicating in any way where it should he. That was a course which no Government ought to take, and he still more objected to their asking the House to sanction the borrowing of 200,000 l. 1314 l. l. l.; l.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  begged to be allowed to state very briefly the grounds upon which he would support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Lincolnshire, and he must call to the recollection of the House the proceedings which had taken place on this subject. In 1849 a Committee was appointed, of which the hon. Member for Lymington (MR. Mackinnon) was Chairman, to consider the question of the removal of Smithfield market. They examined a considerable number of witnesses, and they came to the conclusion that it was expedient that
 1315 l. 1316 1317
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  was free to admit that Smithfield market, as it now existed, was a great nuisance. As it existed, no one would stand up in that House and ask for its perpetuation. He further admitted, that it was much too small for the requirements of the public; that, from the smallness of the area, cattle had been subjected to cruel treatment; that the driving of cattle through the streets at pre-
 1318 1319 l. 1320 d. l. l. 1321 1322
 MR. HUME  was sorry the hon. Alderman had taken up so much time in pointing out the advantages which attended Smithfield market. If he were to speak the whole afternoon he would not convince the House that there were not great abuses. The question was whether, inquiry having taken place on the subject, the city of London were able or willing to remove those abuses. The vested rights of the city of London were given for the public benefit. Two plans had been proposed; one by the Government, to appoint a company or incorporation; but that was altogether a vague proposition. He wished, therefore, to consider the proposition made by those who were now in possession of the market, and the present proceeding was a step towards ascertaining what were the merits of that measure. The age was changed, the tastes of the people of London were changing, and the question offered itself fairly for consideration, whether some new adaptation of the market might not be made. He thought it right the City should have an opportunity of showing in the Bill before the House what
 1323
 MR. WAKLEY  had paid the greatest attention to what had been stated by the advocates and opponents of this Bill. In his opinion the strongest and most conclusive arguments in favour of the Bill was a speech intended to be against the Bill, namely, that of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Treasury. It was absolutely conclusive in favour of the second reading; for what did he say? That the Government had no plan. What they proposed was to have one fixed by a roving Commission. Last year the Government were at the burying business. This spring they had tried to bury themselves; and now the firm were to appear as "Russell and Co., butchers." Distinctly and emphatically he should say the plan of the City was a good plan; and what had thay set against it? None at all. What a monstrous state of things! The hon. Secretary for the Treasury had been a Poor Law Commissioner; and the quantity of meat he thought sufficient for a man might be recollected. If a market were established out of London, there would be an increased price of meat. The hon. Baronet (Sir C. Knightley), who had stated the case for the Bill with such excellent temper and good sense, had put the proposal of the second reading on a proper footing. It was to hoped the Government would withdraw their opposition, and assent to the appointment of a Select Committee.
 SIR G. GREY  wished to say a few words on the suggestion which had been thrown out, that the two Bills, namely, the one proposed by the Government, and the one brought forward by the city of London, should be sent before a Select Committee. He begged to say that there was an important distinction between the case of these two Bills, and that of two Bills promoted by competing railway companies. In the latter instance the question related merely to the choice of one of two competing lines, betwixt two termini, and rested entirely on the result of an investigation into details; but the question now before the House was one that had been already fully considered—first, before a Committee of that House, and afterwards before a Commission appointed by the Crown. Both the Committee and the Commission had taken a large amount of
 1324 "afford the accommodation required, particularly in a place so much intersected with public streets and ways, and through which a very considerable portion of the commercial traffic of the metropolis necessarily passed." 1325
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he belived he had a peculiar right to offer an opinion to the House upon this question, inasmuch as he had on the preceding day gone through all that part of the city with which the measure advocated by the corporation proposed to deal. In that pestiferous neighbourhood he had seen dens which could only be regarded as centres of typhus, malaria, and cholera. Now the plan of the corporation would greatly improve that district, and remove those nuisances; and that was, in his opinion, a strong reason why the House should look upon it with approval. He asked the House to consider the proposition now before it, not merely in a sanitary and philanthropic point of view, but on the still more urgent principle of self-preservation; for while they left those haunts of disease, of typhus and cholera, untouched, which they did if they supported the Government Bill—["Oh!"  and a laugh 1326 1327
 MR. W. MILE S  said, the beginning and the close of his hon. Friend's (MR. Stafford's) speech had reference to the horrible dwellings which surrounded Smith-field. He agreed with his hon. Friend as to the sad state of the buildings in the neighbourhood of the market, and he (MR. Miles) should wish to get rid of them, by removing the market to some more distant locality. But how was that to be done? He could not help thinking that his hon. Friend, in the speech he had addressed to the House, had sought to prop up the falling cause of Smithfield-market, which had already been condemned by the voice of public opinion, and had thrown overboard the farmers of Northamptonshire, in order to take up the case of the city of London;—
 MR. STAFFORD  denied that he had thrown over the case of the farmers of Northamptonshire. On the contrary, he distinctly stated that the petition he had presented from the farmers of that county, was strongly in favour of the maintenance of Smifhfield market.
 MR. W. MILES  begged pardon of his
 1328
 MR. B. OSBORNE  wished to say a few words on this question, as representing the metropolitan county. He should not imitate the example of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down; he (MR. B. Osborne) wished to discuss this question in the same calm temper displayed by the three bulls mentioned by the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire (MR. Stafford), as having been driven through the streets of the metropolis the other morning by a boy. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Miles) who had spoken in so infuriated a
 1329
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  said, that the question they had then to consider was, not as stated by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department, whether they should continue that market in the centre of the metropolis, or remove it to some place in the suburbs? That was not the question. There was no proposal before them for removing the market to a suburban position which had taken any definite shape. No hon. Gentleman who had addressed the House in opposition to the Motion, had attempted to shadow forth any particular scheme for removing the market to any particular locality. The
 1330
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, he wished to state that although no schedules were introduced into the Government Bill, it was their intention that the tolls in the new market should be of precisely the same amount as the tolls in the existing market.
 Sir B. HALL  said, the right hon. Gentleman (MR. J. S. Wortley) seemed to think that the corporation of London were entitled to so much favour from the hands of the House as that this Bill should be allowed to go before a Select Committee; his (Sir B. Hall's) hon. Friend who sat near him (MR. B. Osborne) said, this was not a corporation question at all; but if this was not a corporation question, what question was it then? It was not put forward by the inhabitants of the metropolis, but it was put forward by the corporation at the last moment, when they found that such was the indignation felt by the in-
 1331
 MR. MACKINNON  said, he wished to observe that Her Majesty's Government had not voluntarily undertaken to introduce the present Bill. A Committee of that House and a Commission appointed by the Crown had agreed to report in favour of the removal of Smithfield market; and, under these circumstances, Her Majesty's Ministers could not have refused to bring forward a measure framed in conformity with those Reports. If it were otherwise, what use in the world would there be in Committees or in Commissions, if that House refused to act upon their Reports?
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, that he was an advocate for the Smithfield Enlargement Bill. He believed that the measure
 1332
 Lord JOHN RUSSELL  considered it to be his duty to follow his hon. Colleague, especially as he had been threatened with certain consequences in regard to the course he might adopt on this occasion. He did not know what the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire (MR. Stafford) might consider to be his duty towards his constituents; but he (Lord J. Russell) certainly felt himself hound, as a Member of the House of Commons, to consult the general interests of the public, and if those interests should not coincide with the interests of the inhabitants of the city of London, then he must be compelled to prefer the interests of the community to the partial interests of the citizens of London. His hon. Friend the Member for Middlesex (MR. B. Osborne) had stated, and justly too, that this was a question which affected the supply of meat to upwards of 2,000,000 persons in this metropolis. Of course, that was the main interest; but there were a great many other and subordinate interests involved, which made the question altogether one of very great importance. He (Lord J. Russell) must for himself say, that he had not taken up any hasty or precipitate view on the subject. When the Committee appointed to inquire as to the continuation of Smith-field market reported adversely to its continuance, he (Lord J. Russell), at the time, considered the question to be very doubtful, and said that he thought it to be one which deserved further inquiry. The right hon. Gentleman the Recorder of the city of London had implied (though he did not state) that something unfair had been practised in the constitution of the Commission which was afterwards appointed to investigate this matter. He (Lord J. Russell) could only say, that his wish, at
 1333 1334
 MR. MOWATT  said, that his great objection to the Motion then before the House was, that, by adopting it, they might be supposed to acknowledge the possibility that anything could justify the continuance of a great cattle market in the centre of this metropolis. He felt persuaded that no justification could exist for such a course; and he, therefore, opposed the Motion for referring the Bill to a Select Committee. The question had been decided over and over again by public opinion, by a Committee of that House, and by a Royal Commission appointed to inquire into the subject. It was a remarkable fact, that every Gentleman who had spoken upon the question, had admitted that the present market was an intolerable nuisance. The, hon. Alderman opposite (Alderman Sidney) had admitted that, and yet he had asked that the corporation might be allowed, not to remove the nuisance, but to enlarge it.
 Sir H. HALFORD  said, it had been assumed that the graziers and farmers were anxious to have Smithfield market removed. He had, however, had the honour of presenting a petition against its removal, signed by a numerous body of farmers and graziers in Leicestershire. Those parties wished that the market should he enlarged, but they deprecated its removal to a suburban district; because they considered that a central position was the most convenient for them, and afforded them the most ready access to their customers.
 MR. FITZROY  explained that, since he last addressed the House, he had been to the Journal Office, and found that he was correct in the statement he had made to the House, that more than eighty persons residing in Fleet-street had signed the petition in favour of the Government Bill.
 Sir J. DUKE  said, he founded the remarks he had made to the House in an
 1335
 MR. HUME  asked, whether it was fair to refer this Bill to a Select Committee, when the House had just rejected the other Bill, He thought it would have been much fairer to have referred both Bills to a Committee upstairs.
 MR. C. LEWIS  said, it had been deemed desirable, before deciding as to any particular site, that the House should determine upon the question, whether there should be a market in the heart of the City or in the suburbs. The selection of the site should be left to the Commissioners to be appointed under the Bill.
 MR. Alderman SIDNEY  thought the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose a very fair one. The present Bill being now a Government measure, and a public one, he believed it would be necessary to suspend the Standing Orders to change the character of the Bill from a private to a public one. He wished to ask, whether or not the Bill, as far as it had progressed, had been carried on by the Parliamentary agents at the public expense?
 Sir J. DUKE  said, however much he might regret the decision to which the House had just come, it was his intention to pay every respect to such decision, and not to give the House any further trouble in respect to it. At the same time, he deplored that the Government had not allowed both Bills to go before the Committee, in order that their respective merits might be fairly determined.
 MR. Alderman SIDNEY  hoped the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary would favour him with a reply to his question.
 Sir G. GREY  said, that the Bill before the House was one of a mixed character; like a certain class of Bills well known to the House, it was partly public and partly private. They Would follow, then, the usual course under such circumstances, namely, to refer the Bill to a Committee of Standing Orders.
 MR. Alderman SIDNEY  said, the right hon. Baronet had misunderstood him. He had asked the right hon. Gentleman, whether, contrary to all precedent, they had been squandering the public money in drawing up this Bill?
 Sir G. GREY  said, that they had employed MR. Coulson, who was paid by salary, in drawing up the Bill, not contrary to all precedent, but in conformity with every precedent.
 MR. STAFFORD  wished to ask a question of considerable importance. He would first observe, that he agreed in the course pursued by the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Duke) in respect to this Bill. He believed it was the unanimous opinion of all parties that the large area of Smithfield should still be kept open. The corporation had, however, the power, expressly reserved under the Islington Market Bill, of building over that site; and he thought they would exercise that power if the market were removed. The question he wished to ask was this—whether they intended to recommend that a portion of the national funds should be dedicated to the purchase of this property from the corporation, with a view of preserving that unenclosed space for the benefit of the public? If it were not the intention of the Government to take such a step, he should think it his duty to bring such a proposition forward, and to take the sense of the House upon it.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  wished to have it clearly ascertained whether this Bill henceforward was to be considered a private or a public Bill. Was this Bill to go to the Select Committee abovestairs as a private Bill, and to come back as a public Bill, to be considered by a Committee of the whole House? That was a very important question. He also wished to know who the Commissioners were to be that were to have the conduct of this market, for they might abuse the patronage which they would possess as much as the City had done. He wanted to know whether these Commissioners were to be butchers, graziers, or Members of Parliament? He supposed that they would be salaried Commissioners. They did not ask the Poor Law Commissioners to work without salaries; and surely the Commissioners under this Bill would have quite as much to do as any Poor Law Commissioner. He thought that there was a vicious principle in the Bill. The Government had gone out of their province by interfering with trade. They recommended certain sites for the new market; but suppose the owners of the property on which those sites were selected refused to give up their land, would they allow the Smithfield market nuisance to continue under such circumstances? He did not believe that the Government Bill
 1340
 Sir G. GREY  could only repeat the answer he had already given to the hon. Alderman (Alderman Sidney). The Bill was of a mixed character—partly public and partly private. Of course, under the circumstances, the invariable practice was to refer it to a Select Committee; but that Committee was not always named by the Committee of Selection. Then, when it came back to a Committee of the whole House—and not until then—it would become a public Bill.
 MR. STAFFORD  must remind the right hon. Baronet that he had asked him a question respecting the purchase of the space of ground occupied by Smithfield market from the corporation?
 Lord JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the Government did not intend to propose such a purchase.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, if the House would permit him he would explain what the practice is as to Bills of this kind. All Bills which were partly public and partly private went through the same forms as private Bills, until after the Select Committee had reported on them, when they were recommitted to a Committee of the whole House, and afterwards treated as public Bills. The House would see at once the object of such a rule. Inasmuch as these Bills affected local interests, it was necessary that notice should be given to all parties concerned, in order that they might know what they had to expect, and, if necessary, be enabled to take steps for having their several claims heard before the Select Committee in defence of their own interests.
 MR. HUME  said, he understood that; but as there was no schedule of tolls attached to this Bill, there were no private interests to be considered.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the schedule must be fixed by the Committee on the Bill. When they were fixed, the parties concerned might petition.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  wished to know whether the owners of Smithfield market could be heard against this Bill?
 MR. SPEAKER : Their interests are most materially affected, and they will of course petition against the Bill: their petition will be referred to the Committee, and they will be heard against it.
 Sir W. JOLLIFFE  would feel obliged at being informed whether, under the circumstances in which the Bill stood, the Committee would have the power of deciding upon a site without reference to any notice which, in respect to other private Bills, it was necessary to give?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that nothing could be done beyond what was comprehended in the notice originally given. He could not answer the hon. Baronet's question more fully without knowing the extent to which the notice went. Whatever clauses might be proposed in Committee, they must be such as came within the terms of the notice given.
 Sir W. JOLLIFFE  said, he must now ask whether the proper notice had been given? The supply in the market must be for 2,500,000 persons. Were these notices given to meet all the requisites of a cattle market which was intended not only to supply the immense population in the metropolis, but also of innumerable towns within 100 miles of it? To the great towns of Portsmouth, Chatham, Brighton, Hastings, and the several watering-places on the coast, it was necessary that immense numbers of cattle should be driven over Blackfriars-bridge from Smith-field market. Therefore there was great accommodation required on the south side as well as on the north. He wished to know whether notices had been given of the sites required for such accommodation when the House was asked to consent to the second reading of this Bill?
 Sir G. GREY  said, that notices were required in order to take land by compulsion; but no such notices were required to take land when it was to be done by voluntary agreement.
 MR. DEEDES  said, that he was an advocate for having the whole subject considered together. Although he regretted exceedingly the course which had been taken, he did not feel himself at liberty to vote against the second reading of this Bill.
 MR. HENLEY  wished to ask a question consequent upon what the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) had said. He had understood the right hon. Gentleman to say, that no notice was necessary when land was to be taken by private agreement. Were the Government in a position to say whether they knew of any site that might be taken by agreement; and, if so, to state what that site was?
 Sir G. GREY  said, until the House had
 1342
 MR. BAILLIE  said, if he understood the noble Lord at the head of the Government right, the noble Lord said it was not the intention of the Government to give compensation to the corporation for the great loss they would sustain by the removal of Smithfield market. It appeared to him that this market having existed for many years, the corporation ought not to be deprived of its advantages without receiving some compensation. It appeared to him reasonable, if the public were to reap such advantages by the change of this market, that the corporation should receive some compensation for the loss they would sustain by the change. The public had a great interest in preserving the open space whore the market stood. He trusted that the Government would take the matter into their serious consideration.
 Lord J. RUSSELL  said, that the answer which he gave was in reference to a very different question. He understood the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire (MR. Stafford) to say that a great injury would he clone to the public if the open space was taken from them; and he asked whether the Government would not take care, by the purchase of that ground, to keep it open? He (Lord J. Russell) said that Government had no intention of purchasing it. As to whether the corporation ought to be compensated for the loss they would sustain by the removal of Smith-field market, that was a totally different question, and could be afterwards dealt with.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, it was important to consider whether it would be necessary to have two markets. It appeared to him that by the establishment of only one market in the suburbs, they would be exposed to a great evil; for it would be necessary to have a great quantity of cattle passing through the metropolis. He did not see why they should not encourage competition by establishing two markets at least, and thereby escape the unpleasant consequences that were apprehended.
 MR. B. OSBORNE  said, that the only question upon which the witnesses fully
 1343
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that the statement made by the hon. Member for Middlesex was quite correct.
 MR. F. SCOTT  wished to know whether, in the event of land not being obtained by voluntary contract, it would not be necessary to introduce a fresh Bill to enable the Government to carry out their intentions?
 Sir G. GREY  said, that if it became necessary to take land by compulsion, it would undoubtedly be requisite to introduce another measure into Parliament.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  must enter his protest against the principle of this Bill. It was one of a most extraordinary character, and most unconstitutional in its enactments. It was neither more nor less than an Act of Parliament abrogating the charter granted by Edward IH. to the corporation—a charter pronounced by the unanimous opinion of the Judges of the land, in 1835, to be such as precluded the establishment of any market within seven miles of the metropolis.
 MR. HUDSON  apprehended that the House had placed themselves in this position. They had bound themselves to pass a Bill for the removal of Smithfield market, and they were dependent upon the will of private individuals for obtaining a new site. The Bill was tantamount to a declaration that the corporation of London was unfit to manage its own affairs. As it was very probable that the evil they complained of could not be remedied until another Session, it appeared to him that it would be better to suspend all further proceedings for the present year. He thought that it was most unfortunate the resolution to which the House had come, as it was, he believed, the first instance of a corporation having been deprived of the management of its own market. The improvement proposed by the corporation in Smith-field market was very great, and would prove most effectual in giving that relief which the community required.
 MR. HUME  said, that after the course which the Government had taken, the best plan for them would be to abolish the corporation altogether. If any duty attached to that body more than another, it was to provide fit and proper markets for the city of London. They had now a Government incapable of conducting its own affairs, which, nevertheless, persisted in meddling with those of others. Where was this system of centralisation to end, or was there any corporation in England safe? He protested against the vote which the House had come to, because it was a declaration that the corporation of London were incapable of managing their own business, and because he was convinced that the best position for a a market was the centre of the city. In a Select Committee he felt confident it would be proved that the evils complained of did not arise from the cattle going to the market, but to their distribution after it amongst the buyers. He must stigmatise the Bill as one to appropriate the public money to the interests of the Government. How would the official situations made under the Bill be filled up? If they looked to Ceylon, they would see the manner in which appointments were only bestowed upon favourites of the Government. He also protested against the Bill, as a violation of all established principle. It was the first time that a House of Commons, headed by the First Minister of the Crown, had ever violated all the rights of a corporation, and attempted to deprive them of their charter, in the manner which this Bill proposed to do.
 Lord JOHN RUSSELL : I do not know, Sir, how many Gentlemen may agree with the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose, when he says the corporation ought to be abolished.
 MR. HUME  had not laid himself open to such an imputation. His words were, that rather than deprive the corporation of the privilege of managing their own affairs, it would have been much better to have taken away their entire, charter.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : There are two circumstances, Sir, which the hon. Gentleman has lost sight of. One is, since the original charter was bestowed upon the corporation, the metropolis has very much increased, and goes very much beyond the wardenship of the corporation; and that
 1347
 Sir H. WILLOUGHBY  objected to the Bill because it was a transfer of the monetary rights of the corporation of London to the new corporation that would be established under the Bill. That appeared to him to be a robbery, and he could not understand what would prevent the application of the same principle to the property of private persons. If the Government succeeded in this measure, it was their bounden duty to propose a fixed system of compensation. The Bill actually prevented the corporation from holding a market at all, and that was the answer which he gave to the observation of the noble Lord as to the question at issue.
 MR. J. S. WORTLEY  wished to be informed whether as the matters to be referred were partly private and partly public, the corporation would be entitled to be heard by counsel before the Committee?
 MR. SPEAKER : Most certainly, if they presented their petition within the proper time.
 Sir R. H. INGLIS  agreed in the strictures which had been passed upon the Bill, both as regarded principle and policy. He could not avoid complaining that this was an attempt to raise large sums of money from the public for the purpose of interfering with the property of a corporation which had enjoyed it for many hundred years. Under these circumstances he felt that whereas the City of London proposed to charge its own revenues for the purpose of enlarging the area of Smithfield market, the present Bill, which saddled upon the
 1348
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  congratulated the House on the new-born zeal for the rights of corporations which had begun to animate the hon. Member for Montrose (MR. Hume), for in the course of his Parliamentary career that hon. Member had assisted in abolishing the charters of nearly all the corporations in the United Kingdom. It was a pity, therefore, that the hon. Member had not begun earlier to stand up for the rights of corporations. He (MR. Christopher) had voted for the Government Bill, not because he thought it perfect in all its details, for he did not I think so, and should have several amendments to propose in Committee; but he had voted for it because it proposed the only thing like an adequate remedy for an acknowledged nuisance. Had the corporation of London undertaken to provide a new market in a suburban district, he should have been glad to give them his decided support; but as the plan they submitted would only perpetuate the evil, the two acres they proposed to add to the I present space being quite inadequate as a remedy, he thought the Government deserved credit for having brought in a measure which would enable them to get rid of the nuisance, and he had great pleasure, therefore, in supporting their Bill.
 Sir J. DUKE  could not allow the statement just made by the hon. Member for North Lincolnshire to pass uncontradicted. Instead of two acres, the corporation of London proposed to add nine acres to the market; and, if the dead-meat market were removed, there would be three acres more, making in all twelve acres of additional space. He begged to say, too, that the corporation did not object to the Government establishing another market. If the Government thought the present market not large enough, the corporation had no right to complain of their establishing another; but what they complained of was, that their ancient market was proposed to be shut up altogether.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that as the hour was near at hand when the noble Lord at the head of the Government and the Lord Mayor would be interchanging compliments with each other, he had no wish to prolong the discussion, but he could not help telling the House what he thought would happen in consequence of the course that was being pursued. The corporation could do nothing to remedy the evil com-
 1349
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  asked whether the Government would consent to postpone sending the Bill to a Select Committee, and in the interim take into their consideration whether they would not allow it to be dealt with as a public Bill?
 SIR G. GREY  said, it did not depend upon the will of Government whether the Bill should be a public Bill or not. It was essentially of a mixed nature, and the Government had no right or power to dispense with the rules applicable to such cases. Besides, the hon. Member should bear in mind that if his suggestion were adopted, the corporation of London would be precluded from exercising the right of appearing against the Bill by counsel.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, with the permission of the House he would postpone the Order of the Day for the consideration of the petition of Henry Edwards, and he would move instead, that that portion of the evidence that relates to Henry Edwards be laid before the House.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he was perfectly agreeable to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member; but he thought it would he the province of MR. Speaker to order the evidence to be laid before the House in accordance with the practice under such circumstances. He wanted the evidence to be printed, and that made a distinction between this and the Grantham case.
 SIR G. CLERK  said, he believed the course taken by the hon. Member was the correct one; but interfering with an Election Committee when it was sitting, was so delicate a matter, that he thought they ought to adhere as strictly as possible to precedent. The only precedent he could find of a case in which a Special Report was made by a Committee before it made its final report, was the Grantham Election Committee in 1820. Upon that occasion the Committee reported that certain persons had absconded to avoid the service of MR. Speaker's warrant, and a Motion was made that the parties be given into the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms; but before doing that, the House thought it proper they should have some proof that he had so absconded, and they ordered that the shorthand writer should attend at the bar with so much of the evidence as related to that fact. He therefore hoped the hon. Member would so far amend his Motion, as to state that the shorthand writer attending the St. Albans Election Committee should attend at the bar of the House with so much of the evidence as refers to the special report on which Henry Edwards was taken into custody.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  hoped the House would support the Committee, which was placed in a position of great difficulty. He would, with the permission of the House, explain the case. The first adjournment took place on the Saturday, and there being no House on that day, the Committee adjourned to Monday, the 31st of March. On that day a Report was made to the House, and leave was asked to adjourn the Committee to the following Thursday. The Committee had previously adjourned to Tuesday, with the proviso that, in case the House should grant the leave to be asked, the adjournment should be held to be to Thursday. The Committee did not, in point of fact, return to the Committee-room, although that did not appear on the Minutes. He (Mr. Ellice) had some doubt on this point; but he was told that it was not necessary for the Committee to meet again after having obtained the leave of the House. On Wednesday last the same thing occurred. During the sitting of the House the Committee applied for leave to adjourn to Monday next, and the Committee adjourned,  pro formâ 1359
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the point of law raised by the hon. Member for Cockermouth was one of very considerable nicety indeed, and it had taken the House by surprise. It required mature deliberation. It had taken the Solicitor General and himself by surprise, and he thought the better course would be to have the Minutes of the Committee printed, and to discuss the matter on a subsequent day. No one would dispute that the Committee had not acted in strict compliance with the letter of the statute; but the question was, whether the words were to be taken as obligatory, or merely as directive. He would move as an Amendment to the hon. Gentleman's Motion, that the Minutes of the Committee relating to the matter be printed.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that after the best consideration he could give to the proceedings of this St. Albans Election Committee, he thought they had been perfectly correct and proper. No one who had read the printed Minutes of evidence relating to the petitioner Edwards, could entertain a shadow of doubt that a strong  primâ facie 1363 1364
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : * 1365 l l l l l l l l l 1366 l l l l l l l l "The main expense on account of the Army is caused by the extent of our colonial possessions. To make no provision for the relief of the troops serving in them, would be inconsistent with humanity in the first place, and with prudence in the second.… You have thirty-five battalions at home, not, as it is supposed, for the purpose of restraining the population, but for the purpose of maintaining the system of relief for your regiments serving abroad. Your rule is five years at home, and ten years abroad for your regiments."—[3  Hansard, l 1367 l l l l l l l l l 1368 l l l l 1369 l l l l l l l 1370 cœterie paribus, cœteris 1371 l 1372 l l s l l l 1373 1374 1375 l 1376 1377 l l l l 1378 l l l s d 1379 l l 1380 l s d l 1381 l 1382 l l l l s 1383 l l l s l 1384
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Just the reverse.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH : I hope the noble Lord will hear me, and then answer me. The noble Lord relies on the statements of the Colonial Office, and those are generally erroneous. The third cause of war was, the complete ignorance of Sir H. Smith, and the consequent ignorance of the Colonial Office of the feelings which the Kaffirs entertained with respect to Sir H. Smith, and his proceedings. 1386 1387 l l 1388 1389 1390 "These fertile plains, that softened vale, Were once the birthright of the Gael. Where dwells lie now?  * * * Think'st thou we will not sally forth To spoil the spoiler as we may, And from the robber rend his prey? While often thousand herds there strays But one along yon river's maze, The Gael, of plains and rivers heir, Shall, with strong hand, redeem his share." 1391 1392 1393 "My dear Lord Grey—The quiet I have reported in Kaffirland, and which I had so much and so just grounds to anticipate, is not realised. I start this evening. The moment I reach King William's Town you shall hear from me." "had received accounts of a very improved character as regards the conduct of the Tambookie chiefs, and he looked forward with every confidence to being able to restore general harmony and tranquillity." 1394 "to inform Lord Grey that the majority of the farmers on the frontier had abandoned their homes, and removed far into the interior." "His advice and influence had been exerted to induce' them to remain," but, "unfortunately they had disregarded his counsel." 1395 l "The Kaffirs being arranged in a circle, I rode into the midst of them, bearing in my right hand a sergeant's halbert, well sharpened, the emblem of war; in my left hand a magic wand, my baton of peace and authority, surmounted with a brass knob. I directed each chief to come forward, and touch whichever he pleased—it was immaterial to me. They all touched the symbol of peace; then each chief kissed my foot, exclaiming 'Inkosi Inkulu.' I then shook hands with each, never having done so before. Three cheers were given; and thus I commenced the foundation of their social condition." "you dare to make war! You dare to attack our waggons See what I will do if you ever dare to touch a waggon or the oxen belonging to it! Do you see that waggon, I say? Now, hear my word—Fire! (The waggon is blown up.) Ah do you see the waggon now? And you would, and shall, be blown up with it if you ever again attempt to touch another. So be good, and believe in your father." 1396 l l 1397 en masse, l l d l 1398 l l 1399 l l l l l l 1400 l l l l l l l 1401
 MR. URQUHART  seconded the Motion. Although he had a Motion on the paper of very great importance, he was glad he had given way to the hon. Baronet, who, by the proposition which he had submitted to the House, had struck a blow at departmental government in this country; and if he did not succeed in obtaining a vote in his favour from the House, he had, at all events, prepared the feeling of the country upon the subject, which would in a very short time compel hon. Members to accept his proposition as the only means of retaining the favour of their constituents. The hon. Baronet had excluded from his scheme our military and convict stations; but he (Mr. Urquhart) considered these most important items, when discussing the question of our military and colonial expenditure. England, in her proud position as leader of the opinion of the world, and in the inviolable position which she maintained, ought to show the first example of disarmament. Europe was groaning under the load of establishments. All the evils of war were permanently inflicted upon the people by the very means which they were taking to preserve peace and prevent war. Before this mania had taken root, one of the ablest constitutional philosophers, Montesquieu, had prognosticated its result: he said that every State in Europe would sink beneath the weight of its own establishments. The best support which he (Mr. Urquhart) could give to this Motion would be to offer one or two considerations which went beyond it. The hon. Baronet stated that the strength of the country abroad depended upon the judiciousness of the selection of its military and naval establishments, and he laid down certain maxims by which their choice should lie guided. They were to be in places of general resort, to be easy of defence, to be capable of furnishing accommodation to our fleets, as well as points of attack. The first of these places, he stated, as furnishing all these advantages, was Gibraltar. Now he (Mr. Urquhart) thought that this very colony afforded an opportunity of judging of the injudiciousness of the whole of their colonial arrangements, and the enormity of their expenditure without any reason. Gibraltar had cost this country a very large sum of money during the hundred and fifty years which they had held it—scarcely less than 250,000 l 1403 l 1404 foci 1405
 MR. HAWES  said, he must request the indulgence of the House while he endeavoured to offer some reply to the I able and eloquent speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Southwark—a speech which exhibited the usual ability and research of the hon. Baronet—and replete as it was with details of great; interest and importance. Such a speech deserved the attention of the House, and he could assure his hon. Friend that he (Mr. Hawes) had listened to the whole of it with the deepest interest. It was impossible for him altogether to dissent from many of the arguments of the hon. Baronet with reference to our colonial Government; but, on the other hand, he was bound to say that, looking at the speech rather as indicating the policy which his hon. Friend desired this country to adopt, than at the Motion which it introduced, he was compelled to say that he thought such a policy as he indicated would be deeply injurious to this country, would endanger its best in forests, and impair one of the noblest privileges it ever was the good fortune of a country to possess, that of directing the policy and advancing the prosperity of our present colonial empire. The hon. Baronet had based nearly all his arguments upon pecuniary considerations. Having ascertained what were the convict stations and the military stations, which he altogether excluded from his observations on the present occasion, the hon. Baronet had advised the House deliberately to abandon those Colonies which we now possess in which there wore military establishments, and upon which there was any military expenditure; for the withdrawal of our troops was a practical declaration of such a policy. Now, was the House prepared to take such a step as that? And upon what grounds did the hon. Baronet rest the policy which he recommended the House to adopt? He (Mr. Hawes) would again repeat that he could discover none beyond those which were of a pecuniary character; and even upon these grounds he (Mr. Hawes) could not assent to the conclusions to which the hon. Baronet had come. It might be that we were too poor to hold our own, and that we had fallen from our high estate; but this he must say, that the voluntary abandonment of such an empire as was our
 1406 l 1407 l l "That it is the opinion of this House that steps should be taken to relieve this country, as speedily as possible, from its present civil and military expenditure on account of the Colonies, with the exception of its expenditure on account of military stations or convict settlements. That it is expedient at the same time to give to the inhabitants of the Colonies, which are neither military stations nor convict settlements, ample powers for their local self-government, and to free them from that imperial interference with their affairs which is inseparable from their present military occupation." 1408 l l 1409 1410 1411 1412 1413 "Notwithstanding, however, these pacific demonstrations and professions, I shall retain the troops for a time in their present position, in order that I may institute a searching inquiry, and
 1414 1415 1416 l l l 1417 l l l 1418
 MR. ADDERLEY  said that, in addressing himself to the question before the House, he would not be led away to other matters, though he must say that the lion. Gentleman who had just sat down had made a wonderful assertion about the late anti-convict struggle at the Cape—throwing all the blame of the irritation and disturbance caused by that question upon the colonists, and totally exonerating the Government. He was strongly tempted to make some reply; but at the present moment he would refrain, and confine himself strictly to the question that was before the House. The Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark might indeed be greatly enforced, and had, he thought, been unanswerably illustrated, by the present circumstances of the Cape; yet there was a larger and more general question before
 1419 1420 1421 1422 1423 1424 "When the Roman legions drew in their line from the Danube, it was not the loss of the province of Dacia, but the satisfaction of the Roman people, which constituted the evil omen of national decline." "With regard to the loss of our American Colonies, disastrous as that was, that we had lost less of prestige and of real strength in that unfortunate struggle, than if we had said, with the luxurious and effeminate Roman triumvir, We have lost a world, and feel content to lose it." 1425 1426 Life of Benjamin Franklin 1427 l 1428 Cries of 1429
 MR. E. H. STANLEY : I rise for the purpose of assuring my hon. Friend who has just sat down, that, however little I may be disposed to agree in that very sweeping assertion which he made, when he told us that the administration of the Colonial Department united in itself all the miseries of despotism, with all the troubles of democracy, yet that I do fully concur in the belief expressed by him, that, among the ranks of what he has designated as the protectionist party, there will be found a few—I would rather change the phrase, and say that there will be found not a few—who are as decidedly and distinctly opposed to the Resolutions of the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark, as my hon. Friend is strenuous in their support. In the very few and very brief observations which, at this period of the evening, and at this stage of the debate, shall alone feel myself justified in submitting to the House, I have not the most remote intention of following the hon. Baronet through all that wide and almost boundless field of inquiry, embracing every conceivable subject of past, present, and future colonial policy, which he has opened to our examination. I shall not follow him into that vast variety of subjects, some of which he has fully, and some partially, treated; beginning with the number of our military establishments, and the comparative advantages and disadvantages of each for the purposes of war—touching upon the question of clergy reserves in Canada—investigating the causes and results of the Canadian rebellion—favouring us with his views respecting the abolition of the punishment of transportation—sketching the history of the native wars in New Zealand—and more than sketching the history of the Kaffir war of South Africa. I am sure the
 1430 "That it is the opinion of this House, that steps should be taken to relieve this Country, as speedily as possible, from its present Civil and Military Expenditure on account of the Colonies, with the exception of its expenditure on account of Military Stations or Convict Settlements." 1431 "That it is expedient at the same time to give to the inhabitants of the Colonies which are nei-
 1432 1433 1434 1435 l l l l l l 1436 1437
 MR. COBDEN  said, it was not his intention at that hour to make a speech on the question before the House, because there had been one speech that night which rendered another unnecessary except to answer it, and he must say no answer had been given to it yet. The hon. Gentleman! who had just sat down began by saying that he did not understand the comprehensive view which his (Mr. Cobden's) hon. Friend (Sir W. Molesworth) took of the colonial question; and he must say that
 1438 s s s. s. d. 1439 l l l l 1440 1441 "That the principle on which this country had hitherto regulated its colonial policy was, to maintain the civil and military establishments of the Colonies, in compensation for a monopoly of their commerce, a principle which was justified by sound policy, and ought not rashly to be abandoned." 1442 l l l l l 1443 1444
 Lord JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I quite agree with the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, that this is a most important question. It is not a question of saving 1,200,000 l l l 1445 1446 1447 l l 1448 1449 1450
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the hon. Gentleman made a statement that the proposal of the Government was to go into
 1354
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he only wished to put himself right with the House. The Amendment, which he had slightly altered, was to ask the opinion of the House on the omission of the owners and occupiers of land from the financial statement, and not with any intention to oppose the repeal of the window tax.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the Amendment which he intended originally to propose had appeared on the paper, and it was his intention to propose that resolution to the House before any of the measures in detail arising from the Budget should be submitted to the House. The Amendment he should move was—
 "That in any relief to he granted in the remission of taxation, due regard should be paid to the distressed condition of the owners and occupiers of land in the United Kingdom."
 MR. DISRAELI  said, as there was some misconception respecting the Amendment of which he had given notice for to-morrow, in consequence of a change that took place in the position it originally occupied in the paper, and in consequence of some conversation that took place between himself and the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer on Monday night, he would take the liberty of removing that misconception, and to state the mode in which the Amendment would be put. He consented to the arrangement by which it was proposed to bring it on, merely with a view of consulting the convenience of the House to the conduct of public business; but, in consequence of what fell from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, several Gentlemen were under the impression that he (Mr. Disraeli) was about to propose an amendment to a proposition on the part of the Government for the repeal of the window tax. That was not the case; that was not his intention; he was not prepared to oppose the repeal of the window tax. The question before the House would be a Motion to go into Committee for the imposition of a house tax; and, under these circumstances, he considered it was the best way of asking the opinion of the House upon the omission from the financial statement of that important body of Her Majesty's subjects, the owners and occupiers of land, who are in a state of suffering and depression at the present moment. In consequence of the change of the notice from the place which it originally occupied, he had been obliged to make a slight alteration in its language. The right hon. Gentleman, he was sure, would agree with the statement he had made, that he consented to the Amendment being brought forward in the manner he did, merely to suit the convenience of public business, and that it would not be submitted as an amendment to the repeal of the window tax.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he should propose to-morrow that the House should go into Committee to impose a house tax instead of the window tax, and the hon. Gentleman was to move an Amendment upon that resolution. Did he understand the hon. Gentleman now to say that he did not propose so to do; would he give him his Amendment?
 MR. AGLIONBY  wished to call the attention of the House to the petition of Henry Edwards, who had been taken into custody, under the Order of the House, by the Serjeant-at-Arms, for a breach of the Privileges of that House in preventing the attendance of George Seeley Waggett, or giving him money to induce him to abstain from giving evidence before the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the St. Albans Election Petition. Edwards alleged in his petition that the charge against him was totally false and untrue, that Waggett had never been under his control, and that no warrant of Mr. Speaker, or notice of any such warrant, requiring Waggett to appear, had ever been served upon him; and the petitioner prayed the House to refer to the evidence taken by the Committee, before which he alleged no such charge as that made against him had ever been substantiated. Edwards strongly declared his own innocence; and being now in custody without ever having been heard, he (Mr. Aglionby) felt he had hardly had justice done to him, and he was sure that if the House inadvertently had done the petitioner injustice, it would cheerfully grant him redress. But there were two points of law and of practice that arose in this case. The point of law was raised underthe 73rd clause of the 11th and 12th of Victoria, c. 98, by virtue of which statute, and which statute alone, Election Committees derived all their authority to sit and act. The question was, whether the St. Albans Election Committee, at the time they reported to the House, and gave rise to the petitioner being taken into custody, retained all their powers intact, and were competent to report. If therefore the Committee had no power to sit on the 7th of April, when they reported, of course the whole of their proceedings fell to the ground. The 73rd clause of the Act required Election Committees to sit from day to day, excepting during the holidays, and never to adjourn for a longer time than twenty-four hours without leave being first obtained
 1358
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he should now go into the other points raised by Edwards's petition. He submitted that the commitment of Edwards was clearly informal and illegal, because the 83rd clause of the statute only authorised two cases in
 1360 1361 primâ facie ex parte
 MR. GOULBURN  considered it necessary that the Minutes of the Committee should be laid on the table; but it struck him that there might be some inconvenience in calling for the Minutes of a Committee still sitting.
 MR. GOULBURN  thought the House ought to have more evidence of the adjournment of the Committee.
 MR. HUME  thought, if the proceedings of the Committee were informal, the petitioner ought not to be kept any longer in prison.
 MR. HUME  begged to ask whether arrangements had been made for the free admission of the public to St. Paul's Cathedral. The House would recollect that the subject had frequently been brought before them, and he wished to know what progress had been made in the matter.
 MR. T. C. ANSTEY  thanked the noble Viscount for his explanation, which was quite satisfactory; but he begged to remind him that he had omitted to answer his last question, namely, whether he should object to the publication of the correspondence?
 MR. T. C. ANSTEY  begged to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether he had received any information respecting the measures now being taken at Dresden, by the Courts of Vienna and Berlin, to secure the admission into the German Confederation, of the non-German territories possessed by those Courts? Those non-German territories constituted themselves into three classes: first, such as Lombardy and Venice; secondly, such as Gallicia and other territories held by Austria and Prussia upon certain treaties and stipulations, not always kept; and, thirdly, territories like the republic of Cracow, held in violation of all treaties. He wished to ask the noble Viscount whether he had received any information touching the state of this negotiation, and whether her Majesty's Government, imita-
 1355
 SIR G. GREY  said, that an arrangement had been made by which the Dean and Chapter had consented to open the area of St. Paul's Cathedral free of charge. Of course he referred only to the lower part of the Cathedral, and not to the dome, the whispering gallery, and the like; but only to that part for seeing which a fee of 2 d. 1357
 SIR G. GREY  said, when a Motion was made for the release of the petitioner, on the ground that the proceedings were not sanctioned by law, the House could not come to a proper decision without having the record of the Committee's proceedings before it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  begged the hon. and learned Member's pardon for the omission; but he thought the House would agree with him, that with regard to a transaction of this kind, and while the matter was still pending—in a case too, which might possibly, and he hoped would probably, end to the satisfaction of all the parties concerned—it would be highly inconvenient and dangerous to the public service to comply with the hon. and learned Member's request.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, undoubtedly information had been given to Her Majesty's Government, and negotiations had been for some time going on with respect to the intention on the part of Prussia and of Austria to propose the incorporation into the Germanic Confederation of territories not hitherto belonging to that Confederation, because of their not having formed part of the ancient German Empire. The House was aware that the Treaty of Vienna, by Article 53, stated that the Germanic Confederation was to consist of certain sovereigns and sovereign princes, and that confederated empire should include the possessions of the Emperor of Austria and the King of Prussia, which belonged to the ancient Empire. In accordance with that stipulation, the Duchy of Pozen, part of northern Prussia, Gallica, Hungary, and the Italian States of Austria, were not included in that Confederation. The following Article, 54, more distinctly specified what were to be the objects of the Confederation, by saying that the object of the Confederation was, the maintenance of the internal and external safety of Germany, and the inviolability of the States belonging to the Confederation. There were several other Articles following, ten or twelve, on the same subject; hut all these stipulations formed integral parts of the treaty signed by the Powers of Europe. It was, therefore, the opinion of Her Majesty's Government, when they heard of this intention, that such intention could not be carried into effect consistently with the law of Europe, unless with the consent of all those Powers who had been parties to the Treaty of Vienna in 1815. And in accordance with that opinion Her Majesty's Government did not, as the hon. and learned Gentleman asked, follow the example of France, but they anticipated France, and as early as the 3rd of December they made a remonstrance on that subject, both here, and at Vienna, and Berlin. Since then the French Government had in a more formal manner protested
 1356
 MR. HEADLAM  begged to put a question to the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) of which he had given notice. It would be in the recollection of the House that, on Tuesday, May 20, the following notice of Motion stood upon the paper in the name of the hon. Member for Montrose:—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to appoint Her Royal Commission to inquire into and report on the proceedings of Sir James Brooke on the coast of Borneo in the year 1849, and specially into the operations of the naval forces of Her Majesty and of the hon. East India Company under Commander Farquhar, R.N., on the night of the 31st of July in that year, against the Dyaks of Serebas and Sakarran of Borneo, when Sir James Brooke states in his deposition on the 25th of September, 1849, that 'upwards of 500 men were killed in the engagement and subsequent flight;' and Commander Farquhar reports, in his official despatch of the 25th of August, 1849, to Rear-Admiral Sir Francis Collier, 'a loss of about 500 men;' and also states that' more than an equal number would, in all probability, perish in the jungle.'" 4
 MR. HEADLAM  asserted that he was perfectly accurate in his statement of facts. The Motion was withdrawn on a day when it could have been discussed, and postponed to a day when it could not be brought forward.
 EARL GROSVENOR  said, he had not the honour of a personal acquaintance with Lord Torrington, but he had been to Ceylon, and having had a personal opportunity of witnessing the beneficial effects of the noble Lord's administration, he should not hesitate to record his vote against the present Motion. The revenue of the island was increasing, and the general prospects of the colony had become highly satisfactory. These agreeable results were mainly to be attributed to the policy adopted by Lord Torrington—a policy founded on the judicious principle of checking the undue influence of the chiefs over the natives, who were too easily led. He did not believe that the complimentary addresses that had been presented to Lord Torrington deserved the ridicule that had been heaped upon them. One of these had been signed by no less than 150 of the principal coffee-planters, with many of whom he was himself acquainted. He believed that the hostility which Lord Torrington had had to encounter originated in other circumstances than those now under the consideration of the House, and that those who had been most active in promoting it were neither the most estimable nor the most influential in the colony. If the insurrection had not been crushed in the bud, social order would have been destroyed, and the colony would have been most seriously injured. He bore his willing testimony to the perfect order and regularity which now prevailed in the island; and he was confident that Ceylon, when its resources were fully developed, would become one of the richest colonies in the possession of Her Majesty. He was confident that the policy pursued by Lord Torrington was that which was best suited to the circumstances of the case, and he should therefore vote against the Motion of the hon. Member for Inverness-shire.
 MR. MILES  considered that the Colonial Office was bound by the acts of its servants, and here had they allowed a paper, containing what was false, to lie before the House for two months without any attempt at correction. He wondered much to hear the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary take up the cause of the Colonial Office with an acerbity of manner so unlike his usual demeanour in that House. He (Mr. Miles) would, however, state broadly that, in his opinion, this document being before the House, the hon. Member for Inverness-shire had a perfect right to use it in his speech against the Colonial Government.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  would ask the House to remember when the noble Lord (Lord Claude Hamilton) charged that (the Ministerial) side of the House with having exhibited undue warmth, how that warmth of feeling arose. A charge was I deliberately made by the hon. Member for Inverness-shire against the Colonial Office, represented by his hon. Friend (Mr. Hawes)—of having deliberately and wilfully falsified documents. That was no light charge—it was one which affected the character of men of honour, as well as public men and servants of the Crown. His hon. Friend had received no notice of this charge; hut he thought that in common fairness as between man and man, not to say as between gentleman and gentleman, when a man's character was about to be assailed, some intimation would be given to him; for, mark the position in which his hon. Friend would have been placed if he had not, by singular good fortune and diligence, been able to produce the document before the House that evening. It would have gone forth to the country on the statement of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baillie), as verified by the printed document, that there had been that falsification of the document. That was a state of things calculated to excite warmth in any man's mind. It turned out to he an error of the printer; and he should have expected the hon. Member for Inverness-shire, on hearing that, would rise at once and express his regret, his deep his profound regret, a having, unwittingly and unconsciously, been the means of attacking the personal honour of his (the Attorney General's) hon. Friend (Mr. Hawes); and when the House heard the retractation and the singular hesitation and want of candour and frankness on the part of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Inverness-shire, could any one wonder at the warm expression of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, looking at the circumstances of the charge, the explanation afforded, and the
 98
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would not say that the proposition of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. J. Stuart) was not one which might very well deserve the attention of the House; but he could not help expressing his regret that a question of such magnitude should have been brought forward at so late an hour. His hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, who was a member of this Commission, had left the House under the impression that this Motion would not have been brought forward that night. The Commission was now sitting, and their labours were going on from day to day. [Mr.
 100
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  could only regret the absence of his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, who would have been able to speak to that point. It had been proposed to put a certain number of laymen on the Commission; but he (the Attorney General) was afraid that confusion would only become worse confounded if they adopted that suggestion. At that late hour he felt justified in moving the adjournment of the debate.
 LORD CLAUDE HAMILTON  felt assured that, if the mild, gentle, and conciliatory spirit which the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs had on this as on all other occasions exhibited, had been manifested by all his Colleagues, the unfortunate occurrence which had occupied so much of the time of the House would not have taken place. [ Cries of 97
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  would take the adjourned debate on Thursday.
 MR. DISRAELI  did not rise to address the House on the subject of this charge. It was always satisfactory whenever any Public Office against which a charge was brought was enabled to vindicate itself. With reference, however, to the merits of the main question before the House that evening, it appeared to him that the hon. Gentleman who had brought it forward, was justified in the statement he had laid before the House; and he (Mr. Disraeli) was now desirous of asking the Government when they intended to resume the discussion.
 MR. HAWES : The hon. Gentleman now said, that he charged the Colonial Offiec, or some person in that department—he stood there as the representative of the Colonial department, and he would refute the charge. The hon. Member had referred to a paper comprised in the blue books on this subject, and containing the appendix, and the index of documents relating to the case; and he had stated, that it was represented that the Deputy Queen's Advocate, Mr. Stewart, had attended fourteen courts-martial, whereas the fact was, that he had only appeared before four.
 93 and
 MR. HAWES  said, he wished to ask the indulgence of the House on personal grounds, in consequence of a charge which had been made against him by the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie), to the effect that he had been guilty of the falsification of documents which he had laid on the table of that House. If he had risen when the hon. Member had hazarded that charge against him, he could not have given it that refutation which he was now enabled to pronounce. The hon. Member had charged him—
 MR. HAWES  said, that the paper had never been within the Colonial Office—it had been transferred by the Committee to the body of the House. The matter was an error of the printer of the House of Commons, in the archives of which the original paper which was first before the Committee had been found, and found to be correct.
 MR. SPEAKER  was understood to say that he had no doubt the right hon. Gentleman would explain that he had not used the words in any offensive sense.
 MR. SPEAKER  hoped that the hon. Member would see the propriety of withdrawing these expressions.
 MR. SERJEANT MURPHY  trusted the House would make allowance for him while they listened to the reasons which induced him to rise at so early a stage of these proceedings. It so happened that previous to the departure of Lord Torrington for
 34 35 Hansard, l.; 36 l. 37 l. 38 "It having been stated recently in England that there was no rebellion in Ceylon in the year 1848, it may he necessary to adduce some facts out of many that could he brought forward, to prove that a rebellion did exist; although by persons resident in or well acquainted with the colony such proof is totally unneeded, as probably the slightest doubt on the subject never crossed the mind of any individual in a position to form an opinion on the matter." 39 40 "Much surprise was felt when it became known that such a doubt had been expressed, as the following facts clearly show the opinion to be erroneous. At the first outbreak, numbers of classes in the island were so fully satisfied of the existence of a rebellion, that in numerous instances Europeans abandoned their property, and fled for their lives to Kandy from their respective estates in all parts of the adjacent country; both the civil and military authorities considered that the promptest and most energetic measures were necessary to be at once adopted, and those Europeans who had most experience of the Kandyan character were convinced that far more severe measures than those resorted to would be required finally to crush the insurrection. An opinion so universally and simultaneously adopted could scarcely be without foundation, as it is perfectly unreasonable to presume that a large number of Europeans residing at considerable distances from, and having but little or no communication with each other, should all be panic struck at the same time, without a known and adequate cause." "My actual strength was under 400 men; and from information given by headmen and others, whom I had no reason to disbelieve, it appeared that from 50,000 to 70,000 armed natives were ready to surround and pour into the town." 41 "There cannot he the slightest doubt of their grand object being the possession of Kandy, although their force first collected at Dambool, forty-five miles distant; they had arrived within fifteen miles of the town when met by the troops. The detachment on arriving at Matelle found the public buildings gutted, and as far as practicable destroyed; the houses on the surrounding coffee estates pillaged and deserted by the proprietors and overseers. One European, a Mr. Baker, fell into the hands of the rebels, and was most cruelly treated; he was rescued by the troops, but his sufferings wore so great, that for some time his mind was seriously affected. No second attack was made on Matelle after it had been taken possession of by our troops, but shortly after their arrival they were again under arms in consequence of large bodies of men appearing in the direction of Dambool. These parties were afterwards ascertained to have been reinforcements for the Pretender's army, which had approached Matelle in ignorance of the place being in possession of the troops." "About the same time I received intelligence that the high roads from Trincomalee through Dambool to Kornegalle and Matelle, had been strongly barricaded with felled trees, &c, and the tappals, or letter carriers, were stopped for several days. Previous to his advance on Matelle, and to the attack on Warriapolle, the Pretender had been proclaimed king at Dambool, by the priest of the great temple there, and had received the homage of some headmen and of several thousand armed natives, as appears by the records of the Supreme Court on the trial of the rebels in 1848." "After the dispersion of the Pretender's army, he was still attended by a considerable band of armed followers, who gradually deserted him, on account of the incessant harassing pursuits they experienced from the military; he himself escaped till the 22nd September, when he was surprised and captured by a party of the Ceylon Rifles. At the very commencement of the rebellion the villages were abandoned by their inhabitants, and large bands of armed and unarmed marauders, taking advantage of the state of the country, commenced a system of plunder, which was carried on to an almost incredible extent, neighbours and even relations plundering each other, until checked by the punishment of some of the marauders by courts-martial, and the Govern-
 42 "On receiving the proclamation of martial law, I assumed the powers with which I considered it invested me. I ordered the officers commanding posts to assemble courts-martial for the trial and summary punishment of offenders. I did not direct the provost marshals to patrol the country, as the area of operations being so extensive, I could not afford them sufficient protection in the execution of their duties. I therefore considered courts-martial the best available means of bringing offenders to immediate punishment." "The proclamation of martial law, and the salutary terror it inspired, had an effect which, to those not conversant with the Eastern character, would have appeared magical. The Kandyans were impressed with the idea that no power was vested in Government beyond that of trial by jury, when (if unsuccessful in their treasonable designs) they hoped, as on two former occasions, to secure a verdict of acquittal by a handsome retainer to the advocates to get them off, or by using the same means to interest the jury on their behalf. Information that I received caused me to order the reapprehension of two of the most influential chiefs of the district, Goolahclla and the Maha Nilleme, to whom there was every reason to believe more than suspicion attached. Goolahella and the Maha Nilleme were finally liberated on bail by order of the Queen's Advocate. It is my belief that had these two chiefs been brought to trial, the whole conspiracy among the headmen and priests as instigators of the rebellion, would have been satisfactorily brought to light." "The consternation occasioned amongst the Malabar coolies by the rebellion and by the
 43 44 "It has been said that young and inexperienced officers were; in command at the several posts where the courts-martial were held. I may remark, that the facts were as follow:—Commandant at Kandy, 85 years' service; youngest officer on courts-martial was 26. Commandant at Dambool was Lieutenant-Colonel Cochrane, with 42 years' service; his youngest officer was at least 25 years of age. Commandant of Kornegalle, Major Layard, 16 years' service, and previous service in the Royal navy; youngest officer in his 22nd year. Commandant at Matelle was Captain Watson, 26 years' service; his youngest officer in his 23rd year. Captain Watson is an officer of considerable experience, and has served twenty-two years in the colony, 12 years of which period he was employed in the surveyor general and commissioner of roads department. He understands the Cingalese character perfectly, and few Europeans are personally acquainted with so many headmen and natives. A portion of the press, here and elsewhere, assisted by mischievous and designing individuals, having resorted to every means in their power, with a total disregard to truth, to attach to Government and the military the odium of unnecessary severity during martial law, I most emphatically deny such having been the case, knowing, as I do, that the aim of the Government in making examples of the principal rebels was to put a speedier termination to the outbreak: thus eventually sparing a far greater sacrifice of life—an opinion which I, and I may safely say all under my command, fully coincided in and acted on. None were tried except in cases of the greatest necessity; and I do not think the remark will be out of place here that 36 cases were tried before the Supreme Court for high treason, committed within the 27th of July and the 1st of August, 1848, a period of four days only, 19 of whom were convicted, whereas 17 were convicted by courts-martial for the same crime during the entire time martial law was in force; out of which number 3 were acquitted, 27 transported, and 17 executed; an aratchy was also executed for murder and plunder; making a total of 18. One other was sentenced to death, but was pardoned by his Excellency the Governor." 45 "The mass of the common people wove prevailed on to join by the assurance of the headmen that their chena lands were to he taxed, and that the other now taxes were but an instalment of thirty-two more which were coming'. There was this distinction between the rebellions of 1843 and that of 1848, that in the former the headmen were ready, but the people were less prepared to rise; whereas in the latter the headmen Avere the means, and these taxes the pretence, by misrepresenting winch the people were roused. That the insurrection of 1848 was but a continuation, a fresh manifestation of disloyalty and treason exhibited in 1843, no reasonable man in the Kandyan provinces entertains the shadow of a doubt." "That the priests have a cause, and a growing cause, of discontent, I am aware is known to the country generally, and therefore needs no further allusion to it here. They have kept a keen eye upon the decline of their religion, and it is quite natural that this should raise discontent in their minds; but I am aware, and I speak from my own observation, that headmen have been always discontented, as far as their conduct has come to my knowledge." "The headmen had all entertained the idea that the common law was the only power that could be exerted in any case; that they were secure of being tried by the Supreme Court; when, either by the talent of the advocate, or by means of the jury, they would be sure to escape, as had happened on one or two former occasions, and once in the case of the Pretender himself, who had been tried at Badulla, on which occasion the judge summed up for a conviction. The jury
 46 "My Lord—Having seen it announced in the public journals that it had been stated before the Committee of the House of Commons that there had been no rebellion, but a mere riot in the Kandyan province, a sense of justice to the Government of the colony prompts me, unsolicited, now that my professional duties in behalf of the prisoners who were tried before the Supreme Court for high treason have ceased, to express my firm and unalterable conviction that there did exist a widely-ramified and extended conspiracy among the priesthood and chiefs to drive the British out of the province, and to reestablish a Kandyan throne. Having been a resident in the colony for eighteen years, half of which period has been spent in the Kandyan province in the exercise of my profession, I could not avoid observing, in the course of a pretty extensive practice, and constant intercourse with natives of all ranks, that a strong feeling of jealousy had sprung up in the breasts of the chiefs since the advent of Europeans into the heart of the country, and the formation of coffee estates by the destruction of forests, which, under the Kandyan dynasty, were considered as a sort of perquisite or royal bounty appertaining to the offices of the high functionaries of the Crown. Considerable heartburnings also arose from the same cause among the lower orders, as the forests afforded pasturage for their cattle and game, and produced honey and firewood for them, &c. A spirit of dissatisfaction had likewise been engendered and fostered by the priesthood, which has increased in intensity since the period when the Government altogether dissevered itself from the support of the Budhist religion. In the year 1843 I officiated as advocate for prisoners who were tried for high treason, at Badulla (one of which number was the late Pretender), and in 1848 for those who were tried for the same offence at Kandy; and from facts that came to my
 47 "Edward P. WILMOT, Advocate for Prisoners." 48 49 "My dear Lord—I have at various times heard
 50 51 "With reference to the courts-martial in Kandy, having officiated as a deputy judge-advocate on the four first trials, I am enabled to speak of the manner in which the proceedings in them were conducted. The evidence in each was fully taken down; the prisoners had every opportunity given them of cross-examining the witnesses, and had every facility afforded them of making their defence. The trials usually occupied several hours, and no unseemly haste was manifested in getting through them. In one of the cases, that against Porang Appoo, the active part he was known to have taken in the rebellion was not proved, and I intimated my opinion that it would be proper to have such evidence. But the Court did not consider it necessary under the other circumstances established." argent comptant 52 53 54 Colombo Observer, 55 l l., l. 56 "Neura Ellia, April 11, 1819. "My dear M'Christie—I have just received your long scolding letter of the 23rd February up here, where I am happy to say the climate enables me to take it coolly, independently of the plea of justification, or at least extenuation, which I have to offer. When I engaged your services in our verandah case, I took good care and immense trouble to collect your fee, and, in order to make it up, had to come down with the dust pretty extensively myself. You afterwards very generously, I must say, volunteered your assistance as occasion presented itself; doubtless in pursuance of the scheme meditated of having an agent for the colony in London. Morgan took up the idea vigorously, and with, the assistance of myself and others, would probably have succeeded in more fortunate times. About the same time a subscription was commenced to present me with a piece of plate; but fearing that this might interfere with the collection for you, intimated that my affair might stand over, so that if you have not got a fee, neither has Mrs. Elliot her silver service, &c. The smash came. Some merchants (who you know are our mainstay in such matters) were totally ruined, and others so crippled that they could hardly keep upon their legs, and all classes felt the universal distress so keenly, that I clearly foresaw considerable difficulty in making up anything worth your acceptance. Morgan was still sanguine, but I consider myself in honour bound, as you probably would identify me with the matter, to let you know my doubts, as I had no more idea than yourself that you were to work for nothing on behalf of Ceylon. I would not ask you to do it for myself (though I might trespass somewhat on your kindness), and certainly would not tax your labour for others without making adequate compensation. I know you did make this appear a secondary consideration; but men like you and myself, with families dependent upon our exertions, must be paid for our services. I did, however, continue to furnish you with all the information in my power, by sending you regularly the overland paper, where you are aware every thing that comes to my knowledge appears. I admit that I did not send you the figures I promised,
 57 Great laughter. "When Selby was coming away he met the Chief Justice and turned him back, as it would only be exposing him to insult. The priest, it is now known, was as innocent as you are of the rebellion. The Governor complains that the juries did not convict; but how could men act impartially when martial law was going on at the same time, and they every now and then hoard of three or four men shot? Remind Lord Brougham, if necessary, that the Governor ought to have the consent of the Legislative Council in proclaiming martial law. I have been urging Morgan to apply for  habeas corpus Observer ;l. 58 59 Ne quid detrimenti respublica capiat.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he was well aware that he must draw largely on the indulgence of the House in again bringing the subject of the grievances of Ceylon-under the notice of Parliament. He could assure the House that it gave him no pleasure or satisfaction to bring forward that Motion. He was impelled solely by a sense of public duty—of that duty which, as the late Chairman of the Ceylon Committee, he owed to that House. Indeed, he understood that a very general feeling prevailed on both sides of the House, that the question could not have been allowed to rest where it was left by the Ceylon Committee at the end of the last Session of Parliament. It was now, indeed, no longer a question in which the interests of a colony only were concerned. It was a question in which the interests of all our colonies were deeply involved; it was a question in which the honour and character of this country were involved; it was a question whether a Committee appointed by that House had duly and properly discharged the important duties that were entrusted to them. These were the grounds on which he had felt it to be his duty to bring this question before the House, and, in so doing, he should find it necessary to divide the question into two parts. First of all, he must call the attention of the House to the proceedings of the Ceylon Committee; and, afterwards, he would advert to the evidence on which he grounded the Resolutions which he should have the honour to submit to the House. Before he proceeded further, perhaps it might be as well that he should remind the House of the Reso-
 7 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the grievances complained of in the Crown Colonies of Ceylon and British Guiana in connexion with the administration and government of those dependencies, and to report their opinion whether any measures can be adopted for the redress of those grievances of which there may be shown great reason to complain, and whether any measure can be adopted for the better administration and government of those dependencies." 8 amour propre 9 "Finding that the report made by a Committee of the Executive Council in Ceylon upon the general condition of the island is now in the hands of the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and that its recommendations involve 'very extensive alterations in the existing establishments of the island,' your Committee recommend their reappointment at the commencement of the next Session, unless any measure should in the meantime be adopted which may obviate the necessity of further investigation." 10 "I ought to have stated when speaking of the Governor's severity, that the inhabitants have informed me, as an instance of his severity, that when the priest was convicted at Kandy, several proctors and others were in court, and they were satisfied that the man was perfectly innocent, although convicted by the court-martial; and they went to the Queen's Advocate, Mr. Selby, and got him to go to the Governor to beg him to suspend,
 11 " Resolved "I now produce these two letters, written by my constituent, Mr. Elliot, confidentially to myself as agent or attorney for him, and which, with every deference and respect, I greatly complain of being obliged to do." "That the two letters, dated respectively April
 12 "That the two letters delivered in by Mr. M'Christie dated 'April 11,1849,' and 'May 12, 1849,' be inserted in the evidence taken upon Tuesday last, after Question 7,580, and that an amended copy of that day's evidence be furnished to the Members of the Committee." 13 14 "If the Committee will refer to Question 4,598, they will find that Sir Emerson Tennent says he is authorised by Lord Torrington to state one thing, and, again, he is authorised by Lord Torrington to state another thing. I have, therefore, not only to meet the expression of his own opinion, but the direct authority of Lord Torrington in support of it, as contradicting what I said last year; therefore, as it has come to a question of comparative credibility, I can have nothing to induce me to give up anything which will support the credibility of the evidence which I gave last year. It is not within my power to do so. I am most reluctant, though not from personal considerations to myself, to produce those letters to which I have alluded here. I alluded to them in the most quiet manner possible, merely as showing that Lord Torrington was aware that at one time we were not upon those confidential terms which it had been intimated we were. I alluded to the letters in the most guarded manner, and it was not my wish to go any further, as it is not my wish to go further now; but, as it is stated here that Sir Emerson Tennent is authorised to make statements which would lead the Committee to believe that I had betrayed Lord Torrington, by saying one thing one day, and another thing another day, I cannot afford to deprive myself of the benefit of their existence." 15 16 17 18 19 "Sir—You will order a court-martial to assemble for the trial of prisoners captured since the date of the proclamation placing Matelle under martial law. You will appoint your senior officer president, with two officers as members; you will confirm the proceedings, and have the sentence carried into effect on the spot, without a reference to me or any other person. You will not bring to trial any individual whom you are not certain of convicting; you can refer to me any case that you have a doubt about. Your power is unlimited; at the same time, it will be as well to adhere to the articles of war as far as practicable; and you will appoint one of your officers to act as judge-advocate, or any other qualified person; and you will appoint a person from the police to act as provost marshal. After disposal of each culprit tried, you will forward me the proceedings.—I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant, "T. A. DROUGHT, Lieutenant-Colonel Commanding. "Captain A. Watson, as Officer commanding the troops, Matelle." 20 "August 10, 1848. "My dear Watson—I wish you to explain to your officers at Matelle that I am surprised they did not sentence the four prisoners to be executed. A plunderer in these times is a miscreant in the double capacity of a rebel and a felon, who would, if he could, first take your life, and then your property. Remind them that all engaged as those were are rebels, and that all rebels should suffer death. Sir A. Oliphant has given it as his opinion that we are dealing delicately with the rascals, and that a great deal too much time is taken in detailing evidence. The court have, under the present law, merely to satisfy themselves as to the parties being guilty or otherwise, find and decide accordingly.—Yours, "T. A. DROUGHT." "I said almost all this in a note I wrote before receiving the courts-martial. "T. A. DROUGHT." "August 16, 1848. "My dear Watson—You are getting on swimmingly. Your deputy judge-advocate will of course receive the usual allowance for every day the court sits. Impress on the court that there is no necessity for taking down the evidence in detail, so that they are satisfied with the guilt or innocence of the individual; that is sufficient for them to find and sentence., This is the law and mode; have you no case for example on the spot?—Yours, "T. A. DROUGHT." "August 8, 1848. "My dear Watson—It not being necessary to have judge-advocates, you may discontinue the practice.—Yours, "T. A. DROUGHT, Lieutenant-Colonel Commanding." "I have served Her Majesty for twenty years, and I have eaten the bread of the British nation for that time, and I felt the glory of the one
 21 "When you were stationed in that part of the Matelle district, in which you have stated you were altogether for about six weeks, was the country perfectly quiet?—Perfectly quiet. The natives, you have stated, were perfectly friendly?—Quite so." 22 Appendix, "There can be no doubt that in most cases the courts-martial were not properly constituted, those in Matelle especially, where, I believe, a subaltern officer presided, with sometimes only two other subalterns as members, tried, and sentenced men to death, and that Captain Watson approved, and, by orders from Colonel Drought, carried those sentences into effect. For all this there was not the slightest necessity; all disturbances had ceased, and, after one or two examples had been made of headmen convicted upon the clearest testimony, nothing more was needed. Nothing, in my opinion, can justify the more recent of these courts-martial held at Matelle. The prisoners, if it were thought necessary to try them, might and ought to have been sent to Kandy, a distance of only 16 miles, where a general court-martial, composed of a field-officer as president, and the usual number of officers (captains and subalterns), with a judge-advocate, could have tried them with all becoming formality, and where the interpretation could have been relied on, and the prisoners could have obtained all necessary assistance. No right-minded man can view without horror the whole of the proceedings in Matelle. In Kornegalle, by Colonel Drought's orders, Capt. Bird, who sat as a member of a court-martial, actually approved and confirmed the proceedings, and caused a man to be shot within half an hour after the trial. In 1818, when nearly the whole of the interior was in open and violent rebellion, General Brownrigg entrusted the power of confirming general courts-martial to one officer only, although there were nine or ten lieutenant-colonels employed in the field; and in delegating that tremendous power to that officer, in whom he had the utmost confidence, he gave him the strongest injunctions to exercise it with the utmost forbearance, circumspection, and humanity. Prisoners and evidences were generally brought from distances to be tried in Kandy, by a full court-martial, presided over by an old field-officer, and with able judge-advocates to conduct the proceedings. General Brownrigg himself confirmed the proceedings, and ordered the sentences to be carried into effect. I cannot at
 23 Examiner 24 "Did you disapprove of his acting as judge-advocate on these courts-martial? Answer—I did; I advised him not to act as judge-advocate as soon as I heard of it. Q. Did he, after that, cease to act on courts-martial?—A. Yes; he acted on only four courts-martial." "I have called upon several Rata Mahatmeyas to report the names of all the headmen who are absent from their villages without being able to show satisfactory cause for it, and have intimated to them that they will be dismissed, and their property confiscated." 25 "There can be no doubt," said this gentleman, "that in abandoning their homes and joining in open rebellion their property has become forfeited to Government, and I think it worthy of consideration whether it would not be expedient to make over their lands and houses to Malabars, who would gladly settle in the district upon any terms Government might desire. This may appear a rash suggestion, but it is absolutely necessary that a heavy punishment of some sort should be inflicted upon all the rebellious. It is true that a great number of those have been already killed, and many more will doubtless suffer the extreme penalty of the law; still the great mass of them cannot be so punished, and the suffering of a few will have little effect upon the others, if they are not all made to suffer individually in their own property." "The opportunity that now presents of locating a race of Malabars in these important positions, viz., the seven Korles and Matelle, on the lands forfeited by the rebels, is one which I earnestly trust your Excellency will not allow to pass unimproved." "It is hereby proclaimed that in all the Kandian districts now under martial law, I have ordered the seizure and attachment of the lands, houses, and other property, of all persons of whatever rank or description, who have joined in the wicked rebellion against the authority of Her Majesty the Queen; and I hereby call upon all loyal subjects to assist the officers appointed by me to carry my orders into effect. And I hereby further command all loyal subjects of Her Majesty the Queen to keep themselves apart from those concerned in this rebellion; for whosoever shall be found to have aided the rebels, or supplied them with food or other provisions, is liable to condign punishment, and will forfeit his lands and property, and will be treated in all other respects as a rebel. And I also hereby declare to all innocent and loyal subjects who may chance to be absent from their homes, but who have not been engaged in any act of treason or robbery during the present insurrection, and can account for their absence, that they are not by this my proclamation prohibited from returning to resume possession of their property, and reside in peace in their houses." 26 "The lands and property of all persons who shall, after the 18th day of August, 1848, be found to have been absent from their ordinary places of residence during the last twenty days, without giving a satisfactory account of themselves, will be declared forfeited and confiscated to the Crown. Given at the Pavilion at Kandy, August 18, 1848, by order of the Government. (Signed) "JAMES EMERSON TENNENT." 27 l. l. 28 l. l., s. 29 "Colombo, September 22, 1849.—My dear Lord: When yesterday you requested me to read the paper which you informed me you had drawn up and submitted to Colonel Drought, relative to the conversation I had the honour to hold with your Lordship respecting the priest's execution, on the day he was tried, and if I found it correct to sign it before you transmitted it to England, I stated to your Lordship, in returning the paper unread, that I thought it would be more satisfactory if, before perusing what you had written, I put down and delivered to your Lordship a statement in writing of my own recollections of that interview, the chief incidents of which wore quite fresh in my memory. To this proposition your Lordship kindly assented, and I lose no time in giving, according to my promise, a relation of what passed on that occasion. About four o'clock on the day of the priest's trial, in consequence of information given to me by Mr. Smith, a proctor at Kandy, I went to the Pavilion; on my arrival I found Colonel Drought on the verandah, and mentioned to him what I had heard from Mr. Smith; on which he stated in substance that he had great confidence in the officers who composed the court-martial, especially Major Lushington, the president, who had been in India for several years, and knew the natives; and that he must be guided by the opinion of the Court. It was then announced to me that the Governor was disengaged, and I was shown into the room. I found your Excellency standing up between the table and the door at which I entered. My recollection is that Mr. Bernard was in the room leaning over the table and reading some papers when I entered, and that when I left it he was gone, but at what particular part of my interview with your Lordship he went away I cannot remember, as I did not take notice. Your Lordship did not sit down during the interview, which lasted but a few minutes: and I also, of course, remained standing. I informed your Lordship that I had heard a priest was to be shot next morning; that Mr. Smith, the proctor, had been with me, and had informed me that he had attended the court-martial, and was satisfied, for reasons he had not mentioned to me, that the priest was innocent, and the evidence against him false; and that Mr. Dunville, the proctor, and Mr. Jayetillike, the interpreter of the court, who had also been present at the trial, agreed with him (Mr. Smith) that it was a conspiracy against the priest; and that under these circumstances I thought myself bound to come at once to your Lordship, with a view of delaying the execution until further inquiry had been made. Tour Lordship became pale whilst I was speaking, and, when I concluded, struck your hand on your thigh, exclaiming, 'By God, if all the proctors in the place said the man was innocent, he should die to-morrow morning;' or words to that effect. The only words I have any doubt about are 'place' and 'die.' It is possible, that your Lordship used the word 'island' instead of 'place,' and the words 'be shot,' instead of 'die.' Thereupon I said, 'That is a matter for your Lordship's consideration. I thought it my duty to let you know what I had heard.' Your Lordship continued, by remarking that courts-martial were the fairest courts in the world; that you
 30 "Queen's House, September 23, 1849. "My dear Selby: I enclose my paper (that is, the paper which I had returned previously unread). Colonel Drought was present the whole time. I think the remark about my turning pale an unnecessary one. I shall be happy to talk to you on the subject when we meet.—Yours, "T." 31 "It is to be added, that the numerous addresses to the late Governor General which his friends in Bengal obtained from the natives, and transmitted to England, made a considerable impression. To these addresses we attach little or no importance. That Hastings was beloved by the people whom he governed is true; but the eulogies of pundits, zemindars, Mahomniedan doctors, do not
 32 "I have, however, great satisfaction in conveying to your Lordship Her Majesty's approbation of the measures taken to restore tranquillity and maintain the authority of the Government, and of the decision, promptitude, and judgment with which you acted in putting down the attempts which were made to disturb the peace of the island, and to set up an usurped and illegal power." "In more than one of the other despatches which will reach you by the present opportunity, I have expressed the satisfaction which I have felt at your prompt and successful efforts to put an immediate end to the insurrection which, unhappily, has recently occurred in Ceylon. But considering that so much objection has been taken on this occasion to your financial measures, and that memorials have been transmitted to me ascribing the outbreak to the just discontent those measures are said to have created, I consider it due to you to record more fully than I have yet done some of the general grounds on which I approve of those measures, and on which
 33
 MR. BAILLIE : No; he begged the hon. Gentleman's pardon, but he had not referred to him in particular. He had referred to some documents which the Colonial Office had presented to the House; but whether they were made up by the noble Lord at the head of the Colonial Office (Earl Grey), or by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hawes), or by one of the clerks of the Office, he had no means of knowing.
 MR. BAILLIE : Sir, I rise at once to ask you whether you consider the right hon. Gentleman in order in what he has now said? If you do, Sir, all I can say is that I don't; but if he be in order here, he is not elsewhere.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that the statement, in reply to the charge he had made, might be satisfactory so far as the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hawes was concerned; but it ought to be remembered that the paper in which this mistake appeared had been published for two months—and that it. must have been seen by all the officers of the Colonial department. He could only say that the statement of the hon. Gentleman had vindicated what he (Mr. Baillie) had said in the first instance.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that he must have been misunderstood. He said that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hawes) had vindicated his own character and the character of the Office; but he (Mr. Baillie) said that he was justified in what he had said; for, as the documents had been printed two
 95
 MR. KER SEYMER , with perfect sincerity, admired the spirit and ability with which the hon. and learned Serjeant had come forward as the advocate of his absent Friend. He (Mr. K. Seymer) had never seen Lord Torrington until he heard him in another place speak (and speak well too) in defence of his policy; and, therefore, if he had no personal feeling in favour of the noble Lord, he had none against, and he brought to the consideration of the ease at least as impartial a mind as the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down. The hon. and learned Serjeant began by warning the House against being led away by party feelings, as upon a question which might damage the Government; but he (Mr. K. Seymer) thought the hon. and learned Member might also claim exemption from party motives, as well as personal motives, since it was only the other night be had constrained his own feelings to vote against a Motion reflecting upon the Government, introduced into the discussion of a most important subject by the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Urquhart), because he thought that Motion did savour of party, and sought unfairly to censure the Government. The circumstances now, however, were certainly different. The House was invited to discuss the policy of
 60 61 62 63 64 "That this House, having taken into its consideration the evidence adduced before the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the affairs of Ceylon, is of opinion that the punishments inflicted during the late disturbances in that island were excessive and uncalled for." "The execution of eighteen persons, and the imprisonment, transportation, and corporal punishment of 140 other persons on this occasion, is at variance with the merciful administration of the British penal laws." 65 66
 MR. HERRIES  said, that after the display of warmth on both sides, he expected that so grave a personage as the hon. and learned Attorney General would have said something to assuage it, rather than vindicate all the warmth that had been exhibited on his own side. The hon. and learned Gentleman had spoken of notice; but no person in that House aware of the character of their proceedings would suppose it was incumbent on his hon. Friend (Mr. Baillie) to have given notice that in the course of the debate he might possibly introduce a charge of this nature. He lamented, however, that his hon. Friend was mistaken, as indeed he was mistaken, in the statement he had made. Undoubtedly there rested no blame on the Colonial Office. If any, it was in the corrector of the press. He thought the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had deviated from his usual course of forbearance, and to that he attributed much of the warmth that had been displayed.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that it was always with regret that he found himself op-posed to the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) on questions connected with our colonies. With him he had gone through so many battles in that House, in support of what he considered to be good government for the colonies, that he never doubted so much his own opinion as when it happened to be different from that entertained by the hon. Member. At first sight, therefore, he should have been inclined to assume that the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie) was right in the Motion which he had made. He (Mr. Roebuck) must confess that there were circumstances connected with the appointment of Lord Torrington as Governor of Ceylon which might almost induce any impartial person to view this case with some suspicion. It seemed as if, in that appointment, the principle which had influenced Governments in many other appointments had been acted upon—that the noble Lord was appointed not so much because he was the most efficient person, as because some persons regarded his appointment as one that pleased them best. These circumstances had given his mind a bias rather against the Government of the noble Lord than in favour of it. When, therefore, he came to the consideration of the subject in this frame of mind, he felt it his duty, after going carefully over the evidence, not only to the noble Lord who was the subject of this accusation, but to all future Governors of colonies, to express his opinion unreservedly in support of the noble Lord's administration. In the first place, he thought a great mistake had been made in reference to the Government of Ceylon by calling it a colony. Now, a colony it was not, in any proper sense of the term. A colony, in his conception of the term, was a country peopled, or about to be peopled, by emigrants from this country, or their descendants, who had taken out with them and adopted our habits, our laws, and our institutions. This was what he called a colony. But Ceylon was quite a different thing. It was an outlying possession of England, peopled with various races having fixed habits of their own, a religion to which they were attached differing very much from our own, and speaking languages entirely different—a possession which had been obtained by the sword, and which was retained by force. There was a broad distinction, therefore, in the rules
 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 Ironical cries of 76 pari passu 77 primâ facie 78 79 80 pour encourager les autres."
 MR. J. STUART : They are literally doing nothing at all.
 MR. J. STUART  begged to move an Address, praying for inquiry into the Practice and Proceedings in the High Court of
 99
 MR. HUME  said, his hon. and learned
 81 82 83 Minutes of Evidence "I may further state that I was in communication, not only with Mr. Staples, but with every officer in the Kandyan country, with the same view, namely, to obtain from them an expression of what their opinion was at the time, and how it has been confirmed by subsequent experience, as regards the danger which existed in 1848, and the success of the measures of the Government in averting that danger." "I have no hesitation in stating that these officers communicated with me before finally sending in their answers, what the tenor of those answers would be, and pretty much what the contents of them would be." 84 85 "I am bound to confess that difficulties have been experienced in carrying out its (the gun tax) details, which can be thoroughly appreciated only by those resident on the spot, and which have arisen in a great degree out of native habits and customs." "I candidly admit that the dog ordinance has not been successful, and I have recommended the repeal of the ordinance." "The annual shop license has been the cause of much complaint, and frequent petitions have been presented against it." "An important departure from the principle of the original Bill (the Road Ordinance) to prevent the Government being compelled to force the Buddhist priests to violate their religious vows." 86 "July 27, 1848. "My dear Bernard—In writing yesterday evening I forgot to mention that I did so at Locko Banda's express desire, as otherwise I should not have thought it worth while troubling you with it, for my own impression is, that it is nothing more than a few villagers, with a small crowd of about sixty fools, who might have collected; and, as far as I can learn, they take very good care not to commit any offence which would bring them under the law. I understand they are going on a pilgrimage to Anaradgapoora. I have not heard from Locko Banda yet, but expect a line to-night. If I do I will add in a P. S. "P.S.—I enclose Locko Banda's report. It is such as I expected; the thousands are reduced to
 87 "Note—Subsequent information has proved this to be correct, and that at this time only about seventy persons were collected at Dambool." "Kandy, July 25, 1848. "Dear Sir—Several reports were this morning sent to Kandy, both to me as well as the Government agent, stating that a great number of people are assembled with swords and firearms at Matelle, between Dambool and Nalande, for the purpose of creating alarm. That after some consultation with the Government agent and the district Judge just now, we have come to the resolution of keeping quite quiet about it, until they (the mob assembled) should commit some disturbance, so as to enable the authorities to bring them to justice. As I have already observed in my former correspondence, it is so now, my humble opinion, that one-half of these reports are unfounded: however, it would be advisable that we be always on the look-out, as I have reason to believe that some prisoners, who were either acquitted, or absconded from the public gaols, are, by joining with some low country Cingalese and desperate Kandyans, now disturbing the villagers.—I remain, & c. "D. L. BANDA. "W. D. Bernard, Esq., Colombo." 88 "Very well. The general and I have settled that martial law is to be proclaimed, we have settled it at breakfast; we do not want your reasoning; sit down and draw up a proclamation." 89 Cries of 90 91 92
 MR. HUME  would admit that the hon. Member was not a bulldog or a terrier—but he had considered that he had been put forward by some third parties. But to resume. The noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs rose when he (Mr. Hume) was prepared to go on with his Motion, and submitted to him whether it would not be a matter of simple justice to the individual chiefly concerned to postpone his Motion until that individual had himself arrived in the country, being then, as the noble Lord believed, at Malta. On the following day he wrote to Lord Tor-rington—[ a laugh "Having, at your request, postponed the Mo-
 5 "When I stood first for the Motion for inquiry into the conduct of Sir James Brooke and the massacre of the 31st of July, 1849, and that nothing fairly could interfere to prevent my proceeding with the discussion, you requested me to postpone the Motion until Sir James Brooke should arrive in England. I agreed to your request in the House, stating that I desired you should have every possible information; and now that Sir James Brooke is in England, I request you will make an arrangement with Lord John Russell to enable me to obtain a time for proceeding with my Motion, as the days for notices are now so taken up by Government that I have little chance of getting the discussion before the House for a long time without your assistance; and I submit to you that a charge so grave, both as respects the character of Sir James Brooke and of this country, ought not to be allowed to hang over his head. Any day that you can procure will suit me; but the importance of the subject requires that I should make my statement at five o'clock, in order to allow of a fair discussion. Your candid and fair conduct entitle me to expect your assistance and attention without delay, and I shall await your answer with anxiety." 6
 MR. HUME  denied that be had withdrawn his Motion. Since February last he had balloted five or six times for an opportunity to bring it on, and being on one occasion successful, he came down to the House prepared to do so, when the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs—and here he would request hon. Members to make themselves masters of any question they were about to ask, instead of allowing themselves to he put forward as the terriers or bulldogs of others behind the scenes. [ Loud cries of
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baillie) had stated that he had a direct charge either against his (Sir George Grey's) hon. Friend (Mr. Hawes), or against the head of that department, or some of the subordinates; and then he said, what a department this must be to allow the falsification of documents by an officer! The hon. Gentleman's attention had clearly been long directed to this error in the printed papers. Yet he did not take the trouble to inquire, where he might have obtained information, but he reserved it in order to make an impression upon the House. He blushed for the House of Commons, that it had a Member who would attempt, after the satisfactory explanation that had been given to justify the statement that he had previously made.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that no charge was made against the Colonial Office, that that charge was without foundation, and that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baillie) was wholly mistaken in preferring that charge, he had no hesitation whatever in expressing his regret at having used an expression that could be in the least degree personally offensive to the hon. Gentleman.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had no desire to say any thing personally offensive to the hon. Member, and would not repeat the word "blush;" but he must repeat his regret that an hon. Member of that House should make a charge against another of falsifying a public document without first making the inquiry he might and ought to have done; and that he should, after the matter had been proved to have been a mistake, come forward and vindicate his statement.
 SIR JAMES HOGG  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  seconded the Motion with great pleasure, because he hoped that the result of the labours of the present Commission would be to remove to a great extent the monster abuses of the Court of Chancery.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down must have had his mind so intently fixed upon the subject of debate, that he could not attend to the explanations which had passed recently on this particular point. The hon. Member said the whole matter was chargeable upon the Colonial Office, whereas the Colonial Office happened to be the department entirely blameless in the matter. His hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies had satisfactorily explained that the Colonial Office was quite blameless in the matter, and had had nothing to do with it from the beginning to the end. An error had been committed, which the hon. Member for Inverness-shire had, he presumed, only perceived that morning, and which might have misled him, were it not that he had himself been Chairman of the Committee. The error arose from this fact, that there was a difference between the written paper which was given to the Committee, and the printed copy of the same document as inserted in the Minutes. If the written paper had been given in by the Colonial Office, even in that case the Colonial Office would have come off blamelessly, for the written paper was correct. But the paper, in point of fact, was not given in from the Colonial Office, and, therefore, if it had been wrong, the Colonial Office would not have been to blame. Both
 96
 MR. FITZROY  would move, by way of amendment, that a Select Committee be appointed to consider the state of the law and practice as regarded coroners' inquests, and particularly whether it would be of advantage to transfer the whole or any portion of the duties now discharged by the coroners to any other persons. He was of opinion that the mode proposed by the noble Lord (Lord Harry Vane), of remunerating coroners by fixed salaries instead of by foes, would not tend to advance the ends of justice. The very large amount of charge which had been thrown on the ratepayers of Middlesex particularly, in consequence of the immense number of coroners' inquests which were held from time to time within the county, had induced the ratepayers to memorialise the magistrates on the subject. An immense increase had taken place in the charge for holding inquests in the county of Middlesex during the twenty years between 1828 and 1848. In 1828 the sum amounted to 1,284 l., l. 102 l. l. s. d. v. 103
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  moved, as an Amendment—
 "In page 4, line 42, after the word 'payments,' to insert the words, 'And the Auditors shall, in like manner, once at least in every year, require to be produced to them accounts of every sum of money paid to any engineer employed upon the Line of Railway and works of each Company, and also of every account due by the Company for any work done upon such railway; and it shall be lawful for the Auditors, if they shall think fit, to refer all such accounts, whether paid or unpaid, to some competent person to examine the same, and to report to the Auditors upon the charges in such accounts, and as to the expediency of submitting the same to the decision of a competent court.'"
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  had stated the other day that he objected to the principle of the Bill, as tending to drive out fit persons from the direction of railway companies, by establishing an  imperium in imperio.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  was ready to yield to the superior judgment of the hon. Members who had objected to the form of the Amendment, and was ready to make such alteration in it as would meet their views, and at the same time answer his purpose. He would therefore omit the last word of the Amendment.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, his interpretation of it was, that the accounts should be referred to such persons as the auditors should consider competent.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, the auditors could not be limited to unpaid accounts, but they would pass an opinion on examining the paid accounts as to the propriety of the course the directors had taken.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, that the Amendment was not his, but had been drawn up with great care by a person of considerable experience in these matters.
 MR. T. EGERTON  would support the Motion of the hon. Member for South Leicestershire (Mr. Packe), because he thought it was of no use to attempt to carry a Bill the very first clause of which was declared to be perfectly inefficacious.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  thought he was not open to the charges that had been made against him. He had stated frankly that he had voted against the second reading of the Bill—that he thought it would be better to leave railway companies to settle their own affairs for the next year or two, without any interference of the Legislature—that while he would not oppose endeavours to render the Bill efficient, he did not give up his opinion against the measure—and that he intended to vote against it, should it reach the third reading. He had no personal interest in this matter, for he was only connected with one company, and it was the practice of that company to employ two of the most eminent accountants, entirely unconnected with the company, who had access to the accounts every month.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he and his hon. Friend (Mr. Fitzroy) were perfectly ready to admit of any alterations which should best meet the objection, that the Bill would encourage negligence on the part of coroners. As to another point, it had been stated by the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department on a former occasion, that great injustice would accrue to certain coroners by commuting their fees to an average of five years. He and his hon. Friend had endeavoured to meet that by introducing words giving magistrates a certain discretion, and not absolutely binding them down to that average; but, as a matter of detail, they would be happy to admit of any alteration which should place all the coroners in the United Kingdom on a more equal footing. At present he proposed to postpone the second reading to a future day, that the hon. Mover of the Amendment (Mr. Fitzroy) might name his Committee.
 LORD HARRY VANE,  in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said that it was identical with the Bill of last year, the principle of which had received the sanction of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary and a large number of the Members of that House. The principle of the Bill was the payment of coroners by fixed salaries, instead of by fees as at present. There was a popular feeling that coroners' inquests were unnecessary; but he thought the House had evidence before it to show that some jurisdiction of the kind exercised by coroners was essentially requisite. The Amendment which the hon. Member for Lewes (Mr. Fitzroy) meant to propose, would have the effect of substituting some other jurisdiction for that which now existed; in other words, the hon. Member meant to transfer that jurisdiction to the magistrates. To such a course he (Lord Harry Vane) should have the greatest possible objection, for he thought it would be in the highest degree injurious to the public interests involved in this question. At the same time he was desirous of putting an end to the squabbles which frequently occurred between coroners and magistrates, and he thought that that object would be in a great measure attained by remunerating coroners by fixed salaries instead of fees, as contemplated by this Bill. In Cumberland, Staffordshire, and Norfolk,
 101
 MR. PACKE,  notwithstanding what he had heard, would persist in his Amendment, which he thought would have the effect of saving the time of the Committee.
 MR. PACKE  said, he thought the Bill was a series of inconsistencies. He should therefore move that the Chairman leave the Chair.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  said, the whole policy of a railroad was a pecuniary transaction, and therefore if they allowed auditors to interfere in pecuniary transactions, they allowed them to interfere with the policy of the whole line, and made them superior in every respect to the directors.
 124
 MR. E. B. DENISON  said, that the hon. Member for Finsbury treated the subject as if he supposed a desire prevailed to get rid of the office of coroner. On that point, however, he was entirely mistaken. The coroner's was an ancient office—more ancient than that of justice of the peace. It was, likewise, a most useful office, and the magistrates were anxious that it should be made efficient for the public service, as well as remunerative to
 109 110
 MR. E. B. DENISON  thought there wore so many objections to the Bill itself, that if by any means he could get it rejected, he would adopt that course, and, therefore, he should not object to the introduction of these words, because their introduction would make the Bill more objectionable than it was before.
 MR. E. B. DENISON  said, that though he was a member of the deputation to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred, he had to learn that, though he was a party to the promise, he was bound to subscribe to any Bill on the subject that might be brought before that House. This Bill had been under discussion several times; but no one Member had had the courage to express his unqualified approval of any one of its clauses. He was most anxious for an efficient audit of railway accounts; but, as a Member of that House, he reserved to himself the right of discussing any Bill that might be proposed with the object of imposing restriction.
 MR. MOWATT  believed, as far as he could understand, that no objection was made to the principle of this Bill, except
 118 employés
 MR. GLYN  thought the addition to the clause would, in point of fact, stop the progress of all railways. He was inclined to think that the Bill, as a whole, would work well for railway companies, in providing
 114
 MR. GLYN  was free to confess that he had been much surprised at the course taken with respect to this Bill by Gentlemen connected with the direction of railways. He had himself been compelled to
 125 bonâ fide
 MR. MUNTZ  said, the question was, whether the measure was for the good of society or not? Now, he entirely disapproved of the principle of the measure. He did not see why railway people were to be placed in a different situation from any other people. If they passed this Bill, why should Parliament not also provide for auditing the accounts of canal companies, of gas companies, and, indeed, the accounts of every man, if he could not or would not audit them himself? He was not a director, and he did not wish to be a director, of any railway company, and therefore he was not at all personally interested in this subject; but he thought this Bill was an attempt to do what never could be done by Parliament, to the satisfaction either of the shareholders or the public. If the shareholders were too idle and indolent to look to their own affairs, let them pay for the consequences. He would, on these grounds, vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Packe).
 MR. AGLIONBY  hoped the hon. Member for South Leicestershire would not press his Amendment. He thought if it was determined to throw out the Bill, it ought to be done in another manner, and one more worthy the Committee, and the hon. Member.
 MR. AGLIONBY  supported the retention of the words, with the insertion of the word "pecuniary." If they decided to strike out the words, they would afterwards find that it was necessary to reinsert them with the addition of the word "pecuniary." Without the word "pecuniary" the clause might make the powers of the auditors too extensive. He deprecated the course pursued by some hon. Members in the last division, who had voted for the purpose of making the clause bad in order that they might throw out the Bill altogether. It was not a fair way of proceeding.
 MR. AGLIONBY  would recommend the hon. Member who had moved the Amendment not to make any distinction between engineers and others.
 MR. AGLIONBY  considered that the Amendment, as now amended, was an improvement on the clause, and afforded additional protection to the shareholders
 120
 MR. AGLIONBY  doubted whether the Bill was not a very cumbrous and complicated piece of machinery; but having great confidence in the railway experience of the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Locke), he was ready to accept it. His only complaint was, that it did not go far enough— that the Bill did not protect the public. He did not see how this particular Amendment could be carried out. It would have the effect of involving railway shareholders in unnecessary disputes in courts of law. They should do them justice at all events, and keep them out of courts of law and equity if they could. If, when railway directors had paid an engineer's account, that account was reopened and referred to a legal tribunal, they would inflict upon the company most painful litigation and expense.
 MR. AGLIONBY  dissented from the reflections cast by the hon. Member for Finsbury on the Government and magistracy of the country. The question was simply this—whether the House would now decide upon the principle of the Bill, or would they adopt the recommendation of referring the whole question to a Select Committee. He contended that no possible advantage could arise from referring it to a Committee; and that the House was quite as competent now to decide the question of fees or salaries as any Committee could possibly be. Nobody doubted the fact that there might have been cases in which unnecessary inquests were held; but then occasionally coroners had not held inquests which were necessary. He thought the objection to the payment of coroners by fees invalid. If they were paid by salaries they would become idle, whereas if they were paid by fees their vigilance would be manifested.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  had, on a former occasion, stated to the House that, although he did not think the Bill was framed on the principle which he thought most advisable to adopt for the audit of railway accounts, he was disposed to think it would effect a considerable improvement in the present system of audit. He was glad to hear that his hon. Friend the Chairman of the London and North Western Railway (Mr. Glyn), who was justly considered to be the highest authority in railway matters, was of opinion that this would be an improvement on the existing system. That being the case, it was his (Mr. Labouchere's) duty, in taking part in the discussion, not to put forward the opinions he individually held as to the best mode of dealing with the question. He admitted that it was a very difficult question to deal with; but, thinking that the Bill was framed
 115
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he could not see that there was that great difficulty which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) supposed. The auditors would be enabled to represent the matter to the shareholders, if they conceived an examination of the accounts expedient, and, after being examined, the shareholders would know whether there was  primâ facie 117
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that he had not introduced the Bill. At the same time, believing that it would produce a certain amount of improvement, although not such as he should have introduced on the part of the Government, he thought it due to his hon. Friend (Mr. Locke) who brought it forward, and to whom the House was much indebted for it, to attend in his place and give him the best assistance in his power. His hon. Friend the Member for St. Andrews (Mr. Edward Ellice) had proposed an Amendment to place lawyers and engineers in the same situation; and, after having listened to the objections that had been made to it, he could not say it appeared to him to be of so unworkable a description as might be supposed from those objections. If the Committee divided on the subject, he would support the Amendment, seeing that it was in his estimation quite a reasonable proposal.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  regretted that the hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Bill should have assented to the Amendment. He would not bring any sweeping charge against railway directors, who were, generally speaking, men of integrity; but any system of audit must rest upon suspicion of misconduct, and if there were to be a real check, they ought to examine into "transactions," as well as "accounts." In a railway where there was a Government auditor, it turned out that a most improper contract for iron had been entered into by the directors. The efficiency of the Bill would be much impaired by this Amendment, and deprive the auditors of a most useful power of scrutiny.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  defended the course he had taken, and thought, considering the tone and temper in which these subjects were treated by the Committee, there was no encouragement for the Government to introduce such a measure. He had considered, upon the whole, that the Bill was an improvement on the present system, and had therefore given it his support.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  hoped the Committee would not agree to the Amendment, which would have the effect of disposing of the Bill in a very summary manner. He believed one result of the discussion which had taken place on this subject would be, that the Committee and the public would see how vain it was to expect that any great alteration in the system of audit of railway accounts would emanate from the directors themselves. The conduct of the Government had been arraigned in no very measured language, on the ground that they had not brought forward some measure on this subject; but he might remind the Committee that a very numerous deputation of railway directors, who had, on a former occasion, waited upon the noble Lord at the head of the Government, urging him to withdraw a Bill introduced by the Government relating to the audit of railway accounts, pledged themselves that in the ensuing Session of Parliament, a measure for improving the system of railway audits should be submitted to Parliament on their behalf. He rejoiced to hear that statement; but no such measure had been brought forward, and he had no doubt the Gentlemen who contemplated the task, found that they had great difficulties to encounter from the proprietors. He would certainly prefer seeing any measure on this subject proceed from the railway directors themselves; but he thought the discussions that had taken place must convince the public how hopeless it was to expect a measure to emanate from that quarter.
 MR. H. BROWN  must remind the Committee that the Bill was not for the purpose of auditing the policy of railway boards, but for the audit of railway accounts. He could see no reason why the clause should be left so open that an auditor might have power to interfere regarding transactions pending in the board of direction.
 MR. H. BROWN  proposed in the same clause the following Amendment:—In line 8, after the word "payment," to strike out "or transaction, whether pending or completed."
 MR. H. BROWN  disclaimed the intention of imputing unworthy conduct to railway directors, but thought it could not be denied that they did some things in their capacity of directors which they would shrink from doing as private individuals. The Committee had now an opportunity of saying whether there should be an intelligible audit of railway accounts, for it was proposed to give the auditors the power to inquire into every item which was paid. The Bill afforded greater facilities for a good audit than could be attained by the Companies Clauses Consolidation Act.
 MR. H. BROWN  wished to know if it was not patent to the world that the malpractices in the accounts had destroyed one-half the marketable value of railway property? Whatever might be the fate of the Bill, he rejoiced in the circumstance that the public would know by the division who were the faithful trustees of the interest of railway proprietors.
 MR. J. ELLIS  did not agree with his Friend and Colleague of the North-Western Railway (Mr. Glyn), that any good would be derived from this Bill. He believed the less they had of it the better, and he should do his best to destroy it. Undoubtedly there would be some ground for legislation if railway companies could not take care of themselves; but that was a proposition he was prepared to deny.
 MR. J. EVANS  wished to know who
 119
 MR. J. EVANS  believed that no one wished to disparage the office of coroner, for those who were acquainted with the manufacturing districts where burial societies existed were convinced that the number of inquests were not too many. A circumstance was related to him by an hon. Friend not then in the House, the Chairman of the Manchester Quarter Sessions, of a person, by means of a coroner's inquest,
 111
 MR. REYNOLDS  admitted that the law as to coroners required considerable revi-
 113
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  did not really understand what the Amendment now before them was. The clause, and particularly this part of it, ought to be taken not by itself, but with the whole Bill, and then the extraordinary complication of the machinery would be seen. First, the accounts were to be kept by the directors in a particular form; then the accounts were to be overhauled by auditors appointed by the shareholders. Then an accountant was to be employed who was to report to the auditors, who were to report to the directors, who were to report to the shareholders. But that was not all. After this there were twenty shareholders to examine the accounts again, who were to have the power of calling in special auditors, and they were to have all the powers of the former auditors. Where was all this to stop? When hon. Gentlemen said they wished shareholders to understand how their money was disposed of, they should take care they did not make a double mystification of the accounts by these various processes, and get them into an inextricable complication of knots which no man could disentangle. This clause would just enable such directors as were disposed to be rogues to be greater rogues than they had been. He could not let this opportunity pass without protesting against legislation which proceeded entirely on the assumption that all directors of companies were laying their heads together to plunder the shareholders.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  thought that among the various difficulties which the Committee had to contend with on this somewhat difficult subject, the greatest was to ascertain what the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade thought about it. On the last occasion when the measure was discussed, he understood that the right hon. Gentleman, though he voted for going into Committee upon it, was very much opposed to the Bill, and thought it would by no means work well. Now he (Mr. Ricardo) believed that no alteration had been made in the Bill, with respect to which the right hon. Gentleman now seemed to entertain so much more favourable an opinion; and he confessed, that when he heard the right hon. Gentleman saying that he suspected the hon. Member for Kendal (Mr. Glyn) wished to have an Audit Bill which should be no Audit Bill after all, he (Mr. Ricardo) could not help suspecting also that the right hon. Gentleman, believing it to be his duty to produce an Audit Bill, and finding it rather a difficult matter, was glad to see the question shelved by the Bill before the House. There was an Audit Bill already in existence. Had the right
 116
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, that by the Companies Clauses Consolidation Act the acccounts wore open for inspection a fortnight before and a month after the balance.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  thought the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman a strange one. He gave his support to a Bill which he admitted would now by this Amendment be deprived of a most desirable provision. It was a most extraordinary declaration for a Member of the Government; and for his (Mr. Ricardo's) own part, he would suggest a postponement of the clause, so that the whole measure might be revised, and that proper powers of audit might be conferred.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, that the insertion of the word "pecuniary" would leave the clause quite as vague and indefinite as it stood at present.
 MR. HENLEY : The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) said, the Amend-
 123
 MR. HENLEY  did not see how the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Locke) could accede to an Amendment which he deemed wholly inconsistent with the Bill. The hon. Member said the Amendment was inconsistent with the Bill, and yet he wished to have it. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) had said that he did not approve of the Bill, and yet he wished to have the Bill.
 MR. HENLEY  thought that equal power should be given for inquiring into all the transactions of engineers as well as others, whether paid or unpaid.
 MR. HENLEY  wished to know how they could put the engineers on the same footing as the solicitors, without establishing a taxing office for engineers similar to that which existed for solicitors. The Amendment merely gave a power to the auditors to refer the accounts of engineers to some person to examine, and report as to whether it was expedient to submit the same to the decision of some competent court; in other words, it referred the Bills to somebody else, who was to look into them, and, if fit, to tell them that they might go to law.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the general power to inquire into sums received or expended by the directors would include sums paid to the engineer as well as anybody else. They were about to give a special remedy, and the special remedy was to be referred to the decision of a competent court. The more simple course would be for the directors to refuse payment of unreasonable demands, and allow engineers, like other parties, to bring actions for the amount. The Bill professed also to deal with moneys already paid; but if the engineers had the money he should like to know how they were to set about getting it back again?
 MR. HENLEY  said, the Amendment proposed that the bills of the engineers should be looked into after the money was paid, while the bills of the solicitors were to be taxed before payment. He thought they should both be placed on the same footing, and that both sets of the bills should be examined before payment.
 MR. HENLEY  would not pledge himself either to the principle of salary or that of fees, until he saw the report of the Committee.
 MR. LOCKE  would not object to the insertion of the words.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that after an hour and a half's discussion it would appear that they had been debating on an Amendment which was not in exact accordance with the principle of the Bill. The Bill itself contemplated a continuous audit, and the Amendment began by stating that auditors once in every year, at least, should require the production of accounts. He would not oppose the Amendment, seeing that it touched on the question of engineers; but he held it to be quite inconsistent with the principle on which the Bill was framed.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that what he had said was, that the Amendment was inconsistent with the principle of the Bill, because the Bill provided for a continuous audit. It would have seemed invidious in him to have refused assent to the Amendment, as he would then have been in the position of opposing the application of its provisions to engineers.
 MR. LOCKE  assented to the Amendment.
 MR. LOCKE  wished to point out to the Committee that the adoption of this Amendment would place him in a position of peculiar hardship. It might be very well for Gentlemen connected with the director interest to oppose this Railway Audit Bill, independently introduced, on the allegation that a Railway Audit Bill ought to be introduced by the Government; but let the Committee call to mind that when the Government did propose a Railway Audit Bill, these very directors went up in deputation to the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) and induced him to withdraw the measure, on their promise to bring in an effective Bill of their own; and they did, indeed, after a time, frame a measure, but a measure so totally inadequate to the just requirements of the general railway proprietary, that they were fain to withdraw it, and to leave the matter in the hands of the shareholders themselves. The shareholders, accordingly, did frame a measure— that now before the Committee; and what was the course of the director interest in that House? Why, to oppose the very measure which they themselves had been, of mere shame, fain to recommend to the shareholders the preparation of. The grand principle with the director interest was to oppose every Railway Audit Bill, by whomsoever brought in; if an independent measure, they opposed it on the pretext that it was not a Government measure; and, if a Government measure, they opposed it on the pretext that it was not an independent measure. Of this railway shareholders might rest assured—that, until some effective Railway Audit Bill was enacted, they could rely upon no constantly vigilant and equitable administration of their affairs.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  seconded the Motion. He considered it desirable that coroners and all other public servants
 104
 MR. SOTHERON  said, nothing could be more desirable than to inquire into all the points the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Fitzroy) had referred to, but he objected to found so wide a superstructure upon so narrow a basis. The hon. Gentleman ought to have done cither of two things. He should have made a substantive proposition to refer all these matters to the consideration of a Select Committee, or he should have introduced a Bill of his own, instead of moving that this Bill should be referred to a Select Committee. The Bill was not got up for the benefit of coroners, but he thought that the payment of those functionaries by salaries would render them more independent in the discharge of very important duties. Looking at the gradual mode in which the fees allowed to coroners were increased, he considered, in point of money, the coroners would be losers by the adoption of payment by salaries. As guardians of the public purse, then, he was in favour of the proposed Bill; and it would be a far better plan for the House to assent to it, and also to assent to the appointment of a Select Committee.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, it was the peculiar habit of the remarkably strong Government which existed at present to aid its friends whenever it had an opportunity. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had expressed his approval of the principle of the Bill last year; and now, because a constant, faithful, and determined opponent of the Government to which the right hon. Gentleman belonged, brought forward a Motion opposed to that principle, the right hon. Gentleman, consistently with the practice of the Whig Administration, yielded to the views of his enemy, and forsook his own principle in order to do injustice to his friends. The right hon. Gentleman was the Minister of Justice, and the coroners had a right to expect support from him in the discharge of their functions. The functions of coroners were important; and if they could not be allowed to act independently, the sooner the office was abolished the better, as a public nuisance, which one of the county
 106 107 post mortem
 MR. CHAPLIN  found it acknowledged that there should be a competent body to look after the solicitor's accounts; and that being admitted, it was only fair that the engineers should be subject to the same treatment. It was the practice where differences arose between contractors and companies that the whole matter should be placed in the hands of the engineer. He was anxious to relieve the engineers from such responsibility, and it was, therefore, requisite that they should
 121
 MR. EWART  admitted, with the hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), that the words "pending or complete" were governed by the word "payments," as well as the word "transactions," and therefore, that if the Amendment were agreed to, the auditors would not have the power to inquire into payments which had not been actually made. He suggested that the words should be retained, and that, to meet objections of hon. Members, the word "pecuniary" should be inserted before "transactions."
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  stated that his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) informed him that out of 7,000 inquests he had held, only thirty had been disallowed. He (Mr. Williams) had heard that the highest compliments were paid the hon. Member by the magistrates, not only with regard to the charges, but also with regard to the necessity of holding inquests. He ventured to say that the office of coroner was held in as much veneration as any of the ancient offices, and, elected as they were generally by the votes of the county freeholders, he did not see any necessity for sending before a Select Committee the question of withdrawing and transferring the duties of coroners to some other persons. He hoped the House would not sanction such an alteration, for a proposition more unpopular to the people out of doors could not be submitted. The only question was, whether coroners should be paid by salary, or continue to be paid by fees. He believed the payment by salary was the best mode —that great improvement in the working of the system would be thereby effected, and therefore he should support the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought the Amendment ought to have remained unaltered.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that a similar Bill to this was read a second time last year on the distinct understanding that it should not proceed further during that Session, especially after the very strong arguments which had been urged against its practical operation. Now, he was much in favour of the principle of payment by salaries, which he considered a sound principle; but the House should consider whether they had sufficient securities that those salaries would be in proportion to the duties discharged; and they should also take due care that they had sufficient securities for the due performance of those duties. The Bill before them did not provide for either of these objects. Under the existing law the magistrates had the power of deciding what inquests were duly held, and different rules were laid down in different counties. In some, the coroners had been deprived of fair and adequate remuneration, and in other cases coroners had received very large fees for performing very little duty. Now the present Bill proposed to stereotype that injustice by declaring that the present emoluments should be convert-
 105
 SIR GEORGE STRICKLAND  said, that the country was indebted to coroners for preventing many dreadful outrages which had been committed from passing without inquiry. It was very desirable that the office of coroner should be preserved nearly as much as possible in its present shape. He was opposed to the Amendment, because he thought a Select Committee was entirely unnecessary. The subject had been investigated over and over again. In 1840 it had been referred to a Select Committee, and then received an ample and a full consideration. He was opposed to the present passionate feeling which had evinced itself against trial by jury, which he considered one of the dearest privileges of this nation. The appointment of a Select Committee now, would only have the effect of deferring and swamping the Bill; and, if the Committee was to make a sweeping inquiry into the whole institution of coroners, it would certainly put off the measure for many a Session to come.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  thought it his duty to vote for the second reading of the Bill; but, as far as he was able to follow the debate, it did not appear that the two parties who were about to divide were really at issue. The question was, would the House allow the Bill to go to a second reading? The answer of his hon. Friend near him (Mr. Fitzroy) was, "No; he did not like to have the Bill read a second time; he would rather have a Committee on the whole subject." If a Committee on the whole subject was necessary, by all means have it. But his impression was, that if they passed this Bill, the existence of complaints would soon cease, and general inquiries would not be necessary. It was now a subject of general complaint throughout the country that coroners' inquests were increasing, and unnecessary inquests were held. He meant no disrespect to the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Wakley) and those who acted as coroners in England; but he believed that unnecessary inquests were held, and that a very great temptation to holding unnecessary inquests was the payment by fees. He was glad to see the principle of payment by salary adopted. Adopting that principle, only two points remained to be guarded against. One was met by the second clause, as to the proper regulation of the salary; and he submitted that that
 112
 SIN JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that everything which the hon. Member (Mr. Wakley) had urged, convinced him of the necessity of referring the Bill to the con-
 108
 MR. PETO  considered that the railway directors who were opposing this Bill deserved, at the hands of the Government, the most stringent measure that could be devised. They had heard a great deal of the impolicy and impropriety of appointing auditors who might control the directors; but he felt that till auditors were placed in a proper position, no railway property in this country would be safe, nor would it assume that position as an investment which it intrinsically deserved. He was the chairman of two railway companies, and there was no act of his own or his colleagues which he was not prepared to submit to the most searching examination at the hands of any auditors, honourable and high-minded men, whom the proprietary might appoint. If any other than honourable and high-minded men were appointed to such an office, he would at once withdraw from the company, believing that the fact of such an appointment would show that he was no longer entitled to the confidence of the proprietary. He regretted that the whole day had been wasted in discussion as to proceeding with this Bill; but he thought that waste was to be attributed, not to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Locke), who brought in the Bill, but to the hon. Member for St. Andrews (Mr. Edward Ellice), and those who had acted
 126
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, that if the word "transaction" remained in the Bill, it ought to be called not a Bill for the audit of railway accounts, but for the control of the conduct of railway directors. If directors were not trustworthy, dismiss them; but if they were, let them not be treated as objects of suspicion, and their actions embarrassed by the proceedings of another board.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was not without considerable reluctance that he intruded himself upon the House at so late an hour. It was somewhat difficult to know what were the precise grounds on which this accusation against Lord Torrington and Earl Grey was founded. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) got up at almost the close of this night's debate, and began by shifting entirely the ground which had been taken by every previous speaker. That was not the first time that he had seen the right hon. Gentleman take part in a debate in which the personal character and conduct of a man was involved; and he (the Attorney General) was perfectly prepared for the course which had been taken by the right hon. Gentleman. After the House had heard the grounds on which this Motion was supposed to rest gone over and over again, and after the two hours' speech of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon (Sir Frederic Thesiger), and the declaration of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), who affirmed his belief that there had been no rebellion whatever, and consequently no necessity for the proclamation of martial law, he (the Attorney General) was certainly surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) concede the fact of the rebellion, and admit the propriety of martial law, though he said that martial law had been continued too long, and that the punishment had been excessively severe. He (the Attorney General) contended that the Government had fairly beaten the right hon. Gentlemen and those who acted with them from the first point in the Resolution. It had been said again and again in the course of this debate that this was a judicial inquiry. There could be no earthly doubt on that subject. Here was a Motion which involved a grave accusation against two public men, charging the one with having caused, and the other with having sanctioned and approved of, a reckless sacrifice of human life. It was scarcely possible to conceive a more serious accusation than to brand those two public men with the stigma of indelible reproach, and to hold them up to public execration. It, therefore, was a matter of judicial inquiry. But what did they mean by judicial inquiry? Did they mean that they were to bring to it calm and dispassionate minds—that it was an
 221 Cries of 222 223 "We beg to express to your Excellency our satisfaction at the speedy and successful suppression of the insurrection which has taken place in some districts of the interior, and which we feel ourselves indebted to the prompt declaration of martial law, and the zealous and able exertions made by the officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates of Her Majesty's forces serving in the colony. We fully participate in your Excellency's earnest desire for the speedy termination of martial law, and we shall be ready to give our best attention to the Bill of Indemnity proposed to be laid before us." "September 10, 1849. "The Council have received with much satisfaction your Excellency's announcement of the continuance of tranquillity throughout the island, which they believe to be mainly attributable to the energetic and prudent measures adopted by your Excellency during and after the disturbances in 1848. We are further gratified to find that the efforts of your Excellency's Government to promote the welfare of the people are better appreciated, and that your endeavours to develop the resources of the island have been so successful," &c. 224 225 226 227 228 229 l. 230 231 "I have also to express my sense of the success with which your Lordship has laboured to maintain the public peace since the suppression of the insurrection in the year 1848, and my conviction, which remains unshaken by all that has been alleged against you, that your measures upon that unfortunate occasion were dictated solely by your opinion, founded on the best information within your reach, and supported by the judgment of those whom it was your duty to consult, that the steps which you then took were indispensable for the prompt suppression of the disturbances, and for the security of the lives and property of Her Majesty's peaceable and loyal subjects in the districts where those disturbances had broken out." 232 exparte "I beg to call your Lordship's attention to a paragraph in the speech of Mr. Hume, as published in the  Morning Chronicle 233
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that having served two Sessions on the Ceylon Committee—having attended unremittingly to the business before it to the extent of having been absent, he believed, on only two or three occasions, from the commencement to the close of the inquiry—and it being, moreover, his misfortune not to agree with
 234 235 236
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, as few Members of the Government have addressed the House during this long discussion, I feel that I cannot allow the Debate to close without explaining shortly the views which Government have taken of the conduct of Lord Torrington in Ceylon, and of the Motion of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baillie). Now, Sir, in so doing it will not be necessary for me to go through those points which have been argued with great ability, on the one side or the other, with respect to particular acts of Lord Torrington; but there are two hon. Members who have taken part in this debate on the other side of the House, who have narrowed this question to points of great magnitude indeed, but which may be brought into a very small compass. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Ker Seymer) said on Tuesday night that if the Government, instead of recalling Lord Torrington on the ground of his inability to keep harmony among the official servants of the Crown in Ceylon, had recalled him with an expression of disapprobation of the continuance of martial law, and of the number of executions which had taken place, that he should have been satisfied, and he should not have concurred in any Motion like the present. The right hon. Gentleman the Member, for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), in speaking tonight, has said that he is willing to admit, as I understand him, that there was an insurrection in Ceylon, that 10,000 men were in arms against the Queen's Government and the Queen's authority, attempt-
 237 l. 238 239 240 "I concur in your Lordship's opinion that it is necessary to punish with severity the leaders and promoters of this insurrection, which will prove the most merciful course in the end. But whilst
 241 242 243
 MR. DISRAELI : I admire, Sir, the statesmanlike spirit of the First Minister of the Crown, who feels it to be his paramount duty to support the representatives of the Sovereign in the exercise of their duties in distant dependencies. I admire the Minister of this country, who is determined not to sacrifice a Governor to public clamour; but that being the feeling—the conscientious conviction—of the noble Lord, I may be permitted to ask him why he yielded to the clamour he so much deprecates and denounces, and why he so easily granted the Committee, whose protracted investigation he now finds it convenient to criticise? I ask the House to remember (indeed it is impossible to forget, for the sounds are still ringing in our ears) the character of Lord Torrington as just now not only sketched but coloured by the First Minister of the Crown. Why, it is the character of a perfect Governor—of an administrator who perfectly accomplished the highest duties under circumstances the most difficult. He found a deficient revenue—he leaves an ample surplus. He encountered a terrible rebellion—he delivers to his successor a peaceful community. And this is the Governor whom—at the very first moment when a murmur is heard against his administration in this House—the same Minister we have just heard lauding him, feebly defends, and then ignominiously deserts! The noble Lord, after all the remarkable circumstances connected with this inquiry, seems to think, too, that he is to escape from all the merits of the case, by delivering some abstractions like those contained in the paragraph of Lord Grey's despatch, which he blames my hon. Friend for not quoting, but which I think he shewed good sense in omitting, and not wasting the time of the House in requiring them to listen to pretty commonplaces. The noble Lord, instead of entering into the merits of the case, or offering to the House a vindication of his own conduct two years ago, delivers some general observations upon the duty of a Minister of England not to desert the representatives of the Sovereign, and not to allow a Governor to be sacrificed to clamour. The noble Lord said, in his ingenuous address, "I think it would have been only candid and just and fair if the hon. Mem-
 244 245 246 247 coterie Observer Examiner. "It is with feelings of sorrow and humiliation we hear that seventeen persons now he under the recorded sentence of death in Candy, for having taken part in the late rebellion. These unfortunates have been tried by the civil tribunal, and were recommended to mercy by the Chief Justice. Obliged as a judge to record the dread sentence, as a man and as a Christian, Sir Anthony could not forbear calling for that clemency from the Governor, which it was not in his own power to extend to these unhappy men. In making the appeal to the prerogative of clemency, the Chief Justice sees, as must every one, that the supremacy of the law has been vindicated already by the two executions which have taken place in Candy; that the punishment which so irresistibly fell upon the people, their heavy pecuniary losses, the numbers which have been slain in action, and others condemned to transportation, have been sufficient to deter from another outbreak. We join our feeble voice and implore the Governor to spare the lives of these misguided people, that while there is yet time to despatch an express to Candy, he will in mercy send a reprieve. While we are writing, a court-martial, presided over by Captain Watson, holds its sittings at Matelle, a tribunal from which there is no appeal to higher authority. Twenty-one persons have already been shot under its sentence, to the horror of the Commandant of Candy, who feels that he can exercise but little control, the sentence being carried into effect immediately under the orders of the Court." "Under the Governor's proclamation that people should return to their homes, many are daily falling into the hands of the military Court, which perpetrates this wholesale butchery irresponsibly.
 248 "He has had to deal with a rebellion which he has shown proceeded from causes of discontent of
 249
 MR. HAWES  could not regret that the House had had the opportunity of hearing the speeches of the hon. and learned Members for Cork and Sheffield, and also that of the hon. and learned Member for Honi-ton, before it fell to his lot to speak on this important question. He thought that the House would so far concur with him that the opinions of such men—men of great ability and experience, and accustomed on the one hand to sift evidence, and on the other to deal with the affairs of empires—were entitled to the greatest weight, and would weigh with all impartial men in this country. He (Mr. Hawes) felt that he could not have addressed the House on a former evening without the greatest possible disadvantage, nor until he was in a condition to meet, to answer, and to refute, the charge which had been made against the department with which he had the honour to be connected, with reference to the charge that was made, that either he, or Lord Grey, or some parties in the Colonial Department, had been guilty of the deliberate falsification of documents. He had met and refuted that charge; hut until it was met and answered, he could not, in justice to the Colonial Department and to himself, address the House. Before entering upon the general subject, he must notice one or two statements which had been made by the hon. Member for Inverness-shire, more especially in reference to himself. That hon. Member had asserted, he thought somewhat lightly, and without much regard for the feelings of others, that the Resolutions to which the Committee came were the result of some compromise of which he (Mr. Hawes) was the author, namely, to the effect that he had previously conveyed the consent of his noble Friend (Earl Grey) and of the Government to the recall of Lord Torrington. He (Mr. Hawes) utterly denied that he had ever entered into such an arrangement. He had never seen or heard of the Resolutions which were the foundation of those which were adopted, until they were produced in the Committee. Then, again, it had been alleged that he (Mr. Hawes) was willing to admit the production of private letters, when it was supposed that those letters would support his views; hut that when other private letters were to be produced, which were unfavourable to the views which he entertained, he refused to admit them. The hon. Gentleman was entirely mistaken in. that respect; and if he had taken the
 185 186 187 "1,288. Have you formed any opinion of what the causes were which led to those disturbances?—I have. "1,289. Will you state them shortly to the Committee?—la the year 1842 an attempt was made in the Kandyan country to create disturbances of a somewhat similar character to those which took place in 1848. I conducted, on behalf of the Crown, the prosecutions in those cases, and I believe that the disturbances in 1848 were attributable to the same cause which created the disturbances in 1842, though I also think that many more people joined in the disturbances of 1848, from the dissatisfaction which they felt in consequence of their believing that the Government were about to impose a great number in taxes upon them; and I think so because, upon one of the trials in 1848, at Kurnegalle, it came out in the evidence for the prosecution that the people who were inarching into Kurnegalle to attack Kurnegalle said, 'They have imposed 18 taxes upon us, and we are going in to pay them.' I conclude, therefore, from that circumstance, that to some extent the apprehension of more taxation being imposed, had influenced the people." 188 "We were under the impression, from what we had heard of the whole country, that we were on the eve of a great rebellion; that being the case, I think it was wise and judicious on the part of Lord Torrington to proclaim martial law, particularly as I know that in 1817 it was generally believed by the first military authorities that much mischief was done by Sir Robert Brownrigg's not having proclaimed martial law soon enough. Sir R. Brownrigg had not declared martial law till February, 1818, leaving four or five months to intervene, during which time the rebellion got to a head, while the military had not the power to act with that decision and energy which they would otherwise have done." "He could not help thinking that hundreds of British and thousands of native lives might have been saved if, at the commencement of the rebellion, a stern and severe example had been made of the persons and property of those who first committed acts of treason and murder, and had taken the field in arms against the British Government. It would have struck terror into all classes, and have been a sufficient excuse to the lower ranks for withdrawing to those homes which, in the event of remaining absent, would be rendered desolate." "They ventured their lives on no stronger temptation than ancient habits of blind obedience to the chiefs, or for fear of revenge in the event of their success." 189 "6,880. A more futile and contemptible attempt at rebellion than this has never before, to my knowledge, been made. It is difficult to divine what were the causes moving you, or what were your views in this affair. Judging, however, from the conduct of those who seem to have been most active in it, I hope I may be allowed to say, that the priests and headmen, as the evidence discloses, took the most active part in inciting the people; in fact, any one who attended the court during the last fortnight, and listened to the evidence, can hardly doubt that the common people were driven to it like a flock of sheep. I, therefore, conclude, this rebellion was hatched by headmen or priests, or both by headmen and priests. That the priests have a cause, and a growing cause, of discontent, I am aware; it is known to the country generally, and therefore needs no further allusion to it here. They have kept a keen eye upon the decline of their religion, and it is quite natural that this should raise discontent in their minds; but I am aware, at the same time, and I speak from my own observation, that headmen have been always discontented, as far as their conduct has come to my knowledge, and it appears to me the reason of it is as follows: the remembrance of the former power and authority which they had exercised over the common people has not yet been effaced from their minds, neither is that power, as far as I can see from the evidence, altogether gone, or anything like gone, as is clearly shown by the evidence adduced on these trials. But no human being who has attended this court during these trials, and listened to the evidence, can for a moment doubt that this rebellion has been got up by korales, aratchies, and priests, and that the common people were exceedingly passive in the transaction. In all this, however, I may be mistaken. I give expression to my own notions without asking any one to adopt them. "6,881 Mr. HUME: On what occasion was that address delivered?—It was delivered on the 18th day of September. "6,882. Was it at the conclusion of the trials; at the time the sentence was passed?—Yes, it was when sentence was passed." 190 "The intelligence of the outbreak had not, I believe, been an hour in Lord Torrington's possession when his Lordship sent for mo, and referring to ray experience on former occasions, asked me to favour him with my sentiments and suggestions in regard to that event. All the letters which his Excellency had received from Kandy by the express of that morning were then put into my hands, and in consequence of the very alarming accounts which they contained of the state of Matelle, I suggested that Government should be prepared to place that district under martial law; also that no time should be lost in sending to Madras for the aid of a reinforcement of troops, and that a small detail of the latter should be brought over at once, and landed at Trincomalie, to enable us to withdraw from that station a largo detachment of our own troops, and move them direct into Matelle. Some time after this I waited upon the Major General commanding the forces, at his own office, to receive his orders for concentrating the troops, and he then informed me that it had been ascertained, after I left Lord Torrington and himself at the Queen's House, that the steamer  Lady Mary Wood Lady Mary Wood 191 Gazette "My opinion being required as to what might have been the result had the disturbances of last year not been promptly checked, I have now to state that had those disturbances ended in a well-organised insurrection of the people of Matelle and the neighbouring districts, the troops would in all probability have been involved in a disheartening and trying service, in which, without assistance from India, it would have been in vain to hope for success, and the Government would have had on its hands a troublesome and expensive contest with its own subjects, to say nothing of the ruinous consequences of such a state of things to the European proprietors of the numerous coffee plantations throughout the interior. As connected with this question, I may further mention that the fire-arms taken from the Kandyans at the end of the rebellion of 1818 did not exceed 10,000 stand at the utmost, and at least two-thirds of those (including a large proportion of old matchlocks) were in a most unserviceable state; whereas in 1848 they (the Kandyans) had probably not less than 60,000 stand in their possession, many of them good muskets, or English fowling-pieces. (Signed) "J. FRASER, Deputy Quartermaster General. "December 12th, 1849." 192 "At this time the civil authority had ceased to exist; the place was not in British occupation; the magistrate and all others not engaged in the rebellion had fled from it. Again, from what has been already observed, it has been, I think, shown that the headmen, petty and high, were nearly all disaffected, or actual participators in the attempt to subvert British authority. If this be so, it was impossible for the civil Government of the country to be effectively carried on; the headmen, it need not be remarked, are the channels through which all processes are executed, they are the revenue collectors in their several districts, and, in fact, their active and faithful co-operation is necessary to the due and efficient carrying on of the Executive Government, and the judicial business of the island." "The rebellion of 1818 had a much less formidable beginning, and in comparison with the recent one was quite insignificant in its inception." 193 "2,275. Mr. HAWES: You were a member of the Executive Council when it was proposed to proclaim martial law in the first instance at Matelle?—Yes. "2,276. And subsequently at Kurnegalle?—Yes. "2,277. And you assented to those proclamations?—I did; I did more than assent to them, I concurred in them. "2,278. You not only assented, but you concurred in that proclamation?—I agreed in the measure, but the propriety of the measure was not submitted to mo; I should have concurred in the propriety of it if it had been submitted to me." 194 "They were tried with all the formalities prescribed by the Mutiny Act; but Major Layard informed me that he had referred the question to j Colonel Drought, as to what mode of proceeding he should adopt in the case of soldiers who were offenders during the continuance of martial law; and the answer lie received was, that he was to try them precisely as he tried the natives." 195 "ADDRESS of the Legislative Council to the Right Honourable the Governor, in reply to His Excellency's Speech of the 2nd October, 1848. "May it please your Excellency, "We beg to express to your Excellency our satisfaction at the speedy and successful suppression of the insurrection which has taken place in some districts of the interior, and for which we feel ourselves indebted to the prompt declaration of martial law, and the zealous and able exertions made by the officers, non-commissioned officers and privates of Her Majesty's forces serving in the colony. "We fully participate in your Excellency's earnest desire for the speedy termination of martial law; and we shall be ready to give our best attention to the Bill of Indemnity proposed to be laid before us.
 MR. HAWES : He said he was within hearing, and must have heard the words if they were used.
 MR. ADDERLEY : It is in the blue book.
 MR. O'CONNOR  begged permission to say a few words on a subject so personally interesting to himself. He said that the bank was established subsequently to the land company, and entirely against his will. Subsequently, however, as the accounts of the bank had shown, he placed 3,600 l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l.
 MR. O'CONNOR  said, that the schoolroom had cost 1,200 guineas, and the cottages had been seen and approved of by several leading Members of Parliament. It was deserted because they would not employ a schoolmaster, and some ruffians had destroyed the building. [ Loud cries of amidst which the hon. Member resumed his seat.
 COLONEL DUNNE  repeated that it could not have occurred. It might be in a blue book, but a blue book was not infallible, and there must have been some mistake in this evidence. He saw many military men around him, and he appealed to them whether his was not a correct view of the case. The way of forming the courts-martial was perfectly clear and regular; three subalterns were put on them. The hon. and learned Gentleman had asked why the senior officer was not put on. Of course he could not be on because he had to confirm the decision of the court. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir Frederic Thesiger) had animadverted also on the instructions which Colonel Drought gave, and that he wrote a letter censuring the officers of the court-martial for sentencing four men to transportation instead of to death. Now the letter of Colonel Drought was perfectly clear on that point, and he laid down correctly the martial law in such cases, and the duty of the officers who composed the court-martial; that the men who were tried, having been found guilty, should have been sentenced to death. The crime of plunder was one for which by military law they should have been sentenced to death; and it was not in the power of the court to mitigate the sentence: that power rested with the superior officer, and they had nothing to do with it. Another letter which had been animadverted on, was a letter to Captain Watson, in which Colonel Drought said he was "getting on swimmingly." Now he (Colonel Dunne) thought it was hard for Gentlemen sitting in that House to pass a harsh judgment on a mere observation of a military man, taken from a letter written in the hurry of war, and necessarily alluding to many unconnected subjects. He merely said he (Captain Watson) was getting on well; and it was
 183
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he fully concurred in the regret expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon (Sir Frederic Thesiger), in the commencement of his speech, that the debate had taken a personal turn; but in a question of this kind it was almost imposible to separate the political and general facts from those of a personal nature. The House would perhaps allow him, as a soldier, and as an old friend of Colonel Drought, to express his opinion in reference to the share which that officer had borne in these transactions. Colonel Drought was the son of a neighbour of his (Colonel Dunne), and he believed there was no one in Her Majesty's Army in whom better trust could be reposed, or who was more deserving of the position he occupied. He had a letter from Colonel Drought himself, with a statement of the whole of the circumstances that unfortunately occurred in Kandy during the late insurrection, and he would, with the permission of the House, state some facts from it. The proclamation of martial law was admitted by every Member who had spoken in the debate, to have been an unfortunate necessity. Colonel Drought did not proclaim martial law; it was proclaimed by the Governor, by the
 180 181 182 Morning Chronicle,
 COLONEL DUNNE : No evidence to prove it.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER : It is true notwithstanding; it is in evidence.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER : He
 146
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER : The witness of whom you speak was present only during the latter part of the interview.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, that if the question was to be decided only
 153 154 155 156 157 158 159 "The low-country people are all thieves and marauders, and they have raised a clamour about the taxes to serve as a blind to the exercise of their propensities. The thieving party is by far the larger, and the gang are chiefly headed by the low-country people. The spirit which the Malabar coolies have evinced, must have taken them by surprise, and will have deterred them much in prosecuting their depredations, so that, what is better, these coolies will, no doubt, communicate with their countrymen on the coast, and inspire them with confidence to come over, so that I have every hope (in conjunction with the steps Government has taken) that there will be no lack of labour." "I am firmly of opinion that the late disturbances within the Kandyan provinces, were, to all intents, a rebellion, an attempt to subvert the Government. I am also certain that my opinion will be supported by that of every person of experience within these provinces; and I cannot but conceive that those who have made the bold assertions before the Select Committee of the House of Commons, that the late disturbances were a mere riot occasioned by marauders from the low-country, must have been utterly ignorant of the Kandyans and of the state of the country, as also of past events." 160 161 "There can be no doubt that in abandoning their homes and joining in open rebellion, that their property has become forfeited to Government; and I think it worthy of consideration, whether it would not he expedient to make over their lands and houses to Malabars, who would gladly settle in the district upon any terms Government might desire. This may appear a rash suggestion, and it is only thrown out as a suggestion; but it is absolutely necessary that a heavy punishment of some sort should he inflicted upon all the rebellious. It is true that a great number of them have already been killed, and many more will doubtless suffer the extreme penalty of the law. Still the great mass of them cannot he so punished, and the sufferings of a few will have very little effect upon the others, if they are not all made to suffer individually in their own property." "The opportunity now presented of locating a race of Malabars in these important positions, on the lands forfeited by the rebels, is one which I earnestly trust your Excellency will not allow to pass unimproved." 162 "In order to facilitate future confiscation of the lands, houses, and other property of all subjects of Her Majesty in the Kandyan districts, now subject to martial law, who have departed from their allegiance to the Crown, and have joined the rebels in arms against the Government, you are hereby directed to ascertain or procure from the civil authorities information respecting the names of all persons now absent from their homes, who are believed to be now with the rebels, or known to have committed any act of rebellion, and take possession of all lands, houses, cattle, and other property belonging to such persons, and make over their lands to the charge of respectable persons." "And you will adopt such measures as may be proper and practicable to enable you to detect any attempt to carry away the crops from the lands of absent rebels, or to supply them with provisions, in contravention of the orders contained in the notification, and will bring to trial all persons accused thereof as aiding and abetting the enemies of the Queen, and forthwith to place their lands and property under attachment, and that with them, according to the forth going instructions, you will furnish me with information for communicating to the local agent lists of lands attached under these orders, drawn up according to the form subjoined, with lists of all other property which will be retained for the use of Government, or sold by public auction, according as you may deem best. When such property is sold, a report will he made, showing the price realised by each article, and the amount will then be carried to the credit of the State in the account of the Government agents." 163 "As there are still many persons absent from their homes who are known or suspected to have been in arms with the rebels, or to have accompanied the Pretender in his flight, it would be advisable if the commandant, with reference to his former notification, was now to issue another, calling upon such persons to return to their homes, or deliver themselves up within some fixed period, say fifteen or twenty clays; and proclaiming that in case of their failure to return or deliver themselves up within the time prescribed, their lands, houses, and all other property will be liable to confiscation, and will be confiscated whenever the commandant directed the confiscation of lands and houses, and should give orders to that effect according to a form to be agreed upon between him and the Governor." 164 165 l. s. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. l. 166 "In my despatch, No. 195, of the 6th November, 1848, reference was made to the circumstances under which it was found necessary to sequestrate, and in many instances to dispose of, the movable and perishable property of parties implicated, or supposed to he implicated, in the rebellious movement at Matelle; and in my despatch, No. 103, I stated to your Lordship that, with the concurrence of my Executive Council, I had given directions that the whole of the proceeds of the property so disposed of should be paid to the respective owners thereof, without any deduction whatever for the expenses incurred, except as regards those cases in which the parties interested might have been convicted of high treason before the Supreme Court. Some delay, however, has, I regret to say, unavoidably occurred in the settlement of these accounts, in consequence of the difficulty of procuring precise and satisfactory vouchers from Captain Watson, who commanded the military of Matelle at the period referred to. The total amount realised by the sale of property sequestrated by Captain Watson, under the orders of the Commandant at Kandy, was 616 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. 167 "I have received your despatch, with enclosures, No. 125, dated 14th September, 1849, requesting authority to relieve Captain Watson, who was commandant of Matelle while martial law was in force there in 1848, from all further responsibility in regard to certain pecuniary transactions in which that officer was concerned on behalf of the Government during the period in question, or shortly after its termination. I regret that I am unable at present to recommend Her Majesty's Treasury to grant the relief applied for, as I find that the papers forwarded are in many points defective. If Captain Watson was altogether without written instructions, either from the Government or from his commanding officer, Colonel Drought, for the regulation of his receipts, disbursements, and accounts, the fact is not stated in these papers. Your Lordship will understand that I entertain no doubt of the correctness of Captain Watson's proceedings with respect to these pecuniary transactions; but as a matter of principle, I consider it necessary, before recommending Her Majesty's Treasury to grant the relief applied for, to require the more detailed information which is wanted to support his accounts, or a more particular explanation of the reasons why this information cannot be supplied, as to those points on which it is not attainable." "Although measures such as those"—meaning the sequestration of property, as it was then called—"do not appear to fall within the ordinary course of martial law, yet they are such as may very probably have been necessary, and would be fully competent to the Legislature to place under the safeguard of indemnity." 168 "When law is silenced by the noise of arms, the rulers of the armed force must punish as equitably as they can those crimes which threaten their own safety and that of society, but no longer. Every moment beyond is usurpation. As soon as the law can act, every other mode of punishing supposed crime is of itself an enormous crime;"— —"as being a most positive declaration that when the common law could be exercised in some parts of the country, martial law could not be established in others, though rebellion actually prevailed there, without the extraordinary intervention of the supreme legislative authority." 169 "But at the present time there is no inherent power of confiscation of the property even of traitors convicted under martial law. It has, therefore, been indispensable, not only that caution should be used with regard even to the sequestration of property, but it will be necessary that a Bill of Indemnity should be passed by the Legislative Council, to hold the authorities harmless for all  bonâ fide 170 "Though it was not my province to decide upon the time when martial law should cease, I may be permitted to remark that I am thoroughly convinced that the Pretender would never have been captured, and the valuable information he gave would never have been brought before Government, if the advocates and proctors had had the power of raising legal difficulties, and if active operations had been suspended until those objections should have been overcome." 171 "My dear Watson—I wish you to explain to your officers at Matelle that I am surprised they did not sentence the four prisoners to he executed. A plunderer in these times is a miscreant in the double Capacity of a rebel and a felon, who would, if he could, first take your life, and then your property. Remind them that all engaged as those were arc rebels, and that all rebels should suffer death. Sir A. Oliphant has given it as his opinion that we are dealing delicately with the rascals, and that a great deal too much time is taken in detailing evidence. The court have, under the present law, merely to satisfy themselves as to the parties being guilty or otherwise, find, and decide accordingly." "My dear Watson—You are getting on swimmingly. Your deputy-judge-advocate will, of course, receive the usual allowance for every day the court sits. Impress on the court that there is no necessity for taking down the evidence in detail, so that they are satisfied with the guilt or innocence of the individual; that is sufficient for them to find and sentence. This is the law and mode; have you no case for example on thy Spot?" Morning Chronicle 172 173 "I have to report to your Excellency that the several convictions in the said cases, respectively, were obtained in due course of law. I have also to state that I recommend as fit and proper objects of your Excellency's clemency, as far as regards the punishment of death, not only all the persons recommended by the jury for the reasons
 174 "And under different circumstances I should have recommended your Excellency to have executed such three or four of those last mentioned as should, after minute investigation into their respective cases by the law officers of the Crown, have appeared to have been most guilty. To have carried out the last penalty of the law against these would have been necessary for the vindication of justice, order, and good government, and for an example to others. But I find that that example has been already made. I learn that some twenty persons have been already shot for their share in this rebellion by the courts-martial; I therefore think, when it is considered that no one European has been put to death, that one soldier only has been wounded by the rebels, that no persons have appeared in warlike array against the troops since the outbreaks at Matelle and Kurnegalle, that the blood which has been already spilt is sufficient for all purposes, whether of vindication of the law or for example, I advise that the prisoners last above-mentioned be transported for life, that the others not recommended to mercy by the jury be transported for fourteen years, and that those who have been recommended be imprisoned and kept to hard labour for such short periods as, after consideration with the Crown lawyers, may be deemed due to them respectively." "Sir—1. I have the honour to acknowledge your letter of the 23rd instant, transmitting the notes of evidence, and sentences of death passed on the prisoners convicted of high treason at the late Session of the Supreme Court held at Kandy for the special purpose of trying persons implicated in the late rebellion. 2. I have given to this communication not only the respectful attention becoming your high authority, but that painful and anxious consideration inseparable from the solemn question of life and death suggested by your general recommendation of all the prisoners for a commutation of their punishments. But after soliciting the advice and opinions of the Executive Council, it is with great reluctance that I find myself unable to concur with you in the propriety of that course towards some of those men convicted in due course of law, and whose guilt has been so clearly established that the strict line of your duty, uninfluenced by other considerations, would have led you, as you state, to recommend to me to inflict on them the last penalty of the law in vindication of justice, order, and good government. 3. These considerations, I must
 175 I have, &c. (Signed) "TORRINGTON. "The Honourable Sir Anthony Oliphant, "Kt., Chief Justice." 176 177 "In reply to your note of this morning, I beg to say that I was present at the latter part of the interview which took place between you and Mr. Selby relative to the priest's trial, on which occasion I did not hear you express any unbecoming language, nor were you in any degree excited. On the contrary, you appeared to me to be perfectly calm and collected, while Mr. Selby was evidently much flurried. I left the Pavilion without the slightest idea that you had in the least forgotten yourself, or acted in any manner unworthy of the position in which you were placed." "As long as I was present I did not hear any violent or unbecoming laughter on your part. The impression left upon my mind at the time of the general tone of the interview was, that Mr. Selby was excited by something that might have taken place before the interview, and I inferred, by your calling Colonel Drought, who joined you (having gone away just as Mr. Selby came), that you were consulting him as to the object for which Mr. Selby had come to you. It did not at all occur to me then, nor did I hear it from any one, until it appeared some time afterwards in the  Observer 178 179
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER : Not all the time.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he wished to say a few words in defence of certain individuals against whom serious charges had been advanced in the course of the discussion that evening. The proctors in Ceylon had been accused of having refused to defend a priest who had been tried by a court-martial. Now, that charge had already been put forward, and the result of an inquiry which the proctors had caused to be made with respect to it was, that Major Lushington, the officer who had presided over the court, had given a full explanation of all the circumstances of the case. Major Lushington states—
 "That he had desired an interpreter to inform the prisoner that he was at liberty to call on any person to assist him, upon the understanding that such person should conform to the practice of courts-martial. Afterwards an interpreter of the court was spoken to, but the prisoner turned towards Mr. Wilmot, who was sitting at his right hand. Major Lushington did not understand what the prisoner said, but Mr. Wilmot rose from his seat, and went out of the court. After a pause the interpreter informed Major Lushington that the prisoner had no friend to assist him in his defence; and instead of having desired these proctors to assist him, he desired Mr. Wilmot, who was the defender of prisoners, a Government officer, and whose duty it was to defend him." 250
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, that, as a Member of the Committee, he had felt it his duty to inspect two estates belonging to the National Land Company, and it was but just to the poor individuals who had now been attacked by the hon. Member for Nottingham, to state his belief that all the charges against him were well founded. They complained that they had been brought to the land under false pretences, had been induced to leave places in which they might have comfort ably supported themselves by honest industry, but that there they were placed in a new position, for which their previous habits and occupations had wholly unfitted them. He had visited their houses, and been struck with the wretched contrast they presented to the cottages of the labourers in the vicinity. In short, no person could visit the estates without being struck with, the conviction that the whole scheme was a perfect failure; and when the hon. Member complained that he received no rent, he (Mr. Herbert) wondered how he could have expected any, seeing that, even as it was, the tenants were hardly able to hold their heads above water. He had also visited the schoolhouses and found them deserted, the windows broken, and filled with straw and the remains of some banners which had been used in some inaugural procession connected with the scheme, on one of which was inscribed in conspicuous characters, "Payment of Members." He must confess that his inspection had filled him with commiseration for the unfortunate people who had been deluded from their homes, and with thankfulness that such men as the hon. Member for Nottingham had not been permitted to ex-
 130
 MR. HUME : I deny it; he had not received one account of that nature.
 MR. HUME : I do deny it. Lord Torrington received no intelligence of any thing which had taken place subsequently to the 27th of July before he proclaimed martial law.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, the hon. Member who has justs at down has handled this question, I am bound to say, with his usual ability, and with a fairness that does him honour. It was quite refreshing to notice the freedom of his speech from those personalities which have entered too largely, I am compelled to say, into portions of this debate. Much has been said of personalities against Lord Torrington. I am not here to justify them; nor, I trust, am I here to repeat them. It certainly will be without my intention or my wish if anything of the kind should escape me in regard to any man whatsoever. But if personalities be objectionable and odious—as they are—in respect to Lord Torrington, who is a Peer of the realm, who has the power of vindicating himself in a British House of Parliament, who is backed by a Government and a great party—I ask, what are personalities against those who are not Peers of the realm, who arc not backed by a Government and a great party, who are mere subordinate persons, labouring in a distant land in the service of their country, and who are dependent upon their employment for their bread from day to day? What are we to say to those personalities, of which, I am sorry to say, there was an abundant sprinkling in the able and eloquent speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Honiton (Sir J. W. Hogg), and which
 205 206 207 208 209 210 211 212 213 "I have, in conclusion, to remark, that it is by no means too late to attempt to remedy the evils which appear to have substantial foundation; and first and foremost our endeavour should be to restore to the religion of the people and its ministers that qualified protection which is due to them by treaty. It is necessary for them on the ground of policy, and may not be inconsistent with the mild system of amelioration of the British Government." 214 215 "The pretended King and his brother cannot long remain in their present concealment, as the people generally are undeceived as to their pretensions, and numbers of the natives are in active pursuit of them, allured by the reward in prospect." 216 217 218 219 220
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said the hon. Member could, if he chose, take his claim
 129
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG : Would the hon. Member deny that Lord Torrington received on that day certain papers which seemed to prove that a rebellion had taken place?
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, in rising to resume the adjourned debate, he hoped, as a member of the Committee which sat on the Affairs of Ceylon, the House would extend its kind indulgence to him whilst he ventured to state the reasons which had brought him to a conclusion different from that of the hon. Member (Mr. Baillie), by whom this Motion had been introduced. He (Sir J. Hogg) attended the proceedings of that Committee regularly for two years. He scarcely ever missed a sitting; and he believed that every opinion and every vote he gave, was given by him with an anxious desire to do his duty. He confessed he little expected, when he came to that House on Tuesday night, that he should have heard the motives and conduct of a majority of the Committee assailed by his hon. Friend (Mr. Baillie), who had presided over its deliberations as Chairman. He (Sir J. Hogg) admitted that coming from the Chairman, it came with peculiar weight. His hon. Friend did not assail the decision of a majority of the Committee; but he ascribed to them unworthy and discreditable motives, to which he (Sir J. Hogg), for himself, and for the majority of the Committee, must give an indignant denial. His hon. Friend asked—
 "What induced the Committee thus to disregard the instructions of the House? All the ingenuity of the Committee appeared to be directed, in framing their Report, to devise the means whereby the Secretary of State for the Colonies might be exempted from all blame." 131 "In order to escape from that difficulty, the Committee came to the extraordinary resolution not to make any report at all to the House of Commons on the merits of the case; but at the same time they quoted a private understanding with the Under Secretary for the Colonies, that Lord Torrington should be forthwith removed." 132 133 134 135 "That this House, having taken into its consideration the Evidence adduced before the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the affairs of Ceylon, is of opinion that the punishments inflicted during the late disturbances in that island were excessive and uncalled for. That this House is of opinion that the execution of eighteen persons, and the imprisonment, transportation, and corporal punishment of 140 other persons on this occasion, is at variance with the merciful administration of the British penal laws, and is not calculated to secure the future affections and fidelity of Her Majesty's colonial subjects." per se, 136 s. d.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG : Well, papers were laid before him to that effect. Will the hon. Member gainsay that? [Mr. HUME was understood to express his assent.] When these letters were received by Lord Torrington, he immediately sent for Colonel
 137 138 "Your letter to Mr. Bernard respecting the whole question, I may say, of our policy with regard to the Kandyan rebellion, has caused me much anxious consideration. I should be very glad to have a quiet consultation with you, Mr. Stewart, and Sir Herbert Maddock at any hour most convenient to-day." 139 140 141 142 143 144 "When Mr. Smith gave you the information, did you seek for further information—did you inquire who were present, that you might ask the opinion of men who were competent to give one, instead of being influenced by Mr. Smith, who had refused on the trial to give any assistance to this wretched prisoner?" 145 "Your Lordship became pale whilst I was speaking, and when I concluded, struck your hand on your thigh, exclaiming, 'By God, if all the proctors in the place said the man was innocent he should die to-morrow morning,' or words to that effect. The only words I have any doubt about are 'place' and 'die.' It is possible that your Lordship used the word 'island' instead of 'place,' and the words 'be shot,' instead of 'die.'"
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  did not wish to misquote nor to tire the House with references to the blue book.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG : If the expression were used at all, it must have been the result of discussion, and the excitement must have come at the close of that discussion; and yet Colonel Drought, who came in, as the hon. and learned Member has stated, towards the latter portion of the interview, declared that he heard no such expression—that he found the Governor perfectly calm and collected, while Mr. Selby appeared to be much flurried. Mr. Selby further stated, that after his interview with the Governor he went to Sir Anthony Oliphant, who told him that he was going to the Governor on the subject of the execution of the priest. Mr. Selby told him he had better not go, or he would be insulted, as he (Mr. Selby) had been, or words to that effect. His reason for stating this, he says, was, that Sir Anthony Oliphant was ill and nervous, and could not bear excitement. Now, he (Sir J. Hogg) would call the attention of the hon. Gentlemen who cheered him ironically to this—that if Mr. Selby believed in his conscience the man had been unjustly sentenced, and was to be executed next morning, how could he justify himself in endeavouring to dissuade Sir Anthony Oliphant from going to Lord Torrington, to obtain a respite? Why, irrespective of all other considerations, would it not occur to Mr. Selby that the Chief Justice would have more influence with the Governor than he had; would it not have occurred to Mr. Selby that if the Chief Justice had stated distinctly that he believed, or had reason to believe, that this man was unjustly condemned, such a representation would have had weight with Lord Torrington? [Mr. BAILLIE: Hear, hear!] His hon. Friend again ironically cheered. He did not object to that cheer; he wished only to express his astonishment that he should give an ironical cheer when he (Sir J. Hogg) expressed his surprise that any law officer of the Crown, believing that an innocent man was about to suffer, should deter a Chief Justice, under any circumstances, from going to intercede on his behalf. It happened, however, that the advice given by Mr. Selby to the Chief Justice was not altogether effectual, for notwithstanding these representations of the state of anger in which he said he found Lord Torrington, Sir Anthony Oliphant did muster courage to go and talk over these identical
 147 148 149 "That this House is therefore of opinion that the conduct of Earl Grey, in signifying Her Majesty's approbation of the conduct of Lord Torrington during and subsequent to the disturbances, was precipitate and injudicious, tending to establish precedents of rigour and severity in the government of Her Majesty's Foreign Possessions, and injurious to the character of this country for justice and humanity." 150 "I have received and laid before the Queen the various despatches enumerated in the margin, containing the intelligence of some riotous proceedings which took place at Colombo, and of the subsequent attempt at insurrection in the province of Kandy, which your Lordship states to have been promptly suppressed. The Queen has learnt with regret that the public peace of the colony had been disturbed, and that a part of the native population had been excited to acts of rebellion by the false representations industriously circulated as to the intentions of the local Government, and as to the nature and objects of the ordinances recently passed to sanction the imposition of certain new taxes which had been rendered necessary by alterations in the financial arrangements of the island, involving a large reduction of objectionable taxes, for the benefit and encouragement of its trade and commerce. I have, however, great satisfaction in conveying to your Lordship Her Majesty's approbation of the measures taken to restore tranquillity, and maintain the authority of the Government; and of the decision, promptitude, and judgment with which you acted in putting down the attempts which were made to disturb the peace of the island, and to set up an usurped and illegal power." 151 "Your Lordship, with the aid of the Executive and Legislative Councils, will, I am sure, carefully weigh every practical objection to these laws, and be anxious to remove every injurious provision calculated to press with any harshness or injustice upon either classes or individuals; and I rely upon your not losing sight of the importance of remedying defects, whether in the ordinances in question, or in the general administration of the law, and, above all, that you will apply yourself to the correction of what seems to me the principal fault in the system of government now existing in Ceylon, which has been brought to light by these transactions—I mean the absence of sufficient opportunities for the natives in some districts freely to communicate with the various agents of the Government, in order that their representations may be carefully and candidly considered (especially in reference to such measures as those lately adopted), so that any grievances they may justly complain of may be promptly redressed, and any unfounded apprehensions they may be led to entertain by erroneous notions, as to the intentions of the Government, may be removed. Nothing, it is obvious, can so effectually contribute to this important object as a knowledge of the native languages on the part of the agents and servants of the Government; it is indeed a necessary qualification for the effective discharge of their most important duties. A knowledge, therefore, of those languages must in future be considered as an indispensable condition of promotion; and you will take care to adopt such measures as you may think best calculated to test the qualification in this respect of the different civil servants, in order that this condition may be strictly enforced." "I concur in your Lordship's opinion that it is necessary to punish with severity the leaders and promoters of this insurrection, which will prove the most merciful course in the end. But whilst it is desirable to vindicate and maintain the law, it is desirable that acts of justice and severity should be strictly limited to what is inevitably called for by the occasion, and that the prevailing character of measures consequent upon excitement and insubordination, should at all times be that of moderation and clemency towards those who have been misled. This implies no indulgence towards the guilty contrivers of sedition, nor any forgetfulness of the claims to consideration and protection of the loyal, peaceable, and industrious, who constitute, as I am happy to find, the great majority of Her Majesty's subjects in Ceylon." 152
 The CHAIRMAN : Am I to understand that the hon. and learned Gentleman withdraws his proviso?
 The CHAIRMAN : Then the question for the Committee to decide is, "That Clause 1 stand part of the Bill."
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he exceedingly regretted the absence of his right hon. and learned Friend the Master of the Rolls, whose name had been called in question by the right hon. Baronet who had just sat down. He had stated, with respect to the Master of the Rolls, that upon the first discussion on this Bill that right hon. Gentleman stated to the House that he had given an opinion that the Pope had a power by law to appoint ecclesiastics in this country, with dioceses and sees, for ecclesiastical purposes. Now, he took the liberty of saying that the right hon. Baronet was under a complete misapprehension.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, there must be some inaccuracy in the note of the right hon. Baronet. His right hon. and learned Friend had given no opinion on the subject which had not been signed by him (the Attorney General), and he had never signed any such opinion.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he understood the right hon. Gentleman to speak of an opinion given by his right hon. and learned Friend in his professional capacity. But the best proof that there must be some mistake upon this point was the original Bill introduced by the Government, which Bill was drawn by his right hon. and learned Friend; and in the preamble to that Bill he recites—
 "Whereas the attempt to establish, under colour of authority from the See of Rome or otherwise, such pretended sees, provinces, or
 284 "Whereas divers of Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects have assumed to themselves the titles of archbishop and bishops of a pretended province, and of pretended sees or dioceses within the United Kingdom, under colour of an alleged authority given to them for that purpose by a certain Brief, Rescript, or Letters Apostolical from the See of Rome, purporting to have been given at Rome on the 29th of September, 1850; and whereas it may be doubted whether the recited enactment extends to the assumption of the title of archbishop or bishop of a pretended province or diocese, or archbishop or bishop of a city, place, or territory, or dean of any pretended deanery in England or Ireland, not being the see, province, or diocese of any archbishop or bishop, or deanery of any dean recognised by law; but the attempt to establish, under colour of autho-
 285 286 de facto 287
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : In reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of Dublin, I have to say that a Rescript appointing any Roman Catholic archbishop or bishop with a territorial title, will be, in my judgment, illegal, both under the statute of 10 George IV. and the general law of the land, as declared by this clause.
 THE CHAIRMAN : Does the hon. Gentleman persist in his Motion?
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  would undertake to say that the clause did not affect the law of Scotland at all. He advised the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Oswald) to withdraw his Amendment. That hon. Gentleman had been the first to say that Bull or Rescript for the purpose he had there was no strong feeling in Scotland on behalf of this measure. He (Mr. S. Wortley) told him now, that in combating this Bill, he was stirring against the universal feeling of the Scottish people.
 MR. ELLIOT  said, it was impossible to
 264 "I am also inclined to believe, from the circumstances stated to Ameer Bey, by the people of Khiva, that the person who was known to have been murdered by a Yamoot, Toorkoman chief, a few years before Ameer Bey's capture, and whose dress, hair, &c, were minutely described, and who had found his way to the camp of the Toorkoman chief, from Asterabad, could be no other than Lieutenant Wyburd, of the Indian Navy, who, in the summer of 1835, left Téhéran (when Sir John Campbell was Envoy in Persia) with the view of penetrating to Khiva, and of whom no information has been received by us since he left Asterabad." 265 266
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  could not understand on what ground the hon. Gentleman asked the Committee to report progress. They were now engaged upon a clause which had reference only to the Papal Bull, or Rescript of 1850, and which had no reference whatever to Scotland. The hon. Gentleman on a previous night had stated his views upon this very subject, and asked the right hon. Lord Advocate what the law was. Now, as he said before, this clause had nothing to do with the law of Scotland; and his right hon. and learned Friend might therefore have declined giving an answer; but out of courtesy to the hon. and learned Gentleman, he had given a
 317
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, when the right hon. Gentleman commenced his first speech, he said this clause was full of danger, and was calculated to excite alarm;
 302 303 Cries of 304 305 306
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General had stated very fully his views on the proviso a few nights ago. He (Lord John Russell) could not agree to it.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : As to the question of the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, I have only to say, that under the 10th of George IV., no person can assume a territorial title.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, his right hon. and learned Friend was quite ready to give his opinion if the Committee desired it. But there had been a general cry for a division, upon which his right hon. Friend resumed his seat.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : We have now got through the first clause; and, with respect to the second clause, I think it is likely that we shall have considerable delay, in consequence of the number of Amendments that are to be moved, and which will occupy some time in discussion; I propose, therefore, now, that the Chairman should report progress, and ask leave to sit again. In making this Motion I have merely to say to hon. Gentlemen who are opponents of the Bill, and who have Amendments to move, that on this first clause the question has been very fully debated; but with regard to another class of Members of this House who are supporters of the Bill, and who mean to make Amendments, I would really wish them to consider whether there is any thing of importance in those Amendments. Considering that there are some of them that do not carry much further the enactments of the Bill than they are now carried; and also considering that there are others of so objectionable a character in the view of many hon. Members of this House that it is impossible to adopt them, I wish them to consider, before Monday next, whether there are any of these Amendments which they think of sufficient importance to press upon the attention of the House. It appears to me that the Bill, in its present shape, is sufficient. The first clause has stamped with illegality the Rescript of September, 1850; and by the second clause, rendering liable to penalty the assumption of ecclesiastical titles of sees that are not sees of existing bishops, as also of sees that are the sees of existing bishops, there will be found a declaration by Parliament sufficiently strong and authoritative to vindicate the authority both
 322
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I am much obliged to the hon. and learned Gentleman for giving me notice of his intentions. As he has stated them, I may say, that I cannot consent, on my part, to any of the Amendments he has stated. There is one Amendment, however, to which I take, perhaps, a stronger objection than to any which he has now stated, and which, I think, still stands on the printed paper. It is the accumulative penalty for a second offence; and finally inflicting the punishment of transportation of the persons assuming those titles— [An Hon. MEMBER: The deportation]—but if the person returns, I think that there is notice given that the clause applicable to the Jesuits in the Roman Catholic Emancipation Act shall be applied, which is not deportation, but transportation. I must say I think the penalty in the Roman Catholic Relief Act of 100 l. 324
 MR. OSWALD  said, that the Act of 1567 was still upon the Statute-book. The 33rd George III., cap. 44, only repealed the penalties of certain Acts recited in the Act of 1700. The 9th and 10th Victoria only repealed the Acts recited in the Act of 1700, the penalties of which had been already repealed by the 33rd George III. The answer of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, therefore, did not show whether the Act of 1567 was repealed or not; he must, therefore, insist upon an answer, and if he did not obtain one, he should move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. OSWALD : If the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of Dublin now wishes to move to report progress, he can do so, but as I have got an answer to my question, of course I shall not do so.
 MR. OSWALD  maintained that the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate had not answered his question. He (Mr. Oswald) had stated that there was a certain Act upon the Statute-book; and the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate quoted to him two Acts, which did not apply to that Act. They had been told that they were only declaring or re-enacting the law. Well, then, why not tell them what the law was? The English representatives had been told what the law was by the law officers of the Crown. The Irish representatives had been told what the law was by their own Attorney General; and was the same privilege to be refused to Scotch representatives? It was perfectly open for the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate to refuse answering a question; but he would propound the question and put upon the right hon. and learned Gentleman the responsibility of declining to answer it. [ Loud cries of
 MR. OSWALD  thought it would be as well if the Committee should understand what was the state of the law of Scotland with regard to this clause. On a previous
 316
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he took that op-
 262 263 "I have seized a Sahib at the Fort of Huzrut Sooltan, who came by the road of Tajkund and Dusht-i-Kazak; his name is Wypart, an Englishman, he says, and not a Russian, and that he has been travelling many years. He has two Persians with him, named Mohammed and Hussein, who say they were formerly in Stoddart's service, and were sold at Bokhara, and were purchased by Wypart. These men say their master is English. Now I have sent Allahdad to ascertain from you whether he is really English or not; that, should he be so, I may treat him with honour, but if Russian, that I may punish him."
 MR. DISRAELI  was sure that both the Government and the Honourable East India Company were animated by the same feelings as those which influenced himself in bringing forward this subject; and he could not but think that the comparative tranquillity which now reigned on the frontier, combined with other favourable circumstances, would facilitate the efforts of the Government and the hon. East India Company to procure the liberation of Lieutenant Wyburd; for he must express his belief that, as far as evidence went, that English officer was still alive and in captivity. He would not press upon the Government his feeling that their answer to the appeal of the petitioners when they offered to send out an envoy on their own behalf, was not exactly satisfactory; because even if the envoy on the part of the ladies failed in his mission, we should not be in the false position with regard to the Khan of Khokan that we were in at this moment, for the gentleman who was now in captivity was the envoy of the Government itself. He could not say
 268
 MR. DISRAELI  felt that an explanation was demanded by the remark of the right hon. Gentleman, who seemed to intimate that after the Resolutions which had been adopted, the House was bound to a certain line. But they had arrived at a different state of affairs. The Budget of the Government was formed on the idea that the income tax would be renewed for three years; therefore he protested against the conclusion suggested by the right hon. Gentleman's observation.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he got up for the innocent purpose of preventing two divisions. He understood the chance of the present division arose from the noble Lord at the head of the Government preventing the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate from answering the question put to him. It was a pity that he did so, for he apprehended no Minister would rise without having something to say. If the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate favoured the Committee with his opinion, there might be no division.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that at the time when a change of policy took place on the part of the Government, he intimated that in consequence of that great change it was necessary to reconsider the financial arrangements, and that the measures brought forward would not be allowed to proceed without considerable discussion. He therefore hoped the second reading of the Customs Bill would not be pressed at that late hour.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that he certainly had said it was not intended to interfere in any way as regarded the window tax; but that was before the Resolution had been adopted to vote the income tax for one year only. It was in consequence of that Resolution having been adopted, that he said he thought after that Vote that they were perfectly free on his side of the House to consider the effect of the propositions of the Government with reference to that important vote. Considering the effect of that Vote in his estimation on the finance of the country, and also on public credit, he hoped the Motion would not be pressed then.
 MR. FREWEN , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, that its object was to increase the annual sum which the bishop was by the present law authorised to grant out of the incomes of livings under sequestration for the payment of curates. He knew one living which had been under sequestration for several years, to which five hamlets were attached, and in which there were seven full services each Sunday; and yet the bishop, according to the exist-
 327 l. l. l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, under present circumstances, and considering the period of the night (half-past Eleven o'clock), he would not press the Motion. He would, however, remind the hon. Gentleman that the Reso-
 325
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had not understood that there was any intention to offer opposition on these subjects, though some discussion was anticipated. Intimation had been made as regarded the repeal of the window tax, that it was not intended to interfere with the measure.
 MR. O'CONNOR  said, in reply to the question put to him by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, he had to state, that, when the Land Company's affairs were wound up, which was now being done, the demands of those small depositors in the bank would all be discharged. He would tell the hon. and learned Gentleman that the bank was established in consequence of the resolution of a conference held at Manchester, and contrary to his (Mr. O'Connor's) wishes and consent. He also begged to state that the bank was separated from the Land Company in consequence of decisions of the Judges, given in the different courts, to the effect that it was illegal; and the late Attorney General told him, if it was kept on foot in connection with the Land Company, he (Mr. O'Connor) would be prosecuted. He had paid into that bank out of his own pocket 3,605 l., l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  was in favour of allowing arbitration where the proprietors of the district wished for it, but could not think it was advisable that there should be a general Act empowering a company to take land at a price fixed by an arbitrator appointed by the Government.
 MR. MOORE  hoped he might be allowed to say a few words with reference to the criticisms which had been made upon the conduct of hon. Members who had felt it their duty to oppose this Bill. At the conclusion of the proceedings in Committee on Monday night, the noble Lord at the head of the Government lectured the opponents of the Bill in a tone and manner which—considering the whole conduct of the noble Lord in connexion with this unfortunate measure—he was by no means entitled to employ. The noble Lord told the opponents of the Bill, that he would give them time to reflect on their conduct; and certainly, if any Member of that House was warranted in warning others of the danger of acting without taking time to reflect, it was the author of the celebrated Durham letter; and he had no doubt that the noble Lord, revolving in his own mind the embarrassments created, the difficulties incurred, the inconsistencies brought out, and the dangers encountered by that one act of haste and rashness, was actuated by a feeling of sympathy in wishing to give others that time for reflection which, unfortunately for himself, he did not take. The noble Lord also told his opponents they might not be inclined to repeat the conduct they had pursued if they found it was condemned by public opinion. Now, he must remind the noble Lord of a circumstance which he appeared to have forgotten, namely, that there was a public opinion in Ireland as well as in England. The noble Lord once bowed to the "public clamour" of Ireland abjectly, as he now
 269 Hansard, 270 271
 MR. MOORE  said, there were two objections brought against this clause by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, neither of which had yet received any answer. The first objection related to the ambiguity of the clause, and to the discrepancies in the interpretations of it which had been given by the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls, and the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole). The second objection was, that the clause, by re-declaring the law, gave it a new and additional force. These were two distinct and very serious objections, and demanded a clear explanation. The right hon. and learned Gentleman, the Attorney General for Ireland, had declared that the present Bill was a re-enacting of the law; and that, though it did exist at present, yet that it was not put in force because the law was obsolete. But this re-enactment would give efficiency to the law which did not exist before, and therefore the Roman Catholics would find themselves, if this Bill passed, in a worse position than they were in at present.
 MR. GRATTAN  hoped, even at that the eleventh hour, it was not too late to say a word or two of advice to Her Majesty's Ministers on this subject. He trusted that the very able, argumentative, and, he should call it, irresistible speech of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon (Sir James Graham) had produced some effect upon Her Majesty's Government. He also hoped that the speech of his right hon. Friend the Member for Longford, and late Governor of Malta, had produced still greater effect upon Her Majesty's Ministers. The style, tone, temper, and forbearing remarks of that right hon. Gentleman ought to make a sensible im-
 312
 MR. LABOUCHERE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend certain provisions of the Land Clauses Consolidation Act of 1845 in Ireland. He said, that there were great and peculiar difficulties in Ireland, not existing in England and Wales, with regard to the valuation of land for compensation taken by railway companies. These chiefly arose from the complicated tenure existing in Ireland, and consequently railway companies were put to great and unnecessary expense, and the extension of the railway system in Ireland, which he held to be of the greatest consequence for the development of the resources of that country, was thereby materially impeded. Hence there had been an attempt made to substitute arbitration for jury system; special clauses had been introduced with that view into some Irish Railway Bills last year, and there were similar clauses in Bills of this year. But it had been thought that if this was to be done at all, it should be by some general Bill for Ireland; and, quite agreeing with that view, and finding the Irish Members
 328
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  thought he had already answered the question. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. whether the Act of force? He thought force, and that it had been repealed.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  had no objection to state what he conceived the state of the law to be. Whatever might be supposed to be the force of the old statute referred to, it could not in the slightest degree interfere with this clause. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Oswald), on a former night stated, that an old Act dated so far back as 1567, entitled an Act for Abolishing the Pope, had not been repealed, and therefore might have some operation in connexion with this Bill. Now, in 1700 an Act was passed ratifying and re-enacting, not that statute directly, but certain other Acts against the Pope, and entailing in the formula certain penalties. However, the 33rd George III. abolished all the penalties contained in those Acts against the Roman Catholics; and the 9th and 10th Victoria, better known as the Act of 1846, absolutely repealed the Act of 1700.
 MR. HATCHELL : I said that they would be indictable at common law—but not under this clause.
 MR. HATCHELL , having been requested by the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) to express his opinion as to the clause now under discussion, willingly accepted the invitation, and would state what
 290 291 292
 DR. NICHOLL  said, that he thought it was well worthy the consideration of the House whether it would not be of the greatest advantage to the Church and the parishioners that sequestration for debt should be entirely abolished; and that, at the same time, some arrangement should be made for spreading the payment of first fruits and fifths by clergymen over several years. The present mode of payment often involved them in a load of debt, which was a continued source of embarrassment.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, the question which he had put was, whether the usual Bull or Rescript for the purpose he had named would be legal under the operation of this clause?
 MR. REYNOLDS : Though the answer docs not satisfy me, I feel I should be guilty of an unpardonable offence, if, after the declaration I have made, I persevere in my Motion.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that the old adage about doctors disagreeing, had been fully borne out by the lawyers during the discussion on this Bill. The hon. and learned Attorney General and Solicitor General had declared that the first clause extended to Ireland; but the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst had just said the contrary. An experienced statesman—one to whose judgment and wisdom the public of all classes appealed with confidence—he meant the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham) had made the matter so perfectly clear as to have ended the religious controversy; and he thanked him for doing so. Notwithstanding this, the lawyers on the opposite side stood up and attempted to answer him; but they failed to convince any one, even of the humblest understanding. The Queen's Attorney General and Solicitor General appeared to him (Mr. Reynolds) to come up to the character of the Village Schoolmaster drawn by Goldsmith:—
 "In arguing, too, the parson own'd his skill, For e'en though vanquish'd he could argue still." 313 314 l. l. 315
 MR. REYNOLDS  objected to the withdrawal of the Amendment. The right hon. and learned Lord Advocate was willing to consider the question, if the noble Lord would have permitted him. Now, he would repeat a question which he had put at an earlier period of the evening, and which he could not got an answer; and unless he got some kind of answer —he did not expect a favourable one —he should object to the withdrawal of the Motion. The question he would put was this: If this clause pass in its present shape, and if an Irish archbishop—say Dr. Murray—were to depart this life, in the event of his successor being elected by the clergy of the diocese in the usual manner, tow or there names being transmitted to the pope for his selection, will the Bull or Rescript issued by the pope in virtue of that elec-
 318
 MR. ROEBUCK  would take that opportunity of putting a question to the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. O'Connor) with respect to what he termed his land scheme, the more so as the hon. Member had appealed to that House for assistance in reference to the losses which he alleged he had sustained through the bank
 260 l., "Sir—I am desired by the manager to return your certificate for 67 l. "Sir—I am directed by Mr. Feargus O'Connor to inform you that, pending the decision of Parliament on the subject of the liability of the National Land Company to repay the advances made by him, and to assist which Company this bank was established, he is reluctantly but unavoidably compelled, in compliance with the unanimous vote of the Land Company's directors, to submit to a temporary suspension of payment to the depositors." 261
 MR. STANFORD : Sir, I shall very briefly state the reasons why I feel it right to oppose the second reading of this Bill. I do not think it possible to provide any adequate means of testing the correctness of the qualification which it is here proposed to create; for instance, a gentleman gives in to the clerk of this House a declaration that he possesses 600 l. 326 l.
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  said, that he had not wished to say anything offensive to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, for it would be most unpardonable in him to do so; but what he referred to was, that the noble Lord had written his letter, and gave no opportunity and no means for explanation, but had at once assumed that there was a determination on the part of the Pope to insult this country; and the noble Lord had also assumed that the Pope, having acted with that intention, what he had done was favourably received by the Roman Catholics of this country. He (Mr. M. O'Ferrall) spoke for himself and for his co-religionists when he said that any such act on the part of the Pope or any other Sovereign would be as strongly resisted by them as by any other persons in the empire. It was because he believed—he might say he knew—that the intention of his Holiness was not to do any such thing, that he regretted the course pursued by the noble Lord. He (Mr. M. O'Ferrall) admitted that the form of the Rescript and the Brief did contain expressions which, perused by Protestants who were not well read in these things, might have given offence. But he wished that hon. Gentlemen would
 308 309
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  feared that when courts of justice came to interpret such a measure as the present they would have no regard to the speeches and the explanations of hon. Members regarding it, but would proceed to interpret according to their own views of its provisions. The legal opinions expressed on the measure in that House had been very conflicting and very unsatisfactory. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General had said that the present measure if passed into law would do nothing more than confirm the law as it already stood. He begged, however, the Committee to recollect that when the prohibitory clauses of the Act of 1829 had been passed, it was solely to meet the views of the then King George IV., and there had been no intention on the part of
 289
 MR. WALPOLE  wished to say a few words in answer to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, who had introduced a discussion which had come upon them by surprise. If the right hon. Baronet had addressed
 293 294 "That he had received a Bull, or Brief, purchased or procured in the Court of Rome, which Bull, or Brief, did touch or concern the King's Crown and dignity Royal, containing a commission of authority from the Pope of Rome unto Richard Brady and David Magrah, to constitute a vicar-general for the See of Rome, by the name of the See Apostolic, in the several dioceses of Dublin, Kildare, and Ferns, within the kingdom of Ireland." "That by the pretext or colour of that Bull, or Brief, he was constituted vicar-general of the See of Rome, and took upon him the style and title of vicar-general in the said several dioceses." "That he did exercise ecclesiastical jurisdiction as vicar-general of the See of Rome, by instituting divers persons to benefices with cure of souls, by granting dispensations in causes matrimonial, by pronouncing sentences of divorce between divers married persons, and by doing all other acts and things pertaining to episcopal jurisdiction within the said several dioceses against our Sovereign Lord the King, his Crown, and dignity Royal, and in contempt of his Majesty and disherison of his Crown, and contrary to the form and effect of the statute." 295 Howell's State Trials "Of the plentitude of our apostolic power we decree and ordain that in the kingdom of England, according to the common rules of the Church, there be restored the hierarchy of ordinary bishops, who shall take their titles from sees which we constitute in these our letters in the districts of the several vicars-apostolic." "It will for the future be solely competent for the archbishops and bishops of England to distinguish what things belong to the executive of the common ecclesiastical law, and what, according to the common discipline of the Church, are entrusted to the authority of the bishops." "That if in any other manner any other attempt shall be made by any person, or by any authority, knowingly or ignorantly, to set aside
 296 "Whereas the Bishop of Rome, by a Brief purporting to be given at Rome, hath recently constituted within the Kingdom of England a hierarchy of bishops, named from sees, and with titles decreed from places belonging to the Crown of England—" 297 298
 MR. WALPOLE : Instead of announcing what I shall do with the clause relating to the accumulative penalty, I would rather reserve my opinion until Monday. I would rather reserve my opinions on all the Amendments until we again go into Committee.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, in answer to the observations of the noble Lord, it may be convenient to the Committee to state shortly what view I take of the Amendments I mean to propose. The noble Lord does not, I know, expect an immediate answer from me as to the points I intend to press; but, entertaining a very strong opinion that some portions of those Amendments should be passed, perhaps it would be convenient to acquaint the Government at this moment that the Amendments on the second clause which I shall put relate to three things: first, "if any person shall do or assume to do any act, deed, matter, or thing, under, or by virtue of, the aforesaid brief, rescript, or letters apostolical" (which we have just declared void); secondly, "if any person shall hereafter obtain, or cause to be procured, from the said Bishop or See of Rome, or shall publish or put in use within any part of the United Kingdom any brief, rescript, letters apostolical, or any other instrument or writing for the purposes aforesaid," that is, for constituting a hierarchy in this country; and, thirdly, I propose to insert these words, "if any person shall, under colour of any authority from the said Bishop or See of Rome, assume, or claim to have or exercise any authority or jurisdiction over any province or diocese, or any pretended province or diocese, within the United Kingdom." With regard to the first of these Amendments, I think it is the necessary consequence of declaring the Brief unlawful, and I wish to take the opinion of the Committee upon it. With regard to the second, I think it advisable that the opinion of the Committee should be taken upon it in order that you may avoid the necessity of recurring again to fresh legislation on the subject that now occupies the attention of the House, and which has occasioned throughout the country so much excitement. With regard to the third, I
 323
 MR. HOBHOUSE  said, that all those who, like himself, supported the view of the case taken by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham), were not disposed to say that whatever the Pope or the Roman Catholic authorities declared to be a spiritual matter was a spiritual matter, but that they were, on the contrary, prepared to judge of each particular case on its own merits. All that he contended for was that this act of the Pope was not an interference with the temporal jurisdiction of the Crown. If the Roman Catholic authorities should ever press on the sovereign authority of the Crown of England, he trusted he should be the first man to resist any such encroachment; but he was not prepared to treat every thing as an encroachment on the Royal prerogative which public clamour declared to be so. He ventured to predict that this question would be looked at in a very different manner by a great part of the country before many years had elapsed; and he should like then to hear the speeches that would be delivered by the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole), and those who had endeavoured to arouse the animosities of the sects against the Roman Catholic religion. He ventured to say, with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, that the real question at issue was materially affected by the times in which we lived, and that the arguments which would have been applicable in the time of Richard II. were not so now. When the only spiritual jurisdiction in this country was that of the Pope, it might be very well for the authority of the Crown to entertain some jealousy of the authority of the Pope; but the Roman Catholic religion was not now the religion of the State; that religion was
 310 311 l.
 MR. MITCHELL  trusted those interested in the timber trade, and others, would not be left much longer in a state of uncertainty.
 MR. KEOGH  wished to take the opinion of the House upon the proviso of which he had given notice, and which, if adopted, would have the effect of preventing any indictment being made without the consent of the Attorney General. He hoped the Government would agree to this; and, if so, he would offer no further opposition to this clause.
 MR. KEOGH : Yes, I withdraw it.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that previously to the Chairman reporting progress on Monday night, be moved that a proviso be added to the clause to the following effect:—"That no criminal proceedings be commenced or indictment preferred against any person under or by virtue of this clause." He now proposed to add to this proviso the words, "except with the consent of the Attorney General for the time being, previously had and obtained."
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, that he was opposed to all property qualification, and, therefore, he should give his cordial support to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Reading.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  hoped that the hon. Member would not press the second reading at that hour of the evening. The whole principle of sequestrations required consideration, and he thought it was doubtful whether it would be advisable to agree to the present measure, which seriously interfered with the rights of creditors, while it did not deal at all with the principle of sequestration.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Mr. Bernal, I am at all times most anxious to attend to the wishes of this House, and I am persuaded they will view with jealousy any approaches to delay in proceeding with the details of this measure. Having been indulged by this House with a full opportunity of stating my opinion on the principles of this Bill on the occasion of the second reading, I have carefully abstained during the progress of the Bill in Committee, up to the present time, from taking part in the discussion. But having now arrived at the conclusion of the first clause, which was not part of the Bill when last I had the honour of addressing the House on this subject, and feeling great doubts with respect to the real import of that clause, I hope the Committee will pardon me if I intrude upon their attention for a short time, taking care not to restate my opinions on the principles of the Bill, which, however, are still unchanged, but confining myself entirely to the clause in question. It might, indeed, have been the policy of the opponents of the principle of
 272 "Whereas divers of Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects have assumed to themselves the titles of archbishop and bishops of a pretended province and of pretended sees and dioceses within the United Kingdom, under colour of an alleged authority given to them for that purpose by a certain Brief, Rescript, or Letter Apostolical from the See of Rome, purporting to have been given at Rome on the 29th of September, 1850." 273 274 in pari materiâ 275 276 fortiori 277 278 "Are you a Catholic bishop?—I am. "Do you hold any ecclesiastical office in England?—I am coadjutor to the bishop, who is vicar-apostolic of the central district of England at present? "In the event of any questions arising in England relating to the validity of Catholic marriages, have you any jurisdiction or judicial authority upon those questions from the See of Rome?—The vicars-apostolic in England have the same jurisdiction in respect of matrimonial cases which any bishop would have upon the Continent. "Are you appointed an ecclesiastical judge by the Court of Rome in this country?—In matters relating to ecclesiastical jurisdiction. "Is there any ecclesiastical authority in this country to decide upon the subject of marriages except the Catholic bishops?—No. "The persons holding that office are the authorities which have jurisdiction throughout Catholic countries to decide upon questions of marriage?—Generally; generally, that is, matrimonial cases, as far as the canon law and ecclesiastical law affects them, belong to the jurisdiction of the bishops. "And are you one of those bishops?—I am in that capacity. "What are the authorities in this country from the See of Rome that have power to decide upon questions arising between Catholics respecting marriage?—Tho vicars-apostolic of England. "Does their authority extend to all questions relating to marriage, as well its validity as its regularity, or is it limited?—It is limited with respect to the power of dispensing in certain cases in which they are obliged to have recourse to the supreme authority at Rome. With the exception of those cases, the powers are the same as would be exercised in Rome itself. I ought to observe that I stated myself to be the coadjutor to the vicar-apostolic. It might be necessary to explain in what relation I am. I am appointed by the Holy See with the character of bishop to assist the bishop in the administration of his diocese,
 279 "Have you, during your residence in this country, exercised that jurisdiction?—Frequently. "In the course of that do you administer your functions with reference to the ecclesiastical law of Rome? Is that your guide and rule?—I am guided by the ecclesiastical law of the Church as applicable to this country. For instance, as to the case of the clandestinity, or any matter involved in that decree of the Council of Trent, I should have to administer for England as for a country in which that is not promulgated; but if cases came before me from other countries in which it is promulgated, I should have to decide according to the practical judgment I should form of the force of that canon in those countries." "You say that you have the power of deciding whether a marriage is valid or invalid. Suppose you decide it to be invalid, what is the consequence of that decision?—That the parties would be obliged to separate, unless I granted a dispensation, or, if it was not within my faculty, procured it for them; but, until such dispensation was granted they would have to separate. "You say they would be obliged to separate; but suppose they did not separate, what then?— Then of course they would not be admitted to participation in the rites of the Church—to the sacraments of the Church. "Therefore your jurisdiction is entirely confined to spiritual censures, and to consequences of an ecclesiastical kind?—Certainly; entirely. "You would have no power to effect the property or the civil rights of the parties?—Not in this country, except in  foro contcientiœ. in foro conscientiœ 280 "They tolerated the Catholic prelates, and they knew that these prelates could not carry on their Church establishment, or conduct its discipline, without holding communication with the Pope of Rome. No Roman Catholic bishop could be created without the authority of a Bull from the Pope of Rome; and many of the observances of their Church required the same sanction. The moment, therefore, that they sanctioned the observance of the Roman Catholic religion in this country, they, by implication, allowed the communication (with the Pope) prohibited by this statute, and for which it imposed the penalties of high treason. If the law allowed the doctrines and discipline of the Roman Catholic Church, it should be permitted to be carried on perfectly and properly; and that could not be without such communication. On these grounds he proposed to repeal that Act."—[3  Hansard, "But he proposed the repeal of this statute for other and still stronger reasons. No such statute existed in Scotland, and, what was still more remarkable, such a statute had never been passed by the Irish Parliament, though in that country three-fourths of the inhabitants professed the Roman Catholic religion. He knew that many of his noble friends had been, on the first impression, much staggered at this proposition; but the more they had examined into the question, the more convinced were they of the expediency of the course which he proposed. If their Lordships thought that when the Bill got into Committee the measure might be in some degree modified, provided it could be satisfactorily made out that Roman Catholics would he enabled to do what the law authorised them to do, and to do it effectually, he should have no difficulty in acceding to such a modification."—[ Ibid, 281 l. The right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland here, entered the House. 282 animus 283
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  wished to set himself right on one point with respect to which the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General entertained some doubt, namely, as to what fell from the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls. In the debate on the 21st of March, reference was made to what had fallen from the Master of the Rolls on a former occasion, and a passage was quoted from that speech, in which he expressed an opinion that there was nothing in the law of England to prevent the Pope from parcelling out any portion of the United Kingdom into districts for Roman Catholic episcopal purposes. He said—
 "On the debate on the Bill for establishing Diplomatic Relations with Home, he resisted an Amendment, which was proposed by the then hon. Member for Lambeth, and said that, as the law stood, the Pope could parcel out the country into bishopries and archbishoprics; that it the House introduced the Amendment which prohibited dealing with spiritual matters, the Pope would still
 288 "That was to say, he deprecated such a measure, and was desirous that the House should pass a Bill which would enable the Government to take such stops as would prevent it." "That was entirely in accordance with what he now said, and he believed he was correct in saying it, and had since given an opinion that there was nothing in the law to prevent the Pope from parcelling out the country into archbishoprics and bishopries; that there was a law to prevent the introduction of bulls, but there was no law to prevent him from parcelling out the country."—[3  Hansard,
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he did not know that the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls alluded to any written opinion; what he asserted was, that those words were read in that House.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Will you allow me to read my note of what the right hon. and learned Gentleman said? It was—
 "He now said, and lie believed he was correct in saying, and he had since given an opinion, that there was nothing in the law to prevent the Pope from parcelling out the country into archbishoprics and bishoprics."
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had stated that that House ought not to be ruled by the opinions of Roman Catholic doctors and lawyers upon the point at issue. Now, he (Sir J. Graham) hoped there was no Member of that House more sincerely and warmly Protestant than himself. He was
 307
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that however unwilling he might he again to trespass on the attention of the Committee, he felt that he could not remain silent under those strictures of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Midhurst, by which, if it had not been charged, it had been at least insinuated, that he (Sir J. Graham) had attempted to mislead the Committee. He confessed that he was not familiar with the precise expressions in which Lord Beaumont, Lord Camoys, and the Duke of Norfolk were reported to have declared their disapprobation of the recent Rescript of the Pope, nor was he compelled to say how far those expressions might be reasonably susceptible of the interpretation sought to be put upon them by his hon. and learned Friend; but when his hon. and learned Friend undertook the delicate and difficult task of legislating for millions who were of the same religious persuasion as those noble personages, he would take leave to remind him of a well-known saying of Mr. Burke's that the members of one sect were the worst possible judges of what was necessary for the free and conscientious exercise of the religion of those who were attached to another sect. The hon. and learned Gentleman had expressed a hope that the Committee would not be deterred by any want of courage from giving its assent to this measure. Want of courage was the very last charge to which the promoters of this measure could be said to be liable, for he regarded it as little short of a declaration of war against 8,000,000 of Her Majesty's subjects. He did not profess to be learned in the law, hut he had endeavoured to make himself master of this Bill, and though he had read the preamble again and again with the deepest attention, he still found it impossible to reconcile it with the subsequent provisions, or, indeed, to make it consistent with itself. The preamble, as originally framed by the Government, seemed to indicate an intention that the Bill should be limited to England; but subsequent words introduced by the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst greatly extended the scope of the original
 299 forum, conscienti— forum judicii, 300
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : With all possible respect for the right hon. Gentleman, he would, nevertheless, express his deliberate conviction that all parties acting under
 301 Quando aliquid prohibitur, prohibitur et omne per quod devenitur ad illud, Pleas of the Crown, Digest
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, the statement of the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) was substantially correct, and that it was impossible for any one to have listened to it without having had his sympathies excited on behalf of this unfortunate gentleman, Lieutenant Wyburd. His hon. Friend had not, however, adverted to the report which reached this country in 1845, through Dr. Woolff, the distinguished Eastern traveller, and which also confirmed the belief that Lieutenant Wyburd had perished. But a subsequent communication from the Khan of Khokan to Colonel Lawrence in 1848, led to the hope that he was still alive. What had been done since that year was that which required explanation, and that explanation he (Sir J. Hogg) would now endeavour to supply. At all times it was most difficult to communicate with Khokan, as any one must know who was at all conversant with the position of that place. The geographical and political difficulties were almost insuperable. It was between 500 and 600 miles to the north-east of Peshawur. The intervening country presented a continuity of mountains which were nearly inaccessible, and inhabited by barbarous and savage tribes. It was scarcely possible for any one to travel in that country, unless his personal safety was secured by the sanctity of his character. Unless he travelled as a fakir or dervish, there was scarcely a possibility of his escape from death. Being at all times difficult to communicate with Khokan, that difficulty must have been greatly increased by the unhappy outbreak in the north-west of India in 1848, the very time when the letter from the Khan of Khokan reached Colonel Lawrence, who was himself taken prisoner in that year by these lawless tribes, and remained in captivity until late in 1849. Upon his release, Colonel Lawrence despatched a native messenger to the Khan of Khokan, selecting for that purpose one who was most likely to accomplish the object he had in view, and shortly afterwards he despatched a second; but he (Sir J. Hogg) grieved to say, that up to this date no ac-
 267
 MR. HUTT  said, that he intended to introduce some clauses which would, he thought, remove the objections of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Reading.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  objected to the Crown entering upon the business of growing timber for the Navy; and, as there were several objectionable clauses, he would support the Amendment.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, the only way to improve the property of the Crown forests, was to get rid of the deer in the first instance, and with them the forest right. With respect to settling the claims of all parties, he was alarmed when he heard of their extent. There were two sorts of claims, those within the forest and those without; and, according to the lowest estimate, these amounted to 600,000 l.; l.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  inferred from the speech of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), and of the right hon. Member for Stamford (Mr. Herries), that it was still an open question whether there was to be a Committee at all. For himself he should be very glad to give his vote against any Committee being appointed. If that question could be brought before the House for decision, he, for one, would he happy to record his vote against it, not being aware that any possible advantage could arise from the inquiries of a Committee. The hon. Member for Montrose said the object of his Motion to limit the tax for one year was to have an inquiry. The
 351 352
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  felt sure that there was one point on which they should all be agreed, and that was, that the hon. and learned Member was influenced by a  bonâ fide 370 l.
 The CHAIRMAN  decided in the affirmative.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, it was not competent for the hon. Member to move the postponement of the Amendment.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that it was competent for the hon. Member who proposed an Amendment to postpone it if he thought fit, but he never remembered an instance of another hon. Member moving the postponement of an Amendment.
 The CHAIRMAN : Let me understand. Does the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst propose to go on?
 The CHAIRMAN : What does the hon. Member for Mayo propose?
 The CHAIRMAN  said, by the terms of the Amendment, it appeared to be applicable to England only.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole) was involving himself and the Committee in most egregious inconsistencies if the clause were to pass as it stood. The Bill was a Bill for the United Kingdom; and the first clause, adopted at the hon. and learned Member's suggestion, was to declare that a proceeding of this description, a Bull or Brief of this character, was of itself illegal and void; the second clause declared the assumption of titles of sees taken from the names of places not only to be illegal, but to be liable to a penalty: and that applied to the United Kingdom. Well, then, surely it was an inconsistent thing to say that the assumption of titles should be subject to a
 375
 The CHAIRMAN  said, the words "United Kingdom" were large and comprehensive, and if the House should limit the operation of a particular clause to a portion of the United Kingdom, that was not a departure from the title, and would not require a previous instruction from the Committee.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  expressed a hope that the speech of the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down would act as a warning to the Government of the danger they were incurring by proceeding with legislation of the present kind, for when they had obtained the support of the hero of "the diamond" they ought to beware. He questioned if the opposition of the hon. Member for the city of Dublin was half so dangerous as the support of the hon. and gallant Member who had talked of bringing in the support of the Orange yeomanry—a class of men whom the late Sir Ralph Abercromby had described as formidable to every body but the enemy. He (Mr. O'Connell) opposed this measure because of the danger he feared would arise from discontent. The Irish Members had been told by the last speaker that they had no wills of their own, hut must speak as the Irish Roman Catholic bishops and priests dictated. He (Mr. O'Connell) threw that insinuation back with the most calm and perfect scorn. They (the Irish Members) were not bound
 390
 MR. DRUMMOND  thought there would be a great want of propriety on his part if, upon a clause in a Bill having for its object something wholly disconnected from the state of the Established Church iii Ireland, he should enter into any discussion upon such an irrelevant matter. He was not surprised that that there should exist a considerable feeling of disappointment in that House as to the state at which this discussion had arrived. It did not become him to offer any advice to that House, but for himself he should pursue this course, namely, he would not attempt to modify, to amend, or to alter in any way the provisions of this Bill. He would let the Government and those who chose to meddle with it bring to perfection, or to destruction, as they could, their own child. But until the third reading of the whole Bill, he would venture to suggest to Gentlemen that they should reserve themselves, for he thought it was exceedingly likely they would then be called upon to take a particular course in order not to deceive the country with a false measure, pretending
 393
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  opposed the second reading of the Bill, which, if it passed, he said, would have the effect of depriving the poor of 20,000 acres of forest right, consisting of turfcutting and fuel, which entirely depended upon the preservation of the deer. The value of these rights might be estimated when he informed the House that the
 345
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  had hitherto abstained from taking part in the discussion on the present measure, not from indifference as to its importance, or doubt as to the necessity of legislation, but because, knowing as he did the overwhelming opinion of that House in favour of legislation on the subject, he thought he should best aid the success of the measure by leaving to the Government, as far as possible, the management of legislation on the subject. He agreed with the hon. and learned Attorney General, that it was impossible to ascribe the course taken by the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst to any other motive than a desire to render the Bill effective, without making it oppressive; and with the same feeling he was also anxious to support the proposed Amendment. After listening most attentively to the hon. and learned Attorney General's argument, he could not concur in the opinion he had expressed; for his speech had clearly shown that instead of there being, by the adoption of the Amendment, a cumulative penalty for one offence, there would be two offences, and a penalty attached to them. To receive a rescript conferring a territorial title, and to assume the title so conferred, was one offence; and the Bill, as it is at present framed, would visit that offence with a penalty. But if an ecclesiastic, of an ambitious turn of mind, were to solicit a Brief from Rome, with a view to his own promotion, that would be another offence, and one totally distinct from the first; and against that offence the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst was very properly directed.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the great difficulty in which the House was at present placed had arisen from the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) not attending to the suggestion of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), who in the course of the previous debate said, that if the hon. Member had wished for a modification of the income tax, he should have moved for a modification of it, and the House would have known what it was about. Those hon. Members who were in favour of a modification would have voted for it, and those who were opposed to it would have voted against it. There was another way which he (Lord John Russell) suggested, and that was, that the hon. Member might have proposed a Select Committee to inquire into the expediency of modifying the tax. The hon. Member, however, did not take that course, but he took a third course, which it appeared was not intelligible to those who voted for it, viz., to limit the income tax to one year. Some hon. Members said,
 359 360
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he would take the nomination of the Committee previous to the Orders of the Day on Friday.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not think the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) had answered the objections that had been made by his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, and by the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon (Sir F. Thesiger). He could understand very well that the Committee, having before them a Rescript or Letter Apostolic founding bishoprics in England, or pretending to found then, should declare that that Rescript was illegal and void; but the present clause was of a totally different nature, and he thought when the hon. and learned Gentleman, instead of taking a specific Act, applied the clause to putting in force hereafter any Rescript or Letters Apostolic within the kingdom of England, when he proposed to make that an offence, he distinctly made a difference between England and Ireland. However, his objection to the proposed Amendment was a far more general one. This clause was framed on the Act of 1829. That Act said that the assumption of any title of sees derived from provinces or sees existing by any Roman Catholic archbishop or bishop should be an offence, and a penalty was awarded. In the present clause they proposed to extend that enactment not merely to prohibit titles taken from the names of sees, but from any place within the United Kingdom. The enactment was perfectly plain, and they did not propose to go beyond the spirit of the Act of 1829. What the hon. and learned Gentleman proposed was to create a new offence. His Amendment did not resemble the Act of 1829, but resembled some of our old laws. For his (Lord John Russell's) part he did
 377
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the hon. Gentleman wished to have his opinion, and his opinion was, that this Amendment had nothing to do with the subject under discussion.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had misunderstood the opinion be had expressed on a former occasion. He observed, then, that he did not vote for a Committee in voting for the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose to limit the tax for one year; but that, in consequence of that Motion, and the
 355 356
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, it was an, unpleasant task to object to the name of any Gentleman, but paramount duty compelled him to disagree to some of the names proposed by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume). He objected, too, that no one member of the military or naval professions was nominated on the Committee. He (Colonel Sibthorp) had called the attention of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer to the fact; and he had given him (Colonel Sibthorp) to understand that a member of those professions should be placed on the Committee—but he did not see that it had been done.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the House would do him the justice to remember that he had never expressed any opinion in favour of the Committee. He stated, when the proposition as to the Committee was first made, that the questions to be decided were questions of principle, and ought to he decided by the House itself, and ought not to be referred to a Committee, and he pointed out the contradiction such a course would involve, and the difficulties which would stand in the way of coming to any satisfactory conclusion. His hon. Friend the Member for Montrose nevertheless moved, and he would do him the justice to say he fairly stated that he moved, the limitation of the tax to one year, for the purpose of getting a Committee appointed, and with the hope that the result of the labours of the Committee would he to make the income tax permanent. The House would also remember that a good deal of discrepancy of opinion was expressed upon that Motion; and that when he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) pointed out the discrepancy, the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, the able and eloquent loader of the Opposition, stated that he, for one, supported the Motion on the same grounds as the hon. Member for Montrose himself. Taking the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire as the exponent of the opinions of his party, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) apprehended that it was the wish of a majority of the House that a Committee should he appointed. The Government acquiesced in that opinion, because they conceived it was the opinion of the majority of the House. The House was now put in the very strange position in which it must always be placed when two extreme parties joined to carry a vote in which, in truth, there was no common concurrence. The hon. Member for Montrose did not wish, in point of fact, to limit the tax to one year. The hon. Gentleman opposite did not wish to have a Committee for the purpose of rendering the tax permanent. The consequence was that he believed, in his conscience, that a majority of the House did not wish for a Committee at all. After the division on the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, there was no discussion on the question whether the Committee should be appointed or not. It was moved at a late period, and there was no
 353 354
 MR. ROCHE  said, as he found two lawyers differed very materially as to the effect of this Amendment, he thought his proposition reasonable that the Amendment should be printed. The tendency of the Amendments of the hon. and learned
 371
 MR. ROCHE  rose to order. He put it to the Chairman whether the hon. and learned Member was in order in proposing an Amendment which had not been printed?
 MR. ROCHE  said, that this was a very important Amendment, and the effect of it could not be carried by mere memory on hearing it read over. It ought to have been printed and not to be pressed at the present moment.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, many similar Motions had been made with various fortune. Rut so far from the present embarrassment having arisen from the views of extreme parties in that House, the truth was, that the embarrassment had been caused by the Government relying with too much confidence on the votes of their usual supporters. If the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) had adopted the course which had been suggested, of moving for a modification of
 361
 MR. HORSMAN  recommended hon. Members on the opposite side of the House to waive their objections, and take part in the labours of the Committee.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the Committee was not dealing with this question as it ought to do. He hailed the proposal of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Walpole) with great pleasure. He had been found fault with for making a distinction between England and Ireland; but that, in his (Mr. Horsman's) opinion, was the greatest merit of the Amendment. To apply the same principle of legislation to a Roman Catholic and a Protestant country, was not only absurd but impossible. The religion of Ireland was a great fact that we could not shake—legislation could not change it. They ought to be allowed to have their own religion and their own bishops; and it was folly, or something worse, for it amounted to persecution, to put restrictions on their intercourse with their spiritual head. His hon. and learned Friend went on the ground that we were legislating with the Pope's Brief, in which Ireland was not mentioned, and therefore should not be mentioned in this Bill. The Government Bill, and that of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, endeavoured to attain the same object by different means. The Government Bill did not mention the Pope or the Brief, but struck merely at the titles, while the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Mid-
 380 381
 MR. SCULLY  wished to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General whether this would be the result of this clause, that, in case any person should receive a Brief into this country, by which Roman Catholic bishops might be nominated to dioceses in England, would he incur the penalties mentioned in it? Two penalties, as he understood, were proposed—one for receiving the Brief, and the other for assuming the titles. Might not that be applied to the receipt of the Briefs of the Pope in Ireland? He had warned Her Majesty's Government that this was a subject not worthy of legislation. It would have been well for the people out of this House who had by their clamour caused this legislation, if the Bill had been in the hands of Members on his side of the House. Then a consistent course would have been taken. Now, hon. Members on one side of the House were bringing on one Bill, and hon. Members on the other side were trying to introduce another, and between the two they made a sad jumble of it. On one day the Government had an understanding with the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, and on another day they were opposed to him. But they were not prepared to come forward and boldly state the measure they wished to carry out. They ought to postpone the consideration of the Bill until they had really decided what course they meant to pursue.
 MR. SCULLY  said, as the hon. and gallant Member for the county of Armagh had thrown out imputations against the loyalty of the Catholic Members, he begged to ask him what was the feeling of the Irish Protestant Members, when the Government proposed the Rate in Aid? Did they not then protest that such a measure would create a rebellion in Ireland; and did they not earn for themselves the title of sixpenny loyalty? He hoped the Government would not be led by the speech of the hon. and gallant Gentleman to rely upon the support of the Orange Societies, but that they would fling themselves upon the broad and generous loyalty of the people of Ireland, and they would never have occasion to repent it.
 MR. SCULLY  wished to know what the Government intended to do on this subject?
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he never understood his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General to say that a penal provision which applied to England would apply also to Ireland. What he understood his hon. and learned Friend to say was this—he was pressed by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Sir Robert Inglis) with an apparent inconsistency in the measure proposed by Government, by adopting the declaration of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, and applying that declaration to the establishment of a hierarchy in England; upon that he understood his hon. and learned Friend to say that, if the question arose in Ireland in regard to a similar Rescript, the Judges would feel themselves bound, not as in the case of a penal provision, which was a different thing, but by the legislative declaration of what was the law. He believed that the Judges in Ireland, if the question came before them, would decide upon the matter under the old statutes rather than the proposed one. He did not, however, think it necessary to go into that point. It had been considered that the clause proposed by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Midhurst would create additional difficulties to those which now existed in considering this subject. But no such additional difficulties would, in his (Sir Frederic Thesiger's) opinion, exist, because the Judges in Ireland would act upon the statutes of Richard II., and the Act of Elizabeth, which were not proposed to be repealed, and, therefore, the difficulty anticipated would not arise. He, however, agreed with the hon. and learned Attorney General that it would appear that the object of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Midhurst appeared inconsistent with the objects of the Bill as applied to Ireland and England, and that if the Amendment were carried, it might be supposed to apply to Ireland as well as to England.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  trusted the hon. Member for Mayo would not press his Amendment for reporting progress, because it appeared to him that the Irish Members—if he might be pardoned the expression—ought to be the last persons to resist the alteration proposed, for the Amendment pointed merely to the kingdom of England. In the early stages of the Bill the Government declared their intention to extend the Bill to Ireland, and to have the law uniform. His Amendment proposed to exclude Ireland from its operation, which was a step in the direction of the course suggested by the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. S. Crawford), who had a notice on the paper of a Motion the object of which was that Ireland should be altogether exempted from the operation of the measure. He had ventured to propose an Amendment, extending the Bill to all Rescripts, similar to that of the 29th September, but had given way, in the belief that the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst (Mr Walpole) would effect the object he had in view. He had, however, reserved to himself the right of proposing the Amendment
 373
 MR. MOORE  said, the Irish Members had no wish to obstruct the Bill. They wished to understand that which he did not think the English Members—if he also might be pardoned the expression—cared much about understanding. After the different statements they had heard, he was not sure that the hon. and learned Solicitor General would not get up and tell them that the Amendment had quite another meaning than that which had been given to it. As he did not wish to obstruct the progress of the measure, he should withdraw his Motion for reporting progress.
 MR. MOORE : That you report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. MOORE  said, that though the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst called his Amendment a simple one, yet the lawyers, it appeared, differed respecting it, and in order to give time to understand it,
 372
 MR. MOORE  said, that he had to propose as an Amendment that after the words "England and Ireland," in the second clause, should he inserted the words "as long as the said Church shall continue to be the United Church of England and Ireland." He thought no great objection could be made to this proposition by those who wished to maintain the United Church of England and Ireland. But there was a section in that House, among whom he included the noble Lord at the head of the Government, who did not wish that this union should continue. He so included the noble Lord, because that noble Lord, on many previous occasions, had declared
 392 "In line 28, after the word 'Ireland,' to insert the words 'as long as the said Church shall continue to be the United Church of England and Ireland.'"
 MR. AGLIONBY  protested against that which would be a fraud upon the House and a fraud upon the country. He did not speak of any particular Motion, but of the proceedings of the House. Many hon. Members on that side of the House had supported the limitation of the tax to one year upon the distinct understanding that inquiry should he made as to rendering the income tax more equal. The notice, as expressed on the Votes, was to move—
 "To limit the duration of the tax to one year, with the view of instituting an inquiry by a Select Committee into the mode of assessing and collecting the tax; and whether the injustice of levying the same rate of charge upon terminable as upon perpetual annuities, and upon fluctuating and varying incomes from trades and professions as upon fixed incomes from real property, cannot be greatly modified or altogether removed." "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the present mode of assessing and collecting the income and property tax, and to consider whether any other system of levying the same, so as to render the tax more equitable can be adopted." 357
 MR. COMPTON  did not oppose the Bill, but considered, before the House adopted it, the rights of the commoners should be taken into consideration. He recommended that the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of the Woods and Forests (Lord Seymour) should take powers for issuing a Commission to inquire into that question. He would, therefore, second the Amendment.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  objected altogether to the Committee, because he would leave to the Government the responsibility of proposing the tax in question when the period should arrive for dealing with it. He should therefore move as an Amendment to the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, that the order be discharged.
 MR. HERRIES  said, that after the remarks which had fallen from the noble
 363
 MR. HERRIES  said, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose, contrary to his (Mr. Herries's) expectation, had invited the House to a discussion, which, if entered upon, would, he ventured to say,
 348 349 l. l., l. 350
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  said, that the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) had laid great stress on some chance words which some of the Irish Roman Catholic bishops had used in addresses and other documents, and had insisted that the denial of the territorial titles would not cripple in anywise their spiritual functions. But, if the context of these chance words had been read, he believed it would be found that they would not bear out the interpretation put upon them by the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin. He wanted to know why he would not lay equal stress upon the deliberate and written words of the Master in Chancery, recognising those prelates by their territorial titles? Moreover, it should be recollected that these words were used immediately after the passing of the Roman Catholic Emancipation Act, when, of course, the Roman Catholic bishops were congratulating each other on the triumph achieved. Things were very different at present. The declaration now before the Committee revived the old persecuting Acts, and gave them pungency and effect. The Protestants of Ireland, he was happy to say, had not joined in the miserable clamour which had been disgracing England during the last few months; and though the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Tuam cared nothing for distinctive titles, he would, nevertheless, if this Bill were passed, assert his rights.
 COLONEL RAWDON  wished to know from the Chairman whether it was not contrary to order to introduce matters into the Bill which were at variance with and contrary to the title? The Bill purported to relate to the United Kingdom, and was it not at variance with the title now to legislate expressly for the Kingdom of England?
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that as he was the Member referred to by the hon. and gallant Gentleman, he begged to be permitted to explain what he really did state. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had put words into his mouth which he had never uttered. He had never defied the Prime Minister to pass the Bill. He had never dared him to pass it; but he told the Prime Minister and the hon. and gallant Gentleman also, that his threats had no weight with him—that, if that House passed any Bill interfering with the free exercise of the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland, the Roman Catholics of the present day would act as their ancestors acted, when, penal laws being passed, they suffered death on the scaffold, allowed their lands to be confiscated, and were, some of them, hunted into caverns, and others of them transported. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had invited the Prime Minister to pursue his countrymen with acts of aggression, and had said that if the Roman Catholics obstructed, the Orangemen would help to cut them down. He (Mr. Reynolds)
 391
 MR. REYNOLDS  conceived that it was imperative on the noble Lord at the head of the Government to favour the Committee with his opinion on the matter, recollecting, as he did, the many brilliant and powerful speeches which the noble Lord had delivered in that House on the subject of the Irish Church. It appeared to him that his hon. Friend the Member for Mayo (Mr. Moore) had afforded the noble Lord a golden opportunity to express himself on that subject, and he grounded that belief on the last memorable effort of the noble Lord—the Appropriation Clauses battle of 1835, when he carried a Motion triumphantly through the Committee, which ultimately had the effect of driving the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth (the late Sir Robert Peel) from power. He (Mr. Reynolds) thought, under the circumstances, he was not unreasonable in requiring the expression of the noble Lord's opinion, or in advising him to mitigate the evils of a Church establishment being forced upon the people of Ireland. When in opposition the noble Lord had always said he would bring the state of the Irish Church under the notice of that House. They did not ask him, at present, to weaken the temporalities of the Church in Ireland; but, anticipating a time when a separation would be pronounced, his hon. Friend the Member for Mayo wished that the bishops and clergy of the Established Church should not be liable to the pains and penalties of this Bill. He wanted to know whether the noble Lord would really divide the Committee on this simple and harmless Amendment, and what they (the Roman Catholic Members were to say of him to the millions in Ireland, and to the millions in this country who were anxious for legislation on this subject. He believed the Dissenters were desirous to moderate and to mitigate the political evils of the temporalities of a Protestant Church in Ireland. Was he asking too much in requesting to have the opinion of the noble Lord on this question; or were they to assume that the time was come when the axe was to be laid at the root of the greatest evil in Ireland—the Church of the minority being the Established Church of that country? He could not command language sufficiently strong to express his thanks, and the thanks of his
 394
 MR. REYNOLDS  had often had the pleasure of hearing the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) in the superior Courts in Dublin; but, he should say, he had never seen him hold such a bag of briefs as that which he displayed on the present occasion. Indeed, the hon. and learned Gentleman might be said to be leading counsel for the united branches of the English and Irish Churches. His speech was made up of extracts from wills, Judges' charges, and legal decisions, with an attack on the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon. Now, in the speech of that right hon. Baronet, he (Mr. Reynolds) saw nothing, calculated to provoke the "pain and indignation" of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. The right hon. Baronet had truly said that this measure was a declaration of war against 8,000,000 of Roman Catholic subjects of the Queen, and that it was a declaration of war against the religion of the people of Ireland. He (Mr. Reynolds) asserted that if the Bill became law in its present shape, it would be impossible to exercise the Roman Catholic religion either in England or Ireland without the permission of the Attorney General. Though he was prepared to support the proviso now before the House, yet he should declare that it was both narrow and contracted. The first clause was similar to the postscript of a lady's letter—it contained the Bill, the whole Bill, and nothing but the Bill. It was a, hostile measure—a declaration of religious war against the people—a measure of Protestant ascendancy, intended to promote the spread of the religion of the minority. The hon. and learned Member for Midhurst had said that his object in withdrawing his Amendments was not to waste time; hut three hours had been lost
 388
 MR. REYNOLDS  wished to know whether all the Amendments of the hon. and learned Member wore withdrawn?
 MR. REYNOLDS  moved that the Chairman should report progress. He was not doing anything unreasonable in moving that the House should resume after sitting for eight hours.
 MR. STANFORD  said, the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole) had conducted himself all through that discussion with so much moderation, discretion, and judgment, that though differing in religious belief from many hon. Members around him, he had never heard one of them impugn that hon. and learned Member's character or conduct. He (Mr. Stanford) confessed he had not been able distinctly to understand some of the points involved in the particular questions under discussion; and he thought the hon. and learned Member for Athlone (Mr. Keogh), and other hon. Members who thought with him, had a perfect right to demand a full explanation from the Government of that system which they proposed carrying out for the satisfaction of the Protestant people of this country. No man was more opposed than he was to the ascendancy of the Court of Rome in this country, but he had a kindly feeling towards his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects, yet he would say that they never should have any ascendancy of any kind, Popish or Protestant, in this country, which was not founded on sound reason and argument. He had listened with great attention to all the speeches which had been delivered in the course of that debate—particularly those of the law officers of the Crown. All parties had agreed that there was no intention in pursuing that legislation to interfere with the free action of the religion of their Roman Catholic fellow-subjects; and he did sincerely believe that there was not an hon. Member on his side of the House who would not join in that sentiment. But in legislating upon that subject they had many and serious matters to take into consideration. They had to consider, as he had done, the statute of Richard II., and the 13th of Elizabeth, and 10th
 378
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole) had laid down the principle that the supremacy of the Crown had been attacked by the introduction of the late Papal Rescript; and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), while he said that
 376
 MR. HENLEY  said, that with reference to the observations of the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby), he thought it rather hard that the House should be considered as committed to what the hon. Member for Montrose had put upon the paper, seeing that he had only proposed to the House a small portion of the proposition referred to. They were now placed in this position. The noble Lord at the head of the Government said he considered that it was quite impossible to get a Committee which would have the confidence of the House, and, therefore, that they ought to allow the hon. Member for Montrose to work out his own wicked will in the matter. He was not sure hut that the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) had got a wicked will, and he was very astute in carrying out his plans, so that he (Mr. Hume) might get up a very awkward sort of a report, which nobody would like, and which perhaps it might not be very easy to get rid of. He certainly did not think that the Committee as it was proposed to be constituted could command the confidence of the House; and as the subject was one of so much importance, he would rather support the Amendment than go on with an inquiry which at present did not offer the least probability of coming to a satisfactory issue.
 MR. HUME  begged to explain the course he had taken in selecting the Committee. In the first place he had taken the four Members on his own side of the House who had brought forward Motions on this subject in 1847 and 1848. The names of these Members were still on the list. He then crossed over to the other side of the House to the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), and asked that hon. Gentleman to recommend four names from his party. The hon. Gentleman then named Mr. Herries, Mr. Thomas Baring, and Mr. Henley, and, after some objections, consented to serve himself on the Committee. He (Mr. Hume) then went to the right hon. Baronet (Sir James Graham) and requested that he would serve, and name two or three other of his political Friends to serve also. The right hon. Baronet, however, declined on the ground that he doubted the advantages likely to arise from the Committee. He (Mr. Hume) then went to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had also been anxious to have the names of Mr. Goulburn and Mr. Card-well. Considerable delay occurred in receiving any answer from Mr. Goulburn, and this had greatly retarded progress with the Committee. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had proposed the name of Colonel Romilly; but he (Mr. Hume) had considered Mr. Frederick Peel preferable, and had therefore put the latter name on the list. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had informed him that there were strong objections entertained to putting the two Members for the West Riding on the list (Mr. Cobden and Mr. Beckett Denison). As there was this objection, he should be willing to substitute the name of Mr. Scholefield for one of the hon. Members for the West Riding. Afterwards, the name of Mr. Vesey had been added. With respect to the Amendment, he could only say that he would be no party to postponing this question.
 MR. HUME  said, that as he had great anxiety that the Committee should he fairly nominated, he thought he would best consult the convenience of the House by delaying the nomination of the Members of the Committee to some future evening, and wished to know what evening the Government would allow him for the purpose?
 MR. HUME  thought the Committee had the power to postpone the Amendment.
 MR. HUME  begged to nominate the following Gentlemen as Members of the Select Committee on the Income and Property Tax; Mr. Hume, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Horsman, Mr. Herries, Mr. Labouchere, Lord Harry Vane. Mr. Disraeli, Mr. Thomas Baring, Mr. Henley, Mr. Cobden, Mr. Frederick Peel, Mr.
 346 347 "No scale of income which can be devised will be perfectly free from the objection of inequality, nor can evasions be altogether prevented—all we can do is to approximate as far as possible to a fair and equal distribution." l.
 MR. MULLINGS  regarded the Bill as a measure of confiscation, which ought never to receive the sanction of the House.
 MR. NAPIER  would suggest to his hon. and learned Friend not to press his Amendment; as if ever there was a time when it was necessary to have uniformity of practice, it was when they wereeng aged in legislating on a great constitutional principle.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that on every point of the question, especially as far as it related to Ireland, it was important they should see their way clearly, because an attempt had been made to confuse the state of the law as regarded Ireland, and induce the belief that there was a difference between the law of the two countries, and also to induce the people of Ireland to believe that what that House was now engaged in was a species of crusade against them and their religion, whereas they were only employed in upholding the constitutional independence of the country.
 385 386 "Keep then your titles and your palaces. As for your titles, leaving the vain ambition of such baubles to your Lordship and the Gentiles, we shall be content with the more Christian office of ministering to the spiritual wants of those over whom we are appointed." v. l. 387 status.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that like some other hon. Members on his side of the House, he had voted against the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume). In public and in private he had remonstrated with his hon. Friend against the course he was taking. He (Mr. Cobden) had felt that the hon. Member was enlisting in support of his Motion a large body of hon. Members who would vote, not with the view of making the tax more just and equal, but in order to get rid of it altogether. He thought that hon. Gentlemen opposite might give his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) a majority, and, not calculating on any such trickery as was now attempted, he also thought they would have given him the Committee. He had, however, never expected any good to result from the Committee, because the majority of
 362 per se, l. l.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he promised on Friday to state the course he intended to pursue with respect to certain Amendments he had to propose. In this he felt some embarrassment: for he wished to support the noble Lord as far as he could in passing this measure, hut at the same time he wished to make the Bill as complete as he could, and as effectual for his purpose, before it went through Committee. He had in consequence given notice of Amendments, all of which he considered to he right in themselves, and some of which were absolutely essential for the success of the measure. Feeling this, he could not consent to give up these Amendments, unless some strong countervailing reason was shown to induce him to do it. Two
 366 367 368 369 "shall hereafter obtain or cause to be procured from the said See or Bishop of Rome, or shall publish or put in use any Brief, Rescript, Letters Apostolical, or other instrument or writing, for the purpose of constituting within the kingdom of England a hierarchy of bishops named from sees, and with titles derived from places belonging to the Crown of England."
 MR. WALPOLE  said, it was nearly the same Amendment that was printed, and before the Committee. Instead of saying as in the Amendment that was printed "for the purposes aforesaid" he had specified the purposes by bringing into the clause the words of the preamble which he was going to propose, namely, "for the purpose of constituting within the Kingdom of England a hierarchy of Bishops," &c.
 MR. WALPOLE : Most unquestionably.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had stated his intention with regard to his other Amendments at a previous part of the evening.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could not help feeling that his hon. Friends on his side of the House did not wish him to press this Motion. Now, he was unwilling to do any thing contrary to their better judgments; but he hoped, if he did not press the Committee to a division, that neither the Government nor the country would find, as he feared they would, another Brief like this come from Rome into this country, when they would be more awkwardly situated even than they now were.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, all he wanted was that in case anything of the kind came into the country again, they should have the same remedy against the person publishing the Brief, as they had against the person assuming the title.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that he had always stated throughout this discussion that there were two particular matters with which they had to deal. The one was the encroachment on the prerogative of the Crown by sending the Rescript into England, and the other was the assuming of the titles. The preamble of his Bill stated that—
 "Whereas the Bishop of Rome, by a certain Rescript or Letter Apostolical, purporting to have been given at Rome, has pretended to constitute within the Kingdom of England, according to the constitution of the Church of Rome, a hierarchy, with sees and with titles derived from places belonging to the Kingdom of England;"—
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the main question they had to consider was a national and imperial one, and as such it was considered that the Bill should apply to both countries. He did not, however, see any danger of the clause which he proposed creating any difficulty as applying to Ireland, and in his own mind no such ambiguities presented themselves as appeared to be anticipated by the hon. and learned Attorney General, in case of the adoption of the clause.
 MR. T. BARING  felt sure that the House would never consent to make the tax permanent without a Committee of inquiry. He was quite willing to acknowledge all the disadvantages under which that Committee would sit, as the lateness of the Session, and the deficiency of Members of authority upon such a subject who could be got to serve upon it; still, the sense of the House having been previously pronounced upon the subject, he could not vote for the Amendment, or shelve the inquiry, unless upon the understanding that the tax was not to be a permanent one.
 MR. BOOKER  said, no one on his side of the House would desire to give a shock to public credit by withdrawing the tax at a time when the financial position of the country might require it; but he certainly did not approve of the proposal for making it permanent. He approved of it in the original sense and for the original purpose for which it was proposed.
 MR. CONOLLY  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to consolidate and amend the laws relating to Salmon Fisheries in Ireland. The fisheries in Ireland were at present in a most ruinous condition. This was to be attributed to the Act of 1842, which had completely failed in the purposes it was intended to effect. That Act was quite in opposition to the laws of nature, and would not, therefore, prove otherwise than of the most injurious character. He would be content with bringing in the Bill, in order that the attention of hon. Members and of the Government might be drwn to the subject, and would not press its second reading this Session.
 CAPTAIN TAYLOR  seconded the Motion.
 MR. DEEDES  had supported the Motion on a former occasion to limit the income tax to one year, on the distinct un-
 358
 MR. KEOGH  said, the hon. and learned Member had just departed from the intention he had before expressed, by giving up this Amendment. He hoped it would now he admitted that time might be consumed by other persons besides those who sat near him. The hon. and learned Member for Midhurst had spoken four times on this proposition, the hon. and learned
 382
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. The first case to which he wished to direct the attention of the Committee was that of the recognition by the Court of Chancery in Ireland of the title of the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Armagh, and Primate of Ireland, in a document dated the 25th of April, 1846. At that time the seals in Ireland were held by Sir Edward Sugden; and it was superfluous to do more than to mention the name of that eminent Judge, as he felt certain that anything that bore the semblance of his authority would be received with the attention to which it was so justly entitled. In 1845, the Charitable Bequests Act had been passed, and the preamble of that Act contained these words: "Whereas it is expedient that the pious intentions of charitable persons shall not be defeated by the concealment or misapplication of their donations or bequests to public or private charities, be it enacted," and so forth. Now, Sir Edward Sugden proceeded in a suit that was raised before him to direct the Master to make inquiry into who should be the proper trustees in the case of certain property which had been left in the town of Drogheda, and which, under the old corporation of that town, had been applied exclusively to Protestant purposes, but with reference to which certain Roman Catholic inhabitants of Drogheda thought they were entitled to the opinion of the Court of Chancery as to whether the resources in question should not be devoted in common to Protestant and Catholic purposes. The Master found, after inquiry, that the property was properly applicable, without regard to sect, to the children of the poor in that locality, and he proceeded in his report, which was dated 11th of January, 1846, to name eight Catholics and eight Protestants to be trustees of the common fund. That draught report contained, among other expressions, these, which he thought were remarkable. The first person to he appointed under the great seal of Ireland was "the Most Rev. Dr. Crolly, Roman Catholic Archbishop of Armagh, and Primate of Ireland." To that report, the case being litigated, exceptions were made, and it came on for hearing before Sir Edward Sugden, who affirmed the whole of Master Henn's report, and, he believed, awarded costs. In
 383 casus belli, in ipsissimis verbis, 384
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  wished to know from the hon. and learned Solicicitor General what was the signification of the phrase "the Kingdom of England?" He had heretofore been under the impression that there was an Act of Union between the two countries. If so, why was England mentioned as if a separate kingdom? Did the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst mean that his Amendment should only have effect in the Kingdom of England, as he called it, or that it should extend to Ireland as well? If he meant to exclude Ireland, would he introduce a special provision to that effect?
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, what he was complaining of was that they did not understand what they were doing.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, when they were discussing a law applicable to England, and the principle of which might be extended to Ireland, it behoved them to know exactly the position in which they stood. He would, therefore, ask the Chairman whether the Amendment was applicable to the United Kingdom or England only?
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  said, the hon. Member for the city of Dublin (Mr. Reynolds) had assured the Committee that if the Bill were passed, it would be opposed by the Roman Catholics of Ireland. This had been so frequently repeated that hon. Members would very probably begin at last
 389
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  said, he must assert that hon. Members had got up in that House, and dared the Prime Minister to pass this measure, adding, that if it were passed, the whole body of Irish Roman Catholics would come forward in a body and oppose it. Those who opposed the law in such a way were rebels. He believed that those who made such assertions were stating that which was not the fact; but, if it were the fact, the parties opposing the law could be viewed in no other light than as rebels.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose forgot one step. He gave notice of his Motion on one night, and on the next he carried a Motion which had in its terms been changed. The House, therefore, had had no opportunity of coming to a decision on the question.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : According to the strict rule of the House, it was not necessary that any of its proceedings should be printed. For the sake of the general convenience of the House, however, any Member who had an important proposal to make, did give notice in print of his intention. The present discussion, however, had arisen upon a misconception. It was assumed that the Amendment now proposed added something to the clause, instead of which it diminished its operation, and removed certain words. His hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Walpole) proposed to take the sense of the Committee on nothing but what the Committee had already before them. The Committee could not therefore be said to be taken by surprise, and, such being the case, the argument of the hon. Member for Mayo (Mr. Moore) was of little value.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that the particular edition of the Bill which they had now in their hands contained one offence to which one punishment was affixed; but the Bill of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Walpole), as originally introduced to the House, specified three offences and three punishments, in all of which he (Sir R. Inglis) cordially and thankfully concurred. He therefore regretted to find that the hon. and learned Gentleman not only proposed to omit altogether the first and third offences, but in the punishment for the second he proposed to leave out all mention of what he (Sir R. H. Inglis) believed to be the most important part, namely, deportation. There were objections even to that portion of his measure, which the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Walpole) had expressed an intention to retain; for the hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to make a distinction between
 379
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE,  in reply, said, that the Government did not intend to do anything on this subject, at least during the present Session. If the hon. Member (Mr. Conolly) had not announced that he did not intend to press the Bill this Session, he (Sir William Somerville) would have been obliged to state that he should have opposed the Second Reading of the Bill.
 MR. S. CRAWFORD : When the House met at Twelve o'clock it was not competent for any Member to count it out till Four o'clock. A similar rule should be made applicable to the evening sittings, and when the House met at Four, it should not be in the power of any Member to count it out until Eight o'clock.
 MR. M'GREGOR  thought that the House should do nothing contrary to the religious sentiments of the people of Scotland. He believed, however, that the noble Lord's Bill was fully appreciated by the great body of the people of Scotland, and if there were one thing more than another that would render the government of Scotland difficult, it would be by denying them a system of education such as that now proposed by the noble Lord (Viscount Melgund). He hoped the House
 430
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, whatever might be the result of the debate, he hoped the House would not come to a hasty decision on a question of such vital importance to the people of Scotland, for the issue which it involved was neither more nor less than the total overthrow of a system which had been established in that country for a century and a half, and the substitution of an untried, and, he believed, a most objectionable as well as an unworkable scheme. The hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House (Mr. Cowan) had expressed a hope that the Bill would be allowed to go into Committee, although he admitted that some of the clauses did not meet his view of the question, and that it must be remodelled in Committee. On such a question it was not sufficient to be in favour of an improved system of education, but they ought to be satisfied that the Bill was an improvement, and would carry out the objects it had in view. The noble Viscount (Viscount Melgund) was alarmed at the deficiency of education in Scotland, and dreaded the perpetuation of the spirit of sectarian rivalry which had arisen; and, in order to extend the one and extinguish the other, the present Bill had been introduced. The question for the consideration of the House was the nature of the system which the noble Viscount wished to overthrow, and the character of the one which he proposed as a substitute. The present system had been the means of affording a sound education to the rural population in Scotland, who, in point of intelligence and acquirements, would bear comparison with any other rural population in the world. He admitted that the means of education were deficient, but that was
 432 433
 MR. SCOTT  said, the opponents of the Bill were willing to concede to its supporters that in various localities the education given was insufficient for the wants of the people; but they denied that education of the character afforded by this Bill was calculated to supply the wants of the people, or to improve their morality. The principle of this Bill was identical with that brought in by the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. W. J. Fox), namely, the entire separation of religious and secular instruction. Now, what had been understood in Scotland by education was, religious and secular instruction combined. The various Acts of the scotch Parliament, and the Act of the United Parliament in 1803, upon which the Scotch school system was founded, all contemplated that combination; but this Bill not only proposed to separate religious from secular instruction, but it took away the control which the clergy now possessed over the government of the school, and abandoned all religious tests, or even tests of Christianity, as applied to the masters and instructors of the youth of Scotland. The right hon. and learned Lord Advocate had said that we should not now stand still, but that we should be advancing, on account of the mischief that there was in the present state
 441
 MR. GUMMING BRUCE  said, he concurred in a great part of the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, where he dwelt upon the necessity of cultivating the religious education of the community. But if the opinion and wishes of the people of Scotland were to influence the decision
 413 414 415
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, my lion. Friend who has just sat down has spoken chiefly of the details of this Bill, and has pointed out defects which may much better be considered in Committee, after the Bill has been read a second time. I am, therefore, not disposed to discuss any of these details. I wish rather, before the House goes to a division, to make a few remarks on the general character of the Bill, I should hardly have asked the House to listen to me on that part of the subject, after the able speech of my right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate, in whoso sentiments I express my complete concurrence, had it not been for what has fallen from the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H Inglis). The hon. Gentleman states that this is a Bill for purely secular education; that religious instruction is to be omitted from the schools in Scotland; and that it entirely resembles a Resolution which was proposed to the House on the 22nd of May by the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. W. J. Fox). Whatever may be the merits of the proposition of the hon. Member for Oldham, or whatever may he the merits of the Bill of my noble Friend (Viscount Melgund), no two propositions can be more distinct. The proposition of the hon. Member for Oldham was, that secular schools should be established for secular instruction, the words "secular instruction" being introduced for the express purpose of excluding religious instruction, and implying that secular instruction only should be taught in those schools which were to be supported by parochial assessments. The Bill of my noble Friend, so far from going that length, proposes that a board should take care to provide means of education; and certainly, although it does not exclude a school from secular instruction, I should understand generally the word "education" to imply religious instruction, and
 434 435 436 437
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he had several petitions to present from ten different municipalities in South Africa, praying for the form of constitution which had been promised them by the Imperial Government. He wished, however, before doing so to have the opinion of Mr. Speaker as to whether he could properly present these petitions under circumstances which had arisen. The House would be aware probably that papers had recently been laid on the table containing a despatch from the Governor of the Cape of Good Hope, and in which despatch it was represented that the signatures to these petitions were mostly fictitious; that the petitions were got up in an improper manner; that the whole proceedings were characterised by a want of principle, and that the parties had been able only by the assistance of the press to practise a deception on the House. What he wished to know was whether with such representations from the Governor of the colony in reference to these petitions, he should not subject himself to animadversion if he presented these petitions, without some previous inquiry as to their genuineness. He was not willing to withdraw these petitions because he believed he could prove that they were genuine by evidence now in London, and in the course of two or three days, provided a Committee were appointed for the purpose.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he had satisfied himself that the signatures were genuine. [The hon. Gentleman then presented the
 400
 MR. COWAN  was in favour of the measure, but with the reservation, that if he could think for a moment that it involved any danger of introducing irreligious education into the schools of Scotland, he would be the last man in that House to vote for it. But was there at present any security for religious teaching? What was the test? The declaration of a schoolmaster that he held certain religious tenets. He appealed to hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House, if any of them would engage a person in a confidential position merely on such a footing, and with such an understanding as that. He was satisfied that the tests tended to introduce and encourage unfit persons in the situations of schoolmasters; and he rejoiced to find that the Government was in favour of a measure that proposed to give more instruction to the youth of Scotland than hitherto they had obtained. It had been said that they must not now rely altogether upon the parochial system for education in Scotland, and reference had been made to an endeavour for raising the status of the schoolmasters, which was, that whenever any scholars were found in either the parochial schools or in those of a superior character, who were qualified for the office of teacher, they were sent to the Normal Educational Institution, which conferred diplomas upon all who proved worthy of them. In Edinburgh there had been ten schools established about fifteen years ago upon the endowment of the late George Heriot. These schools were managed by the Town Council, which was
 431
 MR. SPEAKER  had certainly given the usual instructions to ring the bell, so as to apprise Members of all the Committee rooms that the proceedings of the House had commenced. It was the duty of the messenger to take care that due notice was given in the several Committee rooms.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman was quite right in calling attention to the circumstance that there was some question as to the authenticity of the signatures; but if he had made inquiries, and was satisfied himself that the signatures were genuine, he would be perfectly justified in presenting the petitions.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, that there had appeared in the  Times
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the discussion of this Bill, as far as it had gone, had at all events been productive of one advantage—it had produced an admission on all sides of the House, not only that there was a great necessity for enlarged means of education in Scotland, but that it was the duty of that House to proceed to inquire how that destitution could be met. He could not but congratulate the House upon that result; because, while for years the deficiency of the means of education in Scotland had been admitted, they had been going on from one year to another without anything being done to provide against it. If by voting for the second reading of the Bill of the noble Lord, he was understood to be pledging himself to all the noble Lord said, he might have more difficulty
 416 417 418 419 420 421
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, his excuse for not attending yesterday was that he was engaged on a Committee.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that, yesterday, Mr. Speaker entered the House at ten minutes to Four o'clock, and the bell rung at five minutes before Four. There was ample time for Members to attend.
 MR. HUME  said, that upon three several occasions, when the messenger had announced to the Committees upon which he sat that Mr. Speaker was at prayers, he had gone immediately to the House, but found himself shut out.
 MR. HUME  was ready, and he was sure that his countrymen generally would not be less ready, to thank the noble Viscount for his exertions in this matter, and for this Bill. He (Mr. Hume) thought, of all duties, the duty of preparing and training up the young in moral and religious opinions was of the greatest importance, and the most neglected. The result was apparent in the condition of the population of Scotland, in comparison to what it was. If it was the duty of the Church to see that the children were properly educated, the Church had not attended to that duty. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had admitted the inadequacy of the means for educating the people, and yet he objected to the noble Viscount's scheme, without offering any other in its stead. The noble Viscount had shown, in round numbers, the number of children who ought to be under moral training and discipline. He had shown that when the population was 1,000,000, the schools established and provided by the Legislature were adequate, but that little or nothing had been done to meet the increase of population. He had shown that at the present time
 411 412
 MR. EWART  thought it only fair to state that the messenger did come to the Kaffir Committee room, and announce that Mr. Speaker was at prayers.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  lamented that the noble Viscount should have expended so much of his speech on the general question of education in Scotland, and so small a part on the preamble or clauses of this Bill. With regard to the first point, the inadequacy of means for education in Scotland, he believed he was speaking the opinion of everybody in acknowledging that, as the population had increased, the means of education had not increased in a commensurate proportion. But he thought it was easy to devise means for obtaining a proper amount of education, without totally subverting the present system of Scottish parochial schools, which had for so long a period been attended with eminent success. The next point the noble Lord alluded to was, that the Legislature should lay down principles; but what principles? That secular education ought to be separated from religious education? That was precisely the principle of the hon. Member for Oldham's (Mr. W. J. Fox's) Motion, which a large majority of that House had refused to admit. Upon that ground he hoped the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and those hon. Members who voted against the Motion of the hon. Member for Oldham, would now oppose the propositions of the noble Viscount the Member for Greenock, and record their votes against his Bill. The noble Viscount said some legislation ought to take place upon this subject. But surely that was no argument in favour of the particular legislation the noble Viscount proposed. Having admitted the inadequacy of the means for education, and that some legislation was desirable, he (Mr. F. Mackenzie) thought it would greatly benefit Scotland if Her Majesty's Government, next Session, were to take into their consideration the propriety of appointing a Select Committee to consider the whole
 408 409 l. 410
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought it a great impediment by forty Members being necessary to make a House at Four o'clock. He felt quite sure there was no lack of Members yesterday.
 SIR GEORGE CLERK  said, he had felt some degree of curiosity, along with his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis) to know the grounds on which Her Majesty's Government would be prepared to support the principle of the Bill, after the vote given by them on a former evening, on the Resolution proposed by the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. W. J. Fox). The noble Lord at the head of the Government, the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate, and every other hon. Member on that side of the House who meant to vote for the second reading of this Bill, have taken care to guard themselves against being pledged to any of the details of the measure. One admitted that it was very complicated; another thought that great amendments ought to be made. He (Sir G. Clerk) would ask the House, then, on a question of this vital importance, whether they ought to be called on to sanction the great and important principle involved in this Bill. He was sure the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) did not approve of the principle of the Bill as laid down by its mover. Now what was the principle of the Bill as stated by the noble Lord (Viscount Melgund) by whom it had been introduced? The separation of secular from religious instruction. ["No, no!"] That was the sense in which it was understood by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume); and his observations on that point were cheered by the hon. Members around him, when he said there was one barrier to the extension of education in Scotland as well as elsewhere, and that barrier was the attempt to combine religious and secular instruction together; and therefore the hon. Member supported the Bill because its main and leading principle was secular education apart from religious instruction. If, with regard to England, this principle was considered so dangerous that the Government would not listen to its introduction to supply the admitted deficiency of this country, why was the experiment to be tried upon unfortunate Scotland, where, for a century and a half, a system of education had been in existence which every hon. Member had taken the opportunity of eulogising. Nothing could be better calculated for the wants and situation of Scotland at the time the system was introduced; and it was only owing to recent events and the increased population that it
 438 439 440
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  suggested that the Serjeant-at-Arms should go round with his mace to the several Committee rooms, and give warning to the Members before prayers were proceeded with.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he must complain that notice had not been given of Mr. Speaker being at prayers to the Committee of which he was a member—the Kaffir Committee. So soon as he was informed that Mr. Speaker was at prayers, he hastened to the House, and found that it had been counted out.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : Four years ago the electric telegraph was used in communicating between the Committees and the House, and he did not see why the same mode of communication should not be established in the new House. He thought every Member ought to be in his place at a quarter before Four o'clock, so that he might join in a solemn prayer invoking the blessing of God upon their deliberations.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS :* Mr. Speaker, I am as willing to admit the temper and the talent of the learned Lord opposite (the Lord Advocate Moncrieff), who has just addressed you, as any one on his own side of the question can be; but I am utterly opposed to his principle and his conclusion; and I heard, with equal astonishment and regret, his exhortation to us "to lay aside all minor differences," as he called the matters at issue, in order to support the measure before the House. For is it a question of "minor differences" which the proposed Bill involves? and is it from one of the learned Lord's distinguished name, that the actual differences, which are between us, are to be described as "minor?" For what are those differences? Are they not between a system which founds education upon religion, and necessarily, and by law, connects the superintendence of that education with the Established Church of Scotland on the one hand; and a system, on the other hand, which not only severs that connexion, but which provides no religious substitute whatever? 422 "That it is expedient to promote the education
 423 424 425 426 427 Spartam nactus es; hanc orna. 428 429 totictem verbis,
 VISCOUNT MELGUND , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, the reasons which induced him to bring this question forward were based upon the conviction that the present means of education in Scotland were very far from being sufficient to supply the wants of the people. As this feeling was so general, and as the subject had attracted so much attention, it was necessary that the Legislature should lay down some principle with respect to a subject of so much importance. He could not see why they should not apply to the conflicting sects of Scotland the same rule they had applied in other instances on former occasions. He considered it most important that Parliament should lay down some great and clear principle upon this subject, which would guide them in their future operations. Education in Scotland had hitherto been invariably conducted under Acts of Parliament, and there was no reason why that practice should be discontinued. He also objected to sec this question handed over to the decisions of conflicting sects in Scotland. Many authorities in that country concurred with him in thinking that some legislation was necessary. The General Assembly, in 1850, reported in favour of increasing the salaries of the masters, and of having an effectual superintendence. He had been accused of bringing forward a revolutionary measure, intended to overturn the established system of things in Scotland; but a more unfounded charge had never been advanced, for this Bill did nothing more than had already been done in Scotland on frequent occasions. His object was to
 402 403 404 Confession of Faith. 405 406 l. 407
 VISCOUNT MELGUND , in reply, said that it was not proposed by this Bill to compel the separation of religious from secular instruction in Scotland, or to prescribe to the Scotch the adoption of any given system of education, but merely to give them certain machinery, and trust to them to work it out; and he believed that was a better mode than laying down a system of education by Act of Parliament. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Dovor (Sir G. Clerk) had said that the Privy Council should be empowered to give grants on a more extended scale. But those grants were as complete an attack on the Act of Union and the Act of Security as anything that was contained in the Bill before the House. The only difference was, that the right hon. Baronet would do without Act of Parliament precisely that for which he (Viscount Melgund) desired the sanction of the Legislature. He must congratulate hon. Members on the other side of the House with having succeeded in mixing up the elements of religious discord with this matter. On looking to the statutes on this subject he found that neither in the Act of 1803, nor in that in 1691, was there any provision on the subject of religious instruction, and he did not see, therefore, why he should be taunted with excluding religion. It had been stated by hon. Members opposite that the Bill would not be effective for the purpose contemplated, as it was merely permissive. He had not made its provi-
 442
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, Clause 13 was that with which the Committee had to begin.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  was willing to admit the right of the hon. and learned Member for Newark (Mr. J. Stuart) to state his objections to the measure, which undoubtedly was one of considerable importance. He thought, however, the hon. and learned Gentleman had dealt hardly with the Committee, who had taken the only course they could take under the circumstances. The Committee had been appointed to try the validity of the return, and on that subject they were bound to make a report; but they were not bound to make a report on any thing else. On the evidence, as it stood before the Committee, there was nothing which touched the return. They could, therefore, do no other than report that the sitting Member (Mr. Jacob Bell) had been duly returned. That was all they had done under the Act of Parliament, and that, under the Act, was all they were bound to do. But having so reported, and their functions, as a legislative body, having with that report ceased, they thought it their duty to make a special report, stating that the evidence adduced before them exhibited an extensive system of bribery and corruption as existing in the borough of St. Albans at the late election. But, as the parties by whom that bribery had been committed were not proved to be the agents of the sitting Member, but merely partisans in his cause, the sitting Member could not, injustice or law, be made responsible for their acts. The Committee having made this report, thought it right—and to this extent going beyond their functions, perhaps—to recommend the issuing of a Commission to inquire into the bribery of which evidence had been produced; and, undoubtedly, they had proceeded to a certain extent on the precedent of the Sudbury case. But he denied that any precedent was necessary in this instance. He contended that when a Committee thought it right to report that extensive and systematic bribery exised in any borough, they had a right, if they thought fit, to recommend a particular course. It
 456
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, that he concluded that, in any case, the future discussions would be confined to the question of the nature of the Commission, namely, whether it should be composed of Members of that House, and acting under it, or not?
 MR. MOFFATT  believed it was admitted on all hands that the present supply of water to the metropolis was deficient in quantity, inferior in quality, and extravagantly high in price. That those were the facts, the reports of the Board of Health distinctly and fully proved. It was shown by those reports that the quantity was exceedingly insufficient for the wants of the people. It was further shown that the quality of the water was very objectionable and unwholesome, and that organic and vegetable matter was found in it of a highly prejudicial character. It was also very clearly set forth that the cost of the water was much higher than it need be. By the returns of the water companies made to Parliament, it would be seen that the cost of water to this metropolis was about 450,000 l. 470 l. d. d. d. s. s. l. l.
 MR. E. H. STANLEY : Knowing and respecting as I do the consistency of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I cannot doubt but that he is ready to carry out to the fullest extent any principle of financial policy which he may have deliberately enunciated in debate; and, therefore, I was surprised when I heard the right hon. Gentleman state that he was not prepared, as he phrased it, to carry on a crusade against the adulteration of coffee; because in that case he should be compelled to apply the same rule to other adulterated articles. If, then, the right hon. Gentleman does not intend to interfere in any case of adulteration, what will he do in respect of tea, of tobacco, of pepper, and spices generally? for in all these instances Government does interfere to prevent adulteration, and provides a legislative remedy. All that we ask of the right hon. Gentleman to do, is not, as he seems to suppose, that he should introduce any new principle into the law, but merely that he should carry out in this particular case the same principle upon which in every other case, he at this moment acts, but which here alone he refuses to apply. Then the right hon. Gentleman says that the late Government recognised the existence of these abuses of which we now complain, by taking no steps to remove them. I might leave that question in the hands of others who are more directly interested than myself in the acts of the late Government: but I believe the truth to be this, that during their tenure of office the re-
 525 Cheers. Cheers from, the Government benches. 526 527 528 529
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, an eminent firm in the West Riding with whom he was acquainted, maintained that there was nothing like deceit in their mixture of chicory with coffee, because their customers had a ready way of knowing whether they were buying a mixture of chicory, by comparing the price of the mixture per pound with that of coffee in the bean. [ Cries of laughter. s. d. s.
 SIR JOHN TYRRELL  said, that there had been a great meeting in the City on this subject, at which the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) had said, that he was interested in the growth of coffee in Ceylon and the East Indies, and the hon. Member was consequently interested against the mixture of chicory with coffee. It must, therefore, be conceded that this was altogether a mixed question—not only as regarded the mixture of chicory with coffee, but as regarded the positive and actual facts of the case. He (Sir J. Tyrell) was prepared to state as a fact that whether coffee was consumed in a palace or a cottage, the best was that which was composed of genuine coffee with a small admixture of chicory. There was the testimony of tradesmen in all parts of the country, that their trade would be greatly diminished if any obstruction were raised against mixing chicory with coffee. He was quite willing to admit that chicory was adulterated to a greater extent than coffee; but he would ask those hon. Members who were in the habit of going much out to
 530
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, his hon. Friend (Sir J. Trollope) seemed entirely to have mistaken the question. The hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) had no intention to propose any excise duty upon the sale of chicory—all the House was asked to do was, that the Treasury order should be withdrawn, and that chicory might be sold as chicory, and coffee as coffee. [An Hon. MEMBER: Nobody would buy chicory then.] He thought this was a question on which the dealers in coffee had great reason to complain, and he now hoped the House would look at this question fairly, and not allow an article which paid no excise duty to be sold under the name of another article which did. He hoped, therefore, the House would support this Resolution, and not allow the present state of fraud and deception to continue.
 MR. B. COCHRANE : At twenty-five per cent premium.
 MR. COCHRANE : The prospectus is based on the recommendations of the Board of Health.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : I never made use of the word "malversation." I merely said that the companies did not perform their duty to the public.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE , after presenting a petition from the Metropolitan Sanitary Commission against the measure, said, he opposed the Bill because the whole history of the water companies of the metropolis was a history of monopoly, which had been carried on for a long series of years, and under which the public had already suffered for so long, in spite of every effort on their part to protect themselves, and because he believed that this injurious system would be confirmed and strengthened by the adoption of the Bill before the House. The House, he hoped, would pardon him if, upon a question which every hon. Gentleman must consider to be of vital importance, he presumed to go back in the first instance to the history of the water companies, and their origin;
 460 Times, 461 The Dolphin, 462 l. l. 463 "A small space, containing some two or three acres, surrounded with a filthy fetid ditch. Mrs. Hastings said that her husband had suffered a great deal from drinking that water. Many people had died. Five deaths in one house at the time of the cholera. Some gentlemen have at their own expense erected a waterbutt, in the hope that, during the intervening time, something would be done for those poor people; but they will not any longer incur this expense. The landlord refuses to set on the water. She (Mrs. Hastings) drinks ditch water often. The landlord had only owned the houses five weeks. The previous landlord refused the water. In 1832 the cholera broke out at one end of this district, and in 1849 at the other. Providence-buildings—A child sent here for change of air The foulest possible place. Water obtained by means of buckets close to the filth. A. tenant in one of the houses drinks the water every day; always causes something like cholera. The landlord will not do anything. It is against the law for tenants who have water on to supply others by sale or loan. Mrs. Broekwell asserts that some of the company (South Lambeth), hearing that the water had been given away, came and said that it would be cut off. John Chanley—Takes water from the ditch. In one house there was a case of cholera only three weeks since; such a foul, miserable hovel as this house could not he imagined. It over-
 464 s. d. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. d. s. s. d. 465 "Average age at death in the Potteries in the year 1850, 10 years and a fraction; a few years ago (1841–42), the average age at death in England generally was 29 years; in Liverpool (all classes), 25 years; ditto, gentry, 43 years; ditto, operatives, 16 years." d. 466 d. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 467 l. d. d. l. l. l. l. 468 "Side by side we find an opulence which defies all comparison, with the most abject and frightful misery; and the same city that possesses unrivalled mansions, handsome streets, and noble squares, contains in its depths half-ruined houses, ill-paved lanes, unlit, undrained alleys, which have no issue either for air or water; in a word, disgusting dens which no other population would inhabit, and which, for the honour of human nature be it said, exist in no other town." "Such focuses of infection resist all individual remedies, and require the intervention of the Government. Every thing here accuses the carelessness of the local administrations. One might imagine there were districts created in the middle ages, which the magistrates surrounded with walls to protect them from a foreign enemy; but which they devoted, in their ignorance, to more fatal epidemics." "Nine different companies distribute water into the houses at exaggerated rates, and the poor people who cannot meet the demands of the companies are often obliged to drink the hard disagreeable water of the wells."
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that finding that the feeling of the House appeared to be in favour of the course proposed by the hon. Baronet, he would beg leave to withdraw the Amendment.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was not clear whether his hon. Friend(Mr. T. Baring) intended to proceed upon sanitary grounds or not in this Motion. Whenever he talked of foreign chicory, he treated it as a wholesome article; but when he came to talk of chicory of a home growth, he treated it as if it were deleterious and unwholesome. [Mr. T. BARING: No, no!] This he could say, that, though many applications had been made to him on this subject, it was only within the last two months that any statements had been made to him that chicory was unwholesome. He knew that his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) had published some strong-opinions as to the unwholesomcness of chicory; but, as far as he could learn, his hon. Friend was the only member of the
 520 521 Death in the Pot, caveat emptor 522 523 "I am situated in the heart of the northern coal district, where the use of coffee by the mining and manufacturing population is most extensive. I would say it is more used here by our most respectable families than by those of the same class in any other part of Great Britain. I find it almost invariably preferred when mixed with chicory; so much so, that in many cases persons buying ground coffee, which already contains a very respectable proportion of chicory, at the same time buy a package of chicory to add to it, and thereby still more delight the palate. In one instance I remember where, in consequence of my stock of chicory being exhausted, I was necessitated to sell pure coffee for a single day, the complaining and returning of it lasted, more or jess, for a week." A laugh. "If the Chancellor of the Exchequer would totally prohibit the growth and importation of chicory, we, as dealers in coffee, would have no cause to complain; for, although it would very much diminish the consumption of coffee, it would increase the consumption of tea; but so long as chicory can be had, even if it was double the price of coffee, it will be mixed with coffee. About twelve years ago we, for one week, sold our coffee without chicory, but we had it brought back from all quarters, our customers complaining that it was bad." "As far as my experience goes, if the Chancellor should prohibit the mixture of chicory with coffee, for every 100 bags of Ceylon coffee sold now in this country, there will not be 10. The fact is, the people would prefer pure chicory in itself to Ceylon coffee." 524 Ironical cheers.
 MR. MOWATT  said, it would not be necessary for him to occupy the time of the House to any great extent in endeavouring to demonstrate what was admitted on all hands, that the supply of water to the metropolis at present was bad and vicious in the extreme—bad in point of quality, bad in point of quantity, and bad in point of price. All this had been shown already; he had not heard the allegations contravened on any side; and he had heard the fact boldly admitted by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, who had most pertinently remarked that the very act of his attempting to legislate on this subject, was a proof of his opinion that the supply of water was bad, and that legislation was requisite. Now, if legislation was necessary, did the right hon. Gentleman propose to legislate so as to supply all these vital defects? He (Mr. Mowatt) said, that so far from that being the case, the effect of that Bill which they were now asked to read a second time, would be to perpetuate through all time the very evils and abuses which were said to have been the inducement of the right hon. Home Secretary to legislate at all on the subject. It might appear at first sight impossible that such would be the result, but nevertheless he lamented to say that there could be no doubt as to the fact. He had himself taken considerable interest in this question, not only as a member of the Legislature, but also as a citizen of London, and it was now some
 490 491 492
 MR. MOWATT : The effect of the Bill, in some cases at least, would be to enhance the rate. But the rate, in his opinion, was a matter of secondary importance. The quality of the water was the main consideration with him, and at present he considered the quality infamous. He considered that the bad supply of water was one of the main causes of the great extent of sickness in this metropolis. He himself resided within the range of the West Middlesex Waterworks; and after giving a great deal of attention to the subject, he had satisfied himself that it was out of their power, if they maintained the existing water companies, to provide a remedy for the present state of things. He had the
 493 bonâ fide l. l. bonâ fide 494 495 d. d. l. 496
 MR. BANKES  said, that House had not a case before them sufficient to justify them in supposing the other House would sanction any measure for the inquiry, and he proposed they should institute such an inquiry as might enable them to issue a Commission with effect. So far as the Bill was applicable to that view, he was prepared to adopt it, because if they waited for a new measure in the present state of the Session, there would be a considerable loss of time. The Amendment he would suggest was, that the five Members of the St. Albans Election Committee should be the Commissioners to prosecute, to its full extent, from day to day, an inquiry which had been interrupted by acts very derogatory to the power and jurisdic-
 457 458 459
 MR. BANKES  seconded the Motion.
 MR. AGLIONBY  rose to entreat the hon. Gentleman who had the charge of the Bill (Mr. Edward Ellice) not to give an answer to the arguments which had just been urged, but that he would permit the Committee to show its sense of the mode and character of the opposition which was brought to bear against this Bill. If this course were pursued of taking advantage of every form which the constitution of the House placed at the disposal of hon. Members, it would soon be impossible to conduct the public business of the country. A practice had arisen of late years—he should rather say, within the last few months—by which the public business was retarded in a most disgraceful way. At every stage, and upon every clause, a Member got up and dragged the House into a discussion, not upon the particular points at issue, but upon the general merits of the Bill. They had now been two hours discussing the principle of the Bill, when this discussion, according to the general usage of the House, ought to have been taken at a far earlier period. On the 6th of May leave was given to bring in this Bill without a division, and from that time until the present the Bill had passed through its various stages without a division. If the practice of which he complained were persevered in, it would not only bring discredit upon themselves, but would very seriously protract and injure the business of the country.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  did not mean to enter into the general question, but he felt bound, in justice to the officers of the House, who performed very arduous duties in a very meritorious manner, to notice a statement which had been made in the course of his speech by the hon. Member for Falmouth (Mr. Mowatt). The hon. Gentleman had complained that the examiners had not reported that the Standing Orders of the House had been complied with, and that consequently his Bill was not brought before the House for a second reading that evening. The facts of the case were, that his hon. Friend brought in his Bill yesterday—that it was printed that morning—and that although the House
 497
 MR. J. STUART  begged to explain that his right to take the course he had adopted arose from an understanding with
 455
 MR. JOHN STUART  thought the House ought not to proceed any farther with this Bill. In his opinion they had gone on with it too far already. They were proceeding on a precedent which did not at all apply to the present case; and if they persevered they would involve themselves in the greatest difficulty, and do that which was in defiance of all precedents and the ordinary rules of justice. The hon. Gentleman who had introduced the Bill (Mr. E. Ellice) was governed by the precedent of the Sudbury case, and therefore it was highly desirable that the House should keep in view the circumstances under which Parliament passed the Act directing that Commissioners should inquire into the proceedings of the election at the borough of Sudbury. It was alleged that gross bribery had been practised at the last election for that borough, that the return of the sitting Member was procured by improper means, and a Committee tried the merits of that allegation. So far the present case and the case of Sudbury were identical; but there all analogy stopped. The Sudbury case was fully and fairly tried upon evidence adduced on both sides, and a clear and distinct judgment was pronounced by the Committee, declaring that the sitting Member was not duly elected, that gross and extensive bribery had prevailed in the borough, and the Committee recommended to Parliament the disfranchisement of the borough. Was such the case in respect to the borough of St. Albans? Had there been a full trial of the question before the Committee in that case? Confessedly not. The House was asked to pass this Bill because there had not been a fair trial. Besides, the Committee in the St. Albans case
 450 —"notwithstanding successive special adjournments of the Committee, for the purpose of procuring the attendance of persons whose evidence was proved to be most material to the case of the petitioners, such evidence had not been produced, and that, although all diligence had been used to secure the attendance of the parties whose evidence was required, such endeavours had been unsuccessful." 451 452 ex parte, 453 454
 MR. J. STUART  said, he must decline to agree to the terms to which the hon. Member for St. Andrews (Mr. E. Ellice) wished to restrain the future discussion of the Bill; he should take the sense of the Committee on his Amendment at once.
 MR. J. STUART  said, that all he wanted was a fair investigation, and to enable the accused to defend themselves. That House could not be both jury and plaintiffs. The complaint of the petitioners had not been legitimately disposed of, and he certainly would take the sense of the Committee on the proposition he had made, by way of Amendment, unless there was a distinct understanding that the principle he contended for would be adopted hereafter.
 MR. HUME  said, that there had been no difference of opinion expressed on the propriety of obtaining an increased supply of water for the metropolis. There were two Bills before the House, and the question was, how this supply could best be procured. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had made, in his opinion, on the part of the Government, a very fair proposal. He was sorry that any reflections should be made on the charges or the management of any of the water companies, and therefore he would suggest, as the Government was willing that the present Bill should go to a Committee to be examined into, that the House should not reject the Bill, but upon the condition that in agreeing to the second reading with that view, the House should not be understood to commit itself to the principle of the Bill. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to propose that both Bills should be referred to a Select Committee; not a Committee selected in the ordinary way, but a larger Committee than usual, in which the interests of the water companies as well as of the ratepayers should be represented and protected.
 MR. HUME  was surprised that his hon. Friend, who was against the interference of the Government in everything else, should support this Motion. The watchword of his hon. Friend on all previous occasions was, "Let the people take care of themselves;" he was, therefore, much astonished that he should have taken so strange a course on this question. The people could very well take care of themselves in the matter of chicory and coffee.
 532
 MR. BASS  said, he could not sufficiently express his approbation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's desire to avoid all vexatious interference with respect to those parties connected with the Excise; but as he was so liberal with respect to those who had the sale of coffee, he should like to know whether he would extend the same indulgence to the brewers? He should like to know whether they might mix anything they pleased with their beer? He should also like to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he did not consider that great injury had been inflicted upon those unfortunate publicans who had often been brought before the magistrates, and fined 300 l. l.
 MR. T. BARING  presented two petitions, signed by wholesale and retail dealers in coffee in the city of London, complaining of the operation of the Treasury Minute of August, 1840, with respect to the sale of coffee mixed with chicory, and stating that its effect had been to increase the fraudulent dealing in
 512 "Inform the Commissioners of Excise that my Lords are of opinion that the sale of chicory powder unmixed should not be interfered with, but that the sellers of coffee should be informed
 513 "Write to the Commissioners of Excise that my Lords consider that the law was altered with the view of admitting the admixture of chicory with coffee. My Lords, therefore, do not consider that any measures should be enforced to prevent the sale of coffee mixed with chicory, and are of opinion that the prosecutions in question should be dropped. My Lords do not consider such admixture will be a fraud on the revenue, so long as the chicory pays the proper duty; and, as between the seller and the consumer, my Lords desire that Government should interfere as little as possible." "In pursuance of directions from the Right Hon. the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, signified by Mr. Gordon's letters of the 6th. and 25th inst.—Ordered, that no objections be made on the part of the revenue to dealers in and sellers of coffee mixing chicory with coffee, or to their having the same so mixed on their premises." 514 s. s. s. s. 515 516 s. d. 517 518
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay) had stated that the water companies did not support this Bill. Who then, he would ask, did support it? The right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) had commenced the discussion early in the evening; and ever
 508 509
 MR. WAKLEY  thought that the wrong-headedness exhibited by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer on this subject was most extraordinary. He had boldly come forward, and had taken under his special care and patronage the fraudulent dealers throughout the country. Was the honest trader to have no sympathy whatever? The right hon. Gentleman quoted the fraudulent dealer everywhere, and said there were some 3,000 of them who had encouraged him to proceed in his improper and injudicious course. Was it not unfortunate that the Government should absolutely go out of its way to sanction a system of fraudulent dealing? Lot them see the effect it had produced on the innocent Baronet opposite. He could not look upon those two hon. Baronets after the speeches they had made, without witnessing a melancholy spectacle. The hon. Baronet who spoke last had frankly told them he was an interested party; and he advised the right hon. Gentle-
 531
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it was quite unnecessary to inquire into the character of the water which was supplied to the metropolis at present, for, from one end of it to the other, the quantity, the quality, and the price of the water wore fruitful sources of complaint. The question for
 477 s. s. s. d. s. d. d. d. 478
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that representing as he did a very large portion of this metropolis, he had no hesitation in declaring, from his knowledge of the constituency, and of the general feelings of the inhabitants, that there was but one desire, from its eastern extremity to its most western portion, and that was, that the Bill should not be proceeded with. The measure appeared to have been framed with a view specially and exclusively to the advantage of the holders of shares in the London water companies, who had, certainly, smaller claims on the consideration of the citizens than any other class of men whatsoever. Unless that House were now to testify, in a manner not to be mistaken, its determination to afford some effective relief to the public in this matter, he very much feared that the evils of the present system might be prolonged for an indefinite period, and to an extent perfectly intolerable. Certain companies were now existing in London for the purpose of supplying water. It was not the intention of the Government to abolish or to take the direction from the hands of those companies; but it was their intention to continue the direction in the hands of the present directors, and to perpetuate such a monopoly as would render it utterly impossible for any other company to come forward and compete with it. The ground upon which the Government proposed to award compensation was, that valuation should be made of all the stock and plant of existing companies; and, no matter whether the plant was well situated or not, the ratepayers would have to pay for the plant as it existed at present, though the sources might be objectionable, and the right hon. Secretary of State for the Homo Department might afterwards determine that the whole plant should be removed, for the purpose of opening other sources. The inhabitants would have to pay for the first outlay, and also for the removal and substitution of a new plant. Another point to which he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Secretary of State was this: there was to be a certain valuation of shares, and the holders were to be granted five per cent. No reduction of rates whatever was to take place but upon the approval of the directors; and although a schedule was appended to the Bill, that schedule was not to come into operation until the directors shall have realised their five per cent. The directors might carry on the most wasteful and careless extravagance, and so long as
 472 l. l. "Almost every existing company, except the New River Company, was introduced to the public upon a promise of reductions of charge, based on competition and the opportunities of free choice from more than one supply. That promise has been violated. The companies have hitherto been enabled to hold out to the consumers this fact, that new companies have not cheapened the supplies, as a discouragement to the use of such means as may present themselves of obtaining reductions in price or improvement in works." 473 "The various gas companies introduced on the ground of competition had, one after another, districts divided amongst them by the consent of the rest. Within each district they had as complete a monopoly as that which the water companies now have. Their manufacture of gas was careless, and the price they charged for it was from 7 s. s. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. d. d. d. 474 "Richmond water began to show very strongly the change caused by towns. It contains, in a gallon—chlorine, 184 grains, equal to, as common salt, 807 grains. A quantity of brown flocculent matter fell to the bottom of the vessel, containing animalcules in great abundance, with some of a kind entirely different from any yet perceived higher up, such as the eel-like animals,  vibrio fluviatilis. 475 navi-cula fulva naviculœ naviculœ l. l. l. s. s. l. s. l. s. d. l. s. l. s. d. l. s. l. 476
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, it was not his intention to support the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, as he did not very clearly understand its scope or object; he would suggest whether, with a view to simplifying the discussion, it might not be better for the hon. Member to withdraw his Amendment, and to allow the subject to be decided upon the simple question of the acceptance or rejection of the Government Bill.
 SIR De LACY EVANS  said, that he could not affirm the principle of a Bill to which the great majority of the inhabitants of the metropolis, for whose benefit it was said to be brought in, were opposed. He objected entirely to the consolidation of the water companies, which he believed would
 510
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was anxious to reply to some of the objections which had been made to the Bill, and also to explain some of its provisions. The hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Cochrane) had spent a good deal of time in proving what he himself, in moving for leave to bring in the Bill, had admitted, namely, the defect which existed in the present supply of water to the metropolis. He (Sir George Grey) had referred in general
 479 480 481
 SIR GEORGE GREY  begged to draw the attention of the House to the recommendations of the Board of Health. The right hon. Baronet then proceeded to read from the Report of the Board of Health their recommendations regarding the proper ma-
 482 Parliamentary Papers, l. 483 l. l. l. l. l. 484 485
 SIR GEORGE GREY : On the present Five per Cent Stock. It had been said repeatedly that these companies had abused their privileges, and, therefore, that they ought not to be trusted in future. If these accusations were well founded—and to a certain extent they were well founded—the evil they expected would be remedied by the control under which it was proposed by this Bill to place them. The hon. Member for Bridport had referred to the prospectus of a new company; but a matter of that sort should be received with great caution, if not with distrust. The object of the parties issuing such a document was to invite shareholders to invest their capital in the undertaking.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, his hon. Friend had misunderstood him. What he said was, that the Bill should be referred to the Committee of Selection, who would choose the Select Committee like that appointed to consider any other Private Bill, without the representation of interests. If they admitted one interest, they must admit all.
 SIR JOHN JOHNSTONE  said, that according to the schedule of the Bill, the cost of water to the metropolis would be diminished by about 25,000 l.
 SIR JOHN JOHNSTONE  said, that having the misfortune to be connected with one of the water companies of the metropolis, he trusted the House would allow him to make a few observations in reference to this Bill. If, indeed, nothing worse could be brought forward against the Now River Company—the company with which he was connected—than that the milkmen stole the water for the purpose of diluting their milk, he thought there was no great cause of complaint. It certainly was a
 486 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 487 488 489
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  wished to say a few words in favour of those who were engaged in the cultivation of chicory. Up to 1845 the bulk of the chicory used in this country was of foreign growth; but since that time it had become an article largely cultivated in this country. His constituents were much engaged in its cultivation, being encouraged to do so from a belief that the Treasury order would be permanent, and that it would not be withdrawn on account of the changed position of the coffee trade. He could assure the House that these growers were not implicated in the mixture or the adulteration of chicory. They grew a fair article; they delivered it pure and unadulterated to the grocers; and upon them must rest the charge of adulteration. He must add, that the cultivation of this article required a peculiar character of land, as well as a high degree of cultivation. The growth of it was extending every day; and at that moment he believed that a larger crop of chicory was under cultivation than had ever been known before. He thought that such a crop ought
 519
 Sir W. CLAY  said, that the circumstance of his having paid a good deal of attention to the subject now under the consideration of the House, would, he trusted, enable him to compress in the smallest possible space the remarks which he felt it necessary to make. It seemed to have been assumed as a matter of course that the existing water companies were exceedingly interested in this Bill, and anxious for its success. He thought, however, that there could hardly be any one who now entertained that opinion, after hearing the speech of the hon. Member for Scarborough, who, being himself a member of one of the companies, had declared his intention to oppose the Bill. He might say also that it was a matter of perfect notoriety that not only the New River Company, but other companies, and he believed he might say the majority of the companies, were strongly opposed to the measure. In this particular the companies would, in his opinion, have pursued the path which wisdom and sound policy pointed out if they had abstained from opposition. It was their interest and their duty to submit themselves wholly in this matter to the discretion of Parliament. They must have felt that the public were entitled to the very best supply of water, delivered in the best possible mode, and upon the lowest possible terms consistent with a fair regard to existing interests. In claiming that their interests should be so considered, they might have grounded themselves on the Health of Towns Act, which he observed was particularly referred to in the very important paper laid on the table of the House that day, and in which there was a provision that where in any locality there was an existing water company, no new company should be allowed to furnish a supply of water, until it was shown that the ex-
 498
 SIR W. CLAY  conceived that to be malversation. He denied that malversation in the most positive terms; and he asserted that while, on the one hand, the companies had charged much lower rates than they were entitled to charge, they had on the other hand expended very large sums in the improvement of the water supply, which they were under no Parliamentary obligation to expend. He was not disposed to dispute that there were many deficiencies in the supply of water to some of the poorer classes of the metropolis; but he did deny that this state of things was attributable, in the smallest degree, to the water companies; on the contrary, it was in spite of their utmost exertions to prevent it that it occurred; and he could give the hon. Member the most convincing instances of the exertions made by the
 499 s. s. s. 500 501
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he would not have troubled the House with any remarks on this question, had it not stood in some relation to agriculture; but he thought that he and his hon. Friends near him were justified in considering how far the excise laws affected the cultivation of the land. In the article of barley they were equally restricted by the excise law. He wished to put it to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he intended to-morrow morning to institute prosecutions by the Treasury against those who adulterated tea, while he sanctioned the adulteration of coffee? He wished the taste of the country was entirely in favour of chicory, for he was certain that they could produce all that would be consumed; but, as they were restricted with regard to other articles, he thought they should carry out the principle so long as they maintained it; and therefore he should support the Motion.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had begun by stating that the Motion of his hon. Friend opposite (Mr. B. Cochrane), with regard to a contracting company, was perfectly unintelligible, and utterly inconsistent with the recommendations of the Board of Health. But the fact was the reverse; for the Board of Health, in the report on the water supply of the metropolis, which he held in his hand, expressly declared their opinion that the works ought to be executed and kept in repair by contract. When his hon. Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets stated that the quality and quantity of the water supplied had nothing whatever to do with the disease of the metropolis, he must excuse him for producing on the other side the authority of the Registrar General's report of June, 1850. It there appeared that the mortality from cholera was lowest in those districts which have their water chiefly from
 502 503 ex concesso Principles of Political Economy, "It is an error to suppose that the prices are only kept down by the competition of these companies. Where competitors are so few, they always agree not to compete; they may run a race of cheapness to ruin a new candidate, but as soon as he has established his footing, they come to terms with him. When therefore a business of real public importance can only be carried on advantageously upon so large a scale as to render the liberty of competition almost illusory, it is an unthrifty dispensation of the public resources that several costly sets of establishments should
 504 "The maxim, that the supply of the physical wants of the community should be left to private agency, is, like other general maxims, liable to mislead, if applied without consideration of the reasons on which it is grounded. The policy of depending on individuals for the supply of the markets assumes the existence of competition. If the supply be in the hands of an individual secure against competition, he will best promote his interest and his ease by making the article dear and bad; and there will be no escape from these influences but by laying on him a legal obligation, that is, by making him a public functionary. "Now, in the case of water supply, there is virtually no competition. Even the possibility of it is limited to a very small number of individuals or companies, whoso interest prompts them, except during occasional short periods, not to compete but to combine. The article being one of indispensable necessity, the arrangement between the companies and the consumer is as much compulsory as if the rate were imposed by Government; and the only security for the efficient performance by the companies of what they undertake, is public opinion, a check which would operate much more effectually on a public board. "Of all these operations it may reasonably be affirmed to he the duty of the Government, not necessarily to perform them itself, but to ensure their being adequately performed. The question is not between free-trade and a Government monopoly. The case is one of those in which a practical monopoly is unavoidable; and the possession of the monopoly by individuals constitutes not freedom but slavery; it delivers over the public to the mercy of those individuals. "The cases to which the water supply of towns bears most analogy, are such as the making of roads and bridges, the paving, lighting, and cleansing of streets. The nearest analogy of all is the drainage of towns, with which the supply of water has a natural connexion." 505 506 l. s. l. l. l. l. l. de novo l. l. 507 bonâ fide
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  thought that hon. Gentlemen who said the Bill was inconsistent, did not understand the principle upon which it was framed; that they were keeping in mind some other principle upon which they had wished to see it framed. What was the object of the Bill? Whether the letter of the arrange-
 603 604
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he
 601 l. l., 602
 The CHAIRMAN : I beg to answer the hon. Member for the City of Dublin, that I have already read through the words of the clause, and, no hon. Member having risen, the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon rose in his place to move the Amendments of which notice was given.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, he must oppose the Amendment. The Committee might not perhaps be aware that there were already many statutes on which actions might be brought by private individuals, to recover penalties under the sanction of the Attorney General; and there were no cases which required greater care and attention on the part of the Attorney General. He (the Master of the Rolls) ventured to say, that from the various applications made to him under those statutes during the short time he had held the office of Attorney General, that if the Committee adopted this Amendment, it would be far from having the effect which his hon. and learned Friend (Sir F. Thesiger) supposed it would have. It would rather have the opposite effect, of making the Attorney General shift from himself to other persons those duties which properly devolved on him in the discharge of his official functions. He (the Master of the Rolls) believed the invariable course of all Attorney Generals was, that they would never allow actions of that sort to be brought, without having, in the first instance,  primâ facie 613
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he considered this a most objectionable proposal. The Committee should remember that they were not dealing with one of those petty offences to which the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Master of the Rolls had referred. The reason why private informers were allowed in the case of certain petty offences, was that they could not ascertain the fact of those offences being committed, unless they permitted persons interested in their detection to prosecute. But, in the case of a great public offence, with which they were now dealing, public notoriety was necessarily involved; and he maintained that when there was an offence committed against the Sovereign and the State, the prosecution ought not to be taken up by a private individual. In such a case prosecutions by an individual must degrade the whole transaction, because he would only be actuated by sordid and unworthy motives. An offence committed against the Sovereign and the State should be prosecuted by the first law officer of the Crown only, and at the instance of the Government. He could not help thinking-it would also degrade the office of Attorney General, by bringing him into contact with common informers. As the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls had pointed out, the Attorney General would never allow a suit to be instituted unless there was good cause for proceeding. If the Attorney General was satisfied there was good cause for proceeding, it was his bounden duty to proceed with the prosecution himself. On the other hand, what right would
 615
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that he had heard of tyrant majorities and factious minorities; but in the course of a long experience he had never seen a more patient and forbearing majority than the present, nor a more factious minority; he would not use any other term than that used by the hon. Member for the city of Dublin. He could tell that hon. Gentleman that the rules of that House wore made by
 625
 COLONEL KNOX  had voted in the mino-
 627
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  could assure the hon. and gallant Colonel, that he was not in the least aware that the hon. and gallant Colonel had voted in the minority. He had been kept there that afternoon listening to what he should not consider argument, and, coming from one particular quarter, he thought he had a right to complain. He did think he had heard language a great deal stronger used in that House than the language he had used; and he honestly and conscientiously assured the hon. and gallant Colonel that, however strong his language might have been, he had never meant to insult any man.
 LORD HOTHAM  begged to ask a question of the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies, relative to the Report of the Finance Committee of the Executive Council of Ceylon. During the sitting of the Ceylon Committee last year, it was stated that the Report of a Committee of Finance, composed of members of the Executive Council of Ceylon, and therefore, he concluded, appointed by the Governor of that dependency, had been sent to England, and was then in the Colonial Office; and inasmuch as part of the order of the House under which the Ceylon Committee sat, was to the effect that they were to inquire whether any measures could be adopted for the better administration and government of the island, he took the liberty of asking the hon. Under Secretary (Mr. Hawes) if he would give the Committee the benefit of seeing that document? The hon. Gentleman told him that the report, being a very voluminous one, it was necessary that Earl Grey should have time to make himself fully master of its contents, and that until he had so done he could not state whether the report could be produced or not. Subsequently it was admitted by Sir Emerson Tennent, the then Colonial Secretary for Ceylon, in answer to a question which he (Lord Hotham) had put to him, that the report alluded to recommended very extensive alterations in the existing establishments of the island. Twelve months having elapsed since he made these inquiries, he now begged to ask the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hawes) if he was in a position to produce the report, and also whether any and which of the recommendations it contained had been or were intended to be carried into effect?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, seemed to him to apply not to the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Abingdon (Sir F. Thesiger), but rather to the Amendment which had been put upon the paper by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole). The hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had asked them whether they were prepared to place the comfort and happiness of the Roman Catholics at the mercy of a common informer? The Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon proposed to do nothing of the kind. He could not conceive that any thing could be more guarded in that respect than that Amendment. And when the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Bethell) said, that if the hon. and learned Attorney General had hitherto failed to discharge his duty, it was as much the fault of that House as the hon. and learned Attorney General, it seemed to him (Lord J. Manners) that he strengthened instead of
 620
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I think, Sir, according to all analogous circumstances, the prosecution for this offence ought to be left with the Attorney General. The offence is one against the State—it is one against the Crown—and the Attorney General, representing the State and representing the Crown, is the officer who ought to prosecute if any prosecution shall be instituted. I would say it was as unreasonable to admit, in a case of libel against the Sovereign, that there should be a prosecution by a common informer coming in for penalties, as to enact that in a case of this kind the Attorney General was not to prosecute, but that it was to be left to an informer to ask the consent of the Attorney General to do so. The only reason that appears to me to weigh with the Committee against this analogy, and without which the Committee could not hesitate for a moment, is, that it is supposed the direction in the Act of 1829 has been constantly violated, and that the Attorney General for the time
 621 qui tam l. 622
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I must say I think there is no ground whatever for this proposition. The House, just before the Motion was brought on, became more than usually full—more full than at any time during the whole of the evening; the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Sir P. Thesiger) made his proposition, and the whole of his speech was respectfully and attentively listened to by the House; the discussion was continued by my right hon. and learned Friend the Master of the Rolls, and the whole of the case has been gone through; I do not think that anything can he added to the arguments on either side, and I think we are more likely in this full House to represent the House of Commons, than we are likely to do if there is any adjournment of the question. I therefore think that we should now dispose of the Amendment.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Mr. Bernal, I have seen very lately in the newspapers an address to the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of Dublin, and those who join with him in opposing this Bill, and who are complimented for so doing, and for exhibiting a "Spartan courage." These gentlemen may be entitled to the designation of "Spartan courage," but there is another quality of the Spartans in which one could wish they also excelled, and that is Spartan brevity. And the inhabitants of Youghal may have kindly meant to suggest this to the hon. Gentlemen, knowing that the laconic style was that for which the Spartans were famous, and may have intended to hold this up for imitation to the band of heroes who oppose this Bill. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Reynolds) has taken another opportunity of going into the whole of the Bill, into the subject of the State Trials, and every other subject that he could bring to bear upon it. It does not seem to me that I need follow the hon. Gentleman into all the topics of his speech. But there was one which I was surprised to hear in this House, although I hope I misunderstood the hon. Gentleman. I cannot very well understand why my right hon. Friend (Mr. M. O'Ferrall), who was lately Governor of Malta, and who has stated that his confidence in the Government was
 582 583
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  wished to remind the Committee of what had already occurred on this subject. The hon. and learned Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole), after much consideration, gave notice before Easter of a Motion similarly worded to that which the hon. and learned Member for Evesham (Sir H. Willoughby) had just proposed. Nobody doubted either the learning or the ability of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst; and if any such clause as this was to be proposed, it would be fitly placed in his hand, and would come from him with all the weight which his abilities would impart to it. But the hon. and learned Gentleman himself perceived there were such difficulties in applying the clause to Ireland, that he wished to confine it to this part of the United Kingdom. In the first place, the hon. and learned Attorney General objected to the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst's clause, as creating a new offence with a specific penalty, and that if the House adopted it they would create two offences instead of one. He (Lord John Russell) had also stated that he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman's clause carried the Act beyond its original intention, and that
 597
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  had no knowledge of any such promise having been made by the late Sir Robert Peel, and certainly no such statement had been made while that right lion. Baronet was at the head of the Government. He had previously understood that all his hon. Friend (Mr. Ewart) wanted was an explanation as to the general disposal and arrangement of the Education Vote, and that had been given in each of the last two years by his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary, as he (Lord J. Russell) had thought, in conformity with his hon. Friend's wish. He would consider whether any further statement could be made with regard to the schools of design, or any other matter in respect to which it was proposed to ask for a distinct vote in the estimates; but he thought it would be very inexpedient for a Minister to make any general statement on education beyond those particular objects for which a vote of public money was asked. With regard, however, to the state of progress that had been made in the last year in respect to these schools, he would endeavour to meet his hon. Friend's wishes as far as possible. He hoped this answer would be considered satisfactory.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he thought that in the present position of the case, they could not do better than agree to the proposition of the hon. Member for East Kent (Mr. Deedes); for if the proposal of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) were agreed to, the debate must still be adjourned. With respect to the nomination of the Committee, he thought he was right in what he had said the night before, that it was not a fair proposal for his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer
 572
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : What I alluded to was the hon. Gentleman's attack upon the right hon Gentleman (Mr. M. O'Ferrall) for not joining in that vote. If the hon. Gentleman was satisfied, let him vote against the Government; but why should he blame and censure any other Member of this House who, after conscientiously reading the evidence, came to the conclusion that Lord Torrington was not guilty of the charges brought against him?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he had not understood the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, after he (Lord John Russell) had spoken, as intimating any intention to
 629
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, Her Majesty's Ministers had quite as much claim, if it were a question of indulgence, as any hon. Members could have. After he had gone through the business of the morning, he (Lord John Russell) had attended a Cabinet Council from two till four o'clock, and he had been in the House nearly all the time since. He, however, preferred the progress of the public business to his own convenience, and thought that the Committee ought to dispose of the Amendment that night.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that having thus ascertained the opinion of the Committee, and as he was desirous that the hon. Member (Mr. Reynolds), and those who acted with him, should stand well with the Committee, though, perhaps, this conduct might produce a contrary impression, he thought the hon. Member should not proceed with this Motion. Having been appealed to some evenings ago by the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) not to bring on the Bill that evening, he said he could not—the public business having been previously arranged—comply with that request; yet he had endeavoured to comply as far as possible with the wishes of the hon. Gentleman, and had proposed that this question, instead of being taken on the day which he originally mentioned, should be postponed to that day fortnight, in order to give time to those Gentlemen who might wish to stay away for a longer period during the recess. After having done that, he must say that the return he had met with was not what lie should have expected. He had been met by taunts and sarcasms from the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, who seemed to have taken advantage of the concessions which he (Lord John Russell) had made. He would say—and he really
 624
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, it may be convenient that I should now state what course we intend to pursue with regard to public business. On Thursday next it is our intention that the Committee of Supply should stand first among the Orders of the Day, and we propose to go into Committee to consider the remaining part of the Navy Estimates, and the plan of my right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty for the retirement of admirals. After the Naval Estimates are gone through, we will take a Vote for the expenses of the Kaffir war, and then the Civil Contingencies; and on Thursday and Friday we will take the Miscellaneous Estimates. I stated the other day that on Monday I should propose to go on with the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill; but to give more time to some hon. Gentlemen—Irish Members—I intend to postpone it for a longer period. We will, therefore, proceed first with the second reading of the Customs and the Inhabited House Duty Bills. The Miscellaneous Estimates will be taken after those two Bills on Monday. It is not my intention to resume the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill until the Friday following, that is, this day fortnight; and I now beg to move, Sir, that this House
 555
 LORD MARCUS HILL  said, he had no hesitation in explaining the course he had taken on the occasion to which the hon. Member referred. Before the last division there had been some difficulty in clearing the House, and the Chairman had called to hon. Members to leave it and go into the lobby. Seeing a crowd of Gentlemen
 609
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  recommended that the nomination of the Committee should be postponed till that day week.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  said, he must request the House to listen to him on a question of privilege. As they were going out on the last division, he had gone up to ask the Chairman a question, in reply to which he (the Chairman) gave him, as he always gave hon. Members, every information in his power; but on that occasion a noble Lord, a Member of the House, interfered in such a manner as did not become him, and as interfered with the privileges and rights of a Member in asking a question which he was entitled to ask. He thought that interference was uncalled for, and was an interference with his privileges. He did not attribute discourtesy to the noble Lord, but he wished to know if he had a right to ask the question, and if it was one which ought to be answered by the Chairman. The question he put was whether, in voting on the Amendment of 500 l., l.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, there was not the slightest doubt but that the noble Lord had only complied with the forms of the House; and he was quite sure those who knew the noble Lord were satisfied he had done no more. If the hon. Member was not acquainted with the forms of the House, which were not familiar to all, he would surely feel there had been some misconception in the case.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I cordially agree with the hon. and learned Attorney General, that this is no potty circumstance, but one of national notoriety and national interest; and I think it desirable that the majesty of the law should be vindicated by the Attorney General, and by the Attorney General alone. But how stand the facts? Has that high functionary been entrusted with that great duty, and has he done that which the country expected? Unfortunately, it is now not a matter of national notoriety only, but we may say, of historical record, that, placed under those circumstances, and subject to that responsibility, the Attorney General has not accomplished what the Legislature of this country anticipated of him. With that bitter experience we are
 616 617
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that he thought there had been some unnecessary warmth displayed that evening, arising from a want of appreciation of the observations of the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell). The noble Lord's appeal seemed couched in such temper, actuated by such a good spirit, that he (Mr. Disraeli) was quite sure that if it had been allowed to have worked its due effect, the Committee would then have been discussing, and perhaps dividing upon, the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon (Sir F. Thesiger). That Amendment was undoubtedly a very important one, and perhaps required more discussion than it had received; but although it was their general habit to finish a debate at midnight, the hon. Member for the city of Dublin should remember that they were then on the eve of an adjournment, and that when a Committee was engaged upon an addition to a clause, it was not an unusual exertion for them to sit an hour or two longer; and supposing they had sat till two o'clock, he thought they might have fairly discussed and disposed of this Amendment. And he thought that even then, although they had lost much time, there was still time enough left to do all that was necessary. He thought that when the hon. Member for the city of Dublin reflected on the considerate manner in which the noble Lord at the head of the Government had arranged the business of the House so as to suit the convenience of hon. Members of the sister kingdom, the temperate and even kind tone in which he had addressed himself to the question before the House—a different tone from that exhibited by some other Members—that the hon. Member for the city of Dublin would agree to go on with the discussion upon the Amendment of his (Mr. Disraeli's) hon. and learned Friend the Member for Abingdon. He not only agreed with the hon. and gallant Member opposite (Admiral Berkeley) that the rules of the House were made by gentlemen, but he believed that every Member of that House was actuated by gentlemanly feelings; and although they had wasted some time, he thought that if the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, and those who acted with
 626
 MR. HAWES  said, the noble Lord's statement was perfectly correct, and in answer to his question he begged to say that the report the noble Lord had alluded to was one of very considerable importance, and entered into very great detail with regard to every department of the administration of government in Ceylon. On the breaking up of the Ceylon Committee that report was brought under
 554
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  rose to move, by way of Amendment, that the penalty be 500 l. 607 l. l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, what he stated was, that he objected going into the Committee with a majority committed in opinion against the income tax.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would do his best, but he could not say that he felt confident of succeeding. He had already stated that he had endeavoured to induce three or four Gentlemen, whose presence everybody would wish to sec on the Committee, to serve upon it, and it was not his fault that he had not succeeded.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the difficulties which had arisen in the nomination of this Committee had been very fairly stated by the hon. Member for Montrose; but there was no reason to complain of the ordinary mode in which the nomination of Committees worked in that House. He only recollected one other occasion on which a similar
 563 564 565
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved, that the Chairman report progress. He had many objections to this Bill, but at that late hour he would not go into the details. Since the House had come to resolutions on this subject, he had received-a deputation from all the English distillers, complaining of the injustice which would be done to them if these Resolutions were carried out.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he would not offer any further opposition to the Resolutions at present, but he should take the sense of the House respecting them in all their future stages.
 MR. ROCHE  was strongly impressed with the opinion that the mode of appointing Committees was exceedingly unfair and unwise; and the present discussion bore out that opinion, because both the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer and the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House, refused to serve unless each had a majority on this Committee. Unless a man would so demean himself as to canvass to be put on a Committee, no independent Member had a chance of being nominated on any Committee of that House. He believed in Prance Committees were appointed on a sound and safe plan. The House was divided into bureaus, which selected proper men to discuss great public questions of this kind in Committee, The question raised by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) was a very important question, and he contended they ought to discover some other means of choosing Committees on public subjects, for a worse system than the present could not be devised.
 MR. ROCHE  dissented from the view taken by the hon. Member for the city of Dublin with regard to the conduct of the right hon. Member for Longford (Mr. M. O'Ferrall). He (Mr. Roche) voted on the Ceylon question with the hon. Member for
 584
 MR. CARDWELL  had a perfect recollection of the occurrence to which the hon. Member alluded, and which took place in a debate on the Miscellaneous Estimates in the year 1846. The circumstances, as he remembered them, were these: a promise was made, in answer to an appeal from his hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) to the late Sir Robert Peel, that when the vote in question was brought forward, some Member of the Cabinet should state in a full and comprehensive manner the mode in which the previous grant had been disposed of—what had been done, and what were the intentions of the Cabinet for the future; and, so far as his memory served, he thought that had been done last year by the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey). With regard, however, to the promise having been made, his impression entirely coincided with that of his hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries.
 MR. MOWATT  considered that what was wanted was, not a mere dry official report, which might escape the attention of hundreds; but that a Minister of the Crown should state to the House what had been done in the last year, and what was contemplated for the future.
 MR. MOWATT  did not agree with the
 569
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  believed he was in possession of the Chair, and that no hon. Gentleman was entitled to interfere with his right to address the Committee. He should, therefore, proceed to state his proposition, which was so clear and intelligible—and he believed so fair and reasonable—that he did not anticipate there would be any objection to it on the part of those hon. Gentlemen who wished to see an efficient measure passed on this subject. The clause of the Bill, as it now stood, left the recovery of these penalties
 610 611 612
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he would now move the Amendments which stood upon the paper. It was not his intention to trespass long on the time of the House in submitting to their consideration the Amendments he had to propose,—the purpose of them was so plain and intelligible, and, as it appeared to him, so fair and reasonable, that he could hardly anticipate—
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he wished to explain the course which he intended to pursue on the proposed Amendment. The Committee would remember that he had himself proposed to introduce certain Amendments into the preamble and into the first clause of the Bill, which were directed to extending it beyond the more declaration against the particular Rescript which had been introduced into England,
 598 599 "There is an assumption of power in all the documents which come from Rome—a pretension of supremacy over the realm of England—a claim of sole and undivided sway, which is inconsistent with the Queen's supremacy, with the rights of our bishops and clergy, and with the spiritual independence of the nation as asserted even in Roman Catholic times." 600
 MR. MOORE  said, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had sufficiently exposed his absurdity to the House; and he would not dwell for a moment upon that, as it was impossible to make him a bit more ridiculous than he had made himself. But he appealed to the hon. Member, as a
 561
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that if by proposing the Amendment the hon. Member for East Kent (Mr. Deedes) wished to get rid of the Committee by a side wind, the Amendment was doubtless well calculated to attain that end; but if the object of the hon. Gentleman was that an inquiry should really take place, and a report be made by the Committee, he could not conceive how he should propose the postponement of the appointment of the Committee till after the holidays, seeing that the Session was drawing so near to a close. In fact, he thought that those who wished to see an inquiry take place, had already some reason to complain that the hon. Member for Montrose had put off the appointment of the Committee so long. He would recommend the hon. Member for Montrose to select three or four Gentlemen of his own party to carry on the inquiry, and leave the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer to nominate the rest.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that an account and an explanation in regard to the schools of design were regularly given; but he doubted whether it would be expedient to take the opportunity of the Vote for those schools, to go into the general question of Education, or to make any statement upon it. An annual account was presented to Parliament of all that took place with regard to those schools of design during the past year; and that he considered to be a far more satisfactory way of giving information than any statement made by a Minister in that House. Of course there would always be present the Member of the Government who was responsible for the administration of the vote,
 557
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, there might be two offences—the one the assumption of the title, and the other the obtaining the Bull; and the Bull might or might not be put in use by the same individual. They were two distinct offences, and were properly punishable by two separate penalties. If the hon. and learned Attorney General's argument was good, what became of the case of Lalor, which was a case of assuming a title, and also of obtaining and using a Papal Bull? It might happen that a person negotiated to obtain a Bull, and yet might not succeed in putting it in force; yet the obtaining it ought to be punished. He should cordially support the Amendment.
 MR. WHITESIDE : That might be a reason why the hon. Gentleman should be free to propound his own opinions, for which he alone was responsible; but this was a Protestant country. [ Cries of from Roman Catholic Members. 587 588
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that it was impossible for any Irish Member, feeling as he did, to listen in silence to the speech of the hon. Member for Dublin. The hon. Member had asked him whether he would be willing to be a party to measures of injustice, intolerance, or cruelty, against any portion of his fellow-countrymen. He had no hesitation in replying that he would not. The line of argument adopted by the hon. Member was certainly a very peculiar one. He proceeded altogether upon the assumption that the principle upon which the present Bill, or any measure similar to it, must be founded, must be one of bigotry, tyranny, and intolerance, towards Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects. Now, he would take leave to say that he (Mr. Whiteside) entirely dissented from the assumption of the hon. Member. He did not believe that there was any injustice or persecution intended by the present measure; nor did he believe that it would be oppressive in its operation, as the hon. Member seemed to apprehend. The hon. Gentleman had, on a previous occasion, when alluding to a celebrated State trial in which he (Mr. Whiteside) had borne a humble part, pronounced a glowing eulogium on the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon (Sir James Graham), for his manly vindication of what the hon. Member was pleased to call the rights and liberties of the Catholic people of Ireland. But he must take leave
 585 586
 MR. HERRIES  said, he rose merely to say that the reasons he had stated to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer for declining to serve on the Committee, wore altogether of a private and domestic
 574
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  repudiated the idea of the Roman Catholic Members taking counsel of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Whiteside) as to what would be best for them. The hon. and learned Member had spoken of what he had seen at Rome; but a great deal of his work had been compiled from handbooks got up by persons entirely ignorant on the subject, and strongly bigoted against the Roman Catholic religion. The Roman Catholics of Ireland had certainly not, as the hon. Member had charged them with doing, broken any of the conditions of the Emancipation Act. There had, at all events, been no cardinal appointed in Ireland, and why, then, should that country be included in the Bill? At the same time he was not to be understood as admitting that
 591 "That none shall take procuracy, letters of attorney, nor farm, nor other administration of any benefice within the realm; but only of the king's people of this realm." "It was demanded of the Lords spiritual their advice and will, they being severally examined, making protestations that it is not their intention to say nor affirm that their Holy Father, the Pope, cannot excommunicate bishops, nor that he may not make translation of prelates after the law of the holy Church—answered and said 'that trans-
 592 Digest 593 quasi 594
 MR. REYNOLDS  begged to explain, that in referring to the vote on the Ceylon debate, he had not alluded to it in the sense which the noble Lord understood him. He had not given his vote simply out of hostility to the Government, but he had read the evidence on the affairs of Ceylon, and he had satisfied his own mind upon the merits of the case, and that Lord Torrington deserved unmitigated censure.
 MR. REYNOLDS : I beg to ask, Sir—["Order, order!" "Chair! chair!"]—I rise to order, Sir—I beg to ask you if it is competent for the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon to move his Amendment now, and to move an addition to the words of the second clause, we not having arrived at the end of it?
 MR. REYNOLDS  trusted the lateness of the hour, half-past twelve o'clock, coupled with the very strong difference of opinion that had been expressed by the lawyers on this most important subject, would plead his excuse for moving that the Chairman should report progress.
 MR. REYNOLDS  rose to move that the words, "Under any designation whatsoever," be omitted from the clause. His object in this was to carry out, as far as he had power, the declaration made by the Prime Minister, and by the law authorities of the Crown, that the intention of this Bill was that persons of the Roman Catholic religion should be left in the same position as they were left as regarded religious rights by the Act of 1829. He could not find the words he proposed to omit in that Act, and he asked the noble Lord how he could justify the retention of them in this Bill consistently with the declarations he had made over and over again; for it was clear, if those words were retained, that the Roman Catholic archbishops and bishops, and the Roman Catholic people in Ireland, would not he in the same position as they were at the passing of the Act of 1829. When he first addressed the House on this subject, in the month of February, he declared his opinion that this measure was a violation of the solemn compact of 1829, and that, if it passed, the Roman Catholic religion would be reduced to a state bordering upon, if not actually, an enslaved state. He was fortified by the opinions of the first statesmen and the first lawyers in that House and out of it in saying that there would be an end of the free and legal exercise of the Roman Catholic religion in England, Ireland, and Scotland, at the will of the Attorney General for the time being. He would ask Government, recollecting their old and new promises, whether they were prepared to
 575 576 l. l. 577 578 579 Laughter. 580 581
 MR. REYNOLDS : I do not take that oath.
 MR. REYNOLDS , in moving that the returns relating to the Kilrush and Ennistymon Unions, ordered on the 11th of April last, be made forthwith, complained of the unnecessary delay that had taken place. He had been informed that the returns wore long since sent to the Poor Law Commissioners in Dublin, who had sent them back for correction. The poor-law authorities in Ireland were afraid to lay on the table an accurate account of the brutal treatment which the poor had received in the workhouses there. They shrank from the duty which Parliament had imposed upon them. When he talked of the brutal treatment which the people received in these workhouses, he ventured to assert that no parallel could be found of such a wholesale slaughter of the people for want of the common necessaries of life in the whole civilised world. The ease of Jane Wilbred had excited a feeling of indignation in the breast of every honest person in the United Kingdom; but the treatment of the Irish paupers threw altogether into the shade the sufferings of Jane Wilbred. He could not bring on the Motion for Inquiry into the mortality that had occurred without these returns f and, in the name of humanity and common charity, he asked was it right to let these returns to be withheld till the Session was too far advanced for any inquiry to be moved? While the people wore slaughtered wholesale, he was prevented bringing their case under the notice of the House. As the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Somerville) was absent, perhaps the Chief Commissioner of Poor Laws for England would lend him his aid and assistance in getting the returns.
 MR. REYNOLDS : I entered this House at twelve o'clock, and have re-
 623
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he believed he was not justly open to the charge brought against him by the noble Lord. He was not there for the purpose of acknowledging—[ Cries of
 MR. REYNOLDS  moved that the Chairman leave the chair.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that having moved that the Chairman leave the Chair, and having been appealed to in the mild and moderate language used by the Prime Minister, it was his determination to have complied with the request of the noble Lord; but when he stood up to address a few words to the Committee, he was met by shouts that drowned his voice, and he was compelled to sit down. Immediately afterwards the hon. and gallant Member for Gloucester (Admiral Berkeley) addressed the Committee in a voice most scolding in its tone, and in language most violent and intemperate. The hon. and gallant Member was not only listened to patiently, but when he used the phrase, that the rules of the House were made for Gentlemen, he was cheered to the echo. The hon. and gallant Admiral had received at the hands
 628
 MR. JOHN STUART  deeply regretted the discussion and the singular views of the Amendment taken by the hon. and learned Attorney and Solicitor General. Both were agreed that it referred to prospective acts. The first clause of the Bill referred to a Bull or Rescript already issued. The Amendment referred to Bulls, &c., hereafter to be issued. There was no good reason for putting the two offences on a different footing. It was in vain, and indeed hardly respectful, for the hon. and learned Solicitor General to say they did not understand the Bill. He wished to make the Bill prospective as well as retrospective. The second clause, as now framed, only punished the assumption of titles, but did not touch the authority which procured the importation of these Bulls.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the present Amendment was essentially different from that of the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst. The hon. and learned Attorney General argued as if the whole of the Bill consisted of the second clause, and seemed to forget that the new offence, if not created, was at least an act forbidden by the preamble and the first clause, which the hon. and learned Gentleman had himself contended was general and declaratory, and consequently applicable to the United Kingdom. The Amendment, therefore, was nothing but the carrying out of the preamble and the first clause, which the Government had already adopted. It had been said that it might be difficult to prove the procuring or publication of Bulls or Rescripts; but he would also remind the Committee that it might not be a very easy thing to prove the assumption of titles. But the value of the Amendment was that it was entirely prospective, and not retrospective, and left the state of things in Ireland untouched. These were the reasons which induced him to support the Amendment.
 MR. HUME  wished to show how unjust all those allegations were that had been made against him; for, if ever man had tried hard to get a fair Committee, he had endeavoured to do so in this case. Upon the subject of the nomination of the Members, he had consulted both sides of the House, and had consulted the three sections and the half section into which it was said the House was now divided—the Radicals, the Protectionists, and the Government, as well as the followers of the late Sir Robert Peel, who were so few that they had obtained the name of the half section. The four hon. Members named by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) were on his (Mr. Hume's) list. The four Gentlemen suggested by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, with one exception, were also on his list; and the name he substituted for that exception was that of his hon. Friend Mr. C. Villiers, a consistent and unerring supporter of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. What was the Committee he had proposed? He had named four Gentlemen—Mr. Horsman, Mr. J. L. Ricardo, Mr. Roebuck, and Mr. Cobden. Let him have those, and he would give the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer a  carte blanche
 MR. HUME  perfectly well remembered the late Sir Robert Peel saying that whenever any grant for educational purposes was proposed, it would be the duty of the department to make a report similar to that
 556
 MR. HUME  said, he should have been content with simply moving that the name of the Chancellor of the Exchequer be added to this Committee, if it were not that he understood the hon. Member for West Kent (Mr. Deedes) intended to move the adjournment of the debate. He was not aware on what ground the adjournment was to be moved; but the circumstance made it necessary for him to call the attention of the House to the position in which they were now brought in consequence of the difficulties connected with the nomination of the Committee. It was usual for those who moved Committees to make the best arrangement they could, and to obtain the fittest men to serve upon them; and his object in appointing the Select Committee on the Income and Property Tax had been to name it fairly from the different parties into which the House was divided. The Members, however, who were originally selected to be on it, had, some of them, refused to serve, and one whole section had refused to serve at all. This had led to several changes, so much so that he had been obliged to intimate at the last meeting that the names of those willing to serve should be put down on paper. He was convinced that the House must adopt some new, mode of naming Committees on public business. This had been a long-established practice in the United States of America, and it had been found to work admirably well. There were, for instance, the military, the legal and the commercial Committees, and to these, respectively, military, legal, and commercial matters were referred. In all, nine different Committees were selected by the Speaker at Washington, and thus the objectionable system of packing was prevented. But here, one person after another backed out. Nearly twenty years ago he made a proposition, which did not then find favour with the House, that at
 562
 MR. HUME : Then I leave the Committee entirely in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. HUME  wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer accepted the task of nominating the Committee—he (Mr. Hume) merely stipulating for the four names he had mentioned?
 MR. BUTLER , although a sincere Protestant, was as much opposed as any man could be to this Bill. Recollecting that he represented a constituency of whom nineteen out of twenty were Roman Catholics, he went into the lobby with the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, although he knew he should have a majority of ten to one against him, but he was not prepared to go further. He thought he had done all that was consistent with gentlemanly feeling, and at the same time with a proper regard for the constituency which he had the honour to represent. If there were another division, he should not vote against the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, but he should leave the House.
 MR. BUTLER  thought the speech just made perfectly satisfactory; but he would remark that, only a few days ago, he and other Irish Members had been obliged at half-past one o'clock in the morning to divide no fewer than six times on an English question. He could not help saying that, after that, it was very inconsistent for English Members to tax Irish Members with factious opposition.
 MR. COBDEN  soid, it had been stated that two or three Gentlemen on the other
 573
 MR. SPOONER  trusted the House would allow him to answer at least part of the statement of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Scholefield). He, in the
 559 Morning Chronicle, "Sir— The Times "The house alluded to in this extract is one which I am building for the congregation of the oratory of St. Philip Neri, of which I am superior. I myself am under no other superior elsewhere. The underground cells to which Mr. Spooner refers have been devised in order to economise space for offices commonly attached to a large house." "I think they are five in number, but cannot be certain. They run under the kitchen and its neighbourhood. One is to be a larder, another is to be a coalhole, and beer, perhaps wine, may occupy a third. As to the rest, Mr. Spooner ought to know that we have had ideas of baking and brewing; but I cannot pledge myself to him that such will be their ultimate destination. Larger subterraneans commonly run under gentlemen's houses in London; but I have never, in thought or word, connected them with practices of cruelty and with inquests, and never asked their owners what use they made of them. Where is this inquisition into the private matters of Catholics to end." 560 "I have seen the builder whom you have mentioned in our conversation this morning respecting the Roman Catholic building now being erected in the Hagley-road, Edgbaston, and he informs me that he saw the basement story whilst it was being built, and that it contains very many compartments below the surface of the ground, about 9 feet by 10 feet, and 10 feet high, and without any means of being lighted. To what use they are intended to be applied, is known only to the founders. But by this builder and other persons who have had the curiosity to visit the building, they have been called cells. They are such places as are made for wine-cellars; but my informant says that the number of them precludes the supposition of this being the object of their construction. I asked him if the object of the construction of these cells might be to strengthen the foundation. He replied, 'Certainly not, or they would not have been made so high; much less than 10 feet would have been sufficient for that purpose.' Why were they fitted up with fireplaces? He had seen a gentleman who had visited the building, who told him one of the compartments was larger than the rest, and was evidently to be covered in without the building over it. He was told it was for a laundry, and he asked what use was a laundry in a convent. Whereupon the person said it might be for a convert, he did not know." Loud cries of
 MR. WALPOLE  found in the statement of the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls most convincing evidence of the necessity of adopting the Amendment. Instead of rendering the Act a dead letter, it would be the means of vivifying it. The right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls, in referring to what he supposed to be analogous cases, forgot that in them the offence did not necessarily come under the Attorney General's notice until some one suggested it to him. But the offence to which this clause referred was a public one, and, as soon as it became known, the Attorney General ought to prosecute; and, if he failed to do so, some other person should. The right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls had really urged no objection to the Amendment, except the possibility, as he imagined, of its rendering the Act a dead letter. How could it do so? The offence being a notorious one, the Crown, which was bound to protect the nation from every wrong done to it, ought to sec that no wrong was done; but if the Crown neglected that duty, then it was necessary that it should he taken up by a private individual. If the Crowa should neglect to prosecute, as had been the case under the Roman Catholic Emancipation Act, the law would, indeed, become a dead letter. It was his firm belief, that if some such provision as that now proposed should not be inserted, the present Bill would become as dead a letter as the Roman Catholic Emancipation Act. These reasons were sufficient to induce him to vote for the Amendment. But there was another reason which would induce him to take that course. By the law of the country there was nothing to prevent a Roman Catholic from being Attorney General or Prime Mi-
 614
 MR. DEEDES  said, the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie) seemed to have some doubt as to his (Mr. Deedes') motives in the course he had taken. Now, he would only say, that from the beginning to the end of this question, he had voted
 571 bonâ fide
 MR. DEEDES  said, the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer justified him in the course he was about to take in this matter, which was to propose the postponement of the nomination of the Committee until after the Whitsuntide recess. Upon the last occasion when the nomination of the Committee was before the House, he voted with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), and against the Amendment of the hon. Member for Boston (Mr. Fresh-field), feeling bound by the vote given before, that the Committee, according to the expressed feeling of a majority of that House, ought to be appointed, lie entertained the same opinion now. He had seen no reason to alter that opinion; on the contrary, it had been greatly confirmed by what then took place. The noble Lord at the head of the Government alluded to the confessedly great difficulties which surrounded this question; and no man could deny that great, he would not say insuperable, hut assuredly enormous, difficulties did exist. To his mind that was a greater reason why, the public having been led to believe, and this House having pledged itself to a certain extent, that a Committee should be appointed, the Committee to which so important a question was to be entrusted, should be such a one as to deserve, not only the confidence of that House, but the confidence of the country. If the inquiry were not conducted upon the principle of arriving at the truth, and seeing whether any modification could be made in the inequalities of the pressure of the income tax, the proceedings of this House would be merely a delusion, and the public might rightly and properly say they had not been fairly dealt with by this House. The report of a Committee on so important a subject ought to be such as would carry with it the greatest possible weight. He had asked the lion. Member for Montrose to defer for a further period
 566 567
 MR. EWART , pursuant to notice, wished to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether Her Majesty's Government were willing to cause to he made, through a Minister of the Crown, on going into the Education Estimates, a statement of the condition and progress of education, so far as it came under the administration of the Government and within the supplies voted by Parliament, including national institutions connected with art or science, training schools, schools of design, public libraries, and similar institutions, conformably with the promise made by the late Sir Robert Peel during his administration? He was much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, for the statement he had made on the subject last year and the year before, but he thought they should have some more detailed explanation on the subject.
 MR. KEOGH  did not think the proposition for reporting progress was so unreasonable as the noble Lord considered it. Not more than an hour ago the noble Lord was anxious the debate should be discontinued, because there was a possibility that the Government would he in a minority, as they very nearly were, having only had a majority of four. Now, this was a new question, which had been brought before the Committee at half-past eleven o'clock, and discussed until half-past twelve o'clock, and no Gentleman representing an Irish constituency had yet taken part in the debate. ["Oh, oh!"  and cries of
 MR. KEOGH  agreed with the observations of the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat, with respect to the kindly tone of the observations of the noble Lord at the head of the Government; but he regretted that he had not more explicitly called the attention of the Committee to the tone and feeling exhibited by another hon. Member. The noble Lord had addressed the House, as he always did, upon the supposition that he was dealing with gentlemen; nor was he (Mr. Keogh) aware that he had had any reason during that discussion, or during any in which he had been engaged in the present Session, to feel that he had been treated in any way but as one gentleman should be by another. But it was new to him in that House, and it was certainly perfectly unknown to him out of it, that any person, no matter what might be his position or station, whether he was the tame submissive follower of the Government or not, should rise in his place, either in or out of that House, and address gentlemen to whom he happened to be politically opposed with the insinuation that they were not gentlemen. The hon. and gallant Member opposite (Admiral Berkeley) had said that he had seen tyrant majorities and factious minorities; and he was a member of a party that never was very scrupulous, either as a majority or a minority, in the opposition that they gave to measures with which they were dissatisfied. But he never knew, even on occasions with which the noble Lord was familiar, when he took part in an opposition as obstinate (he would not say as intemperate) as any of which he had now the slightest reason to complain, that any Member of the Government to which he was opposed rose to make use of the intemperate and uncalled-for language used by the hon. and gallant Member for Gloucester. If the noble Lord allowed his subordinates to adopt a tone so very different indeed from his own, it would be vain to appeal to the manner natural to him when he sanctioned such departures from the language usually held by hon. Members towards each other.
 MR. MONSELL  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, would pardon him if he said that a manifest fallacy ran through the whole of his argument. The Roman Catholics did not ask that House to recognise their bishops or archbishops—all they asked was that that House would not prevent them from recognising their authority and titles. The hon. and learned Gentleman had referred to the Act of Parliament establishing the College of Maynooth, and
 589 "By the statute of Richard II. the introduction and publication of any Bull directed against the Sovereign or Government for any political purposes, subjected parties to the penalties of  prœmunire; Constitutional History, "The statute of  prœmunire, 590
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, that in a debate some short time since, on the Religious Houses Bill, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) stated, that in a convent which was being built at Birmingham the whole of the underground portion was laid out in cells, the supposition being, that these cells were to be used for the forcible detention of some of Her Majesty's subjects. A great deal of odium had been raised in consequence, and at last the Mayor was called on to inspect the premises, and, he was given to understand, to communicate the result to the Home Office. The Mayor had done so, and, as he (Mr. Scholefield) was informed, the absolute conviction of that gentleman was, that there was no truth whatever in the statement, and no shadow of foundation for it. What he wished to ask was, whether the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had received any communication from the Major of Birmingham relative to the erection now in progress of a large convent within that borough? If the statement of the hon. Member (Mr. Spooner) was true, Government was bound to interfere and protect the liberty of the inmates; while, if false, he appealed even to the hon. Member, with all his hostility to Roman Catholics, to withdraw the charge against them, for which there was no foundation.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  was of opinion that no beneficial results attended the appointment of any Committees, because they were partially made. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was willing to serve on the Committee if he could command a majority. [An Hon. MEMBER: No, no!] That was the meaning of the right hon. Gentleman, and no other meaning could be attached to what he had said. It was in effect, "Give me a majority, and I shall be happy to serve." The hon. Member for East Kent (Mr. Deedes) was of the same opinion; and if he could command a majority in favour of the landed interest, he would be perfectly satisfied. More than a month had elapsed since the Motion was carried, the essential part of which was that a Committee should be appointed, and he deprecated any further delay. Unless there was an entire change in the system of nominating Committees, they would neither be found to be beneficial in conducting inquiries, nor to answer the expectations of the public.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : In answer to the question of the hon. Member, I have to say that I have received no communication, private or official, from the Mayor of Birmingham relative to the alleged erection now in progress within the borough of a large convent.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Somerville) was prevented by indisposition from being in his place; but, on the last occasion, when the hon. Member for the city of Dublin had brought the subject before the House, the right hon. Baronet the Se-
 558
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Bill was prospective; penalties would attach to parties assuming these titles whenever they might attempt it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Amendment proposed to attach a specific penalty to the procuring of a certain class of Bulls, and bringing them into this country. Now this was an act which was already a misdemeanour under an Act of Parliament which could not be termed obsolete, for Parliament, in 1846, when it repealed the penalties, declared those Acts still in force. If the hon. and learned Gentleman thought those penalties improperly repealed, it was open to him to propose that the House should reverse the decision which it had already come to.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY : Sir, the main and the chief aggressive act is the Rescript, and not the assumption of the title. The mass of those who have petitioned this House regard the Rescript as the source of offence—the chief cause of the turmoil that has been excited in this kingdom. Why? Because the Rescript strikes at the prerogative of the Crown by pretending to confer territorial titles within the kingdom, and invades the supremacy of the Legislature by attempting to establish jurisdictions within the realm. Who can deny that, by the constitution of this empire, the Crown alone is the source of honours and of titles? Who can assert that the power of binding by law the subjects of the Queen does not belong exclusively to the Crown, Lords, and Commons—the Parliament of the United Kingdom? I state in my Amendment "within the United Kingdom." I do not deny that the position of Ireland is peculiar: though the question is a difficult and a delicate one, the bearing of the Amendment on the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland must be considered. The existence of such Church cannot he ignored—it is an Episcopal Church; it has bishops and priests—an hierarchy which has
 595 licere Jura, 596
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he understood it was a principle of the hon. Member for Montrose that no Member should be on two Committees at once. Yet he would find that one hon. Member, whom he had named, and who, no doubt, would be a great acquisition to any Committee, the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), was already upon three Committees.
 SIR JOHN B. WALSH  thought that the hon. Member for Falmouth (Mr. Mowatt) had misunderstood the hon. Member for East Somersetshire (Mr. W. Miles). He understood that hon. Member to have said, that however respectable the names suggested for the Committee, since those hon. Members had no knowledge of finance, it was not probable they would arrive at any satisfactory conclusion on so difficult a question that it had eluded the powers of eminent financiers of bygone times. [Mr. W. MILES: Hear, hear!] The right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had repeated the charge of cross-voting. Now, he (Sir J. Walsh) wanted to know how he—having great objections to this tax, agreeing with the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer that any modification was difficult, perhaps almost impossible, and at the same time being anxious to get rid of the tax altogether in the quickest possible time consistent with the preservation of the public credit—he wanted to know how he was to vote, when the Motion was put from the Chair, simply that the tax be limited to one year? He did not agree with the question of going to a Committee; but that was not the question; and, because of some implied understanding, which, he did not admit existed, and which never existed in the smallest degree as far as he was concerned, was he not to vote
 570
 MR. BETHELL  said, I have not hitherto taken any part in the debate, but some observations I have heard within the last few minutes render it compulsory upon me to endeavour to offer a few suggestions to the Committee. I agree very much with the hon. Member who has just sat down that we ought not to encourage any petty penal legislation, and in that spirit I shall speak; for anything more petty, and anything more at variance with the principles of our law, than to commit the punishment of a great public offence, such as that against which this Bill is directed, to be prosecuted at the instance of an individual private informer, I cannot conceive. I defy any lawyer in this House to produce any instance in which a great national offence has been visited with a penalty of this sort, and the prosecution of that penalty committed to a common informer. Now, observe, the offence we have to punish is one of great notoriety—of great publicity—is one which must attract the attention of the community before it can be called an offence at all. What is this House? Is it not the grand inquisition of the nation? Is not this House armed with authority to see that every public magistrate, every person entrusted with the administration of justice in the law, performs his duty? And when we are told by hon. Gentlemen that we must resort to this species of legislation, because the great public prosecutor, the first law officer of the Crown, the Attorney General, has been sleeping at his post, where, let me ask, has been the House of Commons—where has been the vigilance of this House during that slumber? Have you not all participated in it, and do you not participate in it if, when the greatest indignity is offered, you yourselves are a party to proceedings of this kind? But I have another and a great objection to the proceeding now suggested
 618 l. l., 619 l.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the Bill, in his opinion, as it at present stood, was retrospective only, while the Amendment would make its operation co-extensive with the aggression whenever it might be made. The House ought to adopt it, unless it was prepared to legislate  toties quoties,
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  wished the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) would reconsider the announcement he had just made. He would respectfully submit to the noble Lord, that in justice to the people of England, and the Members of that House, he should, notwithstanding the opinion of the forty-one Members who composed the minority in the late division, proceed, on Thursday next, and  de die in diem
 MR. W. MILES  said, the question they had to deal with was, whether the names now nominated could be said to give confidence to the country in any report which might emanate from the Committee: After the statement of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he was not disposed to accept the Committee. Not one hon. Gentleman well acquainted with the mysteries of finance was nominated. His own opinion was, that right hon. Gentlemen opposite, and hon. and right hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House, who were acquainted with finance,
 568
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS , in asking the following questions of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, bogged to disclaim any intention of throwing the slightest imputation on the gentlemen of the Clogheen board of guardians, who were most intelligent and efficient. What he wished to know was: Whether the attention of the Poor Law Commissioners had been called to a resolution of the Clogheen board of guardians relative to the employment of paupers in manufacturing articles for sale? And whether the Commissioners were determined to discountenance the conversion of workhouses into manufacto-
 633
 SIR FRANCIS BARING , in proposing the first vote, 718,647 l.,
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that by reducing the list of captains on the efficient list, they should be better able to give active employment to those remaining in it.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that it would be perfectly competent for his hon. Friend, if he entertained an objection to the whole of the scheme, to move a reduction to the extent of the supplementary vote. His hon. Friend had asked why had not the plan recommended by the Committee been adopted? The reason was, that the scheme, as proposed by the Committee, was an imperfect one, inasmuch as it was confined to the list of admirals, and, upon the best consideration he could give it, it appeared to him that it would deal only with a very small part of the question. Under these circumstances, the Admiralty had recommended a plan to the House. Hitherto, under the head of half-pay on the active list, it had been the practice to include many officers who were not really acting, or, in many cases, fitted for active service, and complaints had naturally arisen
 643 644 645
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he thought it might be advisable, with regard to admirals, and more especially with regard to subordinate officers, that in case of a war the Crown might have the power of replacing them on the active list with their own consent.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. S. Herbert) had stated his satisfaction that the Admiralty had undertaken to grapple with what he had truly stated to be an evil of immense extent—the state of the Navy List. In undertaking the task he (Sir F. Baring) had been fully aware that the moment he laid upon the table any plan for carrying such an arrangement into effect, he should meet from all quarters—
 654 655
 SIR FRANCIS BARING : Whether it was published or not, the fact was perfectly well known—it was notorious. He had every sympathy with officers who
 656
 SIR FRANCIS BARING : Whatever might be the length of time he served, would the gallant Officer say that Sir George Westphal was or was not constantly applying for employment, and yet was unable to obtain it?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he had merely asked the simple question whether Sir George Westphal had been employed for more than three years; and the hon. and gallant Member said he had served under Sir George Cockburn. It appeared, then, as Sir George Cockburn was not inattentive to the claims of officers under his command, that if Sir George Westphal had been anxious to get afloat, he might have got a ship had he applied for one, both on public as well as on private grounds. He (Sir F. Baring) did not think he was called upon to say that that was a case of great grievance. But he did not wish to rest this matter upon personal cases at all. But when personal cases were quoted against him as cases of hardship, he was compelled to comment upon them; and he was desirous of showing that there had been many cases of officers who had been most anxious to servo, and had constantly applied for employment, which they had been unable to obtain. Those who had been the most hardly dealt with were not the persons who had complained the hardest. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. S. Herbert) had made some complaint of the manner in which the lower classes of officers had been dealt with in the plan, and had remarked that it very little mattered whether they were put on the active or the inactive list. The right hon. Gentleman had had experience; but his (Sir F.
 657
 MR. CORRY  said, that if the Government were determined to reduce the active list of admirals to 100, he would decidedly prefer the plan of the Admiralty to that of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), whose proposal would in his opinion, be attended with great injustice to individuals, because, when the plan of retirement of 1846 was introduced, captains upon the active list were told they were to succeed to flags upon certain conditions; and the hon. Gentleman proposed that such successions should only take place in one out of every three vacancies. The hon. Member's proposal would also be injurious to the public service, because it would stagnate promotion, and would neutralise altogether the intention and effects of the retirement of 1846. He (Mr. Corry) considered that, although the rule requiring that an officer should have served six years before he was promoted to a flag might be attended with hardship to individuals, it was a rule which it was most important for the interests of the public service to maintain. He begged to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty how many admirals the right hon. Gentleman meant to have on the active list?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  replied, that he proposed to reduce the flag list to 99 officers; but if the Committee did not accede to that proposal, the majority against him might be inclined to support the plan of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume), to which, however, he entertained strong objections.
 ADMIRAL GORDON  said, he was aware of the great difficulty of devising any means of dealing with that question which might not appear to operate severely against some individuals. But it should be remembered that it was the paramount duty of the Admiralty to secure the services of efficient officers. He knew of no better means of effecting that object than the adoption of an extensive system of retirement in time of peace. Without any wish to say anything that could be offensive to individuals, he believed it might with perfect truth be stated that not many of our admirals at present possessed that activity of body and of mind which had so eminently characterised our admirals throughout the war. He was not disposed to criticise the details of this measure very closely; but he should be glad to find the plan of the Admiralty, as explained to them that evening by the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Baring), come into operation at an earlier period than the right hon. Gentleman had proposed. The plan would come into effect so gradually that it would not afford an early opportunity of bringing forward young and efficient officers. He thought that some modification might reasonably be made in the proposal, under which a service of six years would be required on the part of captains before they could be promoted to the rank of admirals. In his opinion the time ought to be reduced, or the service of a commander ought to some extent to be allowed to count in the matter. But, in any case, he thought that the service required should be actual service in a sea-going ship, and not with a pennant flying without ever putting out to sea.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, it was quite true that Lord Auckland had named 100 as the maximum number of cadets to be admitted. His (Sir F. Baring's) experience of two years led him to believe that the Navy did not want so many as that; and therefore since he had been in office the Admiralty had not come to Parliament with reference to the number of cadets, but had already reduced it. His impression was, that some little experience would be necessary before they could ascertain what the real number requisite was; but he entirely concurred in the view, that although there might be some hardship to certain' parties in the service in making changes, yet it was necessary that the first admission to the service should be checked.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  was sorry to say that he could not consent to reconsider that part of the plan which the hon. Gentleman had referred to.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that the attack which had been made upon the Government in regard to the naval force that was to be maintained by the country,
 669 670
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that as compared with the years 1848 and 1849, the reduction on this vote was 340,000 l. 688
 MR. CORRY  said, that as the hon. Member for Montrose had disputed the accuracy of the statement of his hon. and gallant Friend (Admiral Bowles), respecting the Navy Estimates of 1792, he (Mr. Corry) had turned up the Report of the Committee on Finance Accounts, issued in 1828, in which he found it stated that in 1792 the naval expenditure for 16,000 men was 5,000,000 l.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, the Board of Admiralty had followed the recommendations of the Committee with respect to Keyham; and with regard to the vote for the powder magazine, that sum was for the actual carrying on of the building. The sum for the purchase of land had been voted on a former occasion.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  was understood to reply that the expense of dredging the dock was included.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, the question was calmly discussed by the Committee, and the conclusion they came to was that it was desirable to go on with the works. The estimate was now fully before the House. He had every reason to believe that that estimate would fully cover the expenditure. The majority of the Committee were of opinion that the works ought to be proceeded with.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, the hon. Gentleman knew as well as he did that the original intention was to create a largo factory at Keyham; but he stated last year that they had no intention to create a factory there.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, the whole expenditure was before Parliament. He had followed entirely the recommendation of the Committee that they should go on with those works which were not completed at the time with regard to the basin, but they should leave the factory works.
 MR. CORRY  said, that the most judicious of the witnesses before the Committee were unanimously of opinion that a steam factory at Devonport would be a highly useful establishment.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that this Estimate had been framed to meet the objection taken before the Committee as to the mode of drawing up the Estimates. He had proposed the whole of the original vote as it might be required, and if he had followed the old practice, the effect would have been that he should have concealed from the Committee a large sum of money. He thought he had stated as plainly as man could state a fact, that he had not the slightest intention of setting up the factory; but occasions might arise—a time of war, for instance—which might render the building necessary, and he could not bind the Government against doing that which might be essential in times of emergency.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that in order to compare the votes for the years it was necessary to put in the sum voted in the last year, and last year there had been a discussion on this vote. Many of these items had been put in in contemplation of the proposed establishment at Keyham.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, there was a very large population there, and the church was of great use.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that every facility was afforded to the officers of the Navy for the acquisition of such knowledge.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that as the hon. Member had expressed his intention of calling attention to this question on a future occasion, he would reserve for that opportunity any explanations he might have to offer with respect to it; meantime he would inquire into the matter.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  hoped the Committee would consent to go into the consideration of the vote at once, as the greater portion of it was under contract, and the details were very small.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  said, that it was of the utmost importance that this addition of the now works at Keyham to the dockyard at Devonport should be completed with as little delay as possible. That, even with all the exertions which could be used, it would be at least two years before a single steam-vessel could be repaired at that yard; and when it was considered that this was the arsenal to which ships disabled in the Bay of Biscay, as well as on the coast of France and Ireland, would naturally resort for safety and repairs, it might easily be imagined what difficulties and delays would arise, if, at the commencement of war or armament, we found our frontier dockyard wholly unprovided with the means of speedily refitting a most important part of our Navy, and destitute of those preparations and appliances with which all the French arsenals on the opposite coast are now so amply furnished. It was therefore, in his opinion, the duty of Her Majesty's Government to proceed with these works with the least possible delay; and he had heard with much regret some expressions from the First Lord of the Admiralty which induced him to fear that that right hon. Gentleman was not sufficiently aware of the vital importance of this subject, or the fatal consequences which might arise from disregarding it. The Committee of 1848 was, in his opinion, deeply responsible to the nation for the erroneous opinions expressed in their report on this question—a report made in direct opposition to the whole of the evidence, and drawn up by Gentlemen whose strong preconceived prejudices, and previous sentiments, rendered them very incompetent judges of a great professional subject of this description.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  said, the expenditure had partly been rendered necessary in consequence of the Admiralty now building larger ships than they did before the close of the war, which made it incumbent on them to purchase land from time to time for increasing the size of the dockyards; and partly by the requirements for building and repairing the steam navy, which involved a separate staff of engineers and conveniences not necessary in building and repairing ordinary naval vessels.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  said: The lion. Gentleman who has just spoken (Mr. MacGregor) has certainly given us a most elaborate account of the strength of foreign navies, although if it is as inaccurate as that which he has favoured us with of our own,
 680 681 682 683 684 685 686
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  was of opinion that the naval expenditure of this country in 1792 was upwards of 5,400,000 l.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  confessed he had heard with very great pleasure that the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty had undertaken to grapple with the question of the number of officers in the Navy, and the system of promotion; but he was somewhat disappointed with the result, and could not help thinking that if the right hon. Gentleman would bestow more time and attention on the question, he would be able to produce a great improvement in the plan which he had proposed to the Committee. In reply to one of the remarks made by the gallant Gentleman opposite (Sir G. Pechell), he would say there was no popular delusion more widely spread, and in latter days more unfounded, than that everything at the Admiralty was done by interest. He would not speak of the board with which he himself had been connected; but he was bound to say, having watched the promotions that had taken place in the time of Lord Auckland and under the present First Lord of the Admiralty, that there was no ground whatever for saying that Parliamentary or any influence had been used to put incapable officers over the heads of those whose merits were established. Now, the question of retirement was one which was brought under his (Mr. S. Herbert's) notice when at the Admiralty, and the proposition which he made did not touch the question of admirals who had not served their time, because it appeared to the board that the question having been deliberately settled by the Naval and Military Commission, it was most important, in any change that might be made, to reverse as little as possible what had been done by previous authorities, and that they should only take an onward step by reducing the number of officers on the list, and getting younger men up towards the flag, the necessity of which had been admitted. In the year 1811 the average age of the captains promoted to the flags was thirty-nine. Nelson was appointed at that age, so was Sir George Cockburn, and numerous other instances might be adduced. He had no means of knowing at present the average age of the officers promoted; but the result of the retirement of 1846 had
 649
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  thought it was not fair on the part of the right hon. Baronet to charge those who objected to his plan with wishing to treat on a different principle the case of officers of the higher and the lower ranks.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : But that would not allow them the right of employment in time of peace, and certainly made their position worse than it was at present. He was not one of those who stood out for the rights of individuals against the good of the service; but in this case individuals would be injured, whilst the effect of the alteration would be to increase, rather than diminish, the number of flag officers. There were now in round numbers 110 active and 40 inactive officers on the list. It was proposed to buy up a number of active officers by pensions of 150 l. 650 651 652
 MR. GEACH  wished for some explanation of a sum of 4,000 l.
 MR. GEACH  said, as a new Member, he must express his opinion that the Committee was going on a wrong system, which must lead to inextricable confusion. 697,000 l. l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  agreed with the opinion of the hon. Member for Montrose, and also suggested that the Motion should be withdrawn for the present.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he rose to ask the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland whether the attention of Government had been directed to attempts recently made in Kilkenny to intimidate and hold up to odium certain individuals, for having exercised their right to petition Parliament respecting the Papal aggression; whether any inquiry had been made by direction of Government respecting the riots and outrages committed on the 26th day of May, against the persons who signed petitions to Parliament on that subject; and whether any steps had been taken to bring the offenders to trial? The facts of the case were simply these. On the 24th of March last, nineteen individual members of the Wesleyan congregation in Kilkenny transmitted to him a petition against the Papal aggression, which he subsequently presented to that House. He had the petition then in his hand; and though its language was the same as that in which the Wesleyan petitions generally were couched, still he could declare that there was not a word in it that could reasonably give offence to any one. About the same time, his hon. Colleague presented another petition on the same subject from certain Protestant inhabitants of Kilkenny. The names of the persons who
 634
 MR. MACGREGOR  gave the right hon.
 658 l. 659
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, that he wished to dispel the idea that the hon. and gallant Admiral had given of the naval weakness of England. The speech of the hon. and gallant Admiral, he thought, was as superannuated a one as he had ever heard. He said that we required a fleet in the Channel and in the Mediterranean to defend us against invasion. He (Mr. Macgregor) readily admitted that we ought to be prepared to repel any invasion, and would prove that we were able to do so against the united fleets of Europe. He bad no charge to bring against the Admiralty; but he wished to show to the country that the condition of our naval force was strong, and not weak, as the hon. and gallant Admiral attempted to make it out; nor was it creditable to us to be declaring to the world that we had no efficient defence against invasion. What was the condition of the British Navy? There were 11 ships of the line, of 120 guns, one of 110 guns, 50 of 104 guns, four of 92, two of 90, 11 of 84, nine of 80, seven of 78, 18 of 72, two of 70, being 70 of the line, and 13 on the stocks and nearly finished, which gives a total of 83 sailing ships of the line. Frigates afloat—25 of 50, 10 of 44, 22 of 42, four of 40, one of 38, one of 36; total, 63 frigates afloat. On the stocks we had two double-banked 60 gun frigates, equal to ships of the line, and six of 50, making altogether 71 frigates, 65 of which would be found far more than sufficient to destroy the whole Russian fleet. Besides the foregoing we have 21 corvettes of 24 to 28 guns, eight of 18 to 22, 18 sloops of war from 14 to 18, 59 brigs of 6 to 16, 11 sailing packets, besides surveying ships, troop ships, yachts, and tenders. In all 78,407 tons in commission, and 25,630 tons in ordinary; or, in all, 329,020 tons, exclusive of ships on the stocks and steamships. Now, he believed that Sir William Symonds and others considered that 60 of our largest frigates were sufficiently powerful to plant them against all the ships of the line belonging to Russia. They were, in fact, fully equal to ships of the line of any other Power but
 671 Simoom, Terrible, Termagant, Arrogant, Retribution, Penelope, Simoom, Vulture, Greenock, Birkenhead, Niagara, Trident, Antelope, Jackal, Lizard, Bloodhound, Grappler, Sharpshooter, Harpey, Myrmidon, Sphinx Fairy, 672 673 l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l. s.; l.; l. s.; l. s.; l. s. d.; l. s.; l. s. l. s. d. l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s.; l. s.; l. s. d.; l. s.; l. s.; l. s.; l. s. d.; l.; l. s.; l. s. d. l. s. l. s.; l. s.; l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s.; l. s. d.; l. s.; l. s.; l. s.; l. s.; l.; l.; l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. d.; l. s. d.; l. s. d.; l. s. d. l. s. l.; 674 l.; l. s. d. l. s. l. s.; l. s.; l. s. d. l. cul-de-sac 675 676 f. l.; l. l.; f. l.; 677 l. l. f. l. s.; f. l. s., f. l. s. f. l., l. s. d. l., l., s. d. s. d., s. 678 679
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, that several circumstances connected with our dockyards had come under his own observation. There was one thing in which he thought that more economy was practicable, namely, in re-commissioning ships. A ship came home in an efficient state, her standing rigging being in good order, and she might be capable of work for years to come, but her rigging was taken down, cut to pieces, and thrown aside. He had been told by some common sailors who had seen it done, that "it made their hair stand on end to see such quantities of good rope thrown away." He believed that the Government were now in the habit of re-commissioning ships. He also thought that by hauling the ships upon slips while they were in harbour considerable expense in coppering and in wear and tear might be saved. An enormous sum of money had been wasted in constructing artificial docks at Plymouth, instead of taking advantage of the natural dock existing in Plymouth Sound, which, at a small expense, might have been made the finest dock in the world. He also thought that our smaller ships might be built by contract, and he believed some of them were now so built. There was another thing in which a saving might be effected. No common fisherman would go to sea until he had tanned his sails, and sails so tanned would last considerably longer than if they remained white. He saw no reason, as it would look just as picturesque, why a man-of-war should not have her sails tanned. At present, after a certain number of years' service, the harbour-masters were changed or dismissed, and thus were deprived of their situation just when they had become acquainted with the local peculiarities of the harbour under their charge, and which it would take some years for any other person to learn. He wished to mention another thing with regard to our harbours. A quantity of mud was allowed to collect near them, and some time or other a man-of-war would be striking against one of them. He hoped that this would soon be remedied by the Government.
 MR. HENLEY  objected that the Government might say to that House, whenever it was convenient to carry out this project, that they had had the Estimate before them year by year, and therefore it was impossible to see what objection could be made to it.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the only answer the right hon. Baronet had given was that the Government were not going to build a factory now; but the way the Estimates were framed led to the inference that the Committee pledged itself to the application of this large vote to a particular purpose, and it might be concluded that the Government were going to build it next year or the year after. He saw also that there was a foundation laid down for an establishment, and that workshops and a smithy had been erected.
 MR. HENLEY  could not support the Amendment, although he had voted with the hon. Member for Montrose to reduce the amount of wages in the dockyards. The stores were much less now than they had been in the five years from 1840 to 1845; but the wages were higher now than then, and therefore he was willing to reduce the wages. He thought the dockyards were maintained at too high a cost; still he could not consent to sweep away one-third of the present vote.
 MR. HUME  said, the hon. Member was quite mistaken, 5,000,000 l.
 MR. HUME  wished to know from the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the
 692 l.
 MR. HUME  said, on constructing the dock, the entrance had been made so shallow as to preclude the admission of the vessels; and he wanted to know whether the expense of deepening the dock was in the estimate?
 MR. HUME  wished to draw attention to the fact, that if any of Her Majesty's ships assisted a merchantman in distress in never so small a degree, the owner immediately had a bill sent in for the service rendered. This was a foul disgrace upon the Navy of this country; and he had been at the trouble of ascertaining that both the navies of France and of the United States were expressly ordered to render every assistance to merchantmen, and to make no charge; at some future opportunity he should move for inquiry on the subject.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished also to call the attention of the Committee to the fact, that although some years had elapsed since the Pasha of Egypt made a present to England of one of Cleopatra's Needles, no steps had yet been taken to have that curious gift conveyed to this country. There were two pillars of granite in Egypt called Cleopatra's Needles. Of these, one had been presented by the Pasha to England, and the other to France. A month did not elapse before the pillar was conveyed to France, but the pillar that belonged to England still remained in Egypt. During the Premiership of Sir Robert Peel, Captain Donnelly offered to convey it to London for 7,000 l., 697
 MR. HUME  quite agreed in the suggestion of his hon. Friend. The vote was one which would elicit considerable discussion, and could not be disposed of at that hour in the morning. He saw no reason why letters should not be sent to the colonies at a penny each as well as to the Channel Islands. In his opinion everything ought to be done to increase the means of communication between our colonial dependencies and the mother country.
 MR. HUME  said, that we had 155 sailing vessels and 12 steamers in 1835, and that we had, in 1848, 160 sailing vessels, and 96 steamers. Therefore there had been all that addition of steamers without any reduction of sailing vessels. The question for the Committee now to consider was, whether there were not more stores than were wanted or required for the exigencies of the country. He was glad to find the Navy in an improved condition. He recollected the time when the men were ill-used and ill-fed, but now that they were better provisioned and better paid, why should not the naval business of the Government be executed for less money than heretofore? The hon. and gallant Admiral (Admiral Bowles) had said that we ought not to rest satisfied with old ships; but since 1828 we had built 264 ships of war, and could these be called old? He (Mr. Hume) protested against waste, while at the same time he was for sustaining the superiority of the Navy. We had 250 vessels now in commission, and, instead of 26,000 men, we had at present 39,000 men. It was for the Committee to declare by their vote whether they would sanction the waste going on in the dockyards.
 MR. HUME  said, the hon. and gallant Admiral had made a gross mistake. The whole of the estimates for 1792—naval, military, and civil—amounted only to the sum he (Admiral Bowles) had stated. The whole taxation of the country at that period was only 16,000,000 l., l. l.
 MR. HUME  said, that he should propose to the Committee a reduction of one-third of the amount required. Upon a former vote being brought forward he had submitted to the Committee the propriety of reducing, if possible, the amount of the Naval Estimates, as he thought a great reduction might be effected in that department. He was sorry to say that very little had, however, been effected, but he thought this was a good opportunity to make a reduction, without at all interfering with the efficiency of the Navy. The Committee to which allusion had before been made, had called attention to the large amount of the Estimates for Stores. They said that the gross estimate for 1840–1 was under 1,000,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 667 l., l.,
 MR. HUME  said, admitting that the Government were taking a right course in grappling with what had long been felt as
 660 661 662
 MR. HUME  thought each officer should be allowed to take his chance of promotion, one in three, like the captains now, instead of placing a certain number on the list compulsory.
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HUME  complained that the recommendation of the Select Committee had not been attended to before then, and that the plan of reduction proposed by them had been so long delayed. If the regulations of the Admiralty itself had been carried out—those made by Lord Melville in 1820, those made in 1826, and those made in 1830, a great deal of the injustice that had been done would be obviated. The recommendations of the Select Com-
 642 "That in 1792, at the commencement of the war with France, the number of admirals was only sixty-nine; after thirty-three years' peace the present number of admirals is 150, exclusive of the retired admirals, and of these, seventy-five of the effective list are above seventy years of age. A certain proportion of the list of admirals must be composed of officers who have grown old in the service, who deserve well of their country, and who are entitled to higher rank and to higher pay on account of their merits, although they are no longer able to serve afloat; but when it is considered that in the last naval war with France (the greatest on record), not more than thirty-six admirals were employed at any one time, and that at the present moment the services of only fourteen are required, it would not seem unreasonable that the number of admirals now fixed, according to the scheme sanctioned in 1846, at 150, should be gradually reduced to a number not exceeding 100. Your Committee recommended that this gradual reduction should be effected by promoting only one captain to the rank of admiral on the death of three flag officers, according to the rule of promotion adopted in 1830, until the lists shall have been reduced to the maximum of 100; and thenceforth a captain may be promoted to fill each vacancy as it occurs on the lists."
 MR. HUME  had seconded his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. C. Anstey) with a view to obtaining some explanatory statement in reference to this matter from the Government; he also had seen private letters complaining of the injustice of the proceedings of the Governor. But he thought that in the absence of the official documents the House would not be in a position to come to a vote upon the conduct of Sir William Denison; and he would therefore now recommend his hon. and learned Friend to withdraw this Motion, and move for the production of the necessary papers. The question was of importance, and ought to be sifted.
 MR. COBDEN  thought it was understood when the Committee was appointed, that reduction, not increase, of expenditure, in the Navy was contemplated. The Report of that Committee, which he held in his hand, referred to the subject of the reduction of the number of admirals and commanders, and to the policy of promoting only one captain to the rank of admiral on three vacancies in the list of admirals. He had heard no good or sufficient reason why that suggestion was not acted upon.
 664 l. 665
 MR. COBDEN : Mr. Ward distinctly stated that if a factory is not included, the whole sum will be wasted.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that if there was one subject more than another of an important character it was the consumption and expenditure in our dockyards. There was a general impression that we were building ships only to rot, that our fleet already in existence was sufficient, and that we might go on with it without any danger or insecurity to the country. If they could not do that, they could not make any sensible reduction in their expenditure. Let them not go whining about the country and talking about the excessive burdens of taxation; let them, if that was their intention, bear it like men, and tell the country at once that there was to be no reduction. Now, there was one subject, in relation to the great expenditure for stores, not touched upon hitherto. Had hon. Members seen the great quantity of stores we had sold during the last few months? We had sold nearly 1,500,000 l.; l. l. 689 materiel 690
 MR. COBDEN  said, they were of opin-
 693 "Up to the 15th of April, 1848, about 400,000 l. l.
 MR. COBDEN  said, a large steam basin had recently being constructed at Portsmouth, and it appeared desirable that some further experience should be gained as to the necessity of steam basins before another 1,250,000 l. l.; l., l. l., l., l. l. l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  would withdraw the Motion, and on another day would move for the papers required, and which Sir William Denison ought to have already forwarded.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  rose to call the attention of the House to the conduct of Sir William Denison, Lieutenant-Governor of Van Diemen's Land, in
 635 636 637 638
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  was sorry that discredit had been cast upon the evidence he adduced. It came from most respectable quarters.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  considered the scheme of the right hon. Baronet a practical one; but complained that the Government had thrown almost all the recommendations of the Committee on Official Salaries over. The charge of 6,500 l., 646
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  quite agreed with his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) that no portion of our naval expenses required so much reduction as our Naval Stores. The amount expended on our dockyards, and the wages paid to the workmen, amounted, since 1816, to the enormous sum of 56,200,000 l. l., l.; l., l. 668
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he should like to know what had become of the 9,500,000 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  objected to proceeding with so important a vote at one o'clock in the morning. The Committee had sat considerably beyond their usual time, and it was only fair now to report progress,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would divide the Committee as long as he could get a single Member to go into the lobby with him, rather than proceed at that hour. He moved that the Chairman report progress.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, there had been a general admission on both sides of the House that the plan of the Admiralty was desirable; the opinion was equally general against that part of it which referred to compulsory retirement, and in favour of its modification. All the Committees which had sat had concurred in thinking that the
 663 l.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS : He was in command for about three years, and afterward was captain in the fleet under Sir George Cockburn.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS : That is not the question. The grievance is that you publish to the world, by placing him on the yellow list, that you will never employ him.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that those officers who had not been employed for thirty-four years could not expect to be now employed; but that was not the situation of Sir George Westphal, for his services did not date thirty-five years ago. If, however, the right hon. Baronet had not concluded his speech, perhaps he (Sir De L. Evans) had better defer any remarks he might have to make.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that several naval officers had complained to him of parts of the proposed plan. The object of the Admiralty was eventual economy, and to promote, as far as possible, present as well as eventual efficiency. But he was informed that this scheme was coupled with a provision which was not necessary, either in regard to economy or efficiency. The effect would be, that officers who had distinguished themselves would suffer from the new arrangement. If the admirals were generally employed as were men of similar rank in the Army, there would be no ground for complaint. It occasionally happened that admirals of seventy were appointed to fleets, and it could not be presumed, therefore, that they were inefficient. In the Army officers of seventy were frequently in command; and only the other day an officer above seventy years was appointed to the command of 50,000 or 60,000 men. The physical duties of a general officer were much more severe than those of an admiral, who, in time of peace, was never appealed to for any extraordinary exertion. The right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Baring) had deprecated any allusion to individual cases as invidious; but he (Sir De L. Evans) saw nothing invidious in referring to the grievances of officers who had rendered distinguished services to their country; and there was this advantage in doing so, that the Committee would be better able to understand the manner in which the proposed plan would operate with unnecessary severity on individuals by quoting individual cases than by any other means. He would first refer to the case of Sir George West-phal, an officer with whom Sir G. Pechell had had the honour of serving, who commenced his career under Lord Nelson, and served as first lieutenant in six line-of-battle ships between the years 1809 and 1813, and had served also under Sir George Cockburn. There were only four officers in the Navy List who had been so especially reported for services. Now, an officer who had been first lieutenant under so able a commander as Sir George Cockburn, and who afterwards was selected as Captain of the Fleet, was scarcely one who could be said to be unqualified, or who, if his health was good, should be discarded and rendered incapable
 647
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in explanation, begged to say that he had cast no discredit upon the information obtained by the hon. and learned Gentleman. All he said was that the Government could not act upon such information.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was quite unable to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman through the statement which he had addressed to the House, because the Government was utterly without official or tangible information upon the points to which attention was now called. In fact, all the information of which the Government was possessed was contained in the despatch from Sir William Denison, dated 14th of January, 1851, and which had been some weeks on the table of the House. The case really lay in a very small compass. The proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. C. Anstey) was that they should pass a vote of censure upon Sir William Denison, for having acted, in the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, improperly, in withdrawing the tickets of leave which had been granted to Messrs. M'Manus, O'Doherty, and O'Donohue. Now, he (Sir G. Grey) must remind the House that
 639 640
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  thought the proposal likely to effect much good; but, on a full consideration of the subject, he did not believe that it could be carried out for any thing like the sum proposed. He believed, too, it was framed without a due regard for the interests of the commanders and subordinate officers, who were the bone and sinew of the service. There was no class of officers who deserved better of their country than the commanders, many of whom had distinguished themselves during the war. The plan of the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty, instead of costing only 6,500 l., l. 648
 SIR G. PECHELL  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Sir F. Baring) had challenged him to produce a plan of his own. He would, therefore, refer the right hon. Gentleman to the plan which he had already proposed in the year 1847 for dealing with the old commanders and lieutenants. That was that the large amount annually received as freight money for the conveyance of treasure should be applied to the payment of old commanders and lieutenants, from the year 1819 to 1851. 1,440,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  was quite willing to admit the efficiency of the British Navy, but he must complain of the vexatious waste and mismanagement with which it was conducted. He believed that we wore most thoroughly prepared for any conflict with the navy of France. The pamphlet of the Prince de Joinville had demonstrated the weakness of the French fleet as compared with ours. Their three-decked ships had half their guns paralysed occasionally, and nothing could be worse than their sailing properties. In 1838 and 1839 it had been said in that House that there was nothing to prevent the Russians from coming over to England and burning our ships at the outports, and our Pavilion at Brighton. It was even said at that time that the Cossacks were actually coming. Why had not the hon. and gallant Admiral (Admiral Bowles) then dispelled such strange notions—notions entertained by the party to which he belonged? The impression of the country was, that much economy might be practised in the dockyards. He proposed that we should get rid of all the vessels ranging from thirty-eight guns down to twenty-four, by bringing them to book and selling them; for they would never be of any service in a serious encounter. He also thought that some economy might be practised with regard to the masts of vessels. It was said that sixteen masts out of twenty at Chatham and Sheerness had been found to be inefficient. The pay, food, and clothing of our sailors were admirable, and they
 687
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  doubted much whether the plan proposed by the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty would have the effect which it was intended, and which the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) desired it should have. It had been said that when captains arrived at the top of their list they were too old, and therefore unfit for active service. This had been ascribed to the great promotions which had taken place in 1815 and subsequently, which had clogged the list. The proposition which was now made was, that all those unfit for employ-
 653
 SIR LUCIUS O'BRIEN  said, that in consideration of the position in which his near relative, Mr. Smith O'Brien, stood towards the gentlemen whose case had been brought before the House, he (Sir L. O'Brien) did not feel himself competent to offer any opinion on this occasion. And if the hon. and learned Gentleman persevered and went to a division, he should feel it his duty to abstain from voting. He took this opportunity, however, of calling attention to a matter connected with the subject of discussion, and which he thought was calculated to throw a little light on the character of Sir William Denison. He had spoken to the official gentlemen connected with the Colonial Department on the point; but they had not attended to his recommendation; and he thought it desirable to mention it in the House. The House would remember that his brother had been confined some time in Maria Island, under the superintendence of Captain Lathom. The House would also remember the attempt which his brother had made to escape. What he (Sir L. O'Brien) now called attention to was, the treatment which Captain Lathom had received after that attempt had
 641 ex parte
 MR. PETO  said, he was anxious to
 696
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  thought the right hon. Baronet deserved great praise for dealing with the commanders and the lieutenants in the same manner. But why, when he was making a new rule for one class, did he not make a new rule for another class? Why did he not say, if a captain had not served for thirty years afloat, that that should debar him from hoisting his flag? But why should the existing old Order in Council continue in force, which might deprive one class of officers of the advantages which all other classes received? He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would reconsider that part of his plan.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : Then why is it put in the estimate?
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, that the Government had received police reports, giving an account of the outrages to which the hon. Member had referred. It appeared that on the 26th of May the windows of several inhabitants of the town who had signed the petition were broken by a mob which, according to one account, consisted of as many as 400 persons; and, according to another, was composed chiefly of little boys and girls. The attack appeared to have been preconcerted, and was made simultaneously, and therefore it had been found difficult to identify the persons engaged in it. The police, however, succeeded in arresting one man who acted as ringleader, and he had been held to hail to answer for the offence at the next sessions. Other persons, who it was subsequently ascertained bad been concerned in the riot, had also been summoned to appear. A meeting of the inhabitants and the corporation had been held to put an end to proceedings so disgraceful, and every precaution had been taken to preserve the peace. No account had as yet reached the Government of the proceedings of the magistrates at petty sessions; but when any was received, he would communicate it to the House.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE , in reply, said, that the attention of the Poor Law Commissioners had been called to the resolution alluded to by the hon. Baronet, and that a correspondence had taken place on the subject, which would be laid on the table when he received it, if the hon. Baronet wished to move for its production. The Commissioners had always opposed themselves to the conversion of workhouses into manufactories; but the rule could not he carried to such an extent as to put an end altogether to industrial employment in workhouses. If the Commissioners did so, they would be acting contrary to the 14th Article of the general workhouse regulations. The Commissioners did not permit any dealing with master manufacturers; and he begged to refer the hon. Baronet to the opinions of the Commissioners, in the 20th and 23rd paragraph of the Third Annual Report, where this subject was specially alluded to.
 MR. ELLICE  bogged leave, as one of the unlearned of the community, to thank, his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) for at last commencing in earnest this great work of Chancery reform. He had heard with the greatest satisfaction not only the proposition of the noble Lord, but also the announcement of the hon. and learned Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Bethell), that there was to be introduced simultaneously with this a Bill to reform that greatest of all Chancery abuses, the state of the Masters' Offices. He had been some time a patient in those offices. He had listened with great pleasure to the advice of his physicians, but he had not yet heard from them how they were to deliver him from that slough of despair from which no suitor involved in any considerable cause in Chancery could ever hope to be delivered during his natural life. In the Committee on Official Salaries last yean he asked a witness of the greatest character and authority, Mr. Pemberton Leigh, whether he had not frequently known cases which had been in the Masters' Offices ten, twenty, or thirty years, until the parties had all died, and whether then they had not been further delayed until the new parties who had succeeded to the former interests had also in their turn departed, and whether he did not think that those cases which had been so many years in the Masters' Offices might not by a simple reform of the machinery of those offices have been disposed of in as many weeks; and the answer he received from Mr. Pemberton Leigh was that he had no hesitation in saying that matters might be disposed of in the shorter period he had mentioned. He could not understand why in the Masters' Offices they should not adopt the practice followed in other courts of this country with respect to a most important part of their business.—namely, simply take accounts as between individuals. In the Admiralty Courts, probably the most complicated accounts had been taken in matters of prize during the war. In that court the Judge referred the accounts to a merchant on each side, and the Master of the Court sat  de die in diem 719
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the hon. Member for Oxfordshire appeared not to have exactly understood the nature of the Bill originally introduced by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, as compared with the present measure. This Bill was not in principle different from that which the noble Lord introduced at an earlier period of the Session. The former attempted to remedy the evil felt from the
 721 722 723
 MR. ELLICE  said, in explanation, that he hoped nothing which had fallen from him, in reference to the Masters' offices, would be considered as attaching blame to the Masters themselves for not getting through their business, for he believed that that business was so heavy as to render it an impossibility for them, or for any body of men, satisfactorily to discharge. With reference to the Bill which had come from the other House, he did not think that it would afford any remedy.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  could not agree with the right hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Ellice) as to the utter inutility of the measure to which the hon. and learned Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Bethell had referred regarding the Masters' offices, because the practical effect of that
 724
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the clauses of the Bill referred to had been materially altered, and he hoped that, as they now stood, they would meet the approbation of the hon. Member (Mr. Mullings).
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  had been misunderstood by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) if he supposed that he conceived the machinery of the Masters' offices to be perfect. All he had meant to say was that the present judicial staff of these offices would be sufficient, provided they were relieved from the country business.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  was unwilling to aggravate the difficulties and embarrass the authority of Government with respect to the calamitous circumstances of the Cape of Good Hope. He agreed with his noble Friend the First Lord of the Treasury that when war was raging, and when the energies of every person were required to bring it to a conclusion, it was not the time to discuss the question as to whether they would give the colony representative institutions or not. But there was one thing which might fairly be urged in his own defence by the hon. Member (Mr. Adderley) who bad brought forward the subject on this occasion, and it was this—that hon. Members had no other opportunity of discussing it; that it was only when sums of money were voted for ex-
 761 762
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, after what his right hon. Friend (Mr. V. Smith) had stated, he must be allowed to explain the conduct which had been pursued. He thought his right hon. Friend was somewhat inconsistent in his views. He had certainly stated that the question immediately before the Committee—the only question put into the Chairman's hands—was the vote of money. But so far from his having attempted to conceal from the Committee the larger question, as his right hon. Friend had stated, he (Lord John Russell) brought forward a Motion for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the subject, stating at the same time the whole history, so far as he understood it, of the frontier disputes, and proposing that they should be referred to the Select Committee. His right hon. Friend objected to that course; and now, according to him, the only course which the Government were taking was to obtain the money. He could not undertand, after the appointment of a Select Committee, what other question could be before them than the question of money; because his right hon. Friend knew very well that it was not usual for a Government to come down to that House and move a Resolution that their policy should be such and
 763
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  must say he thought the hon. Gentleman, though no doubt fully persuaded of the views he expressed, was very much mistaken with respect to the causes of our present difficulties at the Cape, and as to that which he believed to be their immediate remedy. The whole statement of the hon. Gentleman resolved itself into this—that this country was making war on the native tribes, and that the wars in which they had engaged had been entirely wanton and unnecessary, and he thought, if the colonists had representative institutions, and were told they would have to vote taxes for the war, they would decline to hear any such burden, and that the war would cease from the want of aliment. Now, all that theory of the hon. Gentleman's was based on the supposition that Her Majesty's subjects at the Cape of Good Hope made war on those savage tribes merely for the purpose of making war, and with no other purpose than the destruction of the people, without any aggression having been made upon themselves. But any man who had looked to the history of the Cape colony before and since it had been in their possession, must see the real state of things had been totally different, and that the Dutch and English settlers, having extended their settlements beyond the immediate frontier of Cape Town, had maintained their positions, and that the Kaffirs and other tribes had from time to time rushed down to destroy their dwellings, and to carry off their cattle. Thus in 1845 the account they had received was, that 10,000 Kaffirs had entered within the frontier, had destroyed the farmhouses of the inhabitants, and had carried of all the cattle belonging to the farms. To defend themselves against such attacks and incursions, was surely no wanton act on the part of the colonists. He (Lord J. Russell) thought it was an extravagant proposition to say to the colonists so circumstanced, that they were to defray the expense of protecting their property and their lives, and that if they did not defend their settlement, they would be exposed to the chance of murder
 751 752 753 754
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  had said nothing of the sort. He had claimed for the Government the right to a discretion as to the period when a free constitution could be most expediently given to the colony, but certainly he had not said that he saw any necessity for waiting until the conclusion of the war before the constitution was given. The time at which it could be given was quite a question of circumstances.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  explained, that the chief object of the present Bill was to diminish the amount paid out of the Consolidated Fund. He concurred with the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) in thinking that it was desirable to reduce, to as low a point as possible, the taxes upon law proceedings; and he had much satisfaction in informing the hon. Gentleman that the present Lord Chancellor had already reduced the fees of the Court of Chancery by no less a sum than 22,000 l
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he was sorry that he could not comply with the request of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume); but after hearing the statement of his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland, he could not promise any further inquiry into the subject.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he must request the hon. Gentleman to take the regular course by allowing the House to go into a Committee of Supply, and he had no doubt that the Committee would then allow him to make his statement.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  was exceedingly gratified with the reception which the measure he had announced had met with from hon. and learned Members on both sides of the House. With reference to other reforms of the Court of Chancery, it was by no means a logical conclusion, that because this particular measure went to remedy one particular set of evils, there were not other reforms which it was desirable to effect, and which should be effected in the Court of Chancery. He had had frequent communications with the late Lord Cottenham on the subject of the; Masters' offices; and some of the rules issued by that noble and learned Lord bad had special reference to a reform of the system in those offices. The subject, however, was one involving considerable difficulty, and requiring the most careful consideration. The Bill which had been introduced from the other House of Parliament would, if carried, be attended with considerable benefit. He was, however, disposed to think that much further amendment was requisite.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to regulate the salaries of the Chief Justices of the Court of Queen's Bench, and the Chief Justices of the Court of Common Pleas.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I rise, Sir, for leave to bring in two Bills of which I have given notice, namely, a Bill to improve the Administration of Justice in the Court of Chancery and the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, and a Bill to regulate the Salaries of the Chief Justice of the Court of Queen's Bench and the Chief Justice of the Court of Common Pleas. Sir, with respect to the second measure, it is merely the reintroduction of a Bill brought forward last year for the purpose of enacting that the salary of the Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench shall be by law what it has for some time past been by custom, namely, 8,000 l l l 704 705 706 707 708 709 l l l l l l l l l l 710 l 711
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  rose to move, pursuant to notice, that after the 1st of July the Orders of the Day should have precedence over notices of Motion. He made this Motion as, at this period of the Session, it was desirable to proceed with the business before them as fast as possible, especially that the House of Lords might have time to consider the Bills which they sent up.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, his right hon. Friend the Homo Secretary meant to bring in a Bill upon the subject, but there would be an inconvenience in stating its provisions before it was introduced. With respect to the complaint of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), he did not think it was well founded, because the whole of Wednesday was given to individual Members to bring on their Bills. The House would recollect that the Government were now called upon more than at any former time to introduce measures of legislation; and, besides, it was their duty to bring on questions relating to supplies, both military, naval, and miscellaneous, which now occupied much longer time than they formerly did. Besides, in the early period of the Session, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays were at the disposal of individual Members; and it was necessary to bring on the Estimates for the year at an early period, because Motions were made on going into Committees of Supply, which consumed a considerable portion of their time. At the most, Government had only eight days in a month at the beginning of a Session; and when hon. Gentlemen said, as they sometimes did, that the House had sat two months, and Government had not brought forward their Bills, the fact was, that of these two months, Government had only had sixteen days, and several of these were taken up with other measures in which the country felt an interest. So that the time of the Session was not so much taken up by the Government as it was supposed to be. But at that period of the Session, it was
 702
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the Government always made it a rule to give way to private Members on Wednesday.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that although he was obliged to deny that he had said that the Cape could not have a constitution till the war was over, still there was no particular period when he felt bound to grant a decision upon it. He wished the Government to have the free liberty of coming to such a decision upon this important subject as the public interest might require.
 LORD NAAS  agreed with the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. F. French), that the Irish Bills were very important; but as it appeared that these were to be taken at morning sittings, and as there was very little other Government business, he must oppose the Motion now before them.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that arrangement had been originally agreed to at a time when the Minister of the day introduced a variety of measures of the very greatest importance, and as the Members were anxious that these measures should be discussed, the sacrifice, which was a great one, was cheerfully made on the part of hon. Members; but he was not aware that there had been such a prodigal number of important Bills introduced during the current Session on the part of the Government, as to justify this demand. It was not his intention to divide the House on the Motion, but he thought it a dangerous precedent that they should agree to it as a matter of course, and therefore he had thought it his duty to point out that the noble Lord's proposition was made under very different circumstances from those under which it was originally made by a preceding Government. He did not think there were so many or such important measures before the House as to authorise the present appeal.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I beg leave to
 698 699 l l l
 MR. HAWES  said, he was glad, though not surprised, to hear his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) declare in the latter part of his
 758 759 760 quasi
 MR. HAWES  had not said any such tiling; he had merely said that while Sir Harry Smith was actually engaged in war on the frontier, and while the authorities at Cape Town were anxiously watching the progress of that war, there was no opportunity for the calm deliberation which so important a subject demanded.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, under these circumstances he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman seemed to recommend to the Committee the Vote which he had just moved, upon two grounds: first, that it was a small vote; and, next, that it was for a war of a more satisfactory character than might have been anticipated under a different course of policy. He (Mr. Adderley) thought, however, that the present vote was a mere exponent of the future expenses of wars which, under present cir-
 741 l l 742 l l l 743 744 745 "I cannot myself personally agree in the opinion of your legal officers, and I think if I were to ask the legal officers of the Crown here their opinion on the subject, they would give a different opinion. However, it is too late to make it worth while to dispute this point, and therefore I have advised Her Majesty to send out fresh instructions, by which you will be enabled to carry on the ordinary powers of the Government with the remnant of the Council." 746 747 l "In giving your Lordship this advice, I am following the same principle which guided me in inducing Her Majesty to proclaim British sovereignty between the Orange and Veal rivers." "At the same time I would advise you to enter into friendly relations with those chiefs; advise those chiefs to combine against the Boers under a general authority; tell them the British Government will help them. If they choose, the Governor of the Cape will send them an officer to reside amongst them, and aid them by his advice and direction. His first stop is to induce
 748 749 750
 MR. ADDERLEY  thought that the debate was of so much consequence that it should be adjourned, and he should therefore move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, it appeared that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) did not propose to grant a constitution to the Cape till the war was over.
 MR. ADDERLEY  stated, that he found he could not, in accordance with the forms of the House, bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, on the subject of the expenditure upon the Kaffir War; but he proposed, with the consent of the House, to make a brief statement upon the subject either then or in Committee of Supply.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  moved the Second Reading of this Bill; he said, that a feeling in favour of the measure prevailed out of doors, and he was credibly informed that Members of Her Majesty's Government had declared that they would be rejoiced if the Bill were passed. For his own part he could in all sincerity declare that he had no object in view but the public welfare, He was a soldier, and was accustomed to military music, and would sleep soundly and with a good conscience as times went, even though a band of military music and one hundred barrel organs were playing under his window. But human lives had been lost by barrel organs, and great inconvenience was caused by those yet
 769 pro formâ
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he must charge the Government with inconsistency in not bringing forward some Bill to meet the evil, the existence of which they had admitted in the year 1846. [An Hon. MEMBER: Divide, divide!] Ah! Sir, you are a van-man, I suppose. I beg to assure Her Majesty's Government that there is a very strong feeling out of doors on this subject, and that upon the head of the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department must fall the responsibility of refusing to legislate upon it. The right hon. Secretary for the Homo Department does not appear to care one farthing whether I pass the Bill or not. Sir, I am satisfied that I have discharged my duty, and although I may have failed in succesfully carrying the measure on which I have set my heart, I tell the right hon. Gentleman that he shall not escape the castigation which he deserves for the dereliction of a duty which he owes to the public, a dereliction which I believe to be induced by political cowardice unworthy of a statesman.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  declined to divide the House; he considered that as he had done his duty, he should throw the responsibility upon the Government.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he rather anticipated, from what had just fallen from the hon. Gentleman, that it was probable the discussion which might follow the proposal he had now to make, would turn upon other matter than the expense of the war; but he should endeavour to confine his observations to the financial part of the question. He need hardly detain the Committee with details as to the present state of the colony at the Cape of Good Hope, as they were no doubt sufficiently aware that a war was at present raging there with the Kaffir tribes, and that a considerable expense must be incurred for the purpose of putting an end to these hostilities; and he need, hardly remind the Committee of the character of the hostilities which, in former times, as well as the present, had generally prevailed between a civilised people and their less civilised neighbours; nor that, unless there was an interference on the part of the Government, the hostilities between the border settlers and their neighbours were of a very sanguinary description. Such were the hostilities formerly carried on with the Indians in our North American colonics, and such he was afraid were the hostilities between the Dutch Boors and Kaffir tribes at the Cape of Good Hope. The more enlightened spirit of modern times had, however, put an end as far as possible to that description of warfare. The necessary consequence was, that the warfare which was carried on was of a much more expensive character; and he thought it worth the while of a civilised nation to carry it on that way rather than in the barbarous mode which had hitherto characterised that description of hostilities. In the late Kaffir war a very serious expense was incurred, mainly arising from the officers in the colony being then very much unprepared for hostilities; and from its being necessary to provide the means of supplying the troops in great haste, without a proper staff being on the spot. It was also necessary to convey the supplies to the troops from a very great distance, as at that time the supplies were landed at Port Elizabeth, and then forwarded by Graham Town to the seat of war, through a tract of country exposed to the hostilities of the Kaffir tribes. Fortunately, the expense on the present occa-
 739 l.; l.; 740 l.; l.; l l l
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he understood the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) to propose some reduction of the salaries of two of the present Judges of the Court of Chancery. Now, he had always thought that with respect to the reduction of expenditure there was none of so questionable a nature as that which regarded the salaries of hardworking public servants; but more especially did be consider the reduction of the salaries of our Judges as the most questionable of all departments in which that principle could be applied.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  justified the Motion on the ground that there were so many Irish Bills standing over. Among others he might mention the Medical Charities Bill, and the Land Valuation Bill, both of which were of great importance.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  did not agree with the recommendation of the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. The hon. Baronet (Sir L. O'Brien) had no business to bring forward the Motion on a night such as this, and to delay the House from going into Committee of Supply, if it was not a matter of sufficient importance to require a decision. But it was, in truth, a matter of the most vital importance to the people of Ireland. If the Board of Guardians had not conducted themselves properly, he did not seek to spare them any portion of the obloquy which ought to fall upon them; but,
 735 l 736
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the Motion might be objected to on the ground that it involved a censure upon the Poor Law Commissioners; but he thought, as
 733 734
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  thought the Poor Law Commissioners were wrong in dismissing the Board of Guardians, and that his hon. Friend (Sir L. O'Brien) was fully justified in bringing this question before the House. If there was one thing more than another in which that House ought to exercise jealous vigilance, it was when the Commissioners had recourse to a measure which was condemned by both sides of that House with reference both to outdoor relief and the dismissal of the Guardians. When the Board of Guardians were blamed so much for postponing their obedience to the mandate of the Commissioners, it was not immaterial that the House should know the expenditure which had taken place. The outlay for the year had been no less than 22,886 l l
 MR. H. HERBERT  wished to know whether Government meant to reintroduce this Session a Bill which was withdrawn last year, relating to the Incumbered Estates, and called Securities Advance Bill.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the sentiments of his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) had been so much misrepresented, that he wished to say a few words on the present occasion, for he was unwilling that the account of the views of Her Majesty's Government should go forth to the colony as represented by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bright). He believed it was contrary to the fact that Her Majesty's Government had shown any disposition not to give as speedily as possible constitutional government to the Capo of Good Hope. He (Mr. Labouchere) had the honour of labouring in the Committee of Privy Council to frame such institutions as would he suitable for that colony; and the desire of the Government had been to frame them in the most liberal manner. He rejoiced to hear it admitted by almost all the hon. Gentlemen who had spoken on the subject, that the recommendations of that Committee were well adapted to the wants of the inhabitants of that colony. He regretted that circumstances had unfortunately occurred which had as yet prevented the establishment of those institutions, for he thought they would not only be advantageous in carrying on the internal affairs of the colony, but in enabling the colonists to defend their frontier. All that his noble Friend had stated was, that the establishment of these institutions had not been delayed by any fault of the Government, but, unfortunately, in consequence of a misconception of duty on the part of some Members of the Legislative Council at the Cape. His noble Friend had stated that he did not think it would be a proper time to establish these institutions when the Governor was at the frontier, and a war was raging in the colony. The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) said that it would be easy to send out some person to represent the Governor at Capo Town, who might introduce these institutions. He said that it was a mere matter of etiquette which prevented the Government from doing so. He (Mr. Labouchere) must say that it was a serious thing to interfere with the Governor of a British colony, at a time when a fierce war was raging on its frontier. The functions of the Commissioners sent out were strictly
 767
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that from all he had collected during the debate, it appeared they were all dissatisfied. They were all agreed upon that; but they all seemed to disagree as to what should be done. Now he thought the proposition of the hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley) was the most reasonable one that had yet been submitted, for it had reference to one great difficulty with which the Government had to contend in dealing with the question, viz., the present unfortunate temper of the inhabitants of the colony, who appeared to have almost no sympathy with the Governor in his efforts to bring the war to a successful conclusion. So long as the war was not brought
 764 765 766
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he viewed this question with quite as strong feeling as the hon. Member (Mr. Adderley); but he thought the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) was not disposed to carry out his intentions so far as he had explained in his opening speech. He might find, probably, by the time the
 768
 MR. J. EVANS  was of opinion that the evils and mischiefs of the Court of Chancery were not to be attributed to mal-practices in the Masters' offices in particular, but must be regarded as the results of a thoroughly bad and corrupt system, and which, unless they were reformed by the present Bill, the measure would be of little or no service. He would take occasion to express his opinion of the Bill when it had reached a more advanced stage, and would for the present content himself with observing, that the fact of the measure having obtained the full concurrence of all the most eminent practitioners of the Chancery Bar was not, perhaps, the best recommendation that could be required for it.
 MR. STUART  begged to say, that he had been misunderstood by the hon. and learned Solicitor General. He (Mr. Stuart) had not in the observations he had made confined himself to the Winding-up Act, but had alluded to those Acts passed within the last twelve years in reference to joint-stock companies, and in particular to the disputes between railway shareholders and directors generally, which had occupied so much time in the Masters' offices.
 MR. J. STUART  thought that the House would perceive an illustration of the remark of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, in reference to the dangers of ill-digested and ill-considered legislation, in the proceedings of that day. When they remembered that the noble Lord in the early part of the Session introduced a measure, and stated opinions, on this question essentially differing from the measure now introduced, and the opinions now expressed, they would see a new warning of the importance of not dealing with such a question without due consideration. And, as they had now arrived at a period of the Session when the indispensable business of the county was pressing heavily upon them, and when the Government were driven to the necessity of asking the House to grant them the Thursday, he thought it a matter of serious doubt whether a question of this importance should be introduced at such a time, or, being introduced, whether there was the slightest hope of seeing it passed before the termination of this Session. There were special reasons why he doubted the propriety of the course taken by the noble Lord. The Court of Chancery was at the present moment, and had been for the last twelve months, in a peculiar and extraordinary condition. The noble Lord had spoken of the immense pressure of business in Chancery. This was admitted on all hands; but the inquiry ought to be made how far that pressure had been artificially created by the accidental circumstances which had placed the court in its new and strange situation. The Court of Chancery consisted of the Lord Chancellor, the Master of the Rolls, and three Vice-Chancellors;
 712 713 714
 MR. J. STUART : The word "delay" never crossed my lips. I merely asked for further consideration.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, the Medical Charities Bill had been thrown out of the House of Lords last Session in consequence of the lateness of the Session when it came before them. He suggested that it should be taken up at a morning sitting.
 MR. BROTHERTON  thought they had already wasted too much time this Session, and that they ought now to proceed with the real business of the country.
 MR. HENLEY  had no objection to the Motion in itself, but he should not like to hear from a Member of the Government that two Wednesdays—the 25th of June and the 9th of July—were to be occupied with Government business. Now he thought it was not fair for the Government to have Wednesdays and Thursdays both.
 MR. HENLEY  had no doubt of there
 720
 MR. HUME  said, that in the present thin state of the House it was very difficult to know what was best to be done. There seemed to have been a great exercise of power, and there appeared to have been also various allegations extremely injurious to the character of the guardians. He was very much dis-
 737
 MR. HUME  said, the right hon. Gentleman had mistaken the object of himself and his friends upon the present occasion. They wanted to strengthen the hands of the Government, by creating unanimity in the colonies. He thought the voting of this money should be postponed for a week, in order that Government might have an opportunity of reconsidering the matter.
 MR. HUME  said, there was one sentiment in the speech of the noble Lord, and only one, of which he approved, and that was, the noble Lord's intimation that the Government were determined to extend a representative responsible government to the colony of the Cape. He had, however, seldom heard a speech which more misrepresented the case under consideration than that of the noble Lord. The present war had no connexion whatever with former wars. The noble Lord (Lord John Russell) seemed to forget that in 1828 petitions were forwarded from the Capo of Good Hope to this country to the effect that they needed a responsible government, and that, if they had such a government, they would undertake the whole expenses of the colony, and thus relieve the mother country. Since that time the colonists had repeated that statement several times; but they said at the same time that they would not defray the expenses of wars of injustice. They were willing to manage such wars of their own as might be forced on them by the conduct of the natives; but they refused to defray the cost of a war of injustice and aggression waged against the aborigines. It was true, as stated by the noble Lord, that he encouraged emigration to the Cape; but then he always said that the people should get representative institutions, and that they should not be left under the despotic sway of one man. It was the want of such institutions that had caused the ruin of the colony and such a drain upon the people of this country. He recommended that the surplus population of this country should go to the Cape of Good Hope; but he never recommended them to go amongst savages, or to drive people from the property which they had possessed. The territory of Kaffraria formed no part of the original Cape colony. So far as he could judge from the map which was laid before the House, it was about one-third of the extent of the old possessions at the Cape, and in seizing the land there, which the people wanted for feeding their cattle, they went out of their way to attack them. The noble Lord spoke as if the native inhabitants had attacked us; but the truth was that we had gone out of our own territory to attack them. We had settled military colonies
 755 l 756 757
 MR. HUME  hoped the House would give due consideration to the Bill, but admit of no delay. He concurred in all that had been said as to the necessity of reform in the Court of Chancery. Much as he had said on the subject of the taxation of the country, he believed that the Court of Chancery, what with its enormous expense and its monstrous delay, had taxed
 725
 MR. HUME  willingly gave his approval of the general purpose of the Bill; but he would beg to point out to the noble Lord at the head of the Government the necessity of introducing sundry improvements with respect to the suitors' fund. It appeared to him that it was highly desirable that a printed account of the out-goings and in-comings of that fund should be laid every year upon the table of the House. All taxes upon law proceedings were contrary to justice and sound policy, and they ought to be avoided as much as possible.
 MR. HUME  thought it would be much better that the Government should take every day in the week, and get on with the public business, for it was plain that at present private Members had no chance of bringing forward a Motion, and of proposing to redress a grievance, in consequence of the stringency of the rules of the House.
 MR. MULLINGS  thought that it was
 726
 MR. MANGLES  agreed with the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Sibthorp), that the question was one well worthy of legislative interference. It was impossible to dispute the fact that the traffic in the streets of the metropolis had greatly increased of late years, and that owing to the inactivity of the City authorities in not opening the parallel street to Ludgate Hill and Fleet Street, the stream of intercourse was often cheeked by these unwieldy vans. He had himself on one occasion encountered on Westminster Bridge a "tremendous" van, quite enough to frighten man and horse, and so affrighted was the animal he rode that it jumped upon the pavement and nearly threw him into the river. He really thought the time had come when the Government ought to take some steps to remedy the evil.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  could not deny himself the pleasure of saying that it appeared to him the House and the country ought to acknowledge very gratefully the great candour with which this subject had been dealt by the noble Lord. No criticism could be less well founded than that this measure was brought forward without due consideration. It had been in contemplation for more than a year; the necessity of it had been felt for a longer period, and at the early part of the Session the noble Lord had brought forward a measure which appeared to him to be a favourable one. The present plan, however, united a greater number of advantages than the former or any other; for, at an additional expense of 7,000 l
 MR. WALPOLE  was not inclined to carry on a discussion on so large a subject upon the mere Motion for leave to introduce a Bill, and would therefore forbear from now adverting to some of the topics mentioned by his hon. and learned Friend who had just resumed his seat. Without going into details in respect to the Bill of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), he expressed his opinion that it was entitled to the approbation of the House and of the country. The first point contemplated by the Bill would be that all the inferior Courts of Chancery—the Courts of the Master of the Rolls and of the Vice-Chancellors, would be sitting constantly and hearing causes without interruption, thereby keeping down arrears; the second, that there would be a permanent Court of Appeal sitting in the Court of Chancery, thus preventing the evils of delay, which chiefly, if not entirely, arose from the impossibility of the Lord Chancellor attending to appeals both in Chancery and in the House of Lords; and the third, that the Lord Chancellor, instead of being entirely removed from the Court of Chancery, and debarred from maintaining a proper familiarity with the law, would be, by occasional attendance there, keeping up a knowledge of the practice and business of the Court, while he would likewise be able to attend to the business of the House of Lords and of the Cabinet. If the measure were so worked out in detail as to affect those three objects, it would be a great improve-
 718
 MR. WAKLEY  said, if the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) were Colonial Secretary, very probably the colony would not have to wait long for a constitution, but the noble Lord was not Colonial Secretary, and the hon. Gentleman who represented the Colonial Secretary in that House had distinctly told them that the colony should not have a constitution until the war was concluded.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, it was of little consequence how many or how few days private Members had, unless the House changed its regulations for meeting, because otherwise, in all probability, when an independent Member brought forward a Motion on a Thursday the House would be counted out.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought it would be entirely surrendering the business of the House into the hands of Government if they agreed to this Motion. At the last ballot for precedence of Motions, no
 701
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  rose to put a question to the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  apprehended he was perfectly in order. The Motion related to the forwarding of business, and therefore he had a right to ask now, whether Government meant to bring in a Bill this Session to continue the present Commissioners of Sewers, or a Bill to reform the Commission?
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  rose to order. There was a Motion now before the House.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, his right hon. and learned Friend the Master of the Rolls had already given notice of a Bill for that purpose, and the only reason he did not proceed with it was the delay caused by the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  could assure the hon. and gallant Member that he gave him credit for being actuated solely by a regard to the public interest in bringing forward this Bill, and he (Sir G. Grey) consequently regretted that he felt it his duty to oppose the measure. The hon. and gallant Gentleman had given the House no information as to the contents of the Bill. He (Sir G. Grey) admitted that the monster advertising vans were a great nuisance in the streets, and that it was desirable to put them down; but when the hon. and gallant Gentleman came to draw his Bill, he had evidently found the same difficulties which he (Sir G. Grey) had encountered in dealing with the case, namely, in defining these advertising vans, and legislating directly against them. He (Sir G. Grey) took no exception to the Bill on technical grounds; but the hon. and gallant Gentleman was obliged, even after having obtained able professional assistance, to use such general words that persons who carried about with them any advertisement or placard whatever would be subjected to penalties. Then the Bill imposed a penalty upon any person causing a cart to be drawn through the street for the purpose of exhibiting any advertisement or placard;
 770 s
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  trusted that the hon. and learned Attorney General would be able to give them the assurance that the question of fees in the Court of Chancery would be taken into consideration. It was gratifying to see all the gentlemen of the long robe who had been practising in the Court of Chancery so desirous to see reform carried out. The public, however, desired that the cost and the duration of suits should be immediately redressed by some legislative proceeding.
 SIR LUCIUS O'BRIEN  rose to "call the attention of the House to the petition of the late Guardians of the Ennistymon Union, and to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the causes assigned for their dismissal, and the administration of the affairs of the Union." He was induced to bring this matter under the consideration of the House from a conviction that the Commissioners of Poor Laws in Ireland had established a most pernicious precedent by dissolving the Ennistymon Board of Guardians, who, up to the time of their dissolution, were performing their duties
 728 l l l l l l l l l l 729 l l 730
 SIR LUCIUS O'BRIEN  said, that he would not then press the subject to a division; but would refer to the subject again when the hon. Member for the city of Dublin (Mr. Reynolds) brought forward his Motion for an inquiry into the state of the Unions in the west of Ireland.
 MR. BETHELL  regarded this Bill for altering the constitution of the Court of Chancery, so far as to supply the Court with additional judicial power commensurate with the wants of the people and with the wisdom exhibited in recent acts of committing to that Court a further portion of the judicial business of the country, as a first instalment of the reform which had been long needed. On the latter point, of the increase of business, he differed from his hon. and learned Friend who had just spoken, for he thought that the Court of Chancery, if adequately supplied with judicial power, would be found, more than any other tribunal, adapted to the administration of justice in a manner required by the intelligence and growing necessities of the people. He, however, repeated that the present Bill was but an instalment of the reform that was wanted; and his hon. and learned Friend would probably be happy to learn that there was another Bill, cither on the table or about to be laid there, which would, in another way, facilitate the administration of justice in the Court of Chancery, by relieving the Master's office from the great pressure now upon it, impeding its functions, and contributing to delay. He earnestly hoped that the House would not agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that now, not yet the middle of June, it was too late to enter into the discussion of this important measure. That was a difficulty conceived in the true spirit of Chancery delay. He was sorry that the hon. and learned Gentleman should have thrown out a taunt against the noble Lord, because the present measure appeared to be somewhat different from the one previously introduced; and the hon. and learned Member also spoke of "hasty legislation." For his own part he did not know what other course the noble Lord could have adopted more fitting for the purpose, or more calculated to result in a scheme in which all parties should agree, than the one he had announced. The noble Lord had sketched out a scheme, and submitted it for general consideration; and he thought there were many Members of the House, besides the hon. and learned Member for Newark, who knew also that it had been submitted to a large body of men well qualified by their experience to form an opinion upon it; and the result
 715 l l 716 Encyclopœdia Britannica 717
 SIR ROBERT INGLIS  said, the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) had complained of being deprived of private legislation. Now, though he was not one of the supporters of Her Majesty's Ministers, he must say that he greatly preferred their legislation to that of the hon. Member for Lambeth. There was another reason why he supported the Motion, and that was that he had no wish to remain in that House up to October; and he was sure that the lowest estimate of the time that would be necessary for every Member who had a Bill to carry it through would be the middle of September. Under these circumstances, and considering that all his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) asked, was no more than his predecessors had obtained before him, he thought they ought to accede to the Motion.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, the Medical Charities Bill now stood for the 25th, and if it could not be brought forward on that day, it would be taken at a morning sitting. The Land Valuation Bill was set down for the 9th of July.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, he felt compelled to oppose the Motion of his hon. Friend, because, were he to consent to the appointment of a Committee, he should be admitting that the Poor Law Commissioners had in this instance improperly made use of the powers which Parliament had confided to them, for the purpose of providing for the relief of the poor of Ireland. The question they had to consider was, whether in this particular case the Poor Law Commissioners had properly exercised their power in dismissing the Board of Guardians of the Ennistymon Union. He did not deny the great difficulties which the Guardians of the Ennistymon Union had to contend with. Perhaps there was not an Union in Ireland that had greater difficulties. The House would remember that Parliament had thrown the responsibility upon the Poor Law Commissioners of Ireland; and the papers which had been moved for, and were now in the hands of hon. Members, would put them in possession of all the facts of the case, and show them that the Poor Law Commissioners had not been hasty in dissolving local Boards, for this very Board of Guardians of Ennistymon was the only Board that had been dissolved, and only in this instance was there a Board of paid Guardians existing in Ireland. As early as the 23rd of August, 1843, the Board of Guardians expressed a desire to put an end to outdoor relief; and the Poor Law Commissioners then called their attention to the excess of inmates in the workhouse at that time as compared with the accommodation. The Board of Guardians took no notice of that communication, but applied for a loan to the treasurer of the Union for the purpose of providing additional workhouse accommodation; and they discharged in six weeks about 470 persons, notwithstanding which there still remained an excess in the workhouse, as compared with the accommodation, of 480 persons: and Mr. Briscoe
 731 732 "I was sorry to hear that the Guardians refused children from nine to fifteen years of age more than half a pound of meal a day, which, in my opinion, is not sufficient to sustain life."
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  seconded the Motion.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  said, he agreed in the recommendations of the hon. Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. G. A. Hamilton) in advising the withdrawal of the Motion, on account of the present state of the House. He thought the Poor Law Commissioners might have adopted other means, and interposed a longer delay before dismissing the Board of Guardians; and he thought also that the ratepayers of the Union had a right to complain of being again handed over to men whose former management of the Union had brought its affairs into the greatest confusion, and had shown their own total ignorance of the administration of the Poor Laws. He knew that in many Unions representations were made to the Government to get vice-guardians appointed, under the belief that that would lead to Government assistance being given; and he was rather inclined to think that some such influence had been at work in the present case. He thought that an inquiry should be made into the present case, for the correspondence showed that the Board of Guardians had made every possible exertion to do their duty; and he thought that more forbearance should have been exercised by the Poor Law Commissioners before they branded them as the only Board of Guardians in Ireland who were worthy to be dismissed. There might have been other means adopted by the Commissioners, further entreaties and further examination, before such an extreme step. It was not an uncommon thing for a fortnight to elapse before a Board of Guardians was able to agree with the Commissioners as to the facts of a case. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir W. Somerville) left out of the question the conduct of the former board and the feelings of the ratepayers; but ratepayers would feel that the Poor Law Commissioners were handing them over to gentlemen who ruined the union before. Though the question could not now be pressed to a division, he hoped the subject would occupy the serious attention of the Government.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, it was not competent for the hon. Gentleman to move a postponement. He might move the negative to the Vote.
 MR. ELLICE  said, that he had been one of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the Royal gardens at the commencement of the present reign; and it was with him and his brother Commissioners that the recommendation had originated that the various gardens, at that time cultivated with but little advantage to, the Crown, should be consolidated and converted into one great garden at Frogmore; and that the gardens at Kew should be thrown open to the public. The kitchen garden at Kew had accordingly been given up—as also had the gardens at Hampton Court, so far, at least, as the supply of fruit to the Royal table was concerned, and improvements had been undertaken at Frogmore, in a style which gave great gratification to the public. The Commissioners examined several persons on the subject, among whom he might mention Sir William Hooker, and other eminent horticulturists, and it was under their advice that the present improved arrangements had been introduced. More had been done for the recreation and convenience of the public of late years in the Royal parks and gardens, than had ever been attempted before.
 LORD SEYMOUR  could only say, that the heraldic ornaments referred to were made by the same person who had made many similar connected with the New Houses of Parliament; and, knowing that they had been entrusted to a person of so much experience, he (Lord Seymour) did not think it necessary to interfere in respect to the form in which the artist might deem it right to represent those animals.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN : And it is so stated in a printed note at the foot of the Estimate page.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he was the cause of this Vote being entered on the Miscellaneous Estimates. The hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) would find that this sum of 41,829 l. l.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  wished to know from the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Woods and Forests how the expenditure in his department for furniture was greater in proportion than that of any other public department? He found in the Estimates a sum of 978 l. 799 l., l.,
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, the reason was, that the office had become more extensive. One of the Commissioners, who had a house attached to the office, had left it, and the house had been converted into additional offices, which were much required, and had necessarily to be furnished.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  did not think it would be judicious to have a Committee to inquire into the expenses contained in the estimates under their consideration, for the Members of the House had no means of knowledge on the subject of many of the items. He was glad to observe that in the Estimates of the expenses of the Royal Palaces, a distinction had been made between those which were for the accommodation of Her Majesty, and those which had been appropriated to the gratification and inspection of the public. In consequence of the two having formerly been mixed up together, an impression had gone abroad that all the items had been incurred for the accommodation of the Sovereign. There were one or two items, however, to which that observation did not apply. He could not understand why the item of 3,950 l.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that with regard to the vote of 3,950 l. l. Victoria Regia,
 LORD SEYMOUR  quite agreed with his hon. Friend that when a house was taken from the public, the rent should appear and be voted by Parliament. If his hon. Friend looked at page 7, he would find the rent of every house that was taken, as well as the house in question was, put down there. He did not think it could be given more clearly.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, it appeared to him there was a much stronger reason why the rents of these houses should be placed in the Estimates, because these houses were Crown property, and in the event of the decease of the Sovereign would revert to the Crown.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, this would be the last expenditure for this purpose. It was for the construction of a large reservoir to preserve the Castle from fire.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, that nothing was further from his wish than to carp at this vote; but he wished to ask his noble Friend at the head of the Woods and Forests why Richmond Park, Hampton-court Park, and Bushy Park were left out of the list?
 LORD SEYMOUR  replied that no great expense had been incurred in Hampton-court Park, nor had any great outlay been made in Richmond or Bushy Parks.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  was surprised to hear a statement of that nature from his noble Friend, because he held in his hand a report from the Commissioners of the Woods and Forests of last year, in which he found a declaration that the expenses of Richmond Park alone amounted to 5,170 l.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he must complain that no satisfactory answer had been given to his question, why Richmond, Hampton Court, and Bushy Parks had been left out of this estimate. He had already stated that 5,170 l. l. 807
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that when this estimate was to he framed, he had desired that it should he prepared in conformity with the Bill of last year, by which it was proposed that the office of the Woods and Forests should he divided, intending at that time to deal with the parks to which the noble Lord had specifically referred out of the land revenues. When, however, he came to look at the Bill himself, he thought that as Richmond Park, Hampton Court Park, and Bushy Park were more for the use of the public than the Crown, they ought to he inserted in the Bill, and he had accordingly done so, and meant next year to include them in the Estimate with the other Royal parks and pleasure gardens. With regard to the subject of the ranger's department, he begged to say that the ranger received nothing for himself, but there were gatekeepers, and other expenses incurred in the park, which were paid through the ranger, and this made up the charge in the question. With regard to the altering and widening the roads in Hyde Park, the Estimate did not include any portion of the expense of removing the marble arch, but related to an alteration of the roads near the Serpentine, which it had long been thought desirable to widen. It had been thought desirable, also, as the price of iron was low at present, to substitute an iron for the wooden railing now there, which otherwise must soon be replaced by oak at a considerable increase of cost.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, the money received for pasturage was paid into the hands of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. W. Williams) could obtain full information on that head by a diligent perusal of the Estimates. He (Lord Seymour) was determined to reduce the expenditure in respect to the parks, to the lowest amount consistent with their maintenance in such a manner as would render them fit for public use.
 LORD SEYMOUR : There is a deputy ranger, but he has no salary—he has a small cottage in the park.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, be could furnish the hon. Member with every item, if he wished for it. Expenses were incurred for gravel, hire of horses, rolling of paths, watering by contract, gatekeepers, constables, &c,
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that the hon. Member was probably aware that the gardens of Chelsea Hospital had lately been thrown open to the public, and it was now proposed to fill up the canals which lay between the hospital and the river, and which
 809
 LORD SEYMOUR  replied that the Vote of last year had covered the entire expense of taking down the arch, removing it, and putting it up again.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  had no objection to the suggestion of the lion, and gallant Member (Colonel Salwey) being adopted, as to the passage of hackney cabs through St. James's Park, by way of Stable-yard; but he should object to the increased expenses of road repairs, which would evi-
 810
 LORD SEYMOUR : I believe the mat is taken up every night.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, that some time ago the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. T. Greene) had stated, in answer to a question, that the New House would be ready for occupation immediately after the Whitsuntide recess. He now wished to know when there was a prospect of getting into their new House, or whether there was any prospect at all?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that the Committee would recollect that in 1847 this question was investigated by a Commission of naval officers, and in the subsequent year a Committee of that House sat also upon it. They went into the whole subject, and reported unanimously and fully in favour of Mr. Rendell's plan and estimate for the harbour, both of which documents they had before them during their inquiry. Such being the result of these investigations, hon. Members representing the sister island now got up and said, their objection was that they were afraid this harbour was bolstered up for the purpose of depriving the harbours of
 816
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that it was true that this harbour was no longer useful as a packet station, but it was of some local importance, and it was therefore thought desirable not to allow it to go to rack and ruin, and it was merely with that
 820
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  would not be drawn on the present occasion into a discussion on the doctrines and practices of the Roman Catholic Church. He had always voted in favour of this Vote, because it appeared to him to be absurd to consent to an annual grant to Maynooth, and then refuse to give them the means of purchasing mathematical instruments and making necessary repairs. He could not, however, shut his eyes to the open declaration of war that had taken place. He could not deny that the Church of Rome had declared they were all Pagans, and that she wished to bring them back from the slavery of Protestantism into the glorious liberty of the Church of Rome. He had heard and read these things, and had much to say upon them, but he would not do so on the present occasion and upon this question. It was impossible not to remark, however, that they were paying with one hand a body of priests in one college to preach against another college that they had set up. How they could support both the Queen's Colleges and the College of Maynooth, he was unable to understand. An hon. Gentleman opposite talked of the capital education received at Maynooth. He hoped he would not be angry with him if he (Mr. Drummond) recommended the hon. Member to read Pascal's  Provincial Letters.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that Kingstown harbour was a work of national importance; and the vote was for the purpose of making the harbour available for trading vessels.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  conceived that the conditions stated in reference to the office of Assistant Secretary ought to be observed. In the case of a permanent office, they were bound on every feeling of justice to see that the salary should not be unnecessarily decreased. He could not agree with the hon. and gallant Member for North Essex (Major Beresford), that the salary should be reduced because of the receipt of a gratuity for services performed in Ireland. On the recurrence of a vacancy, however, the office might be dealt with as they thought proper. He saw no inconsistency in the Ministry adopting some of the recommendations of the Committee, and rejecting others. The Committee ought, he considered, to put the whole of the salaries of public servants on some equitable footing. By removing the inequalities which existed, they would remove great injustice.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  must oppose the third reading of the Bill, which he believed to be one of a most mischievous tendency. The Act referred to had not emanated from the Government, but had been originated in the other House of Parliament, where it had the sanction of the highest legal authority. The Act appeared to him a most useful one as tending to abridge the verbosity of Acts of Parliament generally. His hon. and learned Friend (Mr. J. Stuart) had referred to a conversation he had had with the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls on the subject; but so far as he could form an idea of that right hon. Gentleman's opinion, it would seem to be tolerably plain,
 845 ipso facto
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  was afraid the
 837 l. l. l., l. l., 838 l. l. l. l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : No, no! parliamentary salaries.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the hon. Member for Guildford (Mr. Mangles) was not at all to blame in mentioning the personal merits of Sir Charles Trevelyan, for he had been provoked to it by the remarks of the hon. and gallant Member for North Essex (Major Beresford). He was glad to hear the observations of the hon. Member for Montrose, with whom he concurred in the distinction he drew between political and permanent offices. He begged the Committee to consider that the question before them, though only one of 500 l., l. l., l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  doubted whether it was advisable to open the drive to omnibuses, which, of course, would be the case if Mr. Hume's observations were carried out.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  begged to state that when the late Governor of Chelsea Hospital died, he (Lord John Russell) had written to the Duke of Wellington to say that it was the opinion of the Woods and Forests that the gardens ought to be thrown open to the public. In that opinion the Duke of Wellington concurred; and in filling up the vacant appointment such an arrangement was made that the gardens were thrown open to the public. His noble Friend (Lord Seymour) had now brought forward this estimate with the view of fully carrying out the original plan.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he had not been present in Committee when this matter was discussed. Afterwards, however, in discussing the subject the Government had thought it desirable to keep up the embassy, and reduce the salary to 8,000 l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose had for many years complained that so much money was voted for the purposes of the Army, Navy, and Ordnance, while the objects of science and education obtained so little of the grants of the House. Now, when a change had been made, and when a large sum had been devoted every year to educational and scientific establishments, and to parks and gardens for the recreation of the public, the hon. Member came down and complained of the items. Any hon. Member, on looking at these Miscellaneous Estimates, would find that although there was set down about 130,000 l., l. l., 792 l. 793
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that, as far as it had gone, the accommodation was temporary, and was only to last during the time the Exhibition prevented persons riding in that part of the park which they had been accustomed to use; but he did not mean to imply that the same thing would not be done if a similar occasion should arise.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Before the Whitsuntide holidays, I fixed the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, which is now in Committee, with the view of proceeding with
 785
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I do not complain of the hon. Gentleman's not making a Motion without notice; I only say that this day was fixed for the second reading of these Bills, and he might have given notice long ago of his intention to move a Resolution.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  could only state, at present, that when he held the office of Homo Secretary a vacancy occurred on the Scotch Bench, and he then moved for the appointment of a Committee to consider whether it was possible to make a reduction in the number of Judges. As far as he recollected, the Committee were unanimously of opinion that no re-
 780
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  thought at least one of the sums proposed was too small—he meant that which was proposed for the cathedral of Glasgow. The citizens of Glasgow had appealed to the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) for funds to improve that ancient building, and he hoped that when the Vote came before the Committee next year a larger sum would be granted, to put the cathedral in proper repair.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  said, he had no doubt that, under colour of making this harbour of refuge, and establishing a communication with Ireland, the Government were laying out this money not for the professed object, but for an object that would hereafter appear.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  said, it was most desirable to know whether Holyhead was to be made a packet station or a harbour of refuge. He would warn the Government not to expend much more money on it without a further report.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, if he had any complaint against these Bills he might object to them on the Motion for going into Committee, which would be the proper time. But he did not wish to oppose these Bills upon any commercial principle whatever. He merely wished to ask the House to arrive at this conclusion—whether it was expedient that the financial arrangements of the country should rest upon circumstances which were now purely provisional, and whether in such a case it was prudent economy to diminish the permanent sources of income? Therefore, what he should ask the House to consider was purely financial and not commercial.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had made the proposal as much for the convenience of the Government as of himself. Let them fix any day they pleased, and he was prepared to meet them. He did not think the Government could justly complain of being put to any inconvenience on the present occasion, seeing that not the slightest delay was caused to public business.
 MR. DISRAELI  did not exactly understand what the Government complained of. They were going to move the second reading of two Bills, which, as he had before said, he was not about to oppose. He and his hon. Friends had not in any way caused the slightest delay in the public business, or the least inconvenience to the Government. All he had said was, that it would be convenient to the House if the noble Lord would fix a day to go into Committee with these two Bills, and then he had given notice that on that day he should propose to take the sense of the House on the financial policy of the Government. He thought that in so doing
 786
 MR. DISRAELI : I did not intimate that it was my intention to move an Amendment; and it would not be respectful to the House to move an Amendment without notice.
 MR. DISRAELI  begged to inquire what course the Government would take in respect to the petition of Mr. George Ward, presented to the House by him (Mr. Disraeli) on Friday last? The facts of the case were these: Mr. Ward, a British merchant at Caraccas, was, after half a century's residence in that city, arrested by the Venezuelan Government on the supposition that he was connected with some revolutionary movement in the interior provinces of that State. He was thrown on his arrest into a common prison, and in that prison was detained twenty-six days. Her Majesty's Government then interfered, and the Venezuelan Government, under that influence, liberated Mr. Ward, and conceded to him compensation at the rate of 25 l. l.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I think it would only be fair to Her Majesty's Ministers and to the House that I should take this opportunity of stating the course which we propose to adopt with reference to the financial policy of Her Majesty's Government. After this House had arrived at that most important decision with respect to the income tax by which they agreed to renew it only for one year, I felt that the financial policy of the Government, which has been introduced to us under totally different circumstances, assumed necessarily a very different position—that we were called upon to view that policy in a different aspect—and that it might lead to very different consequences from those originally anticipated by its proposers. I could not resist the conviction that the financial arrangements of this country, by that important vote, had become essentially provisional, and being provisional it was a question whether it was just and justifiable, whether it was prudent and politic, under such circumstances, with a due regard to the maintenance of public credit, and to the exigencies of the public service, to agree to the diminution of any permanent source of the national income. I have been extremely anxious not to take any precipitate step upon this subject. I have given it the most painful and anxious consideration; but I am bound to say that I cannot incur that responsibility which, as a Member of this House, would propor-
 784
 MR. DISRAELI  had thought it was public salaries. He believed the title of the Committee was "Public Salaries." He wished to impress on the Committee not to admit the position, that because a salary had been settled by a Treasury Minute, it was not to be subject to the revision of that House.
 MR. DISRAELI  must protest against the introduction of personal matters into a discussion of this kind. It had nothing to do with the question whether Sir Charles Trevelyan were, or were not, a distinguished individual. His qualifications were not called in question; and it was equally certain that his services had been very adequately remunerated. Independently of his large salary, he had received a very marked distinction, which was not frequently conferred on a person in his subordinate position. It had nothing whatever to do with the matter, and he must protest against the tone of argument introduced by the hon. Member for Guildford (Mr. Mangles), and the fallacy which pervaded the observations of the hon. Member, and of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell). They thought that be-cause the office was not parliamentary, or, as they chose to call it, political, it was not to be subject to the control of the House of Commons. They ought, however, to recollect that the Committee was not limited to parliamentary or political, but to public salaries.
 MR. DISRAELI : I think, Sir, it would much facilitate this discussion, if the Government would tell the Committee on what principle they decided as to the recommendation of the Committee on Official Salaries. We have had another instance of this kind in the course of this evening. We have been told that the Committee recommended the alteration of the embassy at Paris to a mission, and the reduction of the salary of the Ambassador to one-half its then amount; but that the Government—and I think very wisely—decided that they would not follow the recommendation of the Committee. Nay, they took another step altogether; and the salary now
 836
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he must congratulate the hon. Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey) on his candour, and the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) on his consistency. He was, however, surprised to hear the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), the opponent of all grants for religious purposes, say he would vote on the occasion for "Peter's peace," especially when it was borne in mind that Maynooth College was provided for out of the Consolidated Fund, lie (Mr. Newdegate) was all the more surprised at the vote of the hon. Member, because after what the hon. Member for Youghal had said, it seemed that the Roman Catholics themselves were far from unanimous on the subject. The hon. Member (Mr. Hume), however, would at least admit that these bonuses to secure the good-will of the Roman Catholics had not been successful; indeed, on the contrary, the difficulties in which the country was at this moment placed, might in a great degree be traced to the policy which dictated this vote. If he (Mr. Newdegate) believed for a moment that in supporting Maynooth College he was supporting the means of giving a liberal education, he would not oppose the present Vote; but he could not find any alteration in the characters of the priesthood produced by it except one that contrasted unfavourably with the priests who received their education in France, who were imbued rather with the liberality of the Gallican Church, than with the bigotry of ultramontane arbitrary and intolerant doctrines.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that it was his intention to oppose the Bill, and he therefore recommended the Government to appoint a day for taking a discussion on the principle which was involved.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that with all their professions of economy, no set of men had been more extravagant than the present Government. They cared no more for the pockets of the people than the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department evinced the other night for the lives of Her Majesty's subjects, and that that was not much was proved by the fact of their having rejected his Bill for putting down barrel organs and advertising vans. They cared nothing about economy. The people's money was expended without consideration at a period when the agriculturists were starving. Even the artisans were now in deep distress, and for that they had to thank that infernal Crystal Palace in Hyde Park. He believed many of the Estimates which were brought before them professedly for the accommodation of Her Majesty, were incurred and brought forward without Her Majesty's knowledge or consent. He was not against any reasonable expenditure for the enjoyment of the Sovereign; but he objected to extravagance, and in these times he did not think extravagance should be encouraged.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  wished to know whether the expenses attending the removal of the marble arch had been kept within the Vote of 4,000 l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  must remind the noble Lord (Lord Seymour), that what might be an inconsiderable sum to him, might be a large one to the public. For his own part, he (Colonel Sibthorp) would be very sorry to trust his private purse to the management of the Woods and Forests. In addition to the estimate for Kensington Gardens, there was, on another page, a sum for taking down the brick wall on the north side, and replacing it with iron rails. Why were not all these items put together? Dividing them in this manner looked very much like a double-dealing mode of proceeding. After so much money had been collected for
 806 l. s., argumentum baculinum
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would, without a moment's hesitation, vote for the Amendment. He supported it on the ground of consistency. The Vote was a sort of sooth-
 830
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained, that hitherto the salary of the clerk and others had been paid out of the Consolidated Fund, and that this was the first year in which these salaries had appeared in the estimate.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  admitted that he had voted originally that the salary of the Assistant Secretary to the Treasury should be 2,000 l. l. l., l. l. l. l.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  begged to say it was his intention to comply with the wish of the hon. Member for Montrose, and postpone the vote.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could have no objection to put the Vote in that shape. In fact, a report was laid on the table last year which contained the information desired; the undertaking was the result of inquiries by Committees of that House and a Commission, and the present Government was merely executing what was commenced by the preceding. However, he would postpone the vote, and the House should have a report as to the progress made.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that Sir Charles Trevelyan had been in the service of the East India Company at a very high salary, and that he left his appointment to come to the Treasury. He received no more than his predecessors had done, namely, 2,000 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was sorry to have to rise again to state that which was the fact. Sir Charles Trevelyan came home after some service in India, where he would have gone back if he had not entered into the public service at home. The Treasury Minute was not made in his case. For the last twenty years the Assistant Lords of the Treasury had received 2,000 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  suggested, if they were to have the subject brought before the House on a future occasion, it was of no use having a division now.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Chester and Holyhead Railway Company, in consequence of their utter inability to pay the sum in question, had been relieved from their liability by an Act of last Session.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the works at Harwich, one of the ports for which the Vote was required, consisted of dredging the harbour for the purpose of admitting vessels of larger size, and he did not know what further explanations could be given on that subject. He had stated last year, with regard to the works at Dovor, that they had been carried out about 800 yards, and that 34,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was understood to say, that from his last communication with the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. T. Greene), he was induced to believe that no further sum would be required.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there had been three or four Commissions and two Parliamentary Committees on this subject, by whom the claims of the competing harbours, and the expense that would be incurred, had been sifted to the utmost. The result of the Commission appointed in 1847, which reported in favour of the harbour as it stood, had been upon the whole confirmed. Then a Committee of that House had sat, with Sir Henry Ward, then Secretary of the Admiralty, as Chairman. They inquired with very great diligence, re-examined the whole matter, and came to an unanimous recommendation of the plan that had been acted upon since. He really did not know how it was possible to do more than had been done in this case. To stop to re-examine and re-investigate the matter, would be a great loss of money, with no probability of coming to any other conclusion than that which had been arrived at on five former occasions. He believed the works were progressing in a very satisfactory manner, and, as far as appeared, would be rather above than below the estimates that had been made. More could not be said in favour of any undertaking.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if there were any reasonable ground for supposing that there was anything wrong, it would be a different matter, but that was not the case.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied in the negative.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not think they could occupy the New House of Commons during the present Session; but it was desirable that they should have one or two experimental sittings in the new building before the Session closed, in order to see how far the new arrangements answered the purposes for which they were intended.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Only 8,000 l. l. l.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his hon. Friend would remember, that when the matter was before the House last Session, various alterations and improvements had been suggested in the new House of Commons, and had been adopted, very much for the convenience of hon. Members; and it was thought much bettor to have a small contingent fund, out of which to defray the cost of those alterations, than to throw them upon the Estimate, which had been voted for other purposes. He was not responsible in any way for the plan of this building; it had been settled by the Houses of Parliament who had taken it out of the hands
 813
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was impossible for a gentleman to rent a furnished house at all in the neighbourhood of Parliament for less than 500 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, on referring to the Estimates of last year, he found that the sum voted for the alterations was 9,400 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Member had been absent for some time from the House, and did not appear to have acquired any information of what had been going on while he was away. The difficulty which presented itself to the hon. Member was susceptible of an easy and natural explanation, the fact being that, in strict compliance with the often-expressed desire of the House to that effect, various items which heretofore had been charged to the account of the Civil Service, and of the Land Revenue, were this year transferred to the account of the Miscellaneous Estimates. The hon. Gentleman, when he complained of the increase in the Miscellaneous Estimates, should recollect that a large expense was placed on them which formerly they used not to bear. The 300,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Just so. In order to prevent misapprehension, I directed that that note should be appended. It is certainly a little discouraging, that when we endeavour to carry out the wishes of the House, and do every thing in our power to make thing clear, we should be subject to charges which, I am sure, the hon. Member must himself admit, are not just.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I understood that this day was fixed for the discussion of any Amendment the hon. Gentleman might think fit to propose.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) had, before the holidays, objected to the bringing in of these Bills for two or three nights in succession, and had contended that reasonable time should be allowed, in order to give the parties affected by the measures an opportunity of opposing the second readings. Now that the arrangement had been made, it would not be convenient to fix another day, as the hon. Member required.
 MR. URQUHART  wished particularly to understand, had or had not the British Government assented to this condition?
 MR. URQUHART  begged to ask the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary what conditions had been attached to the liberation of the Hungarian and Polish refugees from confinement in Turkey? In the first place, was one of the conditions that they shall not return to Turkey? In the next place, if so, was that condition assented to by Her Majesty's Government? and, thirdly, was there any ground for the belief universally entertained by the parties concerned that Her Majesty's Government had not only assented to but had advised and originated that condition? In short, was there any ground for the belief that was universally entertained that the expulsion of these refugees from Turkey was made a condition by Great Britain, and not by Russia or Austria?
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  thought, looking at the nature of the soundings which had been taken off Holyhead, and at the prevalent winds which blew in that particular part of the Channel, that that harbour would be perfectly useless for the purposes for which a harbour of refuge was required. The merchants of Liverpool objected to it. For his part he believed the scheme was an attempt to bolster up Holyhead harbour, in order to deprive the ports of Ireland of the natural advantages which they possessed.
 COLONEL DUNNE  supposed, therefore, that the whole would have to be paid out of the public purse. Every one who had seen the harbour doubted whether it would answer the purpose, even when the mole or breakwater was completed.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the doubts which he entertained arose upon the report itself, which was not favourable. He wished to know if the 600,000 l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that many objections had been made by the people of Dublin and Liverpool against the choice of Holyhead as a harbour of refuge. An inquiry took place, and a report was made, which still left the matter doubtful whether the harbour would be sufficient for the purpose. Some eminent engineers had stated that the total cost would be 1,800,000 l. l. 814 l.
 MR. MOWATT  could observe no similarity in the grounds on which hon. Members opposite opposed this grant. Surely the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. H. Drummond) did not mean to argue in that House that the sole object of educating men in their different religious persuasions was to preach against and harass each other; and yet if there was any conclusion to be drawn from that hon. Member's argument, that was the conclusion. The hon. Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. G. A. Hamilton) bad recited the Act of Parliament under which the original grant was made to Maynooth. When that hon. Gentleman was stating in detail the sums of money which the College of Maynooth had cost this country, be appeared to have forgotten that the object of this small annual grant was to prevent the 30,000 l. nolens volens, l.
 MR. BANKES  said, this appeared to him to be an enormous charge; the  Victoria Regia
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  could not altogether agree with the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland as to the intention of the 8th and 9th Victoria, and would beg to refer to the terms in which the sum of 30,000 l. l. l. l. l. s.
 MR. MUNTZ  wished to direct attention to the inconsistency of the arguments adduced in favour of maintaining the Vote. It was stated that Sir Charles Trevelyan was a person who could have obtained a very high salary; now, if that were the case, he was much too good a man for the place. If this principle were to be acted upon, it would be impossible to arrive at anything like economy.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the Government had long felt the great importance of giving accurate information with regard to foreign tariffs, and the changes made from time to time in those tariffs. The course had been to write to the Consuls to send home this information; but it was received in such a voluminous form, in a variety of languages, and in different coins and measures, that great expense would be incurred in putting it into a shape intelligible to the House; and, even if the coins and measures
 779
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that was quite true, and a very large mass of information was in the possession of the Government; but it was in so cumbrous and voluminous a shape that it was hardly useful at all for practical purposes.
 COLONEL SALWEY  said, he would thank the noble Lord at the head of the Woods and Forests, to inform him who were the Committee of taste who had given directions for erecting in front of Buckingham Palace, those two comical monsters, which were, he believed, designed to represent a lion and a unicorn? He had overheard two foreigners descanting on the hind-quarters of those eccentric creatures, and they appeared to derive infinite amusement from the contemplation of them. He begged leave respectfully to suggest, that the creatures should be removed from their present abode, and that they should be erected in the immediate vicinity of the stone statue of Britannia, which surmounted the east entrance of the National Gallery, and which, from its proximity to St. Martin's Church, was familiarly known as Betty Martin. There would
 794
 COLONEL SALWEY  said, Her Majesty had evinced a very laudable desire to grant every reasonable accommodation to Her wealthy subjects dwelling in the precincts of Pimlico, by permitting them to drive their carriages through Stable-yard and St. James's Park to Pimlico. Now, the privilege which had been granted would be considerably enhanced if permission was also given to people in hackney coaches to drive over the same route. Hackney cabs were already permitted to pass through Birdcage-walk.
 COLONEL SALWEY  only asked for the same amount of indulgence as was granted in the Birdcage-walk, where omnibuses were not admitted.
 COLONEL SALWEY  said, he preferred taking a division now. He would beg to read the various amounts voted within the last few years for this purpose. In 1840–41, the vote was 700 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 COLONEL SALWEY  said, he did not grudge the expenditure for Windsor Castle so much as he did that for other palaces, because he believed it was the only one worthy of the name of a Royal Palace; but he did consider this an enormous expenditure for the supply of water. He wished to make a few observations with regard to the item of 550 l. 802 l.
 COLONEL SALWEY  said, that was not the case. He denied that the knights could he called upon to pay it. The Poor Knights strongly objected to this money being laid out. He had presented a petition, in which the electors of Windsor complained of this grievance. It was a gross robbery upon the taxpayers of this country. The sum ought to come out of the revenues of the estates, and it was the bounden duty of the Government to see that that was done.
 COLONEL SALWEY  said, he found that in 1849–50 there were two items of 6,550 l. l., l. l.
 COLONEL SALWEY  wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman would lay that opinion on the table of the House? When he had mentioned this before, he bad always been met by the observation that it was a law case; but he denied that it was, and must insist upon dividing the Committee.
 COLONEL SALWEY  said, under all the circumstances of the case, as he was to bring the question before the House tomorrow week, he would not divide the Committee on the present occasion.
 MR. KERSHAW  said, he had voted against the grant to Maynooth on former occasions, and he should do so now because he felt it his duty not to support any religious sect by grants from the public money. He had opposed the extension of the  Regium Donum 829
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that all this expense was to be incurred on a work that had been started at the time the Keyham Basin was entered upon. The Committee on the Navy Estimates last year reported that if so large an expenditure had not taken place on that basin, they would never think of recommending that such an amount of expense should be incurred. In the present case, that of the island of Alderney, the works were merely commencing, comparatively speaking, 150,000 l. l. l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, his impression was that the Committee had contemplated immediate, and not remote, reductions.
 MR. BRIGHT  thought that there would be some weight in the noble Lord's argument if there were a disposition in this country to underpay public officers, or to treat them with ill faith, but such was not the case in this country; on the contrary, there was an inclination to pay public officers rather too highly. Sir Charles Trevelyan, as he was informed, not only received a larger salary than his superior officers—a most anomalous circumstance—but he received 500 l. 841 l.
 MR. BRIGHT  wanted to know why the country was to be mulcted of the large sum of 500 l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that in the Official Salaries Committee, last year, there had been a difference of opinion as to the sum which should be paid to the British Ambassador at Paris. The noble Lord (Lord John Russell) and the right hon. Member
 798 l. l. l. l. l., l., l.,
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to direct the attention of the Committee to the items of 840 l. l. l. l. l., l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had a question to put to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, which the noble Lord might either answer now or on some early day, if more convenient, as he had not given him any previous notice of it. It was with reference to the vacancy which had just occurred on the Scotch Judicial Bench. The noble Lord was aware, no doubt, that the Committee on Official Salaries, last year, made rather a strong recommendation that the number of Judges on the Scotch Bench should be reduced. He wished to know whether, now that another vacancy had occurred, the noble Lord intended to pay any attention to the recommendation of the Committee.
 MR. J. EVANS  considered that when a gentleman entered into the public service on the understanding that after a certain time his salary should be raised 500 l.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  believed the works at Dovor had been carried on most scientifically, but although he had no doubt they would be completely efficient for the object with which they were designed, they might be attended with serious consequences to the town itself. The pier that was being constructed, threw the beach
 817
 COLONEL RAWDON  appealed to those hon. Members who opposed the grant whether it was worth while to involve themselves in a controversy on a matter of so paltry an amount? However unpopular the vote might be at this time of day, he still thought hon. Members would be committing a most impolitic act if they were now to depart from the principle which the House of Commons had hitherto maintained in supporting this grant.
 MR. STANFORD  must say, that he had understood that the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls was favourable to the Bill, and that he had supported it on the second reading. He therefore thought it was rather extraordinary that the Government should take the course now pursued. Something had been said about ladies having a vote under the present statute. For his own part, he did not apprehend such a contingency, nor, if it did arrive, would he fear it. He could not support the Motion of the hon. and I learned Member (Mr. J. Stuart), because he did share his apprehensions; but he must, in justice to the hon. and learned Member, confirm his statement of the inconsistent course taken by the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls.
 MR. JOHN STUART , in reply, said, that the hon. and learned Attorney General had not satisfied the House upon the impolicy or needlessness of the measure he now proposed. No reason whatever had been advanced by the hon. and learned Attorney General to justify his opposition to this Bill, or to satisfy the House that the Act, for the repeal of which it was brought in, was one that ought to be suffered to remain on the Statute-book.
 MR. JOHN STUART  moved the Third Reading of the above Bill. It was impossible, he contended, to keep the Act which it was intended to repeal on the Statute-book. That it had signally failed, even the Acts passed during the present Session had proved. By the 4th section of the Act, it was provided, that all words importing the masculine gender should also be taken to include females; and all words of the singular number should also mean the plural. Now that section had excited the greatest alarm, and might be productive of the greatest inconvenience. It included all Acts, past as well as future. How would that section operate with respect to the Reform Bill for instance? On referring to it he found that every male person paying rent, and occupying a house of a certain value, should be entitled to a vote. According to the Act, however, which he was then asking the House to repeal, that clause should mean every female person also, and the consequence would be that females would be entitled to vote. Another singular property of the Act was this—it destroyed all distinction between private and public Acts of Parliament, and yet how many private Acts were passed, settling estates on the issue male of some particular person; and now by this Act, though contrary to the intention of the parties, female issue would be included. Could a more monstrous absurdity be palmed off on the House in an unguarded moment than this Act of Parliament? They had already passed Prison Discipline Acts with specific regulations for the different sexes; and how would the Act be applied there? Even this very Session one of the last Acts which had received the Royal assent—he meant the Income Tax Act—would be very materially and seriously affected if the singular word, "one" year, was to be taken to mean many years. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Hear, hear!] The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to be pleased with that interpretation. Although the Act professed to be one to shorten the language of Acts of Parliament, he did not find it to have that effect, for the wording of Acts during the present Session was as long as on any former occasion. There were sections in the Act which did not seem to him calculated to shorten the wording of Acts of Parliament. On consulting
 844
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, that hon. Gentlemen opposite seemed to him to discuss the question in a small and narrow spirit. It seemed to him that the establishment and support of the College at Maynooth was defended and justified on the ground that the education which would be imparted there would be less dangerous and more in accordance with the prevailing sentiments of the people of this country if the College was maintained by a grant of money from this country, than if they obtained their education on the Continent. Nothing would be more likely to offend the Roman Catholics, or to excite their sensitiveness, than the refusal of this grant. He deprecated encroachments on the voluntary principle; but so long as the Church established in Ireland was maintained, the State was, in his opinion, bound to pay the Roman Catholic priesthood. He very much regretted that there should be opposition to the grant at this particular time, when the proper course was to endeavour to soothe the feelings of Roman Catholics. Interference with the internal organisation of the Romish Church would entail on Parliament the necessity of supporting a Catholic hierarchy. If
 826
 MR. WAWN  said, that whatever money was spent on this harbour, as a harbour of refuge, was absolute waste. As a packet station, it might answer very well.
 MR. WAWN  had been told, that from 14,000 l. l.
 MR. WAWN : Will that meet the expenditure to the present time, or will any extra sum be required?
 MR. WAWN  said, the Government had tried to shift the responsibility upon a Committee, but he held that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer was responsible for the money laid out in the last and present Session. If any public body had to raise a building, and were to act as that House had done, it would be an eternal disgrace to them.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  believed that what the Committee had intended was that the reductions which they recommended in certain offices should take place, not at once, but on occasion of the next vacancies. He was of opinion that 2,000 l.
 MR. HUME  agreed that the personal services of Sir Charles Trevelyan had nothing to do with the matter. He thought, however, that public faith should be kept with public servants. He had recommended that the salary of the Speaker should be reduced to 7,000 l., 840
 MR. HUME  said, he must express his regret at having heard the observations of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner). Whatever might he the hon. Member's opinions as to the propriety of allowing the Roman Catholic religion or college to be supported, this was not the time to enter on the subject. He (Mr. Hume) concurred in the opinion to which the hon. Member had referred, that the Catholics ought not to be satisfied with toleration. They had a right to equality. He asked the hon. Member for North Warwickshire whether, on his own Christian principles, he ought not to do as he would be done by? The question was, whether they were prepared to support the edifice a former Parliament had thought it necessary to raise for the education of Roman Catholics? The question was not whether they would give the education; Parliament had already decided that question, which was fairly discussed on its merits in 1845, if ever a question was; they ought to look to what Parliament had guaranteed; and it would be a reproach against them were they to alter that decision because a different opinion existed in regard to Roman Catholics. He highly approved of the principles that led the late Sir Robert Peel to propose the Vote which attempts were being made to set aside, but which, in his estimation, did honour to Parliament, and was attended with great advantage to the country, as everything was that tended to remove a sense of injustice. The object of the institutions, improperly called "Godless colleges" was to give to Roman Catholics the education which other denominations enjoyed. The unfortunate occurrences that had taken place had nothing to do with the question before the Committee, which was, whether the payments should be continued which were necessary for colleges intended to put Catholics on the same footing as others?
 MR. HUME  would also suggest that the Government should send some sober men to examine the matter. [ Laughter.
 MR. HUME  said, that he had been informed, when he visited the Channel Islands, that the Board of Ordnance had received instructions to purchase land on the heights above the harbour, for the construction of fortifications which it would require 40,000 men to defend. The harbour, when completed, would be wholly useless for the purposes of commerce; nor had he spoken to a single individual in Jersey or Alderney who did not laugh at the idea of the works being of any utility. Let the Government send over two gentlemen not previously compromised to inquire into this scheme, and let the vote be postponed until their report was made.
 MR. HUME  said, that the public had nothing to do with keeping up the harbour if it was abandoned as a packet station.
 MR. HUME  objected to the form of the estimate. What he wanted to know was, how much more would they have to pay? How much had they already paid?
 MR. HUME  perceived in this estimate that the recent change in regard to the clerkship of the House of Commons had caused an increased expense to the public of 5,000 l.
 MR. HUME  wanted to know what was the use of having an architect at all, if he would not act on the instructions given him? He had failed entirely, in every single department in the whole building. He defied any man to find a single apartment in the building that was suited to the purpose for which it was intended. It was a melancholy thing for the public to see money so misapplied.
 MR. HUME  said, this was a proof of the advantage which would have arisen from referring the matter to a separate Committee. The way in which this business had been conducted was literally a farce. They were now asked to vote 67,800 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 812 l. entresol
 MR. HUME  said, that 1,000 l. l.
 MR. HUME  said, that by the original agreement the railway company was to contribute one-third the expense. As they were not now to do so, it was a question whether the whole expense should be taken by the Government.
 MR. HUME  complained, that no statement was furnished to the Committee of the amount expended upon these harbours. It was true that a return had been made in March, 1850, but it was most unsatisfactory. The works for which this Vote was required—and especially those in the Channel Islands—were commenced at a time when the Government imagined that this country was in danger of an immediate invasion. He considered that the Vote ought to be postponed until they had some reports of the progress that had been made with these works, particularly in the Channel Islands.
 MR. HUME  said, it was desirable that the Government should send down a competent engineer to inquire into the progress of the works, and to ascertain whether the objections that had been made to the harbour really existed. He should ask them to do the same with reference to the next vote of 144,000 l.
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether there was a deputy ranger, and, if so, what salary he received?
 MR. HUME  wished to call the attention to the charge of 2,347 l.
 MR. HUME  said, that at present the accommodation was only afforded to one class. If it were extended to all the public, it would be a legitimate subject for the expenditure of the public money.
 MR. HUME  thought the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) deserved great credit in respect of the removal of the marble arch. The arch was now a great ornament to the neighbourhood in which it stood.
 MR. HUME  thought the best course would be to sell these houses in Whitehall Place, as that would be the best way to prevent abuses. He wished to notice one or two observations of the noble Lord (Lord Seymour). If the noble Lord supposed that he (Mr. Hume) had not read these Estimates, he would rather return the compliment to him, and say that the noble Lord had not read them. This was the only country in the world where the Estimates were not gone through annually by a Select Committee. He saw a former Chancellor of the Exchequer shaking his head; but the time had gone by when they could put a stop to such a thing, by the Chancellor of the Exchequer shaking his head. He was of opinion that all the Estimates ought to be submitted to a Committee of the House before they were presented for the sanction of the House. He would not throw all the labour upon one Committee, but several Committees might be appointed for the different departments. While he was anxious to vote any possible indulgence to the Sovereign, there was a limit to extravagance beyond which the people would not go. The House of Com-
 801
 MR. HUME  said, the Secretary to the
 804
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether it was true that Richmond Park had been of no expense during the past year. He rose, however, principally to ask what was meant by the "department of the ranger," for which there was a charge of 1,480 l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  said, by a report of a Committee upstairs, that had been printed some time past, the Consuls ought not to wait for orders to send the tariffs home; and, therefore, the whole of the information ought to be in London at the present moment.
 MR. HUME  said, the amount of the present Miscellaneous Estimates was 3,955,000 l., l. 789 l. ne plus ultra l. l. 790 l. l. l., l. 791 l.
 MR. HUME  wished to put a question to the Government. Several petitions had been presented to that House, complaining of the interference with Kensington Gardens by the formation of a ride in them, and there was reason to complain of the inattention of a public officer to the request of many thousand persons. On a former occasion he had himself presented several petitions from the inhabitants of places near and round the Gardens, and of the parishes of Marylebone and Padding-ton, complaining of the interference of the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests (Lord Seymour) who without consulting any one on the subject, and entirely at his own will and pleasure, had made a horse-ride through Kensington Gardens. During the many years he (Mr. Hume) had been in Parliament, he had never before known so utter a disregard of a strong expression of public wishes and feelings as had been exhibited by the noble Lord and the Government on this matter. On a former occasion, he (Mr. Hume) had bowed to the decision of the House; but he now begged to ask Her Majesty's Government, on behalf of these petitioners, whether the interruption which had taken place in Kensington Gardens would cease with the termination of the Great Exhibition, or whether there was to be a perpetual horse-ride through those Gardens? It was, he thought, but reasonable that an answer should be given to that question.
 MR. HUME  said, there was a rule of the House, which the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) did not seem aware of. Did the hon. Gentleman, by his notice, intend to object to the principle of the Bill? because, if he did, the discussion ought to come on now, on the second reading, which was the proper time for an opposition on the principle of a measure. He had heard the Government blamed for allowing so important a matter to be so long delayed. The hon. Member ought to state whether his objection was to the principle or to the details of these Bills. If to the details, the Committee was of course the proper stage on which to bring it forward; but if to the principle, the hon. Member should bring forward his Amendment at once.
 MR. BUCK  said, that he would vote with his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume), if he divided the Committee, as a means of calling attention to the state of the coast from Bristol to the Land's End. There was not a harbour upon that coast into which a vessel could run, while there was no part of our coast which more required the attention of the Admiralty and the Government.
 MR. COBDEN  said, when this subject came before the Committee last year, lie suggested that they should have the Estimate laid before them in the same form as the Navy Estimates, namely, the amount already expended set forth in one column, the sum required in another, and the probable cost in a third. He had referred to the Estimates of last year, and he found that the Estimate for the island of Alderney was 600,000 l. Geographical Dictionary, l. l. l. 818
 MR. SPOONER  said, he should take the sense of the Committee upon one item in this vote. He should move that the grant be reduced by the sum of 1,230 l. s., l. l., l. l. s, 821 l. "I mean that we should treat that institution in a generous spirit, in the hope that we shall be met in a corresponding spirit, and that we shall be repaid for our liberality by infusing better feelings into the institution, and by insuring a more liberal system of instruction."
 MR. MANGLES  willingly bore testimony to the talents of Sir Charles Trevelyan: that gentleman had sacrificed prospects of advancement in another profession in India, when he took the office of Assistant Secretary to the Treasury. He did not think it was fair now to turn round and reduce the salary in the face of the Treasury Minute which existed.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he thought the time was come when all sectarian and exceptional Votes of public money should cease; but as He intended to vote hereafter against the  Regium Donum, 827 and laughter.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  wished to put a question to the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade. Last Session he bad been informed, in answer to a similar question, that measures were then being taken to enable the Government to lay before the House the latest intelligence as to Foreign Tariffs, and whether foreign countries had taken advantage of our change of policy to increase the amount of duties on British goods. He wished now to know whether the inquiry had been closed, and whether there was any objection to lay the papers on the table of the House?
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY , like many other hon. Gentlemen, felt considerable difficulty in attempting to criticise these Estimates. Nevertheless, he would venture to express his opinion, that the sum of 32,540 l. l.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  supported the Amendment. He believed it was a part of the policy of the Government a few years ago to endeavour to gain the good opinion and loyalty of the Roman Catholic population of Ireland by such grants as this; but that policy had been found to fail. After the experience they had had during the last six months of the spirit which the Roman Catholic hierarchy was ever ready to display towards grants awarded to them, he was of opinion that it would be very bad policy indeed continue such a vote as this.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  objected to this vote as being utterly unnecessary, Kingstown being a harbour where any craft beyond a collier or a vessel loading with stone was never seen. He should move, in order to get rid of the vote, that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  withdrew his Amendment.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, that in compliance with the Report of the Salaries Committee, the salaries of the Secretaries of the Treasury had been reduced from 2,500 l. l., l. l. 835 l.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, that no an-
 839
 MR. EWART  said, that as long as they adopted the ascending system of ventilating in that House, so long would they have an enormous sum to pay for cleaning. The House of Lords was ventilated by the descending system, and there was therefore no such charge as 1,000 l.
 MR. FORBES  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had written a letter describing the ceremonies of the Church of Rome as "mummeries," and had introduced a measure to satisfy the Protestant feeling of the country, and it was thought by the country to be quite impossible that any person connected with the Government would consent to further the "mummeries" of the Church of Rome. The Roman Catholic prelates of Ireland bad lately ordered by a Bull from Rome that no Roman Catholic, under certain censures of the Church, should attend any of the Queen's Colleges in Ireland; yet the Government were strengthening the College of Maynooth in order that those Roman Catholics who would not attend the Queen's Colleges should he instructed in the mummeries of the Church of Rome. He hoped some Member of the Government would explain why it was they now supported the mummeries of Rome, while all the Session they had been supporting the Protestant feeling of the country.
 MR. W. J. FOX,  fearing that the vote he was about to give might be misunderstood, hoped the Committee would pardon him whilst he attempted in a few words to justify the decision to which he had come. He meant to oppose the Vote, but neither on the theological ground nor the pecuniary ground. Not on theological grounds, for, whatever might be his opinion of Roman Catholic doctrines—whatever he might think of the spirit and tendency of the Roman Catholic system, he fully recognised the right of those who held that system to complete religious equality with all others. Nor on economical grounds—for when he remembered to what an extent we had in past times been indebted to these Roman Catholics—when He remembered the magnificent cathedrals, the numerous churches, the glorious colleges, and the large endowments founded by their zeal and liberality, but of which they were no longer the possessors—such a sum as that involved in the present Vote would be but a beggarly offering to them in a pecuniary point of view; therefore he put the pecuniary consideration altogether out of the question. He respected the growing tendency of the Roman Catholics lately to throw themselves entirely and broadly on the voluntary principle. He would be no party to persecuting Catholics, or to paying Catholics. He had voted against the one, and he was prepared to vote against the other; but while he thought either process bad—persecution of religion, or payment
 831
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  would oppose this vote on entirely different grounds from those expressed by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner). He (Mr. W. Williams) opposed it on the ground
 828 l l l.,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that in proposing this Vote, the Government had taken little or no notice of the recommendation of reduction in these salaries and expenses made by the Committee last year.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  asked how long it was intended to continue the expenditure upon this harbour, which was now of no public utility?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought that a sum of 10,976 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  believed that a great deal of the public money was wasted in the maintenance of men, who were what used to be called "Lincoln green;" but what he supposed would now be styled "Seymour green," they had nothing to do but to walk up and down the parks. In this Vote there were charges for parochial rates, tithes, and lodges. The Committee, perhaps, was not aware that, connected with the Royal parks, there were no fewer than 130 buildings, called by the modest name of lodges, although some of them were splendid mansions, which might be occupied by first-rate nobility. He understood that all these lodges were public property that had been surrendered to the Crown in consideration of the granting of the civil list. He wished to know whether the tithes, parochial rates, and other taxes of these mansions, occupied by noblemen,
 808 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had great objections to the substitution of a house duty for a window tax. Unless reduced in amount, it would be a severer imposition than even the window tax itself, and in Committee he should move its reduction—a proposition he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would assent to; because, upon the principle upon which he had preferred a house tax to a window tax, he ought to have taken off the latter without the imposition of any additional burden upon the people.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  objected to the Vote. He had given notice to the Woods and Forests so to prepare the Vote that the Committee might know what amounts were expended upon the palaces, and he had also given notice to the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner (Lord Seymour) that he (Mr. W, Williams) should propose to defer the Vote. He hoped there would be no objection to that course, for the expenditure upon these Royal Palaces had been extravagant and wasteful, and some check ought to be put upon it by the Committee. It was monstrous to find that since the reign of George III. millions of money had been expended upon these palaces, and yet that the expenses were still going on year after year. There were no fewer than nine palaces maintained at the public expense, among which was Claremont, which was kept for the King of the Belgians. If the noble Lord would not consent to defer this Vote, he should divide the Committee on the question of a postponement of it until a statement of the particulars was made.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the remarks of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had completely established the necessity which existed for the
 796
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  hoped there would be no objection to postpone this Vote until the return he had moved for was printed. The noble Lord had said that there was a reduction of 117,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. 795 l.
 SIR GEORGE CLERK  said, that while there wes a communication with Ireland by Liverpool on the one side, and Glasgow on the other, and there was no railway nearer to Portpatrick than Dumfries, it could be of no importance as a packet station; but there was no doubt that it was the shortest way to Ireland, and if, therefore, a railway were constructed to it, it would eventually become of great national importance.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had told his hon. and gallant Friend that they could not produce the confidential opinion of the law officers of the Crown.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that as the hon. and gallant Member had given notice of a Motion on this subject for Tuesday next, he would abstain from entering into
 803
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that when he said the Poor Knights would have to pay the money out of their own pockets, he meant if the houses were repaired at all. The consequence of disallowing the vote would be that the houses would not be repaired. With regard to the general question, he was bound to say it was a strictly legal question, and it would take a great deal of time to go into it now. The matter had been inquired into by a former Government, who put a case before their law officers (the late Sir William Follett and the present Chief Baron), who were of opinion that Government would not be justified in interfering with it, and that if the claim were substantiated at all it must be in a Court of Law, and not in the House of Commons.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  thought this question required very careful attention on the part of the Committee. He was sure the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Salwey) would agree with him, that the officers who received the benefit of this charitable institution were entitled to the consideration of that House. It was a most beneficial institution, intended for officers broken down by ago and unfortunate circumstances, and was in the nature of honourable relief; and he did not believe the hon. and gallant Member would say that in the distribution of this reward there had been anything partaking of the nature of favouritism or unfairness, for it was Her Majesty's instruction that reference should be made to the Horse Guards, and the opinion of the Commander-in-Chief taken as to the officers on whom the favour should be conferred. When he (Sir J. Graham) was Secretary of State, this case was distinctly brought under his notice by a petition to the Crown from the knights, and his own impression was favourable to the knights as against the Dean and Chapter. He directed a case to be prepared, stating all the facts, and to be laid before the then law advisers of the Crown, the present Lord Chief Baron and the late Sir William Follett. The case was prepared with the utmost care, and he (Sir J. Graham) was responsible for the impartiality with which the facts were brought under their notice. They gave it their most anxious attention, and gave an elaborate opinion upon it. He believed it was not usual to produce to the House the opinions of the law officers of the Crown when taken, and he did not think it would be advisable to break through that precedent; but he had a distinct recollection having felt a great interest in the matter, that the law officers were of opinion that no claim at law could be substantiated by the Poor Knights of Windsor against the Dean and Chapter. If that opinion was well founded, what were they about to do? It was quite clear that the knights were unable
 805
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that he would suggest to the Government that it might be satisfactory if, with respect to these new works, the same form of Estimate was adopted that was recommended after deliberation by the Committee on the Ordnance and Naval Estimates. It would be satisfactory to know, first, what was the entire Estimate; next, the sum actually expended; then the sum proposed to be voted in the present year; and, lastly, what, in the opinion of the Government, remained to be expended. He would suggest that the Government should postpone this vote until Estimates prepared in this form had been laid before the House. He thought that the outlay in the Channel Islands was very large. The highest authorities were much divided in opinion with respect to the site that had been chosen for these works, and for a long time they were not placed under the control of the same department of Government which had the superintendence of other works, but were under
 819
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  thought the hon. Member for Montrose had contrived ingeniously to mix up two subjects totally unconnected with each other. The proposition of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire was to reduce the amoun-
 823 It is most inexpedient to make such grants the subject of an annual vote; therefore let us remove this element of discord from our annual settlings, and give such a sum as may render it unnecessary to introduce this clement of discord every year."—[3  Hansard, l. 824
 MR. W. MILES  said, the case would be a hard one if Sir Charles Trevelyan had given up his appointment to take another at a smaller salary; but this was not
 842 l.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  did not think that this was the proper time—on the occasion of a vote for repairs in certain parts of the College of Maynooth—to take into consideration the general principles on which Parliament in the year 1845 agreed to apply a sum for the erection of new buildings at Maynooth, and to place a certain charge on the Consolidated Fund for supporting professors, &c. That was done with due deliberation at that
 825 l.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  should support the vote; he considered that it was wise to pay public servants well. The docks engineer at Liverpool had 3,000 l. l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  was aware that the hon. Member for Manchester regarded diplomatic establishments of any kind with very little favour, and would probably wish that there was none at all; but he (Viscount Palmerston) could not bring
 797 l. l. l. l., l. luxe
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I have no positive knowledge of the conditions that may have been attached to the departure of those Polish and Hungarian refugees from Turkey; but I have reason to believe that there is attached that condition to Which the hon. Gentleman has alluded, namely, that they shall not return again to Turkey. With regard to the Polish subjects it is quite clear that such a condition is entirely in conformity with the treaties between Turkey and Russia. In fact, it was the alternative which the Sultan was entitled to choose when Russia required the surrender of those Poles, and the Sultan chose their expulsion from the Turkish territory. With regard to them there can be no doubt. With regard to the Hungarian refugees, being subjects of Austria, the obligations of the Sultan towards Austria undoubtedly are, that he shall not permit his territory to be made a place from whence any attempt might proceed to create disturbance in the Austrian dominions. The Austrian Government require that as a mode of executing the obligations of the Sultan, he shall keep such, dangerous persons confined within his territories. It was found, however, that the Sultan would be considered to have fulfilled his obligations of good neighbourhood towards Austria if he sent these Hungarians out of his dominions. The advice given by Her Majesty's Government to the Turkish Government, therefore, was in accordance with these views. The
 783
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the case of Mr. Ward, to which the hon. Gentleman has drawn attention, is sorry
 781 l. 782
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The British Government has not been required either to sanction or refuse that condition. But I have no difficulty in saying that from the first the advice which we gave to the Turkish Government was to cut short those embarrassing questions between it and the Government of Austria by dismissing these persons from the Turkish territory.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : The Commissioners have been sanctioned by the Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  moved that the Report of the Select Committee on the petition of Thomas Hugh Bradford and John Strutt, be brought up. He said, that there could not be the slightest doubt that it was a breach of the Privileges of the House, in as much as by Resolutions of the House, in 1689 and 1774, persons were forbid to sign the names of others to petitions. He should, therefore, move that the House do agree to the Report of the Committee.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  moved that they be brought to the bar of the House, and after being reprimanded by Mr. Speaker; discharged. He believed that in making that Motion he spoke the sense of the Committee who had reported upon this matter. He regretted very much the absence of the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. T. Greene), who presided over that Committee. It was at that hon. Gentleman's request that he made the present Motion. It appeared that Cunningham had signed the petition under the impression that Strutt had authority to direct him to do so. Had that not been the case, the Committee would not have been disposed to recommend to the House so lenient a course as that which he had suggested. A very gross breach of the Privileges of that House had been committed by these gentlemen; but he believed that the House would sufficiently mark its displeasure with their proceedings by agreeing to the Motion which he had made.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : But I tell you that it is so, for I have communicated with the Lord Chief Justice.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Bankes) had admitted the necessity of the Bill, and the necessity of the inquiry. He (Mr. Ellice) could not expect the House to listen to a statement of the case, which had been given some two or three times already; and it could have no attraction to the House whatever, for that was not what was before them. The case of the sitting Member for St. Albans was decided; he was, by Act of Parliament, the sitting Member; and hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite should just road the Act which seated the Member as soon as a decision of a Committee was given in his favour, one particular clause of that Act of Parliament saying that no after proceeding of any sort should affect the seat of the Member. So far as the sitting Member was concerned, the case was concluded, and the necessity of the Bill had been decided by a majority of that House. The only question then was, whether the Commissioners should be Members of that House or not? He (Mr. Ellice) stated on the last occasion that the Committee had come to the conclusion that the only satisfactory means of instituting an inquiry was by professional gentlemen independent of that House, as they would act not only as Commissioners of that House, but as Commissioners of the superior branch of the Legislature. If the Commissioners were Members of that House, he doubted if the House of Lords would take their report as a guide for legislation, but would rather insist either on appointing another Commission, or of examining witnesses at the bar of the House. Looking to former precedents, the examination of witnesses in that manner had been wholly inefficacious; but in the case of the Sudbury Commission, the Commissioners being independent professional men, as was now proposed, the House of Lords accepted the report of that Commission. Believing that both Houses would be prepared to legislate on the report of this Commission, being constituted of Gentlemen nominated equally by the House of Lords as by the House of Commons, he saw no earthly reason to change his views, and he should certainly persist in dividing upon the clause.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, he had consulted former precedents in which the Commissioners had been appointed by the Government, but he had referred the whole matter to the hon. and learned Attorney General.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in the case of the first Bill for inquiry, the nomination of the Commissioners was left to the then Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench; but that not proving satisfactory, the Attorney General of the time took upon himself to name three Gentlemen. So, in this case, he had been applied to as Attorney General, and he did name three Gentlemen; but after he had been told of the Sudbury case, in which the nomination had been left to the Lord Chief Justice, he communicated with the three Gentlemen he had named informing them of the facts, and also with the Lord Chief Justice, to whom he stated that he had no wish to influence his judgment, if he could find three Gentlemen of the Bar who would accept the Commission. The Lord Chief Justice answered that he had named three, but without stating who they were; but they proved to be the same that he (the Attorney General) had nominated. Two
 893
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that probably practices at the last election might connect themselves with practices at previous elections. It was not desirable to limit the period of inquiry; but they might safely leave it in the hands of the Commissioners.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, there was a grave charge against the borough in 1842.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he considered the clause necessary, on the ground that considerable public advantage would accrue from obtaining information from those who had been guilty of corrupt practices, and they could not obtain it without holding out protection as an inducement.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 896  did not apprehend there would be any objection to the petition being printed, but he thought it better that some time should be given before the discussion was brought on, to ascertain whether it came within the rules that had been laid down.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  considered that the discretion of printing or not printing the petition should be left in the hands of the Committee on Petitions; and he considered that they would feel it their duty not to print it. If the discussion was not to come on, it would be premature to have the petition printed with the Votes, as that would, to a certain degree, interfere with the question before the Committee. It was important to adhere to the rule of taking no proceedings in that House relative to any matter which was before a Committee. He should oppose the Motion for the printing of the petition.
 MR. HEADLAM  presented a petition from Richard Gresham, an elector of St. Albans, stating that he had seen from the notices in that House, that a Motion was to be made that day for the discharge from custody of Henry Edwards; that the said Edwards had been for years past actively engaged in bribing the electors and purchasing votes for money; that the petitioner believed that a full investigation of the practices in that borough could not be had without the examination of the said Edwards; and praying that he might not be discharged.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that although there would be no disposition to press hardly upon any individual who had been in prison for a considerable period, it should not be forgotten that the authority of the House had been set at naught by the proceedings which had originated with Mr. Edwards, and that the witnesses who bad been removed by him were still abroad. The Serjeant-at-Arms reported that his officer declared they were living at Boulogne with a Mr. Edwards; and it was desirable to know whether that person was or was not a relative of the prisoner, for the circumstances were very suspicious. If Mr. Edwards's health were endangered, the case would be different; but his assertion to that effect was unsupported by medical testimony. He thought, under all the
 899
 MR. CAMPBELL  would not disparage for a moment the peculiar product which the hon. Member (Mr. Bass) had very naturally eulogised, and of which he was not, in the presence of the House, a more brilliant and successful advocate, than he was in the opinion of mankind a useful and beneficent reformer. He did not wish the House to be at all biassed by two remarkable admissions which had been most candidly delivered by the hon. Member in his speech. They were, that he had no friends to-night among the maltsters or the brewers. Such a circumstance could hardly be considered as an argument in favour of the Motion. But the adverse and disinterested sentiment of both the maltsters and the brewers ought not to sway the House; unless it coincided with the public interests, he should take the liberty of glancing at. In as much as the House had settled by a large majority, not many weeks ago, that the total abrogation of the malt tax ought not to be endured or entertained: in spite of all that persevering eloquence could urge in support of so great a fiscal revolution, it would be consonant, perhaps, with the reason of the case upon the one hand, and the rules of that House upon the other, to consider upon what principles they were guided to their late conclusion, and how far those principles should guide them in their vote to-night. The principles which guided them the other night, were obviously the principles which had guided them on similar occasions for upwards of thirty years. They were in the works of our political economists. They had been embodied in debates, and had found their way into our literature. In March, 1835, the late Sir Robert Peel, in a remarkable address, had amplified, digested, and enforced them. That speech was well remembered in the House, and because it was well remembered, he (Mr. Campbell) would be very brief in his support of the conclusion which it vindicated. The principles in favour of the Malt Tax were short and easy to be stated. They were—that it was introduced in admirable times, and formed by admirable statesmen;
 905 s. d. s. 906
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND : The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down did not seem to know the grand difference between whisky and beer. It was the difference between whipcord and a feed of oats. Whipcord did not add to the strength of a horse, but a feed of oats did. He objected to the remission of half the malt tax, because the loss of income was a clear evil, without any corresponding benefit in the suppression of beer shops, which the repeal of the whole tax would effect. This tax, which prevented people brewing their own beer, drove them into the beer shops, and there was not a little trumpery hamlet of ten or twelve
 914
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that if his hon. and learned Friend were prepared to bring the subject before that House, he was completely justified in moving that the petition be printed; but as his hon. and learned Friend was not so prepared, it
 897
 MR. COWAN  seconded the Motion, and thanked the hon. Member for Montrose for his labours upon this subject. He was able to confirm fully what that hon. Member had stated with regard to the effect
 952
 MR. FREWEN  said, that the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) was doubtless aware that the great point which the agriculturists were anxious to obtain was the total repeal of the malt tax. Now, he wished to ask the hon. Member, whether he was to understand the present Motion for a reduction of half the duty as a stepping-stone toward its total repeal on some future occasion?
 MR. FREWEN  said, that under these circumstances he should not propose the Amendment of which he had given notice.
 MR. GEACH  would also request his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) to withdraw his Motion, believing that his object would be much better gained by the discussion which had taken place than by even a successful division.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  expressed a hope that the hon. Member for Derby would not divide the House. No man had voted more steadily than himself for the total repeal of the malt tax; but its partial remission would neither diminish the expense of its collection, nor remove the restrictions which it imposed upon agriculture, or on brewing at home. In short, it would afford none of those indirect advantages which the
 913
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to know how long it was intended to keep the prisoner in custody? It seemed hard to imprison him for an unlimited period because witnesses chose to absent themselves.
 MR. SPEAKER , replied that no questions could be asked of the prisoner at the bar.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  did not agree with the hon. Member for Salford in thinking that the poor labouring man could live upon cabbage water. He considered good wholesome malt liquor was absolutely necessary for him. But he did not think this Motion would afford any essential relief to the agricultural interest, whose distress could only be effectually remedied by proper import duties on foreign articles. He believed the day was not far distant when protection would again be restored, and then all the free-traders who had forgot their duty to the people, would have to go and hide themselves.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that although the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) was different in form from that which the House had lately rejected, every argument which had been adduced in its favour was brought forward when the Motion for a total repeal of the malt tax was discussed. That Motion was negatived, as the House would recollect, by a majority of nearly two to one; and though his hon. Friend had not brought himself within the the rules of the House by the terms of the Motion which he had submitted to it, it was in substance and in spirit the same which had been rejected; and the hon. Member for Petersfield (Sir W. Jolliffe) grounded his support of the present Motion upon the assumption that it was a stepping-stone to total repeal. The hon. Member for Petersfield had, however, given a very good reason why the House should not agree to the Motion—namely, that the expense of collection would remain the same even if half the duty were remitted. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had stated before, that no similar amount of taxation was raised so cheaply as the malt tax. Having so recently stated his views on the general question in answer to his hon. Friend the Member for the North Riding (Mr. Cayley), be confessed he felt in some little difficulty, because he was unwilling to repeat to the House the arguments which he had applied to that Motion. The hon. Member for Boston (Mr. Freshfield) had very properly asked what was the substitute which must he adopted for the malt tax. No man could be sanguine enough to suppose that 5,000,000 l. l. 912 l. l.
 MR. URQUHART  said, it was his intention to move, as an Amendment—
 "That it is inexpedient, by Resolutions of this House, to move the Crown to originate negotiations on abstract questions." casus belli. 930
 MR. URQUHART  explained, that he had not intended to charge the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) with the responsibility of what had occurred either in Syria or in Tahiti.
 MR. BANKES  said, under these circumstances he would not press further proceedings, but he thought the petition ought to be printed with the Votes.
 MR. BANKES  would with that assurance withdraw his Motion.
 MR. BANKES  begged to ask Mr. Speaker whether, in case the House should agree to the Motion, it would be competent for any hon. Member to question the prisoner at the bar of the House?
 MR. BANKES  said, the question then only was, that the petition be presented with the Votes. Should the Government object to that Motion, he would take the sense of the House on it. He thought the charge against the Government made in this petition should be tried immediately.
 MR. BANKES  moved that the petition which he presented on Monday, complaining of the conduct of the officers of the Government at the last election for the borough of Harwich, be printed with the
 895
 MR. BANKES  said, the petition he had presented did not respect the seat or the election petition. The allegation it contained was a direct charge against the Government. He could not say whether the allegation was true or not; but he felt justified in asking for inquiry. Should the Government or any of their friends say that they wished for delay, he should not object to give it.
 MR. BANKES  said, he objected to the clause, as it involved the main principle of his objection to the Bill. He regarded the Report of the Committee as utterly inconsistent. The Committee declared that the candidate against whom the petition had been presented had been duly elected, and at the same time declared that they had not been enabled to institute a full and fair inquiry, in consequence of certain material witnesses having been improperly removed and kept out of the way. He was far from objecting to further inquiry; on the contrary, he thought further inquiry was necessary in reference to the character of that House; but he was also of opinion that further inquiry should be conducted in such a manner as not additionally to compromise the character of that House. The Committee ought to have adjourned until the missing witnesses were obtained; or, if a Commission was to be appointed, that Commission should consist of Members of the House of Commons, and not of paid Commissioners, as now proposed. He objected to proceeding against the parties who had been corrupted, and granting to the party corrupting all the benefit at which he could have aimed when he resorted to improper means for the purpose of procuring his election. Who had corrupted the electors? There was but one Member, but one seat vacant, and yet the Member was seated, and the Committee proposed by this Bill to proceed, not against that Member, but against the parties who were corrupted. Was it creditable to the House, or an expedient course to pursue, to authorise the Member to be seated (when, if there had been corruption—assuming that such was the fact—he was the cause of it), and to direct all their proceedings against those who had been corrupted, with the view of punishing them by disfranchisement? The Committee having proposed this Bill, he would accept it; but he would endeavour to amend the Bill: and while he would do all which the Chairman of the Committee desired to have done, he would propose to do still more. He believed it was possible so far to amend this Bill as to ensure justice to the petitioner, and to preserve the character of that House. He hoped, above all things, that the House of Commons would not
 888 889 890
 MR. BANKES  said, he wished to limit the retrospective powers of the Commissioners. St. Albans was a very ancient borough, and the Commissioners might go back to its institution, or to the period when Duke Humphrey represented it, although he was not likely to have been guilty of treating.
 MR. BANKES  said, that the Sudbury case had not guided the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), for his Bill set out that no names should be inserted, but that it should be certified to the Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench that Commissioners were required, and leaving it to him to name them. The same provision might be made in the present Bill.
 MR. BANKES  wished for an explanation of the power of the Commissioners, which appeared to him to be those of both judge and prosecutor at the same time.
 MR. BANKES : At all events it would have been more decorous to have left the appointment with the senior Judge of Assize. As a precedent the course now proposed was a bad one, and the whole Bill was a bad precedent. He (Mr. Bankes) proposed what would be a better precedent, that they should appoint three Members of that House as Commissioners. Let it not be said that it was now too late to do justice, for it was never too late to do justice, and they had now the time and the means of remedying an oversight by offering to the House of Lords a Bill which they could pass. But if they sent to the Upper House such another Bill as that sent by the noble Lord in 1848, it would meet with the same fate. He should propose, in the first place, that the clause be omitted, and that would raise the question whether the Commissioners should be paid Commissioners, nominated by the Government, and carrying on their proceedings away from the influence of that House and from the public eye; or whether they should be, as they ought to be, under the immediate supervision of that House, and under the public eye? Let them wait, if it were necessary, till those witnesses who were concealed could be produced. He cared not how long they waited rather than that the House should be set at defiance; and he was willing to wait until the pecuniary resources of these witnesses ceased to enable them to baffle the power of the House. He should, therefore, move that this clause be omitted, and if he succeeded he should then substitute another clause, which should name other Commissioners, Members of that House, and selecting those who had been Members of the late Committee, if they would accept the service. If they refused, he would engage to find five Members of that House who would accept the functions,
 891
 MR. BANKES : That might be or might not be.
 MR. G. DUNCAN , as one of the Committee, could only say that the petition should be duly considered on the morrow.
 MR. GEORGE SANDARS : Sir, hav-
 910 s. s. s. s. d. d. d. s. l. s. d. s. d. 911
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, he readily admitted that, at the moment they had abolished protection and had adopted free trade, they had condemned the malt tax, and that it would be impossible to carry out the two systems together, and that sooner or later the malt tax must be repealed. But he was not prepared to vote, either immediately or gradually, for a repeal of the malt tax. It appeared to him they ought not to lose sight of that very important consideration—how the loss of the revenue derived from the malt tax could be supplied. In his opinion that was a matter of so much importance, that it was the duty of any Gentleman who proposed a repeal or a reduction of the tax, to state how he would raise an amount of revenue equal to that which he would repeal. He should further observe, that he did not think the repeal of the malt tax would afford any very general relief to the agricultural interest, although he was willing to admit that it would be productive of some partial benefit to that interest. He should also say it was a matter of the utmost importance to the agricultural interest in considering that question to know what tax they were to have as a substitute for the malt tax; for it was quite possible that the substitute might be worse than the tax itself. As an agriculturist he could gather no consolation from the proposal of the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. Alcock) that a duty of 10 l.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  thought it would open this dangerous and most mischievous door to evading punishment—that every person, however deeply implicated, obtained entire protection by causing himself to be examined as a witness.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  thought the recommendation of the Committee a merciful
 886
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, that this was a case in which as a general principle there had been no substantial decision by the Committee. In the case of Sudbury, taken
 892
 MR. HERRIES  thought it desirable that the discussion should be postponed.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, nobody could have heard the speech of the noble Lord without being pleased with its pacific tendency; and he was sure that the general effect of his speech would be, that every man of a peaceable disposition would have increased cause of admiration for the conduct of the noble Lord. But he must observe, that the way in which the noble Lord had represented the argument of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), would be calculated to mislead everybody as to the end which his hon. Friend had in view. The noble Lord said, he coincided in the end, but what he quarrelled with was the means. Now, the end which his hon. Friend at present proposed, was very different from what he had formerly brought before that House. Waving for the present all reference to other countries, he had corns forward with a clear and definite proposal for an agreement between the two great nations of France and England, and he asked why, in a time of profound peace, there should should be these heavy armaments. They
 943 944 Ironical cheers from Mr. Urquhart. 945
 MR. JOHN STUART  said, that if the Government thought they were dealing properly with the rights and liberties of those of Her Majesty's subjects who were electors of the borough of St. Albans, they differed in opinion from Lord Denman, who had opposed the Bill of the noble Lord in 1848, and from the late Sir Robert Peel, who had said in the debate on the noble Lord's Bill that in all inquiries of this kind the rights of the electors should be attended to. He acquitted the Committee of all intention to do anything contrary to the rights of the subject; but now that the attention of the Attorney and Solicitor General was directed to them, he felt bound to ask by what safeguard or in what way did the Government intend by this measure to protect the rights of electors? By the Bill no elector against whose character aspersions had been launched had the light to appear before the Commissioners and defend himself. Even the petitioners had no right to appear before these Commissioners, whose functions were purely inquisitorial, to defend themselves against any accusation, or to prefer accusation against anybody else. All he asked for was fair play. He thought it was the duty of that House to inquire into the state of corruption in this borough, and to punish it; but let whatever was done be done in a fair and honourable manner. Let the Committee act upon the principle that none but guilty parties should be punished, and it would be easy to frame the Bill so as to produce that effect, for the present proceeding was neither a correct or a constitutional one, and was not
 894
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, the arguments used by some hon. Gentlemen in favour of the repeal of the malt tax, were with him the strongest arguments for resisting it. He contended that beer was not a necessary of life. The hon. Member for Derby bad argued that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not lose by the proposed remission, because the consumption of beer would be increased. Did the hon. Member mean to say that double the present quantity of beer would be drunk? If so, it would lead to extensive demoralisation. The establishment of beershops and dram shops had so perverted the minds of the people that they called evil good, and good evil. It was but the other night that he beard in that House an eulogium on whisky. It was well known that one half the crimes committed in this country and in Scotland were occasioned by the use of intoxicating liquors. He maintained that there was more nutriment in two penny worth of bread than in a shillingsworth of whisky or beer. In his opinion there was no better mode of raising a revenue than by taxing these articles, and he should be very sorry to see the Chancellor of the Exchequer give way in any degree by reducing the duties upon them.
 MR. BROTHERTON  was desirous of expressing his gratification at the sentiments expressed by the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs; but he hoped that some Member of the Government would give a more positive assurance than had been given by the noble Lord, that the negotiations for the mutual reduction of armaments proposed by his hon. Friend (Mr. Cobden) would be carried into effect. He did not subscribe to the maxim, that in order to preserve peace they must be prepared for war. The best mode of preserving peace, in his opinion, was to act on just principles. He
 948
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he hoped that hon. Members would show the Speaker and the House some mercy. They had been in that House at Two o'clock this morning—they had met again at Two in the day, and they should have to meet again To-morrow morning.
 MR. HUME  said, it was very desirable that the House should be unanimous on the present occasion. He understood from the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary that he approved of the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Cobden), and, if so, he thought that the noble Lord should accept the Motion. His hon. Friend showed that the increase of the armaments in France was owing to the increase of the armaments of this country, whilst in this country the increase of the armaments of France was put forward as the ground of increasing the military and naval establishments of England. What his hon. Friend wanted was to put an end to the expensive policy on both sides. The noble Lord was praised for preserving peace. But he (Mr. Hume) would ask, what country came to attack them? It was to him quite sickening to hear all this talk about preserving the peace of the world. They had now been nearly forty years at peace, and during that period they had spent 10,000,000 l. l.
 MR. HUME  said, he would not divide the House, but it was a strong argument against the monopoly that ten years of it should be valued at 300,000 l.
 MR. HUME  said, he had never been able to learn upon what ground the Universities assumed a monopoly in the printing of the Bible, further than a decision in a court of law some years ago, which he believed was still binding. The highest authorities had recently given their testimony as to the immense advantages resulting from the diffusion of the Bible amongst the people, and it was manifest that any monopoly such as that sanctioned by the Queen's printers' patent tended to impede that diffusion, and thereby deprive the people of this country of the blessings which would otherwise flow upon them. The monopoly had expired in Scotland, and the result had been a vast increase to the enlightenment, and a great improvement in the morals of the people, occasioned by a more extensiver eading of the Holy Scriptures. Not only were the Bibles printed in Scotland now cheaper than those printed under the monopoly, but they were considerably superior in point of accuracy. Bibles were now from 50 to 60 per cent cheaper than under the old system. The University Bibles could not be sold in the United States of America because they were so full of errors. Before the Committee, which he obtained some years ago on this subject, a University Bible was produced, in which there were no fewer than 12,000 errors, as printers would designate them. The Queen's printers, feeling that others were debarred from printing the Bible, fell into careless habits with regard to its printing. Chillingworth, in the reign of Charles I., had said that the Bible, and the Bible alone, was the religion of Protestants. If that were true, what madness then was it to restrict its sale, by giving a monopoly of its printing to a few individuals. In 1846, the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) stated in that House, that the degree to which the Bible was a sealed book, was most lamentable. The Queen, in Her reply to the address presented from the universities a few months ago, on the subject of the appointment of a Roman Catholic hierarchy, dwelt on the necessity of the rising portion of Her subjects being trained in a knowledge of the Holy Scriptures. The Archbishop of Canterbury, at the opening of the Crystal Palace, had prayed that God's glory might be increased by the diffusion of His holy word. But of what avail was it to talk in that strain when the people were prevented by Royal Letters Patent from purchasing at a cheap
 951 d. s. d.
 MR. HUME  was glad that the discussion had had the effect of showing that hon. Gentlemen opposite were convinced that the present system of taxation could not go on much longer. He differed from the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton), and was of opinion that the use of beer in moderation gave more strength to our population. He hoped the hon. Mover would not press his Motion, because all the benefit would go into the pockets of the brewers. He should, however, have been ready to support the entire repeal of the tax; and he would tell the House how it could be done. Let them reduce their establishments—the soldiers from 100,000 to 60,000, and the seamen from 40,000 to 25,000, which was the number a few years ago. He believed the time was fast approaching when they must go back to that standard, for the tendency of things was every day setting more and more in that direction.
 MR. HUME  thought it would be a clear interference with the administration of justice to raise a discussion on the petition.
 MR. HUME  thought it would be premature to discharge Mr. Edwards at present. All the culpable parties in this case kept out of the way; and, if the petitioner were liberated, what security had the House that he would not do the same? In his opinion they would act foolishly to let off the man who was allowed to be the chief participator, if not actor, in the matter.
 MR. HEYWORTH  perfectly agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down, in thinking that it would be impossible to maintain for any length of time the tax upon malt, which, being a tax upon consumption, could not fail to press heavily upon the industry of the country. He was rejoiced to hear the arguments which had been that night employed on the other side of the House, as he was convinced that the repeal of the malt tax must lead to direct taxation, which must, after all, be the system which would prevail. He would carry down the income tax to the lowest level, even so far as to tax the wages of the labouring poor, and then the Exchequer would be rich enough to take off not only 5,000,000 l. l.
 MR. BASS  said, that in submitting the Motion of which he had given notice, for the repeal of half the Malt Tax, after the 10th October, 1852, he would not at present enter into any elaborate consideration of the question; but he would take the earliest opportunity of assuring the House that his proposition did not, in any way, involve the revenues of the current financial year. Not desiring that his proposition should involve those revenues, he had, with that view, named a day beyond the financial year, namely, the 10th of October, 1852; and, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer might make himself easy on that point. The issue he then wished to try was, whether the House was disposed, at any period, to entertain the question of a reduction of the duty on malt. In bringing forward this Motion he wished to impress it on the House, that he had no desire whatever to embarrass Her Majesty's Government; on the contrary, he had been
 900 l. 901 "The present enormous duty on malt constitutes in itself one of the great grounds on which agriculturists can establish a claim for protection against competition." 902 s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. d. d. 903 d. d. s. d. d. l. s. l. l. s. s. l. l. 904
 MR. BASS  said, that having voted on two recent occasions for the total repeal of the tax, he should have supposed that the hon. Member would not have thought it necessary to make such an inquiry. He was certainly favourable to the total repeal of the malt tax, but upon the principle of half a loaf being better than no bread, he would for the present be satisfied with the promise of a partial reduction.
 MR. BASS , in reply, said, he believed that the adoption of his proposition would occasion no loss, but rather an increase, to the revenue, as had been the experience of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with respect to all articles on which the duties had been reduced. With regard to the observation of the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton), he (Mr. Bass) wondered how he could venture to offer an opinion on that point, when he confessed that he
 915
 MR. COBDEN  said: The Resolution I have now to move is a logical sequence to the discussion in which the House has just been engaged. It has been said, in the course of that discussion, that it is impossible for certain interests to support the present amount of taxation. One of the motives that has influenced me in bringing forward this Resolution is, that I thought it was so far suited to the present circumstances of the country that it would tend to produce a diminution of burdens and a relief from taxation. I wish the real scope and purport of my Motion to be understood at the outset, so that it may not be misrepresented in the debate. I do not propose, then, to discuss or entertain the amount of the armies maintained upon the Continent. When I speak of warlike preparations I allude to naval establishments and fortifications. Our Army is maintained without reference to the armies of the Continent, and the armies of the Continent are never framed or regulated with reference to the Army of England. In speaking of standing armies, which I regard as the standing curse of the present generation, the question is usually complicated by considerations of a purely domestic character. I am told that the armies of the Continent are not kept up by the Governments for the sake of meeting foreign enemies, but for the purpose of repressing their own subjects. This being the case, I am asked how I can persuade foreign Governments to reduce their armies, seeing that they are necessary for the maintenance of internal order, as it is called. But no such argument applies to my proposition, which is confined exclusively to the maritime armaments of England and France. I will, however, say, that I believe that if I can succeed in my Motion with France, the example of the two countries will be at once followed by other countries in the reduction of their navies, and that if a reduction in the naval forces and fortifications, of England and France takes place, other countries will afterwards follow with
 917 "There is nothing offensive to England in citing her example when our Navy is under considera-
 918 "So far from its affording any cause of offence to Prance that we should measure our Navy by such a standard, I am sure any one who follows the debates in the French Chambers, when their naval estimates come under discussion, must know that they follow the same course, adopting the natural and only measure in such cases, namely, the naval force which other nations may happen to have at the time."—3  Hansard, l. l. "I am not alluding at all—it never has been the custom to allude, and I think we are quite right in that respect—to what may be the military force of foreign Powers. I do not, therefore, allude at all to the amount of the standing army that is kept up in France, or in Austria, or in Prussia, or in other foreign countries; but so great an increase in naval estimates, I think, does require the attention, and, at all events, should be within the knowledge of the House."—p. 912. 919 "We have now to announce the execution of a great scheme which the English Government is pursuing with its usual foresight, and which cannot fail to have a vast influence on the naval policy of other countries." "That under the modest guise of steam guardships, the British Admiralty had determined on building eight additional line-of-battle ships, to be fitted out for continuing fifteen days at sea, and that the number was intended to he doubled in the next year. If we compare the powers of destruction possessed by the broadsides of these floating fortresses with those of the most formidable batteries ever employed by an army upon land for the destruction of fortified places, we shall then know what to think of an armament provided under the modest and defensive guise of steam guardships. It is, then, for France an absolute necessity to prepare an armament of a similar character and of equal force, so that we may have nothing to dread in future, in case of a possible misunderstanding with England." "Now, he found no fault with France for these things. France did what she thought right and necessary for the maintenance of her position. She set us, in many respects, a noble example. These facts, it appeared to him, ought to be a lesson to us. They imposed a very heavy respon-
 920 Hansard, "Let us see whether foreign Powers really show us the example of a reduction of naval armaments. This very spring England has voted 40,000 men for the sea service. This vote will amount to 6,000,000 l. "It was impossible to fix upon what was necessary in their own establishment without looking to the establishments of foreign countries. He might, however, observe that they had had sufficient proof in the course of the last year that a gallant, active, and intelligent people, not far from themselves, had not by any means neglected their naval establishments and naval power."—3  Hansard, "If we would be fully alive to the necessity of no longer leaving in a defenceless state a point most important and certainly the most menaced
 921 Times. 922 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 923 "Arrangements between the United States and Great Britain, between Richard Rush, Esq., acting as Secretary of the Department of State, and Charles Bagot, his Britannic Majesty's Envoy Extraordinary, &c., April 1817:—The naval force to be maintained upon the American lakes by His Majesty and the Government of the United States shall henceforth be confined to the following vessels on each side, that is—On Lake Ontario, to one vessel not exceeding 100 tons burden, and armed with one 18-pound cannon; on the upper lakes to two vessels, not exceeding like burden each, and armed with like force; on the waters of Lake Champlain, to one vessel, not exceeding like burden, and armed with like force. All other armed vessels on these lakes shall be forthwith dismantled, and no other vessels of war shall be there built or armed. If either party should hereafter be desirous of annulling this stipulation, and should give notice to that effect to the other party, it shall cease to be binding after the expiration of six months from the date of such notice. The naval force so to be limited shall be restricted to such services as will in no respect interfere with the proper duties of the armed vessels of the other party." "I have told the Ministers repeatedly that a naval superiority on the lakes is a  sine quâ non 924 925 Ohio 926 ad infinitum Times "Wars of nation against nation are not the evil of the day, but the contests between classes in the same country. Europe is already so much governed by the representatives of taxpayers, that an European war is an affair of improbable occurrence. Even in countries where constitutional government is not understood, the ruling power would be very slow, for its own sake, to impose taxes for purposes of war. Europe has remained at peace, although European society has gone through convulsions in the course of the last five years, of which history presents no example since the breaking up of the Roman empire." 927 vice versâ. 928 "An Address to Her Majesty, praying that She will direct the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to enter into communication with the Government of France and endeavour to prevent in future that rivalry of warlike preparations in time of Peace, which has,
 929
 MR. COBDEN  felt unfeigned satisfaction at the tone which the debate had taken. He was satisfied with the declaration of the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary, and he should not, after what had been stated as to the confidence reposed by his friends in the noble Lord, persevere in the Motion, which he withdrew for the present Session. He considered, however, that the only fault of the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton) was being a little too sanguine in favour of the Ministerial benches.
 MR. SPOONER  hoped the House would not be influenced by that which the petitioner said he believed. The petitioner, indeed, asked for that which could not be obtained by keeping Henry Edwards in custody; because, while in custody, be was suffering punishment, and it was unknown to the law that while a man was suffering punishment he should be called upon to give evidence as to that for which he was suffering. He knew nothing with respect to the prisoner or with reference to St. Albans, nor would he have presented any petition in favour of the man's discharge had it not been put into his hands by a solicitor of the very highest character, upon whose narration of the facts he could completely rely. Henry Edwards came before that House, offering a full and complete confession of his guilt. However right it was to vindicate the authority of that House, he thought there was a limit beyond which it ought not to be carried. If Mr. Edwards were kept in his present position the consequences might be ruinous to him, for he was a farmer. He had a wife and a large family, and he was suffering from illness, and stood in need of a change of air and removal from prison. It might be objected that there was an obstacle in the way of an inquiry into the whole state of the case, for that the witnesses were out of the way, and the petitioner had been one of those who aided
 898
 MR. ALCOCK  thought that the country should feel deeply indebted to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bass) for bringing forward this question, As they could not get total repeal, he thought that even the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would admit that great injustice had been suffered under the malt tax, and that it was only in a financial point of view that the continuance of the tax was tolerated. He would take that opportunity of suggesting to the right hon. Gentleman that it was in his power this evening to propose an act of benefit to the agricultural interest, which would be attended with immense advantage. It was, namely, to threaten the imposition of a duty upon Peruvian guano. He would suggest to the right hon. Gentleman the propriety of proposing a tax of 10 l. l. l. l. s. l. s. 907 l. s. l. l. s. l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  hoped that the unknown but most important individual who had employed Mr. Edwards to keep those witnesses out of the way, and was now paying for them at Boulogne, would put Mr. Edwards in a better position to appeal to the mercy of the House by bringing back the witnesses who had absconded.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  cordially agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield in paying a tribute of approbation to the speech of the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. The hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) had no reason to consider that speech a hostile one. On the contrary, he was entitled to feel that its tone, and the admissions it contained, were very much in the direction of his Resolution. But if there was anything to complain of in the speech of the noble Lord, it was rather that of omitting to give any approval of the precise object which the hon. Member for the West Riding had in view, that precise object being a reduction of armaments and then a reduction of taxation—areduction of armaments brought about by means which would not affect the position of this country, which would leave her in as good a position to repel attack as she was before, and would not leave her to the necessity of depending upon what the noble Lord deprecated—namely, upon the forbearance of foreign countries, seeing that she offered great temptations either to the ambition or avarice of other nations. The proposition did not invite the House to depend on the forbearance of any country. It did not ask them to place the country in a position in which she would be unable to repel attack, but it merely asked the noble Lord to act now in reference to the reduction of the force precisely upon the same principle on which he him-
 946 947
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  had never heard any one offer a word in defence of our works at Alderney, where a sum of 600,000 l.
 MR. HAYTER  said, the petition directly stated that there had been intimidation at the last election, and the election petition also stated that there had been intimidation; therefore the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Bankes) was not correct in saying that this petition was simply against the Government; it was in fact quite germane to the petition affecting the validity of the election. Consistently with the precedent of 1834, and with common sense and reason, the House ought not to entertain a petition containing vague charges of influence and intimidation, when there was a proper tribunal for deciding the question whether the election had been properly conducted or not.
 MR. MACKINNON : Sir, I have listened with great attention to the speech of the hon. Gentleman who has brought this Motion forward—a measure that does him great honour, one which, coupled with his exertions for universal peace, will entitle him to the thanks of the present and future generations. The question before us is one to which I have paid some attention, and in which I take considerable interest. I think the hon. Gentleman deserves praise for the pains he has taken and the talent he has displayed on the subject. On looking back to the history of mankind from the first ages to the present time, it is a melancholy retrospect to find that in all ages, in all countries, man has been occupied in the destruction of his species. The early wars of mankind appear to have been wars in some measure of necessity. In barbarous tribes it appears that the locality they occupy is calculated barely to support them, that is, to keep them alive; if another tribe endeavours to occupy the same spot, both would perish together:
 931 932 933
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  objected to the printing of the petition, and begged to appeal to Mr. Speaker requesting the right of hon. Gentlemen to declare whether it was proper for the House, considering that a petition complaining of the return for the borough of Harwich was under investigation, to have this petition printed. There was a similar case in 1834, when Sir Robert Peel and Sir James Scarlett opposed the reception of a petition of a like nature on the ground that it would influence the minds of the Committee appointed to try the merits of the return. He (Sir De L. Evans) thought the discussion proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Bankes) would be out of order.
 SIR GEORGE CLERK  said, a similar petition had been presented this Session in relation to the Falkirk district of burghs. The House had agreed to the reception of the petition; but the hon. Member who presented it (Mr. Cobden) did not raise the question on it until after the Falkirk election petition was brought to a close. In the present case Mr. Speaker had announced that the recognisances for the petition complaining of the return for Harwich had been perfected, and therefore the election petition was in train of being investigated, and this second petition ought not to be discussed.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the object of printing petitions was to enable hon. Members to bring questions before that House; but as he understood that the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Bankes) did not intend in this instance to raise a discussion, he thought he ought to suspend his Motion for the printing.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought it would be hard upon the petitioner if he were kept in prison until the witnesses returned, were it not for the fact that he had been instrumental in their removal. Mr. Edwards only referred to his solicitor to show that he had no power over the witnesses, and was not able to bring them back, but he did not state that to be the case on his own authority. He (Sir G. Grey) thought that they ought not to assent to the Motion without some better assurance on the point than that of Mr. Edwards's solicitor.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  would not occupy the House long in his observations upon this Motion. It was hardly necessary to say that they must all concur with the hon. Member for Montrose in desiring the greatest possible circulation to be given to the Scriptures throughout the country; and it was most desirable that no monopoly should exist that tended to enhance the price of the Bible, provided that due care was taken to secure accuracy in the text. He apprehended that to secure that accuracy was the original object in granting these patents to the Queen's printer. He admitted that in Scotland the Board to which reference had been made had worked in a manner fully equal to the expectations of those who had constituted it, and that very beneficial results had followed from its constitution. But without entering into the question of whether it was desirable that the patents should be granted or not, there was an objection to the Motion on the face of it, as it assumed that the Crown had a power which it really did not possess. These patents were granted in England and Scotland under the Act of 21 James I., cap. 3, and his hon. Friend was wrong in saying that the patent had been revoked in Scotland. [MR. Hume: I said expired.] He had misunderstood the hon. Member. It was on the expiration, and not en the revocation of the patent in 1839 that the Board had been appointed. The patent in question had nine years to run yet, and the hon. Gentleman in asking the Crown to revoke it, even if the Crown had the power to do so, was expecting an interference which would not be strictly legal;
 953 d. d.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that during this discussion hon. Gentlemen had altogether lost sight of one class of their fellow-subjects, namely, those British merchants who were residing in far distant countries. Their merchants residing at Valparaiso and Buenos Ayres felt now a security which they would not feel if they did not know that the fleet of England was prepared and able to protect them whenever circumstances should demand their interference. He hoped that their feelings and interests would never be lost sight of.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  thought the hon. Gentleman would never propose revoking the patent without offering com-compensation, probably of 200,000 l. l.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : If unanimity could be secured he should not object to the Motion, but as the Government
 949
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that as he was a farmer, perhaps the House would excuse him if he said one or two words on the manner in which the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. Alcock) had introduced the subject to which he had referred. He (Sir W. Jolliffe) should be exceedingly obliged to the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs if he would compel the Peruvian Government to supply him with guano at 5 l. l. s. 908 l. l. s. 909
 MR. W. MILES  said, if it could be shown that these three Commissioners were appointed by the Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench, it would be more satisfactory.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, nothing could be so unpleasant to a Minister of the Crown as to risk the being taxed in future with the breach of an engagement. He must request the House, therefore, to observe what it was that he had said. He entirely concurred with the principle and object of the hon. Member's Motion, which he conceived to be not only the maintenance of peace with France, but the inspiring between the two Powers and the two Governments those principles of mutual confidence which would put an end to jealousies. He objected to the Motion, because he believed it was not the best means of arriving at the result. He begged not to be understood as undertaking that the Government would enter into negotiation. They would consider themselves perfectly free to use their own discretion according to circumstances; but the object at which they would aim would be that which he had stated to be their guiding principle.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that his allusion was to the basins there.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, in anything I may say in opposition to the Motion of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), I will beg the House not to suppose that I wish to express, or that I am actuated by, any feelings or principles at variance with the fundamental principle upon which his proposition is founded. However I may differ from my hon. Friend, if I may so call him, with regard to many of the opinions which he from time to time expresses in this House, and however little I may think the methods by which he endeavours to give practical effect to his general principles are those best calculated to attain his end, yet in regard to those international principles and feelings which influence his political views as the advocate of peace, I am ready to do him the most ample justice, and to subscribe implicitly to the general tendency of the views which he from time to time expresses. I trust the part it has been my lot to take in administering one department of the affairs of this country has shown that there has been nothing in my conduct in any degree inconsistent with the opinions I am now professing; for, however it maybe the fashion with some persons, in that easy colloquial jaunty style in which they discuss public matters, to declaim against modern diplomacy and international intermeddling, yet at least I can appeal to facts. I can appeal to the fact that during the considerable period for which I have been responsible for the conduct of the foreign relations of this country, though events have happened in Europe of the most remarkable kind, and attended with great commotions of public feeling, and great agitation in the social and political system of the Continent—although during that period events have happened which have brought the interests of England, I will not say into conflict, but into opposition to the interests of other great and powerful nations, yet, at least, the fact is that we have been at peace, and that not only has peace been preserved between this country and other nations, but that there has been no international war of magnitude between any of the other great Powers of Europe. If then, on the one hand, we are
 934 935 l. l. 936 937 Collingwood, 938 "It is a remarkable fact that at this moment there was a reconciliation between the noble Lord and M. Thiers; at that very moment M. Thiers was recommending a great augmentation of the French navy; and, rely upon it, whenever the French augment their navy, it is because they intend to attack England. The noble Lord, therefore, chose for his reconciliation with M. Thiers the very moment when it was manifest to the world that M. Thier's entertained hostile views with regard to this country." 939 l. 940 941 942
 MR. BERNAL  thought, generally speak
 972
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that by this clause the duty of nominating an umpire was, in certain cases, thrown
 974
 MR. GRAINGER  said, he hoped the Committee would not alter the law as it at present stood, which placed the landlord and creditors on the same footing. Now, it was proposed to give the landlord an advantage which would prevent any execution creditor from having any remedy by distress against corn growing on the land. He therefore hoped that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Mullings) would not press the clause.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, if one execution creditor could come in and have a preference over other creditors, that might be a reason for altering the law of debtor and creditor. It appeared to him that it would be better to adhere to the existing law, which was fair both to the landlord and the execution creditor.
 MR. GRAINGER  said, that if landlords put in distresses quarterly, the effect would be, that before long the whole law of distress would be abolished altogether. He must protest against any system which would give an unfair preference to landlords over other classes.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that the observance of the seventh day was not a mere Jewish rule, but antecedent to the Sinai code, and as ancient as the creation of the world itself. His constituents took a deep interest in the Bill, and he believed no metropolitan Member had opposed it. [Mr. T. DUNCOMBE: Oh, yes! last year.] The Bill of last year was not the present Bill. The hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) having introduced the Bill, consented to its being committed to a Select Committee; and in order that the Bill might not be defeated by vexatious delay, a compromise was entered into with the hon. Member for Salisbury (Mr. B. Wall), by which that hon. Member was allowed to introduce into the measure certain exceptions, many of which had been ridiculed by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck).He therefore thought the hon.
 965
 MR. HINDLEY  would remind the House that this was a Bill recommended by the Select Committee; and what chance was there of carrying any future Bill of this description if the present measure were rejected? Let the House reject the Bill if they pleased, but let them deal with it honestly, and upon fair grounds. In every Session of Parliament the same complaints were made of the difficulty of dealing with the details of Bills of this kind. He urged the hon. Member (Mr. W. Williams) not to withdraw the Bill, because the Home Secretary had declared that the difficulty was inherent in the subject itself. He believed that before long Sunday legislation would be made an election question, and a metropolitan Member would not dare to ask an hon. Member having charge of such a Bill to withdraw it. The proposers of this Bill had been desirous to make every rational concession, and this was the return
 968
 MR. SPEAKER  understood the hon. Baronet was about to move a new writ for Bath, in the room of Lord Ashley; and, if so, he was in order.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would recommend to let landlord and tenant alone.
 973
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the hon. Member for Rochdale had spoken of the feeling of the landlords. As an Irish landlord he believed the Irish landlords were willing to adopt the principle of this Bill, and to allow their tenants the value of any unexhausted improvement.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that in Ireland anybody could seize crops except the landlord, who was continually cheated by fraudulent acknowledgments.
 Mr. FRESHFIELD  said, that the rights of landlords had recently been materially narrowed. He defended the clause,
 975
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, it might be desirable to improve a farm with the consent of the landlord; but he being only tenant for life, could not bind his successor, and in that case it was important that the tenant should be allowed to erect these buildings on just terms—namely, that he should be allowed to remove them at the end of his tenancy.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the preference given to landlords had excited great discussion in Scotland and England. The report of the Devon Commission went, he thought, to the same effect; and he suggested that the law should be left as it was, inasmuch as any attempt to bolster it up by a new enactment might lead to its being abolished sooner than it might otherwise have been.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he must deny that this was a Bill of which metropolitan Members only were called on to express approval or disapproval. This was a measure totally uncalled for; and, as it now stood, it was simply so much waste paper. Let them see what the Bill was. It first set forth that it was expedient to make further provision for restraining and preventing the practice of Sunday trading in
 957 "That if any person shall on Sunday, within the metropolitan police district, or within the city of London or liberties thereof, sell, vend, hawk, cry, or offer or expose for sale" [he did not know where they got all this phraseology], "or caused to be sold, vended, hawked, cried, or offered or exposed for sale, any goods, chattels, effects, matters, or things whatsoever." "Or, if any dealer in meat, fish, poultry, game, or wildfowl, shall on Sunday, after the hour of ten of the clock in the morning, deliver or cause to he delivered, any meat, fish, poultry, game, or wild fowl at the residence of, or at any other place, for the purchaser thereof every such person, being convicted thereof before a justice of the peace, shall forfeit and pay any sum, not exceeding twenty shillings." "Provided always, and be it enacted, that the provisions of this Act shall not extend or apply to any apothecary, chemist, or druggist selling or vending, or offering or exposing for sale, or causing to be sold or vended, or offered or exposed for sale, any medicine, drug, or other article for medicinal purposes, nor to the exercising of any work of necessity or charity, or to cases of sickness and sudden emergency." "Nor to any person selling, vending, hawking, crying, or offering, or exposing for sale, or causing to be sold, vended, hawked, cried, or offered or exposed for sale, any milk or cream before the hour of ten of the clock in the morning, or after the hour of one of the clock in the afternoon." 958 d. 959 —"for every police constable acting within the metropolitan police district or City of London, or liberties thereof, without warrant, to seize all goods, chattels, effects, matters, and things whatsoever, which shall or may be hawked, cried, offered or exposed for sale in any market, highway, or other public place, or on any open ground whatsoever apart from the residence of the person offending, contrary to the provisions of this Act, and to convey the same to the nearest police station, and there detain such goods, chattels, &c., until application shall be made for the same by or on behalf of the owner thereof." "It shall and may be lawful for such justice to direct the same or any part thereof to be sold or disposed of as he shall think fit." 960 "That in all cases in which it shall be necessary to prove any previous conviction against any person under this Act, a certificate containing the substance and effect only (omitting the formal part) of the record of the conviction of the previous offence, purporting to be signed by the proper officer having the custody of such record, &c., shall, upon proof of the identity of the offender, be sufficient evidence of the previous conviction, without proof of the signature or official character of the person appearing to have signed the same." "In case any such penalty or sum of money, together with such costs as may be awarded, shall not be paid, then it shall be lawful for any justice of the peace acting in the metropolitan district or in the City of London, by warrant under his hand, to commit the party making such default to some common gaol or house of correction within his jurisdiction, there to remain for any time not exceeding 48 hours."
 MR. TRELAWNY  believed that the prime motive which had induced the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams)
 970
 MR. BROTHERTON  begged to offer his humble tribute of respect to Lord Ash-
 956
 MR. HENLEY  said, the object of the Bill seemed to be to assimilate the law between farmers and tradesmen. He understood his hon. Friend (Mr. Mullings) to say he would guard the provisions alluded to by the hon. Member for Rochester (Mr. Bernal) by requiring the assent of the landlord. Tradesmen could remove buildings erected for the purposes of trade, such as brick walls, &c. He thought the principle of assimilation of farmers and tradesmen, on the whole, a good one; but it was necessary, as he had already said, that such a provision should be properly and carefully guarded.
 MR. HENLEY  suggested that it would be better to leave the law as it at present stood. He, therefore, thought it would be better to strike out the clause altogether.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was afraid that the clause would force landlords to put in distresses quarterly when they were apprehensive of losing their rent.
 MR. HUME  considered the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale (Mr. S. Crawford) was fraught with danger. The rights of property were the basis of society, and it was dangerous to interfere with them.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, the clause was necessary to prevent the landlord from losing his rent, and he should therefore press it to a division.
 MR. MULLINGS  denied that the clause would affect the rights of creditors.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he wished to explain that the object of the first two clauses of this Bill was to give compensation to landlords in cases in which a tenant for life died after having sown part of the land which he held, and before the crop was reaped. In such cases, by the present law, executors were entitled to reap such crops without paying any rent from the day of the tenant's death. The Bill passed through the House last Session, with the clauses which now formed part of it, but the Bill was eventually lost. His object was, that there should be a continuance of the existing tenancy up to the end of the current year, except in some cases, for which he had provided. In some cases, if the growing crops were seized under an execution under the present law, the crops might be seized without payment of the rent. Now, he had introduced a provision to meet this manifest injustice, to the effect that the landowner might be paid for the use of his land. The 4th clause related to agricultural fixtures, and he believed it would effect an improvement in the state of the law with respect to them. His object was simply to amend and reform the law where it had been found defective.
 MR. MULLINGS  moved the insertion of words, rendering the previous consent
 976
 MR. MULLINGS  then moved the following now clause:—
 "That if any occupying tenant of land shall quit, leaving unpaid any arrear of tithe rent charge for or charged upon such land, which he was by the terms of his tenancy or holding liable to pay, and the tithe owner shall give or have given notice of proceeding by distress upon the land for recovery thereof, it shall be lawful for the landlord, or the succeeding tenant or occupier, to pay any such arrear and any expenses incident thereto, and to recover the amount or sum of money so paid over against such first-named tenant or occupier, or his legal representatives, in the same manner as if the same were a debt by simple contract due from such tenant or occupier to the landlord or tenant making such payment."
 MR. BUCK  thought the Bill would be very injurious unless words were introduced to prevent the buildings being erected without the consent of the landlord.
 MR. FORSTER  rose to order. He begged to ask Mr. Speaker whether the hon. Member was in order in making this Motion, accompanied by observations, without notice?
 MR. SPOONER  said, he had practical experience of the evil of the present state of the law. He was an executor of a deceased clergyman who had farmed 400 acres of glebeland, and he was obliged to keep on the farm in order to make the most of the emblements; and, consequently, until the growing crops were disposed of, the new clergyman was deprived of hisincome. This was an evil which ought to be remedied.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) mistook the object of the Bill. The object was to enable landlords who had not the whole estate to make agreements.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he rose for the
 961
 MR. ALCOCK  intended to divide with the hon. Member for Lambeth, if he should press for a division; at the same time, he thought the hon. Member would exhibit a wise discretion by withdrawing the Bill for the present. He (Mr. Alcock) was content to rest his support of such a measure as this on the ground that no impediment whatever should be placed in the way of the working classes enjoying at least one day of rest in the week.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  objected to the retention of the words "or otherwise," which might be construed to give landlords other remedies beyond distress.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that ever since the days of Sir Andrew Agnew he had been opposed to this sort of contemptible legislation. The hon. Member for Ashton-under-Lyne (Mr. Hindley) said this question was to become a hustings one, and that he (the Member for Ashton-under-Lyne) would undertake to say that no Member for the metropolitan districts would dare to show his face if he were not in favour of this Bill. He (Mr. T. Duncombe) denied that the metropolis was in favour of this Bill. The working classes, almost to a man, were opposed to it. Only that afternoon a deputation had waited on him who represented the order of "Old Friends." [An Hon. MEMBER: Odd Fellows.] No; "Old Friends." This society was composed of the working classes, and numbered in the metropolis upwards of 40,000 members. He had asked them what they thought of this Bill, and if they were in favour of it? They replied, "What, in favour of that absurd measure? No, you will not find twenty men among us in favour of it." And yet it was alleged by the hon. Member (Mr. W. Williams) that this metropolis of 2,000,000 concurred in the Bill. He would ask the hon. Member if he had not, some time ago, attended a meeting of 2,000 persons, where some very rough questions had been put to him about this measure, and where, after some discussion, he had confessed to these 2,000 gentlemen that he really had not understood the Bill previously as he understood it then? The hon. Member had been rather anxious to get out of Cowper-street that night. He (Mr. T. Duncombe) said, with the hon. Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall), "Confine your Bill to Lambeth." He was sorry that the Lambeth people were so singular a race. Let the hon. Member confine his Bill to that archiepiscopal dis-
 969
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  begged to ask the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department, if he had taken any, and what, steps, in consequence of a memorial that had been forwarded to him by upwards
 954
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, that the two last hon. Members who had spoken agreed in approving of the principle of this Bill, but differed most decidedly as to what that principle was. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) described the Bill as one of sanctification of the Sabbath, while the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay) said it was no such thing, it was merely a civil and political principle for the purpose of securing the means for a day of recreation. His (Mr. W. J. Fox's) objection to the Bill was, that it went upon neither of those grounds. If it was a Bill to provide for the sanctification of the Sabbath, why did it not strike at that upon which the Sabbatical law originally imposed its prohibition— a law not so much against trade as against work, and pre-eminently household and domestic work? That point was not at all touched. The Bill said nothing at all of the hundreds and thousands of cooks, housemaids, coachmen, footmen, butlers, &c., who were employed on that day. Until the people of this country, whatever their professed creed might be, were content to eat cold dinners on Sundays—to walk to church and walk home again, instead of riding in a carriage—priests as well as laymen—there was no chance of a real Sabbath Bill being carried. The question was liable to great doubt and contrariety of opinion; and here in this country, as in Scotland, there existed great difference in the understanding by different persons of what Sabbath observance really was. Would the Christian inhabitants of this land concur universally in the observance of the Sabbath day with that strictness for which one class of their fellow-subjects—the Jews—were so honourably distinguished? It seemed to him that the sects for whom this Bill had been introduced were the classes who loved the Sabbath much, but loved the shop more. They had great solicitude for the salvation of their souls, but still greater solicitude for the retention of their great profits. If it was not then really a Sabbath Bill, what was it? What regard did it evince for the numerous classes whose comforts it purported to promote? No clear and intelligent view of the wants of society was taken by the Bill. It looked only to shopkeepers and apple-stall keepers, and that House was asked to decide between the interests of those classes. He should view
 964
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  could not assent to the alteration of the law of distress proposed in the clause. By the Act of 1846, the power of seizing the growing crop was in Ireland taken from the landlord; but it was left to the ordinary creditor having an execution against the goods of the tenant. It was stated that facilities were thus afforded for collusion, as against the landlord. If that were so, the remedy should be sought in the opposite direction, and the right of seizing the unsecured crop had better be taken away altogether. Undoubtedly it would be fairer to take it from both creditor and landlord, than to leave it to one, and not to the other. So long as the creditor retained the power, the landlord would seek to regain it, and so long the farming class would feel that they were in danger of having the old harness of prædial vassalage fitted on them as before.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  opposed the insertion of these words.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, he could not let pass the observations which had been made in this debate without entering his protest against them. With regard to the 4th clause it contained all that justice required, in providing that the tenant should in no way injure the buildings belonging to the landlord, and that he should leave them in as good a condition as they were in when he entered. That provision protected the landlord from injury; but he saw a disposition in that House to refuse the tenant any just concession as to his rights. ["No, no!"] Then let them agree to this clause. He had seen many Bills brought forward for the establishment of tenant right, and they had every one been rejected. He believed the desire of the landlords was to keep the tenants in that state that they would have no rights of their own, and thus keep them in a state of submission to the landlords.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must complain of the obstruction which two hon. Members (Mr. B. Wall and Mr. C. Anstey) had opposed to the progress of the measure. Great care had been bestowed on the framing of the Bill, and he believed that no objection could now be offered to it except by those who objected to all legislation on the subject. There were at least 8,000 shops in the metropolis which were at present kept open on the Sunday, and in nearly 9–10ths of these cases the proprietors were anxious to have them closed, in order to enable themselves and families to attend places of worship, or to enjoy recreation, on that day. It was a melancholy thing to think of people being obliged to labour 365 days in the year without intermission; and the object of the Bill was to remedy that evil as far as was possible. He hoped, therefore, hon. Members would allow the House to go into Committee to consider the details of the Bill.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  protested against the unusual course adopted by the hon. Baronet the Member for Oxford. The House had assembled to proceed with some Bills, and the hon. Baronet was occupying their attention with praises of Lord Ashley.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  was sorry the hon. Member for Lambeth had left the House, but trusted the interview which was taking place between him and certain Gentlemen from the south side of the Thames would induce him to accede to the request which had been made for the withdrawal of the Bill. A desire had for some time existed to legislate expressly for the metropolitan districts. Now, he thought it most desirable, if that House was to legislate on the subject of the observance of the Sabbath, that a Bill should be introduced applicable to the empire at large, confined solely to the district where the
 967
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, if he saw any reasonable prospect by their going into Committee on this Bill that it would tend to the reduction of the minimum of Sunday labour within the metropolitan district, he should be very glad to consent to Mr. Speaker's leaving the Chair, with the view of entering upon a consideration of the clauses of this Bill. But he must say that he saw no such prospect whatever, for he believed that going into Committee upon this Bill would only be a profitless consumption of the public time. Under these circumstances he felt inclined to ask the hon. Member for Lambeth whether he was then prepared to state the course which he intended to pursue, because if it should appear that there was any intention of withdrawing the Bill at any future stage, it would be better that this discussion should be at once brought to a close. He did not cast the least blame on the hon. Gentleman (Mr. W. Williams) for the anomalies contained in the Bill, and which had been pointed out by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck), for he believed that the subject was surrounded by so many difficulties that it was almost impossible to frame any measure on the subject which would not be disfigured by anomalies. With regard to what had been said by his hon. Friend behind him (Sir W. Clay), as to the evidence of Mr. Mayne the Commissioner of Police, whom he had represented as having said, in answer to a question by the Select Committee that had sat upon this subject, "The present law with regard to the prevention of Sunday trading is almost inoperative," he (Sir G. Grey) wished to observe that Mr. Mayne did not say absolutely that that law was a dead letter; what he had said was, that in certain cases that law could not be enforced. He was glad to say, that it appeared from the long examination of Mr. Mayne by the Committee in question, that
 966
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was sure the House would concur with the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford in expressing admiration of the private virtues of Lord Ashley, and of the way in which he had devoted his time and talents for the advantage of his poorer countrymen.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  suggested, that if there was no objection to going into Committee, it would be better to discuss the clauses in their order.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  considered that as this clause was likely to cause litigation he should object to it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he thought the executor could dispose of the crops either by valuation or by public auction. The difficulty was, therefore, imaginary, for the parties could make an arrangement.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he understood that the rights of creditors would be materially affected by the clause.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had received the memorial in question on the 4th of June, and he immediately caused a copy of it to be forwarded to Mr. Hill, as it affected his character and conduct, to know if he had any explanation to offer. An answer had been received, stating that he (Mr. Hill) was perfectly unaware of these transactions, and although he had possessed a share in one colliery, he had never taken any active part whatever in its management, and did not now possess any interest in it, or in any coal or iron mine in South Staffordshire. (He Sir G. Grey) was afraid the allegation of the existence of the truck system in South Staffordshire was true; but the Act of Parliament provided that no magistrate interested in the trade could adjudicate in such cases. Therefore, although Mr. Hill was a magistrate, he would have no power of deciding, if he was so interested. He (Sir G. Grey) had written, in reply to Mr. Hill, that it was gratifying to find that he had no knowledge of these transactions, and it was hardly necessary to remind him that, as a justice of the peace, it was his bounden duty to see that no violation of the law took place.
 SIR GEORGE STRICKLAND  thought it to be regretted that, when hon. Gentlemen brought in good and useful Bills, they should afterwards attach provisions to them of a most objectionable and questionable character. A portion of this Bill was excellent, more particularly if it had stopped at the 3rd clause; but the 4th clause ought by no means to meet the concurrence of the House. Interference, generally speaking, between landlord and tenant, was to be deprecated, as it more frequently occasioned confusion than relief. The question of "fixtures" had been for a long period a constant source of litigation, and this Bill would still further embarrass it. He thought it was better to leave the law as it now stood, than to render it more indistinct and unintelligible than it now was. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would withdraw the 4th clause.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said: I rise, Sir, to submit a Motion to the House, which, in ordinary cases, though in all a matter of privilege, is also so much a matter of course, that it is usually made in a well-bred whisper by some Gentlemen on the right hand of the table, or by some Gentlemen on the left hand of the table; while the House at large knows nothing of the question, till you, Sir, in the full dignity of your voice and your position, put it formally from the Chair. I ask the indulgence of the House while for a few moments I deviate from that ordinary course; because the individual in reference to whom my Motion is founded is no ordinary man, and I hope, and I believe that I speak the
 955
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : I had hoped that, even if I had had no right to address the House, the subject would have met with universal indulgence. But the services, indeed, of Lord Ashley are too recent, as well as too numerous, to require any detailed reference to them. The faithful memory of this House and the gratitude of the country will long record them. During the last fifteen years of Lord Ashley's Parliamentary life he has been emphatically the friend of the friendless. Every form of human suffering he has, in his place in this House, and especially every suffering connected with labour, sought to lighten, and in every way to ameliorate the moral, social, and religious condition of our fellow-subjects; and out of this House, his exertions have been such as, at first sight, might have seemed incompatible with his duties here. But he found time for all; and when absent from his place on these benches, he was enjoying no luxurious ease, but was seated in the chair of a ragged school meeting, of a Scripture Readers' Association, or of a Young Man's Christian Institution. I will add no more than that the life of Lord Ashley, in and out of this House, has been consecrated, in the memorable inscription of the great Haller,  Christo in pauperibus
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  could not per-
 962 963
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  suggested that the provision for appointing an umpire be struck out altogether.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that there was no intention on the part of the Government to press their schedule of tolls if was objected to. It would be for the Committee to decide upon the question when it came before it. He must observe, however, that the tolls were more moderate than those proposed by the City; but there would be no objection on the part of
 979
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  thought it would be more convenient to discuss the details of the Bill upon its successive clauses in Committee than upon the question that the Speaker leave the chair. He was unwilling, therefore, to prolong the discussion further than to say, in answer to some questions that had been put, that it was not intended that the Commissioners should be paid. With respect to the erection of a new market, and the sufficiency of the tolls, he begged to say that those questions had been carefully considered by the Government. Estimates had been made of the probable produce of the tolls according to the schedule of the Bill as now printed; and the Government had reason to believe that the revenue, from those very moderate tolls, would be quite sufficient for covering, not only the interest of the loan, but also of defraying the current expenses of the market, and that no supplementary grant would be necessary. He begged to say, also, that the tolls in the new schedule were almost identical with the schedule in the original Bill. The only alteration consisted in a mere simplification of the schedule annexed to the Bill,
 984
 MR. RICE  said, he had not opposed the Bill at any former stage, because he had thought that both Bills ought to be before the House; but now as he could no longer promote that object, he should vote against this Bill, as being very inconvenient to the county he represented.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, it was too late to move the postponement of the clause, inasmuch as the Committee had commenced amending it.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that as he was favourable to the removal of Smithfield market, he had voted for going into Committee; but he would not say that it was fair that the intended site should be concealed. The views taken by the hon. Baronet and the advocates of the City side of the question, appeared to him perfectly reasonable. It was said that there was still hope that the City would take the management of the market; but in the meantime the Corporation would be placed under menace, because they would not know who the Commissioners were to be, and they had a clear right to say that they would not accept in that capacity persons who were obnoxious to them.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  could only repeat the answer of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, that as the Government had not come to any conclusion on the choice of the site, they could not communicate what their decision might be. As to the person who had been employed to examine, and who had given evidence before the Committee with reference to the eligibility of different sites, he (Mr. Lewis) could assure the House he was in no way employed by the Government. Indeed, consistently with the form of the Bill, the Government could not decide upon any site, for the Bill gave the City authorities the power of choosing the site, if within six months they should elect to undertake the management and formation of the market; they would, in that case, themselves select the site they considered most convenient, subject to the approval of the Secretary of State.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, the very principle of the Bill was that a new market should be substituted for Smithfield, in a more suitable place, and at a greater distance from the centre of the metropolis. As the Amendment would entirely defeat the purpose of the Bill, he should move that the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the question.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that without the words in question, the City would be in a worse position than it was at present; for if the City undertook the management of the new market, they would do so, not in virtue of their charter, but of this Bill, and would then lose the benefit of the provision in their charter unless it was re-enacted in this measure.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, there were various modifications that might
 998
 SIR D. NORREYS  presumed that the
 1000
 MR. CAMPBELL  would not have risen to address the House, if it were not that no other hon. Gentleman had proposed to do so, and if a personal experience of both the English Universities had not enabled him to gather the materials of some opinion on the question. The hon. Gentleman the Member for North Lancashire (Mr. Heywood) had in point of fact raised three issues to-night: first, whether, on abstract grounds, a change in the religious tests of the English Universities was proper; secondly, whether, to accomplish it, it was on the whole expedient for Parliament to intervene; thirdly, whether it would be judicious for Parliament to intervene at a moment when Commissioners appointed by the Crown were conducting an elaborate inquiry into everything which related to the famous seats of education which formed the topic of debate. On the subject of religious tests, he (Mr. Campbell) went along with the hon. Member for North Lancashire so far as to believe that the University of Cambridge, in exempting undergraduates from declaration of belief, acted much more prudently, and with far better consequences, than the University of Oxford in requiring a signature of the Thirty-nine Articles from all matriculating students. That was the result of practical comparison, and not of any theoretical inquiry. He would go so far, also, with the hon. Gentleman, as to think it a matter for grave consideration, whether ordinary B.A. degrees ought to be accompanied with a subscription. One anomaly resulted from it in the University of Cambridge. The mathematical distinctions were conferred before, the classical distinc-
 1005 1006
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  then said, that before the House proceeded to a division, he would state very shortly the view he took of the Motion as it at present stood. His hon. Friend had moved for a Committee of the whole House, to consider the religious tests imposed cither by the authority of the Crown or by Act of Parliament as a qualification for any civil corporate privilege in the Universities and Colleges of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin." It was a good many years since any question upon this subject had been raised in the House; but he remembered that at one time it occasioned a great deal of interest in the House, more particularly because many of the most distinguished members of the University of Cambridge sent a petition, which was presented by his noble Friend Lord Monteagle, in which they expressed their wish that further advantages should be given to Dissenters in that University. Upon that occasion, the late Mr. G. W. Wood proposed a Bill, by which persons dissenting from the Established Church, either Protestant Dissenters or Roman Catholic Dissenters from the Church of England, should have the power of being admitted to both the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and that they should proceed with their studies in those Universities, and be admitted to a degree, if otherwise qualified, always excepting a theological degree, without taking any religious tests. He (Lord J. Russell) supported that proposition, which seemed to him to be founded upon right principles, and to be only giving the Dissenters that which was the proper distinction and reward of studies in which they might acquire a right to such reward. The Bill was supported very strongly in a very able speech by the present Lord Stanley, and there was a distinction which he drew between that Bill and a measure that some Gentlemen were inclined to support, to which he (Lord J. Russell) wished to draw the attention of the House, as he thought it bore upon this Motion. Lord Stanley said—
 "That while he was ready to admit the Dissen-
 1007 1008 Credibility of the Gospel History
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  observed, that whenever they sat again they would be in the same state, and there would be equal ground for the same Motion.
 LORD NAAS  said, that during the last few months a number of fatal accidents had occurred, connected with steamboats, steam machinery, and railways; and, as it appeared, particularly at Glasgow, Lewes, Chester, and Bristol, that they had resulted from the gross and culpable negligence of the persons engaged in working the machinery, he begged to ask the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade whether it was the intention of the Government to propose any measure during the present Session for the more efficient protection of persons travelling by steam
 999
 MR. STAFFORD  moved that the figure "3" be inserted in the clause instead of "7."
 MR. STAFFORD  moved the substitution of "three" for "seven" miles; and said the opponents of the Bill were the advocates of unrestricted competition against a Government monopoly.
 MR. STAFFORD  thought that the reasons for naming the site of the proposed market wore stronger even than those for naming the Commissioners. Three or four places had been suggested, but as none was fixed upon, there was nothing tangible to discuss. No limitation was put on the discretion of the Commissioners, and they might possibly choose a site equally densely crowded as the present site, to which so much objection was raised. He believed it was impossible to remove the market, in fact, from Smithfied; for if Smithfield was nominally abolished, other markets in the same vicinity would spring up. It was important to have a central market, and he denied that any market could be so central as the present. At a morning sitting, with a thin attendance, and so many Government Members present, it was useless to divide upon the clause. He would only point out the poor and clumsy contrivance for concealing the difficulties of the question, by concealing the names of the Commissioners, and the name of the site.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that if that were the hon. Gentleman's opinion, he had better move the omission of the words of the Bill which gave the City the option of undertaking the management of the new market. The question now was the erection of a new market, and it would be for those who regarded this as an important question to suggest to the Government, and urge upon the Committee, the propriety of being fair and open with the large masses of people who were interested in this matter. And it would be more fair and open if the right hon. Gentleman would consent to name the Commissioners; but if the right hon. Gentleman still refused, and said that the nomination was in his unlimited discretion, they at least would have done their duty.
 MR. STAFFORD  complained that a new schedule of tolls had been adopted by the Government without the cognisance of the Select Committee, which, nevertheless, was to be abandoned if the City opposed it. The question of tolls was the main question, because money was proposed to be raised on their mortgage to build a new market. This was a question, therefore, not so much for the City as for the public, especially for those who were engaged in the supply of fresh meat to the market, and it could be looked on in no other light than as one of the utmost importance. The House, it was true, had already affirmed the principle of the Bill; but the principle of the Bill had nothing to do with these tolls. They were now coming to the details; and they already experienced the difficulties attending the contemplated removal. The right hon. Baronet acknowledged that he had not yet selected a site, but surely the public had a right to complain that the Government had not selected a site for the proposed new market. There
 983
 MR. FREWEN  said, that when the Bill was formerly before the House he had abstained from voting upon it; but, considering how materially and vitally it affected the agriculturists of the southern counties, in which he was interested, he had now determined to oppose it. It was understood to be the intention of the Government to erect a new market at some considerable distance on the north side of London; and, if so, this would necessarily compel the farmers and graziers of the southern counties to drive their sheep and cattle many more miles than they did at present, and in this way deteriorate the value of the animals. Were the interests of the farmers of Kent, Surrey, Sussex, Hampshire, and Dorsetshire, not to be considered in this question?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that there was
 989
 MR. CARDWELL  would not be led
 996
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the City advocates now declared that they were friendly to the freest competition with regard to new markets; but before the Committee,
 995
 MR. CARDWELL  said, they could introduce words to the effect suggested by the hon. Baronet in the 38th clause.
 MR. CARDWELL  observed, that if the City provided a new market, and found the money, they would be in precisely the same position with regard to it as they stood in now. They did not propose to send in the accounts to Somerset House to be audited, if, instead of its being public money, it was corporate money.
 MR. G. HENEAGE  thought that both Bills ought to have been sent to the Select Committee, or that no Committee should have been appointed at all. He was formerly in favour of the removal of Smithfield market; and if the question now was, whether they should retain Smithfield market in its present condition or remove it, he would still be in favour of its removal, but he thought that the proposed improvements of the market totally altered the case. He confessed that he had come out of the Select Committee with the impression that the Bill of the Government, though it dealt very summarily with Smithfield, would not get rid of the nuisances connected with it.
 MR. BURROUGHES  said, he was one of the four Members of the Select Committee who voted in favour of the Government Bill, but he had done so quite disinterestedly.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the question put by the noble Lord related to three different subjects. The noble Lord inquired if it was the intention of Ministers to introduce any measure for the purpose of affording protection and security with reference to steam vessels, and steam machinery employed in factories, as also in reference to railways. Now, with regard to steam vessels, it was his (Mr. Labouchere's) opinion that the law was in a very defective state. In consequence he had introduced a Bill, which had been read a second time, and which, he hoped, would receive the sanction of the House, as thereby the law would be placed in a more efficient state as regarded steam machinery on board vessels. With regard to the second part of the question, the machinery employed in factories, he was not prepared to introduce in the present Session any measure conferring on the Government more power in the supervision of machinery used in factories than they at present possessed. However, the matter would receive his consideration; but for the present he was not prepared to go further. Lastly, as to whether it was the intention of the Government, in any way, to take into their hands increased power of supervision with a view to protecting the public against railway accidents, he could assure the noble Lord that the subject had received his most anxious and attentive consideration. He had come to the conclusion that any measure of a general description or application that might be introduced to diminish the responsibility of the directors, would be attended with more harm than good. As regarded security to passengers, he had carefully considered the various suggestions and propositions that had been made; but he could find no regulation of such general and universal application as that they could be laid down by Parliament as applicable, under all circumstances, to all railways. Therefore, he should object to giving any department of the Government that which they could not exercise properly, but which the directors could, namely, the superintendence of the details of railways, upon which, after all, the security of the public depended. Therefore, in the present Session, he was not prepared to introduce a Bill to increase the power of Government in this regard for the public safety.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  replied, that the case to which that report referred had been made the subject of a coroner's inquisition, and a verdict of manslaughter had been returned against the directors. Therefore, it could not be expected that, after such investigation, the Government should institute a prosecution. He believed these inquiries were attended with much benefit in calling attention to the accidents, and thereby stimulating the directors to adopt measures to prevent the recurrence of similar accidents.
 MR. HEYWOOD , in rising to move that the House should resolve itself into a Committee to "consider the religious tests originally imposed, either by the authority of the Crown or by Act of Parliament, as a qualification for any civil corporate privilege in the Universities and Colleges of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin," said, he must express his gratitude to the noble Lord at the head of the Government for having recommended the recent appointment of a Royal Commission to inquire into the state of the Universities. In addition to that inquiry, however, he thought it extremely desirable that the House should consider the nature of the religious tests which were imposed at the Universities. It was well known that the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge were very ancient institutions, and that in the early periods of their history they were much dependent upon the Crown, which exercised a kind of fatherly control over them, that was not much known in the present day. The result of this was, that a great number of religious tests had been introduced, which he now desired to see inquired into. For instance, the ancient plan which had been pursued in them, was to devote seven years to the study of secular knowledge, and seven other years to the study of divinity; and fellowships had been established, with the object of enabling fellows to remain and study theological knowledge. But this had now become a mere form. In the College to which he had the honour to belong, Trinity
 1001 1002 1003
 MR. MASTERMAN , as one of the Members for the City, begged to say that he highly approved of the course which his Colleague (Sir J. Duke) had adopted on the present occasion, because, in his opinion, the Bill was a most improper and unjustifiable interference with the rights of the Corporation.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, that as Chairman of the Committee of Selection, he was of course deeply interested in any question relating to the formation of the Committee on the Bill. That Committee had been appointed to secure a complete inquiry into the merits of the case, and into existing rights and interests. The Committee of Selection had taken two Members who had each expressed themselves strongly on the opposite side of the question; judging that those two hon. Gentlemen would fairly represent both sides. The other five were impartial, and the Committee of Selection deemed themselves fortunate in securing the valuable services of his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool (Mr. Cardwell); and neither that hon. Gentleman nor the other five Members were interested in taking anything from the Corporation. It was most unfair not to support the Committee, but it would be worse to reverse their decision. He felt warranted, as Chairman of the Committee of Selection, in asking the House to allow the Bill to go into Committee. It would be most unfair to stop the measure at this stage.
 MR. HUME  took that opportunity, as he wanted to leave the House, of stating that the coming forward of the Government with a proposition of additional rates, appeared to be an attempt to take by surprise the whole community. He thought the new schedule ought not to be pressed until it had been sent back to the Select Committee. It appeared that the Bill before the House had been assented to only by the casting vote of the Chairman of the Committee; and therefore, under all the circumstances, he thought it would be the best plan for his hon. Friend to withdraw his Motion, and for the Government to submit the new alterations to the Select Committee. As to the question of site, he thought the Government ought to state whether they had as yet fixed upon any place as the site for the new market, and, if they had, to declare where it was; for he did not like to see Government going on mysteriously: where there was mystery there was always a suspicion of something wrong.
 MR. BUCK  said, if they knew who the Commissioners were to be, it might obviate the necessity of the site being named; for if the Commissioners were parties in whose judgment they could repose confidence, they might leave the choice of the site to their own discretion.
 MR. BUCK  thought it was only reason-
 990
 MR. FORSTER  was exceedingly glad to hear that the City of London would never interfere in the matter, for he thought it would be unsafe to allow them to have anything to do with it.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  hoped, that after the decisions both of that House and the Select Committee in favour of the principle of the Bill, all parties would agree to allow them to get into Committee to consider its details. He hoped the opponents of the Bill would bear in mind that it contained a clause giving full power to the Corporation of London to erect a new market if they pleased, so that the same argument could not now be used as was used on a former occasion—that the Bill would interfere with the charter of an old corporation. He maintained that the graziers were almost to a man in favour of the Bill.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it was most inconsistent to admit Dissenters to the highest civil offices, such as that of Lord Chief Justice, for instance, and yet exclude them from the Universities, where it was considered that they might obtain the best education to fit them for filling those offices. But, apart from this, as a Churchman, a member of the Church by law established, he objected entirely to making youths of sixteen give a blind declaration of belief in the Thirty-nine Articles. Paley said the clergy could not give a full and sincere concurrence to hundreds of controverted propositions, and that was a true description of the Thirty-nine Articles. To demand this from the youth of the country was to make them commence their career with a prostitution of their consciences. If there was no doubt that these Articles were right, it would savour very much of a claim of infallibility to impose this blind subscription; but what should we say when the members and bishops of the Church were not able to agree as to the meaning of those articles, and whether they ought to be adopted even by the clergy?
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  remarked, that the parish of St. Sepulchre would lose 600 l. l.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  moved that the clause be negatived.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  repeated his intention of dividing against the clause.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  would, in the event of the Motion of the hon. Member for the City being negatived, move the omission of the words following the word "markets," that is to say, prohibiting the opening of any new cattle market in Westminster, Southwark, or within less than seven miles of St. Paul's Cathedral. He taunted Government with wishing to establish a most arbitrary monopoly, whilst they professed to be a liberal Government, having "no monopoly" inscribed on their banners.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  also said, the Corporation did not desire a monopoly, but the Government fearing that the measure would be a failure unless they had such a power, reserved a monopoly in their own hands.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, the progress of the Bill was evidenced by the fact that the Government was in doubt, and had not made up its mind on another clause, which was also to be left open to contingency, But with regard to the contingency of the corporation of London
 993
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, whatever the result might be, it would not be the consequence of an expression of public opinion, but of the influence of the Treasury benches. Why was the Secretary of State to be the dictator on a subject like this? Surely the wants and requirements of two millions of inhabitants could be more safely left to the House, as the representatives of the people, or to the people themselves. He would say it was quite unjustifiable by legislation to destroy an ancient market, and not to name the site of the new market, which was to obviate the inconvenience of the present site, As to enhancing the value of property in the neighbourhood, that was one of the great difficulties, and only proved that it was easier to find fault than to devise remedies. He did not contend there on the part of the corporation of London; but having made himself practically acquainted with the Bill, he unhesitatingly asserted that no site was so convenient as the present site, and they were about to legislate more upon the prejudices of bygone matters, than upon facts as they now exist. The hon. Member then withdrew his Motion.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  hoped that the City never would be prevailed upon to take the management of the new market into its hands. It was always the custom, when powers were given to trustees or Commissioners by an Act of Parliament, to set forth the names of such trustees or Commissioners in the Act, and he therefore requested the Government to name them.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, that this was not the same Bill which had been dis-
 986 l.
 MR. EWART  seconded the Motion, which he did with great respect for the University at which he was educated, and with great regret that he did not profit more by the instruction which was there given. So far from its being prejudicial to the Universities to abolish these tests, he thought it would greatly benefit them. If they were national institutions, they should adapt themselves to the condition of society in the nation. When these institutions were founded, the people of this country were Roman Catholics. They ought now to accommodate themselves to the change that had taken place in the spirit of the nation, and not close their doors against all classes but one of the community. The University of Oxford was most flourishing when it was most national. It was stated that in the thirteenth century, no fewer than 30,000 students attended the University of Oxford; but now, in consequence of the happy freedom of opinion which prevailed in our times, there were persons of all religious denominations, and tests operated as an exclusion. What he wanted was, that they should be made really national institutions. It was stated in the work of a learned German, which had been edited by his hon. Friend (Mr. Heywood), that in former times Oxford was far in advance of the times. That could not be said now. He (Mr. Ewart) wished that it could be said of it that it was even parallel with the times. Even in a moral point of view, he thought that the portals of the University should be thrown open as widely as possible. The subscription to the Thirty-nine Articles was not required till
 1004 experto crede.
 MR. MACKINNON  remarked that, if they got rid of Smithfield market, they must get a better; and it was on that ground that they ought to establish one market.
 MR. MACKINNON  observed that the charter said seven miles from the City, but the Bill provided that the prohibited distance should be seven miles from St. Paul's.
 MR. MACKINNON  thought, that if the locality of the site were mentioned, it would lead to evils which it was very proper to avoid. Speculation would immediately ensue. It would be difficult to obtain the land upon reasonable terms, and all sorts of obstacles would be interposed which the
 992
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the Corporation were well placed for managing a market in the centre of London; but if the market was to be carried several miles out of the limits of the city, what inducement was there to the Corporation to undertake the management? Hon. Members should not conceal from themselves that the Government evidently desired to get all the power they possibly could into their own hands, and that the principle of centralisation was at the bottom of all their proceedings. The Corporation had had the management of the market for centuries; but the Secretary of State now sought to abolish that power. To deal with the matter openly and fairly, the Government ought to strike out the word "Commissioners" from the Bill, and substitute for it "Her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Home Department;" for the Commissioners could do nothing without him. The Secretary of State, it was obvious, was intended to be the controlling power.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  supported the Amendment. Circumstances might arise which might render other markets desirable on the Surrey side of the Thames.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, this Bill repealed the charter.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  objected to the unlimited powers of the Commissioners. A site ought to be fixed on, and an estimate of the cost should be laid before them, in order that the Committee might decide on the merits of the subject.
 MR. STAFFORD and MR. WILLIAMS  begged the hon. Gentleman to withdraw his Motion, since the morning sitting had been given by the Government for the purpose of discussing the Bill in Committee.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the accounts ought to be audited, whether the City was to receive the tolls, or the Commissioners.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  remarked that there seemed to be a vast deal of ingenuity exercised to coax the City into taking the management of this market, but the City told them plainly they would have nothing to do with it.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  reiterated his opinion that the public ought to be protected by having the accounts audited; and if it were found that the tolls yielded a surplus, the public ought to have the benefit.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  complained that all the objections which had characterised the former Bill were to be found in the present measure. The House ought to know where the site of the new market was to be fixed, and who were to be the Commissioners. As to the Commission, it would have been better to have vested its powers in the Secretary of State at once, for the Commissioners could do nothing without his concurrence. He wished to hear also how the expenses of the market was to be paid, and what that expense would be. If the market was to be on the north side of London, then he had to complain, on behalf of those he represented, in the first place, of the distance which all those who had business in the market would have to traverse; and, secondly, that all the cattle coming from the southern counties would be driven right through the town. On the part of the Surrey side of the metropolis he protested against this Bill, and his own opinion was that the pre-
 985
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was sure his hon. Friend could not have been in the House when the objection to the new schedule was first raised. The Government had no interest in pressing it; but the Committee of the whole House was the proper and legitimate tribunal for settling the question of the tolls. If the Corporation could then show any valid objection to the schedule, the items could be separately discussed. As to the charge made by his hon. Friend, of the Government acting mysteriously, there seemed to be some sort of suspicion during the discussion upon the second reading, that the Government had already agreed upon the site of the new market. He (Sir G. Grey) had then declared that there was no foundation for
 982
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that they were not yet selected by the Government, so that it would be impossible to name them. They were not yet at liberty to select them, nor would they be until the House should have passed the Bill. And even after the Bill should have been passed, he hoped the Commissioners never would be named, but that the City would take the management of the new market into its own hands, according to the provisions of the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the time to oppose the schedule would be when the point came before the House in Committee. It would be quite out of place to discuss its merits upon the question that the Speaker leave the chair. He thought there were no grounds shown for referring the question back to the Select Committee at that time, especially as a Committee of the House was the proper tribunal for deciding on a question of tolls.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Government had no objection to the original schedule of tolls inserted in the Bill, if the City preferred it; but the reasons in favour of the schedule about to be proposed would be stated at the proper time in Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  did not see how that consent could be given. It might be inferred, if the House gave powers for the compulsory purchase of land, but it was proposed to obtain the site by agreement.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was understood to say that the Commissioners would not be invested with the power to take land.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, it had been assumed that his hon. Friend the late Lord Mayor of London was opposed to the formation of a market within seven miles of the city: but his hon. Friend was misunderstood. The best evidence given before the Committee that had sat upon this subject was that of the Brighton butchers, who stated that the whole of the inhabitants were opposed to this Bill; and 150 of the butchers of Bath had petitioned against the removal of Smithfield market. It was perfectly plain his hon. Friend the Member for London had to oppose this Bill under very unfavourable circumstances. The majority of the metropolitan Members were at that moment sitting upon
 997
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  observed that whoever undertook the duties of conducting the market would undertake one of the most profitable speculations in the world. The Government did not desire to take the power upon themselves, but wished the City to accept it, for the interests alike of the inhabitants of London and the graziers—of those who produced the food, and those who consumed it.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, the Bill before the Committee was not the same as that which passed the Select Committee; there were already two alterations in the clause under discussion; and there
 991
 SIR JAMES DUKE  said, there was another reason why they should know who were to be the Commissioners. The Commissioners were the persons who were to choose the site, subject to the Government. Now, in all the suburban districts were gentlemen's seats, and parks, and villas. Their property would be deteriorated by the neighbourhood of a market, and they would not have the opportunity of coming to the House to state their objections and the value of their property.
 SIR JAMES DUKE , in reply to the remark of the hon. Member (Mr. Mackinnon), held that the opponents of this Bill belonging to the corporation of the city of London, had done nothing in connexion with the subject to compromise their character. They had stood up and endeavoured to protect the property of the City, and oppose a bad measure, and this they felt they were bound in duty to do.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  moved the omission of the whole clause, after the word "opened." He said his object was to give the public the advantage of as many markets as they pleased; but not to shut up the ancient market of the City. The corporation did not wish to interfere with the Government, or those persons who wished to establish new markets; but they did wish to retain Smithfield, and he should therefore divide the House upon the clause.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  suggested the introduction of the words "or by Parliament," after "Secretary of State"—that the site might be approved by Parliament.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  denied that the clause was introduced at the desire of the Corporation. They did not fear competition. Let other markets be made, but leave them their ancient market to improve, and if not suitable the trade would desert it for one more convenient.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  thought the City of London had not been fairly treated on this question, inasmuch as despite the declarations which he had publicly made in that House to the contrary, it had been represented that the Corporation of London was desirous of preventing the holding of markets within seven miles of the city. He wished the House to consider what injustice this clause would inflict on, for instance, the constituents of his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) who would be compelled to purchase their meat at a market at least seven miles from the city, although there were many vacant spots within three miles of the city, on the Surrey side of the Thames, on which markets might very well be formed. It was plain that, without such a contrivance as this of prohibiting the holding of any cattle market within seven miles of the city, the Government would not be able to succeed in their attempt to take the management of the London cattle market out of the hands of the corporation. He would take that opportunity of assuring the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Cardwell) that he had no desire to defend abuses. If that hon. Gentleman should introduce a hill for the reform of the Corporation of the City of London, he should have his warmest support.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  observed that, in the event of the City undertaking the management of the market, there ought to he a provision that the tolls should be paid into the treasury of the City of London.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  said, it was a question which concerned not the City or the Corporation of London alone, but the public at large; and as the question was one which required careful investigation, he, on the part of the public at large, recommended the Government to leave it to the Select Committee. He asked the right hon. Baronet to allow the Bill to be referred back to the Select Committee.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  rose to object to the new schedule of tolls which he found the Government proposed to introduce into the Bill. The Select Committee to which the Bill had been referred, had approved of the schedule which had been originally inserted, and it was only an hour previously that he had made the discovery that the Government was about to propose another schedule in Committee of the House, by which some of the tolls would be increased 100 per cent.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  said, he should then move that the House resolve itself into Committee that day six months. He was surprised that the Government should exhibit such an anxious desire to press forward a measure which had been approved in the Committee only by the casting vote of the Chairman. It might, indeed, be said that the majority of independent Members on the Committee was against the Bill, for a Member of the Government was on the Committee, and it was understood he had but one duty to perform there, namely, to vote in support of the measure under all circumstances. Any unprejudiced Gentleman, who would take the trouble to read the evidence taken before the Select Committee would admit that what was proved there was scarcely sufficient to justify the shutting-up of a single butcher's shop, much less so serious an interference with the rights and privileges of the city of London, which they had enjoyed for centuries. He thought that the preamble of the Bill had not been proved. When the measure was originally referred by the House to a Select Committee, he believed that the House was under the impression that the Corporation would have an opportunity of showing, before the Committee, whether their proposed alterations and improve-
 980 981
 SIR JAMES DUKE  wished to know whether he was to understand that the schedule was withdrawn? ["No, no!"] As to the tolls proposed by the City, it should be remembered that they were framed with the view of defraying the expense of removing a neighbourhood of several hundred houses constituting one of the greatest nuisances in Middlesex. In a short time the tolls would have been reduced, and until then the City surrendered the whole of its income. The tolls proposed to be established under the Bill would be permanent. The question of tolls ought to be referred to the Select Committee.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  said, that if the Government would not let them know the proposed site of the market, they might at least let them know the names of the proposed Commissioners.
 MR. W. MILES  reminded hon. Gentlemen that the Corporation of London had not always courted competition, for in the Islington Cattle Market Act, a clause was introduced giving them compensation if the tolls of Smithfield should fall off.
 MR. W. MILES  said, that the whole of this discussion had arisen out of the recommendation of the Committee upstairs, which was, to give to the City the power, if they chose to take it, of conducting the metropolitan market. The right hon. the Home Secretary had written to the City authorities on the subject, and they had refused to accept the management. Six months, however, remained to the Corporation to determine whether they would take the offer or not. He hoped they would, and that by that time they would have got rid of their anger. He hoped, also, that his hon. Friends near him would see that there was time enough in six months to name the Commissioners.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he should be extremely sorry if anything he said should tend in the least degree to diminish that spirit in which the hon. Gentleman had stated, and he had no doubt most correctly, he had brought forward this Amendment—namely, the spirit of conciliation. He should be sorry if it were supposed for a moment that the Government had the slightest disposition to oppose any reasonable effort that could be made for such a purpose. But, with reference to the present Amendment, the
 1012 1013
 MR. BERNAL : If the hon. and gallant Member does not divide, the question will then be, "That Clause 2 stand part of the Bill."
 THE EARL OF ARUNDEL AND SURREY  would not oppose the clause, inasmuch as its operation would be emancipative; but he could not help saying, that it involved the promoters of the Bill in a flagrant inconsistency. The plea that had been assigned in justification of the measure, was, that an attack had been made upon the supremacy of the Crown. But it was worthy of remark, that, whereas, in England, a Church was maintained by the State which acknowledged that supremacy —a Church which denied and had always denied it, was maintained in Scotland. The Episcopal Church in Scotland stood in the same position to the Crown as the Catholic Church in England and Ireland. Both Churches wore Episcopalian, and both were voluntary, and yet a different measure of legislation was sought to be applied to each. It was true that the bishops in Scotland were appointed by a native power, while the Catholic prelates derived their authority from a foreigner; but as the statute law of the country now permitted Catholics to acknowledge a foreigner as the head of their Church, it was absurd to legislate for them on a dif-
 1025
 THE CHAIRMAN  was putting the clause, when
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  observed that the clause which had been proposed, would, he thought, if adopted, really render the Bill liable to the very numerous objections which had been taken to it, as it now stood, on the score of inconsistency. The principle of the Bill as it had been advocated throughout on the part of the Government was this—that it was an infringement of the lawful prerogative of the Crown that a foreign Power should assume the right of creating authorities, dignities, and jurisdictions within this realm, such as had been attempted to be created by the Bull sent over to this country with reference to the archbishopric of Westminster. The offence consisted in the assumption, contrary to the Royal prerogative, of jurisdiction and authority. The offence, as far as regarded Ireland, as well as this country, was a violation of the arrangement made by the Act of 1829, with which all parties had professed themselves satisfied, by which the assumption of titles connected with dioceses in England and Ireland was prohibited. It was true that the letter of the Act of 1829 did not prevent the assumption of the titles of sees which, at the time of the passing of that Act, were not in existence; but those who had advised the Pope to take the steps which he had adopted, had recommended him to do what was, nevertheless, a clear evasion of the spirit of that Act. The object of the statute was to prevent the assumption by the Roman Catholic clergy of diocesan or territorial titles. The Committee was asked to exclude Ireland from the Bill; but if that proposal were acceded to, the consequence would be that it would be lawful in Ireland to receive a bull of the Pope, conferring- territorial titles upon the dignitaries of the Roman Catholic Church in that country, but illegal in England. If it was regarded in this country as an aggression and an insult on the prerogative of the Crown, that a bull of the Pope of Rome should authorise the assumption of titles hero, could any person consistently object to an identical course being pursued in Ireland, or, in other words, contend that the Queen's preroga-
 1030 1031
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, the simple question before the Committee was, whether this Bill should be applied to Ireland, and the importance of the consideration lay in this: not that it was merely temporary in its consequences, but that it had a reference to what an hon. Gentleman, in his observations, had called the possible subsidence of this agitation. This agitation never would subside. He had said as much before, and he repeated that it never could subside, because the aggression was on the part of the Roman Catholic Government; and by all the members of that creed it had been determined, as they had avowed, that the Protestants, from the state of heathenism in which they said they were, must be brought to yield a submission to them. They had chosen a hundred and a hundred times in the House to throw back in the teeth of those who supported the Bill, the word "aggresion." [ Cries of Loud cries of and Cries of pio no-nos Laughter, and cries of and cries of and loud laughter Loud cries of 1038 Loud cries of Loud cries of and much noise and confusion
 An Hon. MEMBER  demanded the authority he was quoting.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND : You have no right to it unless I think proper; it is a matter of courtesy which lies with me.
 An HON. MEMBER : I demand the authority which the hon. Member for East Surrey has quoted.
 MR. DRUMMOND : What! upon compulsion? It was a Catholic print, the  Catholic Vindicator
 The CHAIRMAN : An expression has dropped, I hope unadvisedly, from the hon. Member, that he will not be put down. I hope he does not apply that to the Chairman of this Committee.
 The CHAIRMAN : When the hon. Member for Galway rose, I considered that he was rising on the point of order; but I did not immediately collect from the speech of the hon. Gentleman on what point he complained of the hon. Member for West Surrey.
 The CHAIRMAN : It is perfectly competent to the hon. Member for Dublin to rise in his place to speak to order; but he must excuse me for now again repeating, that I do not see to what particular point of the speech of the hon. Member for West Surrey he is now addressing himself as disorderly.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  then proceeded. He said that he had no intention to lead to a discussion of this sort. The hon. Member for North Derbyshire (Mr. J. H. Cavendish) drew a distinction between the loyalty of the Roman Catholics of England, and that of the Roman Catholics of Ireland. There was not much in this, he thought, either one way or the other; but the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lawless) who got up to answer him, made such a very large demand for credit to be given to the loyalty of the people of Ireland at this particular moment, that, having this document in his pocket, he could not resist the temptation of reading it, thinking that no one would care for a mere loose assertion on his part, while they would give weight to it if it was supported by the authority of a Roman Catholic newspaper. He believed he might safely say with reference to the present as to a former occasion,  Ce n'est que la verityé qui blesse Tablet 1042
 An HON. MEMBER : We decline any connexion of the kind.
 MR. WEGG-PROSSER  said, that if Parliament were really called upon to defend the Queen's prerogative, it would be absurd, in a constitutional point of view,
 1046
 MR. CAMPBELL  rose amidst much interruption, and was understood to say that the justice and imperative necessity of excluding Ireland from the measure was not apparent until the 24th section of the Act of 1829 was carefully attended to. That section was twofold—it implied a sanction, and contained a prohibition; it contained a prohibition of the local titles appropriated by the National Establishment. It implied a sanction of the titles which were not appropriated by the National Establishment. Should any doubt arise as to the latter point, a word would be sufficient to disperse it. Legislation would not otherwise be necessary. So far as Ireland was concerned, the Act of 1829 was reckoned solemn and conclusive. What it gave ought not to be with-withdrawn without an overmastering ne-
 1053 1054 1055 1056
 LORD SEYMOUR  observed, that so much diversity of opinion existed on the subject in Hastings, that he had intimated to the deputations which waited on him from that town, that he would omit the town from the present Bill in the hope that, before a second Bill (which was in preparation) was brought forward, the people of Hastings might find it possible to come to some conclusion on the point. If they did not come to some conclusion before that time, he would certainly insert Hastings in the second Bill. By this recommendation he would advise the House to abide.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, the hon. Member would recollect that he came to him himself with respect to a town in his own part of the country, as to which there were great difficulties. They were not agreed as to whether the town should be under the Board of Health, and, if it were, they were not agreed as to the boundaries. A deputation from St. Leonard's waited upon him, and said, although it was fair to Hastings, it was very unfair to St. Leonard's. He then said he would put the town aside for that Bill, and would give them several weeks to come to a better understanding among themselves. But, looking to the importance of putting Hastings under the
 1067
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  wished to know at what time these papers might be expected? It would be very easy for a Governor who did not fancy entering into explanations to keep a matter hanging over until the interest in it should have died away.
 MR. LAWLESS  defended the Roman Catholics of Ireland against the insinuation of the hon. Member for North Derbyshire (Mr. Cavendish), that the same loyalty was not to be expected from them as from the English Catholics. Want of loyalty to the Sovereign could never be justly charged upon the Irish Catholics. It was much to be deplored, however, that the whole conduct of the Government with regard to this Bill, both before the period of its introduction, and after it was before the House, should have been such as had tended to excite great ill-feeling and a deep sense of injury among the Roman Catholics of Ireland. The friendly and Christian feeling which had grown up between the people of different religious denominations in that country during the administration of the measures adopted for the relief of the Irish famine, had all been checked and embittered by the course which the noble Lord at the head of the Government had pursued; and the former religious animosities which had been so destructive to the social peace of Ireland were already revived. On the one hand, the few Protestants dispersed through Ireland had met to petition against Papal aggression; and on the other, the names which had been attached to those petitions had been posted up on the walls of the towns by the Roman Catholics. And certainly the proceedings of these Protestants in Ireland were somewhat impertinent, because no aggression had been committed in Ireland, and the Protestants there could have nothing; to complain of. The feeling was very strong in the county of Cork, in one of whose towns (Bandon) it might be remembered that, formerly, there having been written over the gates—
 "Jew, Turk, or Atheist May enter here, But not a Papist." 1036 "Whoever wrote these words, he wrote them well; The same are written on the gates of hell." Times 1037
 MR. G. H. CAVENDISH  said, that the same reasons which induced him to support the Bill as regarded England, would induce him to oppose it as regarded Ireland. In legislating upon questions like this, we ought to look at the feeling of the great body of the people. There was a feeling
 1034 status
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The questioe is, whether the hon. Member for West Surrey was out of order; and undoubtedly the hon. Member for Galway, whatever may have been the expressions which he had used, has made use of no expressions or arguments to prove that the hon. Member for West Surrey was out of order. Whether his argument was good or bad— whether what he said could be controverted or answered, or not—it must be evident to the Committee that in nothing he said was he at all out of order.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, his impression was that the proposal contained in the proviso had been already decided in the Committee; and he would refer the Committee to the Motion, on a former occasion, by the noble Lord the Member for Arundel, in which they would find the same proposition, that nothing in the Bill should interfere with spiritual functions. It appeared to him clear that the introduction of the words proposed by the hon. Member for Limerick would only lead to dispute and angry feeling. The noble Lord had said—and it was contended by many Roman Catholics—that the whole of the Rescript constituting the Archbishopric of Westminster was of a purely spiritual nature. That, as it appeared, was for Parliament to decide; and the proposal of the hon. Member was to take away the decision from Parliament, and leave it to the courts of law. He thought that their legislation on the subject should be as clear as it could be made. By legislation they might make a particular act illegal, or they might forbid a certain act, and put a penalty upon it; but if, for example, by a proviso they enacted that nothing in the Bill should militate against the civil liberty of the subject, it would become a matter of great dispute in a court of law what did militate against the civil liberty of the subject. Such a proviso, it appeared to him, ought not to be inserted in an Act of Parliament, for the effect would be to leave to the judgment of a jury that very ambiguous question, "What is spiritual and what is temporal?"
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I rise to object to the bringing up the clause, which, indeed, is not a clause so much as a long Bill, and which is as much entitled to be considered as a separate measure as any I ever heard of. The hon. Baronet, in the preamble of his Bill, brings forward a heavy accusation against the Government—not the present Government, but the preceding one, and the one that preceded that; in short, every Government that has existed for a long time past, leaving hardly any person that has held office since 1829 without some mark of his censure. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire seems to agree in that opinion—[Mr. SPOONER: "Hear!"] And certainly he and my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford are apparently almost the only two persons that could hold office in the new Cabinet that must be formed after the vote of censure that is to be pronounced upon all Governments that have existed in the country for the last twenty years. In the beginning of the hon. Gentleman's preamble it is stated—
 "And whereas such assumptions have no foundation in the law or custom of this realm, but rather are manifestly against all law, yet by negligence and sufferance of late years such assumptions have gained allowance and countenance to the great disparagement of Her Majesty's Imperial Crown and dignity, and to the weakening and disheartening of the Protestant Reformed Churches of this realm, and to the discouragement of the Protestant faith in the land, and in all other Her Majesty's dominions." 1063 Loud, cries of
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it appeared to him impossible, if the Bill were to be proceeded with at all, that the House could consent not to include Ireland in its provisions. If the prerogative of the Crown had been infringed—which he must presume to have been the case—and if the Bill was intended to protect that prerogative, it could not, he conceived, be made to allow the prerogative being infringed in England, and at the same time allow it to be infringed in Ireland with impunity. If the independence of the nation had been assailed, they could not permit that that independence should be protected from assailment in England, but that it might be assailed, without punishment, in Ireland. He did not see, in point of argument, the possibility of any logical defence of the Bill unless Ireland were included in it. But then, in point of practice, they were told that the majority of the people of Ireland were Roman Catholics, and that, therefore, Parliament ought not to pass a Bill which prohibited that being done in Ireland which the Roman Catholics in that country might wish to see done. But it appeared to him the whole argument in that respect went not so much against this particular Bill, which in a very trifling degree extended the present law, as it did against the existing law, namely, the provisions of the Act of the 10th of George IV. Because, if it were right to allow persons to call themselves the "Roman Catholic Archbishop of Dublin," or "of
 1047
 MR. OSWALD  said, the right hon. Gentleman observed that the bishops in Scotland had no legal right to assume these titles, and that was true. He also said they had only assumed them within the last few years; but the fact was, they had used territorial titles ever since 1727. In 1731 there was a code of canons drawn, and another in 1742, in which the now existing territorial titles were repeated nineteen times. The use of territorial ttiles was necessary to the constitution of the Episcopal Church in Scotland, and they claimed the right as British subjects to use them.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY : I was stopped by the Chairman, and only by the Chairman, and I sat down to hear the expression of his opinion. I now beg to inform the noble Lord, as well as the hon. Member for West Surrey, that I have not used any expression that I do not hold by. I believe that I have used no expression in contravention of the orders of this House. If I have done so, I am as ready as any man in
 1040 Cries of and cheers Cries of and Cries of
 MR. O'FLAHERTY : I believe, Sir, that I have the right to call to order. The hon. Member for West Surrey, in his usual style of good feeling towards those persons in this House who profess the Roman Catholic religion, has quoted certain paragraphs which I, for one, believed, as he quoted them, to have been sentiments expressed by some hon. Members of this House, or by some Catholic authority. I now find that he quotes from a newspaper which I, for one, never before heard of. I think it anything but fair and just—and, if the rules of the House permitted it, I would say it was anything but honourable —in the hon. Gentleman to make use of these quotations— [ Loud cries of Cries of
 MR. O'FLAHERTY : I now complain of the hon. Member for West Surrey for quoting in such a manner as to lead to the conclusion that he was quoting expressions of Members of this House. [ Cries of
 MR. DISRAELI  believed the case to be a very simple one. The hon. Member for Galway supposed the hon. Member for West Surrey made an assertion on not sufficient authority. That was not disorderly, but was a very fair topic to which the hon. Member for Galway might advert in reply. So far as he (Mr. Disraeli) could say, the hon. Member for West Surrey might have made an indiscreet statement —he offered no opinion on that point—but the hon. Member's statement was not disorderly. The hon. Member for Galway might do what he wished to do in the course of the regular discussion; and it was not competent for him to interpose when an hon. Msmher was addressing the Committee.
 MR. HAWES  said, there was no wish on the part of any one to prolong these proceedings, or delay any explanations that might be required. 
 MR. HAWES  said, the documents referred to had not been received, and therefore could not be produced. There was another objection to the Motion, and that was, that further legal proceedings had been commenced against the parties, and until such had terminated, they could not hear from the colony on the subject.
 MR. HAWES  said, that the report to which the hon. Baronet alluded had been received between two and three months ago, and was now in the possession of the Colonial Office. It had been received by the Colonial Office in a printed form, the copies having been printed in London. It was obvious, therefore, that it must have boon known to many hon. Gentlemen; but no one having moved for its production, it had not been laid upon the table of the House. There was no objection, however, to its production, provided the hon. Baronet would move also for the correspondence connected with it.
 MR. FREWEN  complained of the Bill being brought on to-night unexpectedly. Several Members who took an interest in it would have been present had they known. He hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Hastings would take an opportunity of bringing the case of that town before the consideration of the House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  moved two Amendments which he had placed upon the paper. The first was, an addition at the end of the clause, and was to the effect that any offender against the Act who had been
 1018 l. l. l. l.
 MR. ROCHE  thought this Bill unjust to the Catholics of England, as well as to the Catholics of Ireland; but he viewed it as the most unjust measure towards Ireland that had ever been contemplated by any Government. The hon. Solicitor General was too good a lawyer to say that this Bill only repealed the Emancipation Act, or to deny that it did extend the restrictive clauses of the Act of Emancipation. But then the hon. and learned Gentleman relied on the spirit in which the Emancipation Act was passed. Well, what was the spirit of the debate which took place before the passing of the Act of 1829, in the House of Lords? The Duke of Wellington on that occasion told their Lordships that the restrictive clauses as to ecclesiastical titles was merely introduced to satisfy the scruples of a few right rev. Prelates and other Peers in that House. Lord Malmesbury, in the same debate, declared that he looked upon the same restrictive clauses as a farce, and worse than a farce. But if the spirit in which the Act of 1829 was passed was referred to, might he (Mr. Roche) not refer also to the spirit in which it had been hitherto carried out in Ireland? It had been notoriously carried out by their own Lord Lieutenant, even in a much more generous spirit than that in which it was passed; and, in fact, under the Acts of the Legislature the Catholic bishops had received their titles in Ireland. Therefore when a Bill like the present, which was practically a Bill of pains and penalties against the Catholics of Ireland, was introduced, he had a right to say they were abandoning their own principles and the spirit of liberality in which they had heretofore carried out the Emancipation Act itself. He confessed that he could not look on the extension of this Bill to Ireland, throwing the apple of discord, as it did, into that country, in which he had an interest at stake, with the same cool and philosophical a spirit as the hon. and
 1032 1033 Times Times
 MR. SCULLY  considered that the Solicitor General had assigned no sufficient reason for rejecting the proposed proviso. This Act went much further than the Act of 1829, because that Act did not allude, either by implication, or directly, to the introduction of Bulls into this country. With reference to the consecration of bishops, he should like to know how that point would be affected by this Bill. There bad been a recent instance, in the case of the consecration of the Bishop of Killaloe, in the county which he had the honour to represent. That consecration must take place under a Papal Bull. By this Bill all Bulls from Rome were illegal, so that the consecration would be illegal. This Act went much further than the 10th George IV., for any act under a Bull from the Pope would subject the individual to a severe penalty, which was not the case under the 10th George IV. The holding of synods was another most important matter, which would be affected by the Bill; for the Master of the Rolls had said that this Bill was intended to affect the synodical action of bishops; and thus the Government were attempting to put down what every other country in Europe was trying to keep up—the moral force of the Catholic episcopacy in this country. It was quite evident, from the provisions of this Bill, that it exceeded the promise of the noble Lord, that he would not allow it to interfere with the spiritual concerns of the Catholics.
 MR. MOORE  must do the hon. and gallant Colonel the justice to say, that his proposal was far more just and reasonable than that of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell); because, if the crime committed had been really what the noble Lord described it to be, if it really touched the
 1019
 MR. LABOUCHERE  moved for leave to bring in a "Bill to amend the Acts relating to the Merchant Seamen's Fund, and to provide for winding up the said Fund, and for the better management thereof in the meantime." He must say there had been just cause of complaint among the sailors employed in the mercantile marine with regard to this fund. The truth was, that the fund was in a most miserable condition—in fact, in a state of the most hopeless insolvency. That insolvency had been
 1068 d. l. d. l. l. l. l. 1069 l. l.
 MR. J. CLAY  said, the Protestant feeling of this country had been so strongly excited, that it would have been impossible for the Government to have refused to legislate at all on the subject; because the country would have found another Administration if the present one had resigned; and, impatient at the delay which had been interposed, a much stronger and more stringent measure would then have been demanded. If the Government had refused to pass some enactment, the Protestant and national spirit of the country would have kept the quarrel alive. At the same
 1035
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  rose amid loud cries of "Divide!" He would not trespass more than a few minutes on the House. He was sure hon. Gentlemen would not refuse to listen whilst he vindicated the memory of his deceased relative. It had been stated that the late Mr. O'Connell had resisted the aggression of the Pope on the veto question. That was a great mistake, for the question of the veto had not arisen until long after the time referred to. As to the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Youghal, he must protest against the supposition that that hon. Gentleman represented the people of Ireland, or any portion of them. The hon. Gentleman had been called upon to resign his seat on account of his most extraordinary conduct. He could not bring himself to condescend to vote for this clause, as he did not wish to separate himself, or his Roman Catholic fellow-countrymen from the cause of the English or Scotch Catholics. He sought no special exemption from this most paltry and contemptible Bill.
 MR. J. O'CONNELL  thought that the noble Lord at the head of the Government was hound to adopt this Amendment, or some similar form of words, by the expressions which he had put in Her Majesty's Speech from the Throne at the beginning of the Session, and in which there was a distinct injunction to the Legislature to preserve intact the religious liberties of Her Roman Catholic subjects.
 1016
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, that the proviso had been brought forward simply to provide against the operation of the Bill in matters purely spiritual. It appeared there was a doubt as to the construction of the Bill in that respect; and he thought that it was the duty of the Committee, in such a case, to give the benefit of the doubt to the party legislated for, and to construe it in a liberal spirit. If they took that view, then they would insert the
 1017
 MR. REYNOLDS : As a Roman Catholic Member, I have no objection whatever to the reading of any documents, no matter what their contents may be, even though they are insulting to my creed; but I think it only fair and reasonable that a Gentleman who reads such a document should, at all events, state from what source they emanated. I thought the hon. Member was quoting from some authentic document that would bind me as a
 1041
 MR. REYNOLDS  must say that with every respect for the judgment and sound-
 1048 1049 Catholic Vindicator 1050 1051
 MR. REYNOLDS  despaired of the Government taking any of the poison out of the Bill, after they had rejected the moderate proposition of the hon. Member (Mr. Monsell). The hon. Member had asked the Committee to leave the Roman Catholic Church the exercise of freedom in spiritual matters, and the noble Lord, having a majority of 160 to 42, rejected the proviso. Now, seeing that the noble Lord had rejected it, he was surprised that he had not invited the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Sibthorp) to persevere with his Amendment, for with what consistency could the noble Lord reject the one, and refuse to adopt the other? He would take that last opportunity of declaring that this clause was in his opinion a repeal of the most valuable portion of the Roman Catholic Emancipation Act —that it was a clause of pains and penalties—and that in his opinion it was an insult to the Roman Catholic religion, and those who professed it. This Bill would be remembered against the Whig Government, not only during their natural lives, but also against their successors who professed the same politics. Since he had last addressed the Committee on this subject he had spent ten days in Ireland, and had had the opportunity of hearing the opinions of the Roman Catholic bishops, priests, and laymen, on the conduct of Government; and he could assure the Committee their indignation against the Government and against the majority of the House knew no bounds. They had withdrawn all confidence from the House and the Government, for they believed that they were not likely to receive any measure of justice at their hands. They thought that they must look to themselves for protection in future. They conceived that they could not now look to this House for fair play; and he (Mr. Reynolds) was authorised to repeat, in the name of his fellow-countrymen, including many Protestants and Presbyterians, and the liberal and enlightened portion of every sect and party in Ireland, that they looked on this as a, retrograde step in legislation, disgraceful
 1020
 MR. REYNOLDS,  looking upon this clause as an emancipative clause, was favourable to it; but, if a division should take place, he should not vote at all, as it should never be said of him that he voted for any part of this Bill. This clause, he contended, was at variance with the second clause, which they had already passed. He conceived that their treatment of the Scotch bishops, who were violators of the law on the hand, and of the ten millions of Catholics on the other hand, was making fish of one, and flesh of the other. He was for full civil and religious liberty all over the globe, and he thought they ought not to compel a man to support a church he dissented from. The right hon. Gentleman said, besides the Scotch bishops there were no other bishops in England except those of the Established Church. There were, however, the Moravian bishops, who derived their authority from a central German Power. The whole Bill was atrocious and infamous.
 MR. SADLEIR : But his hon. Friend the Member for Galway had been called to order by the Chairman for using an expression which was perfectly in order.
 MR. SADLEIR  expressed his regret that the Government had not acquiesced in the principle, at least, of the Amendment. He had listened with great attention and respect to the hon. and learned Solicitor General, and could not succeed in detecting anything approaching to an answer to the reasons for the Amendment of his hon. Friend. The object of his hon. Friend's Amendment was to prevent future litigation of a most vexatious and mischievous character. So far from the Amendment rendering the Bill obscure, it was calculated to clear up the obscurity of the Bill itself as regarded a most delicate and important question; and the passing of the Amendment would show that the Government really had no desire to interfere with the spiritual functions of the Roman Catholic bishops; and he challenged the hon. and learned Gentleman to show that the
 1015
 DR. POWER  referred to the conflicting opinions which had been expressed as to the effects of the Bill, and contended that, seeing the existence of such doubts, the noble Lord was bound to have remodelled the measure. Hon. Members on both sides of the House had said that they did not contemplate interfering with the spiritual functions of the Roman Catholic ecclesiastics, and he therefore thought that in the midst of so much doubt, their best course would be to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, in order that it might be brought into a consistent shape. By doing this they would satisfy the people of Ireland, and give them some evidence that they did not wish to interfere with their religious liberties. The consequences of this measure might soon be displayed. Suppose the Bishop of Ross, who had been appointed since the issue of this Rescript, should suspend a priest. If that priest were actuated by revenge, he might exhibit his letters of ordination, in which his bishop would call himself "Bishop of Ross." The assumption of that title would subject the bishop to the penalty of the present clause, and if proceedings were taken they would be sure to sow heartburning and discord among the population, whatever the result before the legal tribunals. Many hon. Members supported this Bill not because they believed that there was anything in the act of the Pope  per se 1021
 MR. HOLLOND  complained that the borough of Hastings was omitted from the schedule.
 MR. HOLLOND  said, it was necessary for the welfare of the town of Hastings that it should be included in the Bill.
 MR. HOLLOND  said, he should feel it to be his duty to move that Hastings be added to the Schedule.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he had recently declined pressing a Motion which he had introduced in reference to certain parties who had received tickets of leave in Van Diemen's Land. Since then he had heard from the colony, and all he had stated had been confirmed. He would therefore, then move, pursuant to notice, an Address for
 "Copies of all correspondence between his Excellency Sir William Denison, Lieutenant Governor of Van Diemen's Land, and the Police Magistrates of New Norfolk and Launceston, on the subjects noticed in his Excellency's despatch of the 14th day of January, 1851 (in continuation of Parliamentary Paper, No. 316, of Session 1851); and of the Proceedings taken before the said Police Magistrates on the matters in question."
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  assured the House, that he was not about to reply to the personalities which he, in common with, he believed, most hon. Members, considered would be best treated by being passed over in silence; he would leave the hon. Member in the undisturbed notoriety of having contributed more than any other Member to lower the character of the debates of that House. He would not institute a comparison in any respect with the hon. Gentleman, neither as to conduct in that House, nor electioneering prospects. "Without comparing ourselves in any way
 1052
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  was not at all ambitious of making common cause with the hon. Gentleman opposite. He was there an independent Member, representing both Roman Catholics and Protestants, and unless he were to advocate fraud and imposture, and ambition, as parts of the Roman Catholic system, he must express his unqualified condemnation of the recent act of aggression on the part of the Court of Rome. When the noble Lord referred to the proceedings with respect to the Synod of Thurles and the Queen's Colleges, and made them an argument for extending the Bill to Ireland by way of precaution against similar contingencies in Ireland, he must tell the noble Lord that the excitement which was caused in Ireland by the peculiar wording of the Bill would do more to make these contingencies likelihoods, and to bring them to the verge of certainties than the most dexterous manœuvres of domestic ambition or foreign arrogance could have done. The noble Lord, by including Ireland in the Bill, had ranged the people of Ireland on the side of Dr. Cullen and against the Colleges. The popular excitement or frenzy in Ireland dated only from the month of February; and the noble Lord would do well to assent to the Amendment for excluding that country from the Bill.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  could not see on what principle it was proposed to extend this Bill to Ireland, and not to the rest of Her Majesty's dominions. It was said that the reason was that what the Pope had done here would not have been illegal if done in our transmarine provinces, because the law violated was purely an English one. On what principle then was its extension to Ireland justified? He would repeat, what he had often before asserted, that the issuing of a Bull by the Pope for establishing or continuing a hierarchy in Ireland on the present state of the law, and regard being had to the peculiar provisions of the Act of 1829, was perfectly legal; but that a Bull issued by the same authority, and for the same purpose, was perfectly illegal in England. The case on which this Bill rested was that the Pope had attempted an aggression upon rights and interests of a temporal character. It was on this ground that the noble Lord founded the Bill; but he said at the same time that it would be objectionable to legislate beyond the necessity of the occasion, and the mischief it was intended to redress. The Pope had committed such an aggression in England by attempting to
 1043 1044 Ironical cheers 1045 Ironical cheering from the Roman Catholic Members
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, it was perfectly true the Wesleyans had no bishops, and he did not point out the discrepancy as an immediate evil to anybody; but they were introducing a restriction against civil and religious liberty, without giving the slightest reason for it. He wanted to know why these persons, who had just as much right as any Scotch bishops to assume titles, were to be precluded from so doing?
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he hoped there would be some answer to his question.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he agreed with the right hon. Baronet that there was a distinction between bishops holding office by foreign authority, and those who did not so hold it. But the question which he wished to put to Her Majesty's Government was of a different description. He wanted to know why this clause was not to extend to other bishops who might choose to hold territorial titles, but might not hold them under the authority of a foreign Power. Perhaps the answer would be, that there were no such bishops. But there might be. There were some persons in Scotland professing to be episcopalians, who were dissatisfied with the arrangements of the Scotch bishops, and who had taken steps to obtain the appointment of a bishop of their own. Why should they be prevented from doing this? Then why should not the Wesleyans, if they chose, call their superintendents of circuits bishops with territorial titles. If they were going to lay down this restrictive law, they ought to tell them why they did it. He, himself, with the views that he entertained with regard to this Bill, certainly would not undertake the responsibility of attempting to amend it, but he thought Her Majesty's Government on their own principles —not on his principles, because that would not satisfy him with the Bill—but on their own principles, they ought not to make the assumption of titles unlawful except they were derived from a foreign authority.
 MR. KEOGH : The hon. Member for Galway has, I believe, been called to order by the hon. Baronet who has just spoken. Now I do not see how he has violated order. My hon. Friend the Member for Galway said, that if the rules of the House permitted him, he would say that the conduct and observations of the hon. Member for West Surrey were anything but honourable. Now, I am well aware— and every one in the House is well aware —that an evasive sort of expression is constantly used, in order to avoid coming within the rule of violating the orders of this House. Now, all that my hon. Friend said was, that he would say something if the rules of the House permitted him to do so. I have seen much more flagrant evasion of the rules of order of this House declared not to be disorderly when a form of expression of that kind has been used; and I must confess that I, for one, cannot tamely submit to my hon. Friend the Member for Galway being called to order for evading the rule of the House, when I can cast my recollection back a few short weeks and remember what was then passed over from the hon. Member for West Surrey.
 MR. KEOGH  intimated his intention not to oppose the clause. The same liberty which he claimed for his own Church, he was willing to concede to that of others.
 MR. KEOGH  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had intimated to him that he was prepared to give his support to one clause which he (Mr.
 1010
 MR. MONSELL  moved the addition of these words as a proviso:—
 "That nothing in this Act contained shall be construed to interfere with, or in any manner to restrict, the free action of the Roman Catholic Church in the United Kingdom in matters of a spiritual nature." 1011 "But it was said that it was not easy to dissever the spiritual from the temporal power—that it was almost impossible to force them asunder. Now, this very point had been discussed for the last thirty years—the most acute minds during that period had been occupied in considering it. They had been endeavouring to find where the spiritual power of the Pope in this country interfered with matters of a temporal description; and after all this research, they could adduce but one instance"—[2  Hansard "That was the only instance in which the spiritual power of the Pope interfered or could interfere in any degree with the temporal interests of the people of this realm."
 MR. MONSELL  said, the right hon. Gentleman replied by stating, that the Act of 1829 had not been put in force in Ireland, and that vicars-apostolic did just as well as bishops in England; but surely he would not forget the whole discussion of the last two months, and that the most distinguished lawyers had expressed the strongest possible opinion that as this Act would make illegal every Bull coming from the Court of Rome, and of course every act under every such Bull; it would interfere with the spiritual functions of vicars-apostolic as much as with those of bishops. The right hon. Gentleman had never condescended to refer to that opinion, though he frequently referred to the case of Lalor, as interpreting the 16th
 1014
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, that his object was to give the Scotch Church, the Roman Catholic Church, and all other voluntary churches, the power of assuming the designation of archbishop and bishop, if they should think fit.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  rose to propose an Amendment. The Bill did not exempt the Scotch Church from the allegation in the preamble, "That the attempt to establish under cover or authority of the Sec of Rome," any power or jurisdiction in this country "is illegal and void." Although an exception was made in one of the clauses in favour of the Church in Scotland, it still remained under the proscription of the declaratory clause. Now it appeared to him that this Bill, under the pretence of resisting Papal aggression, was an aggression on all voluntary episcopal Churches. No voluntary episcopal Church could exist in the United Kingdom under this Bill without being liable to the pains and penalties prescribed. The Bill was in effect really to establish the arrogant claim
 1023
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  rose to move the addition of a clause providing that the Bill shall not extend to Ireland. He invited, in the first place, the attention of the Committee to the nature of the aggression of which complaint had been made. In a letter of the 29th of September last the Pope divided this country into districts, for the purpose of establishing a Roman Catholic herarchy. This was alleged to be a violation of the Queen's supremacy; and yet the noble Lord at the head of the Government admitted, that having consulted the law officers of the Crown, they had declared that neither the common law nor the statute law had been infringed. He could not understand, therefore, how it was that any violation of the Queen's supremacy had taken place; neither could he understand upon what principle of common justice, or of common sense, it could be maintained that Ireland should be included in the punishment which was about to be awarded to an act of the Papal Court, which had no reference to any country except England. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had stated that certain clauses of the Bill had been withdrawn, in order that it might not affect Ireland; but he apprehended that the Bill in its present shape would operate most injuriously on the interests of the Roman Catholic bishops in that kingdom. This Bill did what the Act of 1829 did not do, for it declared that the assumption of titles was void and illegal, and consequently the courts of law could not give it the liberal construction which they put upon the former Act, but must decide in accordance with the strict moaning of the words contained in the preamble of the Bill, and must invalidate all acts done by Roman Catholic bishops who assumed the titles of the dioceses over which they presided. It was said that all prosecutions under the Act were to be instituted by the Attorney General; but was it fit that a people should hold their religious rights and liberties at the mercy of that learned personage? This Bill would go to prevent bishops of the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland from taking the titles of the sees to which they were appointed, though it was essential that the powers of a bishop should be defined by territorial limits. It would be impossible, therefore, to appoint bishops at
 1028 1029
 MR. GOOLD  said, that religious animosities were dying out in Ireland, when the unfortunate letter of the noble Lord came to rekindle the slumbering embers of religious discord. The noble Lord could not withdraw that letter— litera scripta manet
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the right hon. Gentleman asked why this clause should not extend to the Wesleyans. His answer was, that the Wesleyans, as a body, supported this Bill; they did not ask for any indulgence of the kind; and that their case was an imaginary one, put forward by the right hon. Gentleman. The Government had dealt with the bodies of
 1026
 SIR GEORGE GREY  remarked, that the Scotch bishops stood on a totally different footing, inasmuch as they did not hold their office from the appointment of a foreign Power. There was nothing in this clause, however, which gave them a right to assume these titles. The right had been denied by the Court of Session in Scotland, and this clause left them just as they were before.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought the addition of the words proposed by the hon. Gentleman very objectionable. They were
 1024
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would allow the hon. Gentleman to accompany the report with such papers as he might think fit.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that his attention had been called to a Report which had been made by certain Commissioners who had been appointed by the Governor of British Guiana to inquire into the state and prospects of that colony. That report contained some very important statements, and he understood had been in this country for about three months. He wished to know from the Under Secretary for the Colonies whether it was now in the possession of the Colonial Office; whether it had been all that length of time in their possession; and, if so, what had prevented its being laid on the table of the House?
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : Whatever fault might have been committed—and I do not see that any has been committed by my hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey—would have been noticed by you, Sir; but, at all events, I thought that when the hon. Member for Galway rose, he would have specified some particular instance in which my hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey had deviated from the strict order of the House. I submit, Sir, to you, and to every other Member of the House, whether the hon. Member who interrupted my hon. Friend
 1039
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  moved the insertion of the following Clause:—
 "And whereas the Queen's Majesty, in right of Her Imperial Crown, is unto all Her Subjects, under God, the only lawful source and fountain, as well of honour as of jurisdiction, and no Foreign Prince, Potentate, or Prelate, Lath in his own right any authority to confer within this Realm, or any other dominions of the Queen, upon any of Her Majesty's Subjects, or upon any other resident therein, any pre-eminence or jurisdiction in or over the said Realm or dominions, or among or over the people thereof: "And whereas it is notorious that the Bishop of Rome hath of late years taken upon himself to constitute, and by territorial limits to define, certain new Sees and Dioceses within this Realm, and the Dominions thereunto belonging, and further to appoint unto the said Sees, and also unto other sees, already existing and recognised by law, certain persons as Bishops of the same, and bath thereby pretended to give to such persons authority not only over all Members of the Church of Rome, but also over all the Queen's Christian Subjects therein resident, and hath further assumed to give to certain other persons Archiepiscopal dignity and Metropolitical jurisdiction within Her said Majesty's Realm and Dominions: "And whereas such assumptions have no foundation in the law or custom of this Realm, but rather are manifestly against all law, yet by negligence and sufferance of late years, such assumptions have gained allowance and countenance, to the great disparagement of Her Majesty's Imperial Crown and dignity, and to the weakening and disheartening of the Protestant Reformed Churches of this Realm, and to the discouragement of the Protestant faith in the land, and in all other Her Majesty's Dominions: "And whereas certain rank and precedence hath in divers manners by Statute of the Realm, by Letters Patent, by Warrant under the Sign Manual, or by ancient prescription, been attached to different offices, Ecclesiastical as well as Civil, and to divers classes of persons within this Realm, and also to particular persons during their natural lives, all such rank and precedence being regulated by certain rules, whereof the Crown, as the fountain of honour, is the author, guardian, and keeper; and whereas no subject of this Realm can confer any rank or pre-eminence upon any other subject except through the Queen's Royal authority to him delegated, and no subject of the Queen is permitted by the custom of this Realm to bear, without the special license of the Crown, any Title or Dignity tendered to him by any Foreign Prince, Prelate, or Potentate: "And whereas the rank and precedence of the Archbishops and Bishops of the United Church of England and Ireland, and also the use of Titles appropriated by most ancient prescription to the same, are part of the rights and privileges of the said Church which the Kings and Queens who shall come to the Crown Imperial of this Realm are, on their accession, bound by oath to maintain: "And whereas, without disparagement to the said United Church by fundamental Laws estab-
 1060 "And whereas all the Ministers and Servants of the Crown are required by law and bound in duty to serve the Queen according to the law and custom of the realm: "Be it Enacted and declared, by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, That, notwithstanding anything which appears to the contrary, in a certain Local Act entitled the Dublin Cemeteries Act, or in a certain other Act entitled the Act for Charitable Donations and Bequests in Ireland, it is not and shall not he deemed lawful for any Minister or Servant of the Crown in the United Kingdom, or for any governor or subordinate officer in any of the dominions thereunto belonging, on occasion of any public state or ceremonial, or otherwise, to give or allow any rank or precedence, or to use in any public legal or official document any prefix of title or appellation of honour in respect of any Ecclesiastical Order or Dignity in the Church of Rome, to any person not having Her Majesty's license for such title or appellation of honour under Her Royal Sign Manual, duly notified in the official Gazette of the place; provided that nothing herein contained shall affect any usage of Rank or Titles in respect of any Roman Catholic person or see in any dependency ceded by treaty to the Crown, in which treaty there shall have been special provision for the maintenance of the Church of Rome therein." 1061 Dublin Gazette 1062
 MR. W. MILES  said, the noble Lord ought to state his reasons for not including Hastings.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  observed that all through the protracted debate on this Bill they had been told by the Roman Catholics that the Bull which had caused so much dissatisfaction in this country, was simply a spiritual act. Therefore, according to that interpretation, if the Committee adopted the proposed proviso, they would be legalising the very act against which they were legislating.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that the invention had been found to succeed, and a certain sum of money had been awarded by the Treasury to the inventor, Mr. Archer, partly as a reward, and partly for compensation for his machine; but the inventor was not satisfied with the amount awarded, and declined to accept it, and had expressed a wish to remove the machine. Under these circumstances, the Department of Inland Revenue did not feel justified in making use of the machinery, and it remained in the office, without being used. There had, however, been a certain number of perforated stamped sheets furnished, in conformity with the understood wish of the inventor, partly to Members in the library of that House, and partly to the Postmaster, in Bridge-street, Westminster.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  observed that the present Bill, as reprinted, had been brought forward with its existing preamble and clauses. With respect to the latter, no alteration had been made in them since the reprint, and he apprehended that the Committee would find that the preamble most carefully pointed to the clauses which the Committee had already passed. The first clause of the Bill was a declaration that the Rescript of the Pope, which had been so often referred to, and all authority pretended to be conferred by it, were illegal and void; and there was a recital in the preamble to the effect that certain persons under colour of that Rescript, which by this Bill was declared to be unlawful, had assumed to themselves certain titles. It, therefore, appeared to him that the recital met the clause which the Committee had passed. The second clause was an obvious one, and framed in the spirit of the Act of 1829, and in the preamble was found a recital of that Act, together with a declaration that there might be a question whether the Act of 1829, according to its mere wording, included sees not at present occupied by prelates of the Established Church; the second clause then declared the assumption of such titles illegal and void. Thus the preamble and the clause hung together; and he did not see what advantage the hon. and learned Member proposed to gain by introducing a new preamble. He understood the hon. and learned Member to argue that there was not sufficient precision in the Bill with respect to the declaration against the usurpation on the part of the Pope, and he proposed to introduce into the preamble a recital that no foreign Power had or ought to have jurisdiction within this kingdom. There could be no question that that was the law, and that the only effect of the Act of 1829 was to free the Roman Catholics from scruples of conscience in respect to the oath they were called on to
 1087 1088
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin seemed to have based his argument upon the assumption that the Act of 1829 had introduced some doubts as to the constitutional doc-
 1092
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the exclusion of Roman Catholics from certain offices of State did not depend merely on religious grounds, but on grounds that were entirely political; because the course of our legislation at the present time recognised the principle that the mere holding of one set of religious opinions more than another had no effect on the subject's civil privileges. But with respect to Roman Catholics, the Act of Settlement provided securities for the Protestant succession to the Throne, and it was clear that the numerous livings in the Protestant Church the appointment to which was vested in the Lord Chancellor, could not be vested in any Roman Catholic. But all this had arisen from political considerations, and according to the Act of Settlement. These considerations did not at all apply to the Jew, who had all the privileges of a British subject, and was only prevented from enjoying them, as had been repeatedly stated, by an accident. Lord Eldon had decided that a Jew could present to a living. A living in the city of London was elective, and the question arose who had the right to vote; and the decision was that Catholics had no right, but Jews had—every elector to the living being a fractional patron.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, the argument from the opposite side of the House amounted to asserting the principle that a majority ought to expel a minority—a principle not as yet universally received and acted on. Had it been asserted on a late occasion, a good deal of trouble might have been saved; but happily it was not. If he had on that occasion differed from the minority alluded to, it was not because his heart was not in the right place on the general question of religious toleration. One other point, he would take the opportunity to note. When the House had gone the length of putting the Old Testament into the hands of a candidate for admission, it was great pity advantage had not been taken of the step so gained, to propose the substitution in the oath, of the words "on the true faith of a believer in the book put into my hand." There was something so inconsequent in putting a book into a man's hand because he believed in it, and then asking him to swear on something else,
 1102
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVIILE  stated that, although he was himself in favour of extending the jurisdiction of the Assistant Barrister's Court, to 50 l., l.,
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  thought the Committee was not bound by any understanding which had been come to upstairs.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, it had been proposed to limit the jurisdiction of the Assistant Barrister's Court to 30 l., l., l.
 MR. BERNAL  could say, as Chairman of Committees of that House, that it was time such a Bill should be passed. The principle of the present Bill was, to vary the law with regard to Irish railways, and not to bind down the companies to the Land Clauses Consolidation Act. The House would only affirm the principle of arbitration by agree-
 1118
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, there were a number of objections to the Bill. Many of his constituents had subscribed to the building of churches on the understanding that the seats were to be rent free, whereas this Bill would have the opposite effect.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  explained, that he had only expressed his opinion on the first clause.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he had seen a petition presented to this House, in April, by the hon. Member for Hastings, praying that Hastings might be excluded; and on that ground he thought it right to exclude it from this Bill, with the understanding that he should be at liberty to insert it in any future Bill he might introduce.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, this was a measure of practical reform, which was greatly needed, and great anxiety was felt in the manufacturing districts concern-
 1122
 MR. VESEY  had, in common with other Irish Members, been consulted by the Government, and they all agreed that some alteration of the law with regard to the assessing the value of land was necessary, because the system of juries had created great difficulties in carrying out railways in Ireland. By agreeing to the second reading, the House would not pledge itself to the details, or to the principle of arbitration; and he was grateful to the President of the Board of Trade for the course the right hon. Gentleman had taken.
 LORD CLAUDE HAMILTON  said, he felt that he should be acting inconsistently with the general opinion of the House if he did not support the Bill; and he trusted the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire would not press his view of the question on the present occasion. He must also tender his thanks to the right hon. Gentleman opposite for this attempt to adapt the law to the peculiar circumstances of Ireland.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that the borough of Hastings consisted of the old town of Hastings and the new one of St. Leonard's, and a large proportion of the borough and county voters lived in St. Leonard's, and that was the reason why the hon. Members who had spoken were in favour of this Amendment. The question was, whether the entire borough of Hastings was to be excluded from the Bill. He had read the report of the Local Commissioners on the town of Hastings; and its
 1123
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The speech of the hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House may be divided into two parts—the one upon the subject of a representative constitution to the Cape of Good Hope, and the other the present war upon our frontier in that colony. Now, I do not know that I can add much to what I have stated on a former occasion, in expressing the views of the Government on this subject; but if I can make those views more clear, I will endeavour to do so. With respect to the question of granting a constitution to the Cape, letters patent were transmitted from this country; but those letters patent did not contain the complete detail of the scheme of representative government that was to be established. They contained the outline of a scheme which was to be filled up at the Cape of Good
 1105 1106 "It was clear to every one that the four Members who afterwards resigned had determined not to proceed with the estimates, or transact any general business. The adjournment was only moved with a view to popular agitation, in order to bring the matter to an issue at once. These gentlemen had from the first meeting of the Council acted together as a party, and having been defeated on several questions in Committee, it was quite clear to every one that they had determined to resing their seats." "The fact is, as stated in my despatch of the 2nd of October last, the four Members who have resigned had evidently determined to do so when defeated in the Committee on the question of the qualification of Members of the Upper House." 1107 1108 1109 quasi 1110
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I heard not very long ago the hon. and learned Gentleman declare—and I heard it with great pleasure—that we in these days are accustomed to consider not the belief or religious tenets, but the conduct and ability, of the candidate when legislating with respect to admission to public offices. That opinion
 1100
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL , having read the preamble, submitted that it was worded in such a manner as to preclude the necessity of any such declaration as the hon. and learned Member wished to insert. He believed that the preamble proposed by the Government was well adapted to the purposes of the Bill, and that it had this additional advantage over the preamble suggested by the hon. and learned Gentleman, that it was better English.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thought these words unnecessary. Their purport was already implied in the Bill.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thought the Committee would hardly agree with the hon. Member who had just spoken, that it would be desirable to introduce these words into the preamble in the expectation that upon the report other clauses of a more stringent kind would be agreed to, and that it would be desirable to be ready beforehand with a preamble suited to the clauses which the House might hereafter adopt. What the Committee had to do was to consider whether the present preamble were suited to the present Bill; or whether the words now proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst ought to be introduced. He thought the Committee would gain nothing by the introduction of these words, and that, on the contrary, they might give rise to an inconvenience of no slight nature. He repeated, that they would gain nothing by the insertion of these words, because he differed with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Mayo (Mr. Moore) in thinking that the Act of 1829 diminished the effect of the law that "no foreign prince, prelate, or potentate, hath or ought to have any jurisdiction or authority within this kingdom, or any part thereof," whether that authority were spiritual or temporal. The Committee must recollect what was done by the Act of 1829. He believed that all Roman Catholics would admit that the Act of 1829 did not alter the meaning of the words in question in the sense in which they were used by Protestants—namely, that no foreign Prince, &c., had any jurisdiction or authority within this realm which could be enforced by law, whether that were spiritual or temporal. But the Roman Catholics did object to using these words in the oath of supremacy; and Mr. O'Connell, who was heard at the bar, objected to use those words of the oath. By the Act of 1829 Parliament admitted the Roman Catholics to seats upon the denial by them that "any foreign prince, prelate, person, State, or potentate, hath or ought to have any temporal or civil jurisdiction, &c., within this realm." That omission of the words "ecclesiastical or spiritual" was made in order to meet the scruples of the Roman Catholics. With regard to persons not Roman Catholics, the Act of 1829 did not alter the law; but with reference to the Roman Catholics it did alter the law so far as their right to take their
 1090
 LORD NAAS  wished to put a question to the Secretary to the Treasury, respecting an operation of great mechanical ingenuity, and which, it was stated by competent authority, would certainly prevent forgeries in respect of letter stamps, and prove of great convenience to the public at large. He wished to know whether the machine for perforating the sheets of postage labels which was furnished by the patentee to the Commissioners of Stamps in the year 1849, had been found to answer the purpose for which it was intended, and, if so, why perforated postage stamps have not been supplied to the public in accordance with the terms of the arrangement entered into between the Commissioners and the patentee, namely, that he was "to furnish the machine on the understanding that he was not to be repaid the cost thereof, or to receive, compensation for his invention, until the plan was brought into successful operation, or had received the unqualified approbation of the public;" also, whether the perforated postage labels
 1082
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  agreed that the principle of the Bill had given great satisfaction in Ireland. He could not, however, agree to some of the details, more especially that which gave a single arbitrator the power of determining the value of another man's property. He begged to differ from the hon. Member for Bucks, who had charged the Government with consulting the Irish Members with reference to the Bill. He believed that the practice had always been to consult Scotch Members on Scotch matters, and English Members on English matters. Why then should not the Irish Members be consulted upon that which was a purely local matter? If the principle of consulting hon. Members on such matters were more generally adopted, it would much facilitate the business of the House, and tend to make legislation more satisfactory.
 MR. FULLER  supported the Motion of Mr. Brisco.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, a remarkable misconception appeared to prevail in some quarters respecting the purport of the observations he had addressed to the House. The hon. Member for Galway supposed him to have said, that the Irish Members ought not to be consulted on Irish subjects. He said nothing of the kind. It was his opinion that the Irish Members might properly be consulted, not only on Irish, but other subjects; but then, their opinion upon measures before the House ought to be solicited, according to the custom and usage of Parliament, either by discussion or by investigation before a Select Committee.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the speech just made by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade appeared to him one of the most remarkable, and, indeed, one of the most dangerous, that he had ever heard in that House. The
 1116 1117
 MR. DISRAELI  did not think that the meaning of this Act ought to be interpreted by implication. He believed that the Amendment proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst would be a valuable improvement, and he should vote for it accordingly.
 MR. FREWEN  hoped that the right hon. Baronet would not press the second reading of the Bill at this late hour—half-past twelve.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that all the medical men in Hastings and St. Leonard's had strongly expressed their opinion in favour of the necessity of extending the Bill to the town. He knew that an anxious desire existed on the part of the majority of the inhabitants of the town to be included in the Bill.
 MR. GEACH  said, that he believed the medical profession of Hastings were anxious that this Bill should be made to apply to that town.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, this Bill was most objectionable, as giving to the enemies of Christianity the right to fill the highest offices in a Christian community. He put it to the House and to the country, whether it was decent or fit that the selection of clergymen to the cures of this country should be vested in those who rejected Christianity from its very foundation. He considered the measure repugnant to the strong religious feelings of the people of England.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  expressed his confidence that the Bill would never pass the other House. He should be glad to be informed whether the noble Lord at the head of the Government recognised any distinction between Jews and other Members of that House. Some special arrangements with respect to Saturday sittings and to reading prayers in the House would be necessary. By this Bill, they would obtain a liberty and a license which other Members did not enjoy. He must protest against the whole proceeding. As this Bill came close on the heels of the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, it was evident the noble Lord did not care one farthing for the religion of the country, or he would not insist on the passing the Bill.
 MR. ROCHE  said, that the 73rd clause would give the landlord increased powers, for it gave him power to eject his tenant by process in the Civil Bills Court, provided he did not owe more than one year's rent, amounting to 50 l.
 MR. FRENCH  supported the clause as affording protection to the poor.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he could not see any reason why actions amounting to 50 l. l. l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  was disposed to meet the right hon. Gentleman in the spirit in which he had appealed to the Irish Members.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, there was a clause in the Bill as originally introduced by Government, which he wished to see in the present Bill, and which was thrown out by a small portion of the Committee. That clause was, that if an action should be brought in the Superior Courts, when the proceedings might have been by civil bill, the person bringing that action should not get costs larger than those which he would have been entitled to, had he proceeded in the inferior court, unless the Judge who tried it gave a certificate that
 1114
 MR. SCULLY  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the introduction of the measure. Nobody could say that railways in Ireland were not most desirable; but he hoped a clause of appeal to a jury would be added, and another as regarded the rights of occupying tenants under the Land Clauses Consolidation Act.
 MR. BANKES  thought the hon. Member for Mayo had given a good reason for adopting some declaration like that proposed in the Amendment of the hon. Member for Midhurst, for he had asserted that the spiritual jurisdiction of the Pope had been left a moot question; it was therefore very essential that the Parliament and the country should come to some decision on the point. It was fair as well to Roman Catholics as to Protestants that a decision should be had by Parliament. The hon. and learned Solicitor General asserted that nobody doubted that no foreign Prince hath or ought to have any jurisdiction or authority in these realms; but the hon. Member for Mayo disputed the law on that point: it was therefore right that there should be an explicit declaration by Parliament. The House would not be doing the duty expected of them if they passed a measure less efficacious than those statutes which it bad been said had fallen into desuetude. There were still some notices of Amendments on the paper, and if those were carried the preamble would have to be altered to correspond with them; the argument of the Solicitor General against altering the preamble because the clauses had been agreed to, was, therefore, of no force. If these future Amendments, which wore contemplated to be proposed, were carried, they would really impart effective powers to the Bill. He (Mr. Bankes) was not without hope that the Bill would yet be made not unworthy of a more stringent preamble, and that it would be rendered more satisfactory to the people of this country, than it was in its present shape. Why not revive that portion of the statute of Elizabeth which was generally admitted to be valuable, and which was now a dead letter? He confessed he had heard with surprise for the first time that evening, in that House, that the power of the Pope in this country was a matter open to discussion; that it had been revived by the Act of 1829. Such had been asserted by the hon. Member for Mayo, and such might be the opinion of other Roman Catholic Members, although he believed the noble Lord opposite (Lord Arundel and Surrey) had declined to enter upon any such discussion. However, that impression being entertained by some hon. Members of that persuasion, made it more necessary to insert the words proposed by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for
 1089
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, the Land Clauses Act did not work well in Ireland, but the clauses in the Galway Bill, subsequently introduced, had proved advantageous. He would not say he approved of all the details, but he certainly would vote in favour of the principle of the measure.
 MR. G. H. MOORE  called the attention of the Committee to the form of oath administered to Members of Parliament before and after the passing of the Act of 1829. The oath taken by Members of the House before the passing of the Act of 1829 was to the effect that no foreign prince, prelate, or potentate was entitled to pre-eminence or authority, ecclesiastical or spiritual, within this realm. By the Act of 1829 it was provided that Members of that House, being Roman Catholics, should be only required to declare that no foreign prince, prelate, or potentate hath or ought to have any "temporal or civil jurisdiction" in this realm. It was therefore very clear that by the Act of 1829 the spiritual pre-eminence of a foreign potentate had been left a moot point, and
 1086
 MR. MOORE  begged leave to state, in explanation, that what he had said was, that whereas before the Act of 1829 the rejection of the spiritual authority of the Pope was imperative, by the Act of 1829 the belief in that authority became a reserved point, which any Member of that House might assent to or not, as he pleased. The hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin appeared to think that the Roman Catholics only were affected by that Bill. If he merely meant to claim for himself the right to hold a different opinion respecting the authority of the Pope, he (Mr. Moore) would agree with him; but what he said was, that by the Act of 1829 Roman Catholics were empowered, without any impeachment of their duty or loyalty to the Crown, to believe in the spiritual authority of the Pope in this country.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that if the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had left any doubt on his mind as to the propriety of the course proposed, the hon. Member for Queen's County had shown that, at least, it was doubtful, if not altogether inexpedient. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had been censured from an entire
 1119
 MR. AGLIONBY  hoped the right hon. Baronet would not press the House to a division. The principle of the Bill was to take away the free seats that had been subscribed for.
 MR. GRATTAN  thought, that although it had suited the purpose of illiberal and bigoted men to deny that the Pope had spiritual authority in this realm, that authority had been practically recognised even before the passing of the Act of 1829.
 1093
 MR. H. HERBERT  was greatly interested in the railways of the south of Ireland, and had found that Bills of this nature had worked admirably. He, there-
 1120
 MR. LABOUCHERE , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, he had explained on another occasion the object
 1115
 MR. LABOUCHERE : The explanation of the hon. Gentleman made it necessary for him to explain, so that all misconception might be removed. The hon. Gentleman seems to think that I did not consult Irish Members until an advanced stage of the measure. Now, so far from this being the case, the Bill had its origin
 1121
 MR. HATCHELL  said, that in consequence of the inconvenience which it was feared would attend such a clause, the opinion of the Committee was that it should not be admitted; and therefore, after much discussion, it was rejected, as it would entail great hardships on plaintiffs who had to come from a distance, and who were entitled to higher costs than others.
 MR. HATCHELL  said, that he proposed to take the postponed clauses and the schedules on Thursday next.
 MR. HATCHELL  said that, considering the age of the present occupant of the office, the Government was disposed to give way and agree to the Amendment.
 MR. HATCHELL  said, that he would postpone the clauses in question.
 MR. HERRIES  was not prepared to offer an opinion on the merits of this Bill; but he agreed with his hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli) that the Government had not adopted the best and most constitutional mode of proceeding. His hon. Friend did not object that the Irish Members should be consulted, but he objected that a part of that House should be consulted out of that House, and then that the House should be called upon to agree to what they proposed. Why had not the right hon. Gentleman consulted these Irish Members before he brought in his Bill.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  said he would follow the course taken by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, and not oppose the Bill in Committee. He did not believe that so monstrous a proposition as the Bill in question had ever been presented to a Parliament before. He looked upon the question in a religious point of
 1097
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, it would appear from the observation of some of the hon. Gentlemen who had preceded him, that the people of this country were opposed to the emancipation of the Jews; but he believed that that assertion was not, whilst the contrary thereof he believed was, capable of proof. What were the facts? The immediate object of introducing this Bill was to enable one of the representatives of the city of London to take his seat. That hon. Gentleman had been elected on two occasions—not by a community of Jews, but by a community of Christians, as sincere as the hon. Gentleman who had preceded him could pretend to be. He should be glad to know what evidence these hon. Gentlemen had to justify their assertion that the people of England were opposed to the emancipation of the Jews. Such evidence was certainly not forthcoming in the shape of enormous petitions protesting against the admission of Jews into that House. And if he might be permitted to refer to that country with which he was more immediately connected—Ireland—he might observe that the feeling of Ireland was almost unanimously in favour of the
 1101
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that he should oppose any progress being made in Committee, unless he received a promise from the Attorney General for Ireland that the schedules for fixing the amount of professional fees should be postponed to a sufficiently distant day.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that as this Bill had passed through the ordeal of a Select Committee, he should not oppose it. But he wished to call attention to the fact that notice of three Amendments had been given by the hon. Member for the county of Dublin (Captain Taylor), for Rochdale (Mr. S. Crawford), and for Dundalk (Mr. M'Cullagh), and to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland, whether he would postpone the clauses to which those Amendments referred (the 73rd and 82nd) together with the schedules of professional fees, which required amendment and correction, to a sufficiently distant day to give parties interested in them an opportunity of considering them, and representing their views to the House.
 MR. REYNOLDS  would withdraw his opposition to the Committee proceeding with the Bill, reserving to himself the right of subsequently opposing the consideration of the schedules on Thursday.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that he feared that that would not be a sufficiently distant day to allow time for the correction of these schedules, which were in a very imperfect state. He should persevere in opposing any progress being made in Com-
 1112
 MR. REYNOLDS  was of opinion, that the present chairman of the county of Dublin had a right by Act of Parliament to a seat in that House, if he were elected, although no other assistant barrister had. The present holder of the office was seventy years of age, and he no doubt thought that it would be a feather in his cap if he were permitted, although it was not likely that he would avail himself of the privilege, to hold a seat in the House. Under these circumstances he hoped the Committee would agree to the Amendment.
 MR. J. STUART  respectfully wished Irish Members to consider what the land clauses, and particularly arbitration clauses, were, because it seemed to him that if he lived in Ireland he should be very sorry to exempt his land from the operation of the Land Clauses Act, for by that Act the owner of land had the option of obtaining a valuation of his land either by a jury or an arbitrator. He thought that the principle of this Bill was altogether unconstitutional. The principle of the Bill was, that it should be in the power of the Commissioner acting under it—that was to say, of a Government officer, to appoint an arbitrator. The third clause declared that only two clauses, namely, the 16th and 17th of the Land Clauses Act, which regulate land in England, should be applied to Ireland. And to what matters did these two clauses refer? Simply to the capital subscribed. With respect to every other matter, the Irish landlord was left to the mercy of an arbitrator, to be appointed by an officer of the Government. In his (Mr. Stuart's) opinion, this Bill ought to be withdrawn, with the view of introducing another in accordance with the wishes of the Irish Members, and the rights due to the Irish landowner.
 MR. HUME  thought it was inconsistent that a person holding a judicial office under the Crown should be eligible to hold a seat in that House. Mr. Shaw, the recorder, had felt it necessary to retire from the House because his judicial and legislative functions clashed, and he thought it would be unwise on the part of the House to admit the principle that the one was compatible with the other.
 MR. HUME  said, he had objected to this Report being confirmed, on account of some statements which were calculated to mislead and give offence in the colony. The Vote was for 300,000 l. 1103 1104 "You are aware that one of the principal objects for which you are now called together is to pass an ordinance to frame a basis of new government for the colony on the principle of popular election."
 MR. HUME  considered it a species of persecution to prevent any man from taking a seat in that House on the ground of his religious tenets. The noble Lord at the head of the Government was entitled to much praise for having introduced this Bill, and he hoped that he would press it forward. How absurd and anomalous must that law appear to a foreigner which permitted a Jew to enjoy all the privileges that could be enjoyed by an Englishman, except that of taking a seat in that House, simply through the operation of a few words accidentally introduced into an oath. He maintained that such an exception was never intended by the framers of that law. He hoped the noble Lord would press the measure forward; for a general election was likely to take place very shortly, and several Jews might be returned. He was surprised to hear people express alarm at the idea of one Jew taking a seat in that House. He should not be at all alarmed if there were dozens instead of one Jew
 1099
 MR. HUME  opposed the second reading of so important a Bill at so late an hour. It was a most extraordinary measure, as it went to confiscate the free sittings in churches, and he hoped the second reading would not now be pressed.
 MR. HUME  moved, that the debate be now adjourned.
 MR. NAPIER  had often heard it stated that the exclusion of the Jew from that House turned upon some accidental words in an Act of Parliament. If that were so, he would admit that the exclusion was an absurdity; but the proper inference to be drawn from the insertion in an Act of Parliament of those "accidental words" was, that the Legislature at that time assumed that every Member thereof was a Christian; for according to the common-law principles of the constitution, it was plain that every Member of an assembly having to legislate for a community, the whole of which was overruled by the principles of Christianity and the Word of God, should himself be a Christian. He therefore conceived that no enlightened foreigner could be surprised at the exclusion of a Jew from that Christian Legislature. For months past they had been legislating in vindication of the claim of our earthly Sovereign to earthly supremacy in these realms; and could they at the same time think of denying a supremacy incomparably greater than that of Queen Victoria, namely, that of our Lord and Saviour? He maintained that the only sure guarantee for the peace and prosperity of the empire was the adoption of laws founded upon the Word of God—that was to say, upon Christianity.
 MR. NAPIER  said, the oath in the Act of 1829 had been originally taken from the 13th and 14th of Geo. III. in Ireland. The distinction between the oaths taken by Protestants and Roman Catholics had been made in order to relieve the conscientious scruples of the latter; but the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Midhurst touched no oaths or declaration which any Roman Catholic Member would have to take, and therefore was not calculated to create any embarrassment; while, if the constitutional state of England had been altered by the Act of 1829, as the hon.
 1091
 MR. NAPIER  said, that there were no clauses which would at all affect the position of tenants at will. The clause to which the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. S. Crawford) seemed to refer, would do no more than make clear what one of the Judges had already decided to be the effect of the original Civil Bills Act.
 MR. BRISCO  moved to insert the word "Hastings" into it.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  wished to know whether, in addition to the great amount of rate already levied, it was intended to impose any further rates?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that as it was an unusual course to move alterations in the preamble of Bills, and as he had alterations to propose in the preamble of the present Bill, he must crave the indulgence of the Committee while he stated the reasons which had induced him to suggest the present Amendments. Ordinarily preambles to Bills might pass unnoticed; but there were occasions when they were all-important. The present, in his opinion, was one of those occasions. He had two reasons for saying so. In the first place, the Committee would bear in mind, that throughout the debates on this measure it had been stated by many Members of that House, that considerable ambiguity existed in the declaratory clause as it stands in the Bill now. Without agreeing in that opinion, he must say he thought it essential that all ambiguity, if any really existed, should be cleared up, and it could only be cleared up in that part of the Bill which was the key to the clauses, namely, the preamble. He thought this as essential—perhaps in some respects it was even more so—in declaring an old law, as in intro-
 1083 1084 1085
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was convinced that unless the preamble were made to contain a distinct and peremptory affirmation of the constitutional doctrine of England with respect to the Pope's pretended authority, there would be no foundation on which to base the Bill. He hoped the Government would consent to introduce such an affirmation as he referred to.
 MR. WALPOLE  was still of opinion that a peremptory affirmation of the state of the law in this respect was absolutely essential in a Bill of this description. He begged leave, therefore, to move that after the words, "under colour of the said brief,
 1096
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that, as the law stood, Roman Catholics were excluded from filling high offices of State, such as those of Lord Chancellor, First Minister of the Crown, or Archbishop of Canterbury. Should the Bill before the House place the Jews in a situation to fill those offices, it would be utterly inconsistent with past legislation on this subject.
 MR. CONOLLY  viewed with great distrust any departure from the English law in Bills relating to Ireland. They had already seen vast sacrifices of property under the operation of the Encumbered Estates Act, and he did not desire to see any further departure from the law which regulated land in England. He tendered his thanks to Mr. Disraeli for the candid manner in which he had endeavoured to submit this important question to the consideration of that great tribunal.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to call the attention of the Government to an advertisement which had that morning appeared in the  Times "The Company is formed for the supply of the metropolitan districts south of the Thames at constant and high service. Capital, 300,000 l., l. s. d. s. "The Bill for the incorporation of this company has been read a second time, and referred to a Select Committee of the House of Commons." "It is satisfactory to announce that there will be no opposition on the part of the Government to the passing of the Bill, as its sole object is to procure an available constant supply of pure water in bulk to parochial, public, or other bodies, and for distribution to the public in places where there is no supply." 1081
 CAPTAIN TAYLOR  moved as an Amendment, that the present Chairman of the county of Dublin should, so long as he remained in office, be not ineligible to sit in Parliament.
 MR. MONSELL  approved of the clause as being in conformity with the general object of the Bill, which was to cheapen the administration of the law for the benefit of the poor.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the principle of the Bill had been applied to the Gal-way Railway Bill, and some other private measures, and had given such general satisfaction in Ireland, that its extension was much desired.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  thought the question before the House was a great constitutional question, and that the Bill was a direct invasion of public rights. The Bill enabled any railway company wanting land to apply to the Railway Commissioners, who might appoint a single arbitrator to value the property, whose decision should he absolute and final. He could not consent to any Bill which made a single arbitrator the sole judge of the property of another without the right of appeal. He was quite willing to consider any Amendment which the Government might propose, with the view of modifying this objectionable provision, but he would never sanction the measure as it now stood.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  asked if he was to understand that the 73rd and 82nd clauses were to be postponed to Thursday?
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, that he must protest against certain clauses in the Bill which had the effect of taking from tenants at will in Ireland some of the advantages which they at present possessed. As, however, the Attorney General had promised to postpone these clauses, he
 1111
 MR. GOOLD  said, that the principle of arbitration had already been tried in Ireland, where it had succeeded well. In voting for the second reading of this Bill, he considered that he should be voting in favour of the principle of arbitration.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS , pursuant to notice, rose to ask Viscount Ebrington why the sewerage works in St. James's, Westminster, promised to be executed last year, have not been, up to the present time, executed or commenced; and whether the sum of about 120,000 l., d. d.
 MR. GROGAN  said, the clause had been very carefully considered upstairs, and although he was himself in favour of a limitation of 30 l., l.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that he had only a few minutes before seen the advertisement, which had been pointed out to him by an hon. Friend; and his answer was, that that advertisement was totally unauthorised by the Government, and that no communication had taken place between the Government and the company, which could justify that announcement with respect to that Bill, if it should come before the House.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had understood his noble Friend to express his entire satisfaction with the measure.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  hoped the House would have consented to the second reading. His noble Friend (Viscount Duncan) had certainly given him the impression that he approved of the measure.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  then moved the adjournment of the debate till To-morrow at Twelve o'clock.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Bill had emanated from a Parliamentary Commission. One of the clauses did subject a portion of the free sittings to payment; and, after communication with the Earl of Carlisle, who conducted it through the other House, he hoped to make some alteration in it before going to Committee. If the hon. Gentleman would now consent to the second reading, he would state the nature of those alterations before the next stage of the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he was satisfied, if this Bill, as had been stated by the learned Member for Midhurst, would place Jews in a better position than Roman Catholics, that this inconsistency must
 1098
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that entertaining as he did the strongest objections to the principle of this Bill, and feeling much anxiety to arrest its progress, he still thought that he should best consult the interests which he represented, and the convenience of the House, by neither making any lengthened observations on the subject, nor by dividing the Committee. What might be done by those with whom he had the honour to act, on another stage of the Bill, he could not pretend to say; but he was bound to admit that he had no objection to the details of the measure.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, that his right hon. Friend the Attorney General had already promised to postpone certain clauses, and this, by the rules of the House, would imply the postponement of the schedules, which could not be taken until all the clauses had been considered.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, that he could not consent to postpone the consideration of the schedules beyond Thursday next. The measure had been several months before the House, the Session had far advanced, and it was necessary now to proceed. He thought that his right hon. Friend the Attorney General for Ireland had already promised to postpone the clauses referred to.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  replied, that it was not intended that the great expense of the works should be borne by the landlords or inhabitants of houses within the year, but that it should be spread over a number of years. There was a Bill on the subject which was intended to be brought in immediately, when hon. Members would see what was intended by its provisions.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON , before answering the question, begged to state, that the legal difficulties having all been overcome, the Minutes of the Board of Commissioners had all been regularly entered up of all the courts to the end of last month, and those of this month were in an advanced state of preparation. With re-
 1079 l., l.; 1080
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that the proposition of the hon. Member would defeat the intentions of Parliament, because it was intended to give the Queen in Council power to carry out these sanitary measures, even if the inhabitants of any place should not request it to be done.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  supported the Amendment. The Bill had been hurried in a most premature manner, and he was sure that if more time had been allowed, the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary would have received numerous representations from all parts of the country in opposition to it. He should wish the right hon. Baronet to explain the meaning of
 1163
 MR. TATTON EGERTON  said, that after referring to the circumstances under which Manchester was permitted to become an inland port, he must contend that it was the duty of the Government to extend the advantages of inland bonding to the great manufacturing districts. It was not Manchester alone which derived the chief benefit from the experiment which had been successfully tried, but the neighbouring localities. The retail dealer was enabled to go to the bonded warehouse, and there select for himself his tea, his spirits, or his tobacco. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the people were rather too acute in that part of the country to send commissions by the electric telegraph; they tasted and bought for themselves, and the consumer reaped a proportionate benefit. As to the bargain which had been talked
 1185
 COLONEL THOMPSON  thought the true way of arguing this question, was to press what amounted to a legal claim upon the part of the depositors. It might not be written on the law of parchment; but it was on the law of justice and of custom. What would be thought of a banker who pleaded that the money which had been paid over his counter had been embezzled before it reached his strong box? The cases were analogous. This money had been paid over the Government counter, and they were, in justice, responsible for it. Virtually, and by
 1207 laches laches
 MR. J. A. SMITH  regretted that the hon. and gallant Member who had last addressed them should have stated anything so much at variance with the truth of the case, and so calculated to hold out a false prospect to the depositors, as that there was in this case anything like a legal claim upon the Government; for the Government had never stated in any way that they were responsible for these amounts. He agreed with every word that had been stated as to the unsatisfactory state of the present law with regard to savings hanks, and he entirely approved of the various endeavours made by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer to amend it. The year before last, and last year again, his right hon. Friend had brought in measures upon the subject, and he knew the great disappointment which he had experienced when he found that the state of public business last year prevented his carrying that measure. The case was surrounded with difficulties; but still he thought, after the disposition which the House had evinced, that it might be possible to remove some of the great anomalies which at present we had to deplore. With respect to the Motion before the House, he regretted that the hon. Member (Mr. H. Herbert) had mixed up the English with the Irish banks, because by that course he had destroyed the sympathy which he (Mr. J. A. Smith) felt for the Irish banks, and would prevent his voting for the Motion. Undoubtedly the change made in the law in 1844, had, in some cases, worked most unjustly. In the case of the Killarney savings bank, for instance, there was a considerable balance; but Mr. Tidd Pratt, who was sent to examine the state of the accounts, decided that the trustees were liable for all amounts depo-
 1208
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  would suggest, as it was then four o'clock, that the House should at once proceed to a division, otherwise he should move that the debate be adjourned.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, the Bill was proposed to remedy certain inconveniences, and it was ardently desired by the working clergy, who believed that it would give them the independence they had sought, and which was so necessary to the discharge of their spiritual duties. The Bill removed many obstacles in the way of endowing churches; and, so far from increasing the patronage of the bishops, it would have an opposite effect. He thought the objections of the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall) wore directed rather to the Bill of last year than the present one. No prelate had ever subscribed so largely out of his own funds for Church purposes, in proportion to his income, as the Bishop of London had done.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he must enter his protest against the measure he was not going to divide the House upon it; but he felt bound to protest against it; and to express his hope that it would be treated with more care in another place than it had boon in that House. Smithfield market had so strong a hold upon the public, that it challenged free and independent competition. There was no objection to the establishment of other markets; Smith-field did not fear the establishment of twenty others; but in legislating upon the subject he thought they ought to have left that little space in the centre of the City, and not have endeavoured to establish a monopoly by legislative enactment which would destroy the central market. The effect of the Bill would be to raise up a number of little markets, to the great detriment of the consumer and the grazier. He considered that the conduct of the Corporation of London, on the subject of Smith-field market, contrasted very favourably with that of the Government on the same question. The policy of the Government was insincere and tortuous; whereas that of the Corporation was straightforward and single-minded. They openly declared what it was they intended to do, and they indicated the site on which the new market should be erected; but the Government,
 1151
 MR. DISRAELI : I beg now to lay on the table the Resolutions of which I gave notice; and in answer to the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall), who inquired at what stage of the Government measure I intended to move them, I beg to inform the House that I find my hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) has an instruction to the Committee respecting the duties on Coffee, which must be brought up on the first measure of the Government, on Monday the 30th. It will, therefore, be necessary for me to move the Resolution by way of Amendment upon the second measure of the Government; for the House will see that that Resolution applies to the general financial policy of the Government. The Resolution which I shall propose as an
 1164 "That according to an Estimate of the probable future produce of the existing taxes, submitted to this House by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it appears that a surplus Revenue may be expected in the present year to the extent of about 2,000,000 l. "That in the Revenue so estimated is included a sum exceeding 5,000,000 l., "That in this provisional state of the financial arrangements of the country, it appears to this House to be most consistent with a duo regard to the maintenance of public credit, and the exigencies of the public service, not to make any material sacrifice of public income; in effecting such changes as may be deemed advisable in other branches of Taxation."
 MR. FREWEN  begged to ask if there were any precedents for Government business having priority on Tuesdays? He had a Bill which stood second on the Orders for that day, and he had been surprised to observe that in the printed Votes of that morning it was put down at the bottom. He wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman (Sir G. Grey) had ordered the clerks at the table to put down to the bottom a Bill which had yesterday stood second? He had examined the Sessional Orders, and could find no rule to justify such proceedings.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that in bringing forward a Motion for extending the jurisdiction of the Central Criminal Court to the whole of each county on the Home Circuit, he must remind the House of the great facility in travelling which had been brought about within the last five or six years, by means of the railroads; and that, he considered, was a very good ground for his Motion, which had for its object to facilitate the ends of justice, and to economise expense. Five or six years ago, they could not travel from the extreme eastern end of Sussex to the county town of Lewes, a distance of forty miles, in much less than four hours, and that, then, was considered good travelling; whereas he could now travel from Hastings to London in one hour and three quarters. He therefore argued, that if prisoners could be brought up to London for trial, say once a month, an important object would be gained by the speedy despatch of criminal charges, and a saving also would be effected on the expenses at present incurred by lengthened periods of detention before trial. Prisoners could be brought up to London at about as little cost as would be requisite to convey them to the county town. He did not press the Government to carry his proposal into effect by any one particular sot of machinery, whether by the present Central Criminal Court, or by a court expressly established for the purpose, nor did he press them now on the point of time as to when his proposal should be carried into effect, whether next Session, or at a future period; but his object then was more entirely confined to keeping the question before the minds of the Government, with a view to its being adopted at some future period.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that on Tuesdays,
 1150
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had often admired the eloquence and ingenuity of his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson); but he confessed he had never had more occasion to admire those qualities than now, when they had been brought into play to conceal the main features of the present question; because, if any hon. Member had taken his impression of the circumstances of the case from the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, he must certainly have a very faint idea of its real merits. If he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) were to confine himself to the simple question of appointing a Committee, he might dispose of the matter Very
 1173 1174
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had understood the right hon. Gentleman as having made the statement in question in the earlier part of his speech. [Mr. M. GIBSON: No, no!] Well, at any rate others had frequently done so, and all he wished to say on that point was, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) had authorised him to say that he had never held out any such expectation as that which had been referred to. In 1844, as he had said, the privilege of bonding was conceded to the corporation of Manchester
 1175 1176 "What is meant in the memorial is, that Manchester is very much guarded against the nefarious practices of this kind of London and Liverpool. I believe that, compared with those ports, we are perfect infants in practices of that description, and that bonding operates in guarding and securing the inhabitants of this district, who are not so well instructed in these matters as those of London, from these practices." 1177 "The question was asked, 'Yet the London houses, selling hero retail, are selling at the same prices as you, though they clear their tea in London V Answer,' There are very few of them.' 'But they compete with you?'—'We admit that.'" "The average of the brandy that goes into consumption is one-fourth British, that is to say, that of every four gallons three are foreign, and one British." "The Manchester publicans try to send out as pure an article as possible. The trade is very different from that in London and Liverpool. They are more particular in Manchester than in London." "I think if five gallons of British brandy were introduced into 500 foreign, you could detect the flavour. It would damnify the whole article so decidedly, that it would be rather injurious to the sale than otherwise." —"when they purchase from a dealer, they are already reduced, and the publican cannot get a living." 1178 l. 1179
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  trusted that the House would make some allowance for the not very agreeable position in which he was placed. On most occasions he was accused of wilful extravagance in throwing away the public money; he had now been attacked, both in that and the preceding Motion, on very different grounds. However painful to him to do so, it was his duty to oppose this Motion. Whatever distress had been occasioned by the failure of these savings banks, no ground had been shown why the Government should make good losses which had occurred through no fault of theirs. In the report on the Cuffe-street bank, peculiar circumstances had been shown to exist. It was proved that on two occasions the state of the bank had been brought to the knowledge of the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt; and though no blame whatever was cast on the Commissioners,
 1198 l., s. l., s. l. s. s. s. 1199 ad captandum, sine quâ non l., 1200 in terrorem 1201
 MR. MORRIS  thought the Government ought not to refuse to make good these losses. The sufferers by the forgeries of Exchequer-bills, who were indemnified by the State, had not so strong a claim as the depositors in these savings banks, who, he thought, ought to be paid their losses in full.
 MR. URQUHART  wished to move a Resolution, declaring the opinion of the House, that the recommendations of the Official Salaries Committee with reference to Diplomatic Salaries should be carried into effect. The recommendations of that Committee had been burked by the Government, who had annihilated and stultified a Committee of their own appointment.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn), who was confined to his house by indisposition, had requested him to state the exact circumstances which gave rise to the bonding system in Manchester in 1844. His right hon. Friend said, that he had objected to any departure from the original principle by which the bonding system was confined to seaport towns, because he did not see how, if one inland town were admitted to the privilege, any reasonable rule could be drawn upon which the application of any other inland town could be refused; and he also said that the only proper check he could discover was in the willingness of a town to take upon itself the expenses attendant upon having the bonding privilege extended to it. He agreed to the privilege being conferred upon Manchester on
 1183 natura opposuit. l. l.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, there was a vein of humour in everything connected with this market, to which it was well to direct the attention of the House. First, there was his hon. Friend the Member for North Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford), the great advocate of Smithfield as it is, who objected to the Bill because it was going to create a monopoly, he knowing very well that the only monopoly it maintained was that created by the City Charter. The hon. Gentleman also objected to it on the ground that the City would have removed certain nests of vice and disease, and he did this in the face of the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Duke), who told them that Smithfield, of all places in the City, during the time of the cholera, was free from that disease. He also objected to it on the ground that it would increase the price of food, he having voted for the Bill promoted by the City, the tolls in the schedule of which were no less than three times those that were now collected. He had expected something more
 1154 l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  would support the Motion. He considered that the Government were bound to inquire whether there had been any default in the management of the hanks to which it referred. He believed that in some cases a printed notice had been exhibited in the banks, stating that the Government were responsible for deposits, and such a notice had led persons to believe that the Government really were responsible.
 MR. MOWATT  said, he must deny that the measure had the compulsory character attributed to it by the hon. Member for North Lancashire (Mr. W. Patten). The 15th clause distinctly stated that they had again to come to Parliament before the powers referred to by the Bill could be exercised. They had no compulsory power to extinguish the existing companies, to rate the inhabitants, or supply water until they came back to Parliament. Under all the circumstances he would not press his Motion.
 MR. MOWATT  said, that he had had quite sufficient time to make up his mind that this was a most objectionable Bill, and one which ought not to receive the sanction of that House. He agreed that the Church was lamentably deficient all over the kingdom; but he had never heard it argued, even by those who peculiarly called themselves the friends of the Church, that, whatever the wants of the Church might he, she did not possess within herself ample revenues for her purposes. He believed that the principle of raising any funds at all from pew rents was generally admitted to be objectionable; but to pass over the rich, and to come upon the very poorest frequenters of the Church for increased pew rents, was most unjustifiable. He objected also to the retrospective action of the measure.
 MR. MOWATT  moved that the Standing Orders be dispensed with in the case of the Metropolitan Water Supply (Control of Representative Body) Bill. He did not mean to dispute the grounds upon which
 1141 1142 l. 1143 l. 1144 l. bonâ fide 1145
 MR. MOWATT  said, that there was a clause overriding all that, until the company were prepared to supply water. Until then they could not exercise the powers named in the Bill, which was only preliminary to another Bill giving those powers.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, the best appeal he could make to hon. Members in reference to his Motion was, by reading a few figures that would show the circumstances of the parties interested in one of those institutions, the melancholy fate of which had rendered his present Motion necessary. In the Rochdale savings hank the depositors consisted of 1,245 women, of whom 722 were unmarried, 292 were married, and 231 were young persons or children; besides these there were 953 miners, 539 labourers, and 191 members of sick clubs. The total number of depositors was 2,928. He would only ask any hon. Member who might be impatient at his bringing forward this subject, to imagine the mass of misery which those figures represented. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer would probably tell the House that these parties had no legal claim for redress. He (Mr. H. Herbert) unfor-
 1191 l. 1192 bonâ fide l. l. 1193 1194 l. l. l. l., l. 1195 l.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  wished to say a few words before the discussion was brought to a close, in reference to the part which he had taken in connection with this subject ten years ago. At that time it was unlawful for the Treasury to establish bonded warehouses in any town which was not a seaport. He desired himself to see established in England the system of inland bonding, which had worked well in so many countries abroad, and he thought that a discretion ought to be given to the Treasury, which it did not then possess, to make any inland town which they might think necessary a bonding town, subject to such conditions as they might deem requisite for the proper security of the revenue. He struggled to obtain a general Act for that purpose, but his object was not altogether, though it was in part, accomplished. The privilege was given to Manchester alone. It had been truly remarked by the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Cardwell), that there was a wide distinction between seaports and inland towns, in as far as to the export of goods a bonding seaport was an indispensable necessity, whereas the advantage of bonding in an inland town was inconsiderable in comparison. He saw no inconsistency between the course which was then pursued, and that which his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer was taking on the present occasion. His right hon. Friend had not stated that he was desirous of withdrawing from Manchester the advantages which accrued from inland bonding, but simply that if Manchester found it to her interest to continue to enjoy those advantages, she might do so upon terms which were favourable to the general security of the revenue. If Manchester really attached any importance to the privilege, he was surprised to find there should be any difficulty in providing for so small a sum as 2,700 l. 1186
 MR. HEYWOOD  contended that, as Manchester was the capital of a large district, for the benefit of which it was necessary that a bonding establishment should be maintained, it was unfair that the inhabitants of Manchester should be made to bear the expense. The arrangement with Manchester was a temporary one, and an inquiry should be instituted with a view to a new and permanent settlement of the question.
 MR. KERSHAW  considered it unfair that Manchester alone should be called upon to pay the expenses, while the district around it, comprising 1,000,000 of inhabitants, was equally benefited.
 MR. BRIGHT  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, if the hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. H. Herbert) divided the House, it would be certain to appear that there existed a great difference of opinion on the subject. Yet he was inclined to believe it was not a difference of opinion with regard to the facts of the case, but with regard to time. He thought it was advantageous to the object in view to have brought forward the question at present. But yet great weight was duo to the arguments of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, particularly when he showed the obstacles that existed to the payment of the money. He (Mr. Bright) had accompanied several deputations of the depositors of the Rochdale bank to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he thought the right hon. Gentleman would admit that they always argued their case with great moderation, and with great allowance for the difficulties that surrounded the position of a Chancellor of the Exchequer in considering the question. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Hear, hear!] Nothing could be so fatal as that the right hon. Gentleman should at once have handed out the sum of money shown to have been lost by those defalcations, because such a coure would only afford a premium in future delinquencies. Still, in the present case, it would be impossible to shut their eyes to the fact that it was one of great hardship, and formed a sort of justification—he admitted somewhat vague—for the present claim. If the Government had never legislated on the, subject of savings banks, there would be an end of the question, and Parliament would not now he called upon to make good any deficiency. But at present nine out of every ten depositors believed they had the security of Government for whatever money they invested, and that in placing their money in the local savings banks they were securing it better than if they lodged it in the hands of the very wealthiest private banks in the country. His (Mr. Bright's) view was this. He thought the principle of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, the principle of not paying any thing at present, a sound and a wise one, not knowing how much
 1204
 MR. BRIGHT  thought that many of the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer showed that he was disposed to treat the subject with a levity which it did not deserve. He (Mr. Bright) should not undertake any defence of the people of Manchester against the charge made by the right hon. Gentleman, of knocking at the door of the Treasury to ask for things which they were not prepared to get for themselves, for he believed that no town in England was less open to a charge of that nature than Manchester. The right hon. Gentleman said, that he had been visited by a deputation. Well, that was quite right and natural, for when he was in office before, he was in favour of that advantage which he was now asked to confer. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: No!] The right hon. Gentleman had certainly voted in favour of a Bill brought in by one of his Colleagues, which gave liberty of bonding to any town in the kingdom that thought proper to demand it, and that, too, without any security for the payment of the expenses by the town that made the demand. With regard to the evidence already taken upon the subject, he (Mr. Bright) should like to see it examined and judged by a Select Committee. The right hon. Gentleman said, that the people of Manchester were now giving up an advantage which they hitherto possessed; but that was not a correct statement of the case, because in Manchester there were various parties. There were, first, the ratepayers, who were represented by the corporation, and who did not see any direct benefit arising to themselves from the system of bonding; they therefore insisted that the corporation should not apply their rates to the amount of 2,700 l. 1180 1181 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1182 l.,
 MR. PLUMPTRE  thought the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall), and the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had taken an erroneous view of this Bill. It might be a question whether it ought to be retrospective; but he considered it might be a very useful measure, and he should therefore support the second reading.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in speaking of the Cuffe-street savings bank and of the vote of 30,000 l. s. l. s. s., s. s. l. 1202 l. in transitu s. s. s., 1203 l.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, that generally towards the end of the Session, Government asked the House to meet at 12 o'clock to discuss particular measures, and, of course, at such sittings these measures were entitled to priority.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN : Access to premises might, at least, be had by the provisions of the Bill. He had omitted to mention that the Committee, in their leniency to the promoters of this Bill, had done that which he feared the House would judge to be irregular. When the Committee found that the Standing Orders had not been complied with, they, finding notice had been given, came to a resolution that they would so far concede as that the parties might proceed with their Bill, and the same terms wore imposed as upon the Government Bill. When the parties came, and were told that those terms would he imposed, the agent for the Bill said, if that were done, he was bound to say that the notices were good for nothing. The Committee then made an order, which he held was without precedent, that the matter should be referred to the Examiner, to decide whether the difference was so trifling that the objection was not fatal. The Examiner decided that the Standing Orders had not been complied with, and that the notices inserted in the papers since the introduction of the Bill, did not properly describe the limits. The Bill geve power, if three of the directors desired it, to this company to purchase the property of another water company; and what did the hon. Gentleman mean by saying, that the Bill contained no compulsory powers? 1147
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  was more disposed to accuse the Committee of being too generous to the hon. Member and his Bill, than to suppose them deserving of the censures he (Mr. Mowatt) had bestowed upon them. The Committee of Standing Orders had endeavoured by all the means in their power to get this measure before a Select Committee, and it was only when they found it impracticable that they abandoned their intention. The hon. Member had put himself out of court upon the question whether this was a Private or a Public Bill. He contended that it was not a Private Bill, and said that he had acted under the advice of able lawyers. For what had he acted under such advice? [Mr. MOWATT: To provide against such a contingency as this.] The circumstances connected with the Bill wore these: It had been brought in at a late period of the Session, long after the Government Bill had been brought before the House, and the House had so far relaxed its Standing Orders in its favour as to allow it to be brought in by two Members on Motion, instead of by petition. It had then been referred to the Examiner of Petitions on Private Bills to see whether the Standing Orders had been complied with in other respects. The promoters had urged that certain notices which had been given in November or December last with reference to another Bill, applied so closely to the present, that they might be accepted as notices of it; and the Examiner at first took time to consider whether he should not make a special report upon that point; but, finding that the notices referred to did not apply to the present Bill, he ultimately came to the conclusion that he should merely report that the Standing Orders had not been complied with; and he did not sec how the Examiner could well have adopted any other course. The Standing Orders Committee then called upon the
 1146
 MR. BROTHERTON  thought it unfair that Manchester should be called upon to pay all the expenses of the bonding system in that place, when the whole of the neighbouring district derived benefit from it. When Manchester originally took upon itself the burden, it was in the full confidence that the experiment would prove successful, and that when a liberal Chancellor of the Exchequer came into office he would relieve them from payment of the expenses. The success of the experiment had been most satisfactorily proved, and yet the Government refused to perform this act of justice. He did not see why particular towns should be called upon to pay for their bonding system, any more than for the post-office establishments erected within their bounds.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, as the Motion was not seconded, he would move that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said he must persevere in his Motion.
 MR. HENLEY  thought it clear that every succeeding Speaker involved the House in greater difficulties. He quite agreed with the hon. Member for the city of Dublin (Mr. Reynolds), that these were debts, or they were nothing. The hon. Member very properly, in words, repudiated all compromise; but the House would recollect, notwithstanding, that the hon. Member took 10 s. 1206
 MR. HENLEY  said, the House had not had sufficient time to examine the Bill; therefore, in voting for the second reading, he must reserve himself on certain points, including the pew rents and the fees. In reference to patronage, Clause 11 was certainly both retrospective and prospective; this was a provision so monstrous that he could not hold himself responsible to support it. Many churches recently built had been endowed on the faith of certain parties having the preferment; and this ought not to be interfered with. Clause 20 gave power to sell advowsons, and this was also objectionable. The next clause did away with local Acts, except in Manchester. The Bill touched a great many things besides its avowed object. He could not, however, say there was not any good in it, and he would vote for the second reading with the reservations he had stated.
 MR. HUME  said, there would be no difficulty in having additional churches built by private munificence if they could be built without being endowed. But the Bishop of London said, unless they were endowed he would not consecrate them. There was a great cry for Church extension on the part of some parties, but they would not allow of Church extension unless they had the patronage. Twenty-five years ago they could have had twenty additional churches built in the metropolis by Mr. John Smith and others, provided
 1157
 MR. HUME  believed that the course which had been adopted with reference to this Bill was hasty, inconsistent, and rash, and that due regard had not been had to the interests of the public service he objected altogether to committing to the hands of the Government a matter so important as the supplying of meat to 2,500,000 of people. Government had determined to take into their own hands the supply of an article when it had been clearly experienced that they failed in everything of the kind they tried. When Government took such a matter in hand, it became a job. Places were created, salaries were given, and the public interest was neglected. This was the case, with scarcely an exception, as regarded every Administration for the last fifty years. It had been the uniform advice of Committees of that House, that Government should not he permitted to erect works. This Bill would throw a stigma on the Corporation of London, the first municipal establishment in the world, and was certainty very inconsistent with the fulsome addresses which were delivered by Ministers of the Crown when they dined with the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs, and made long postprandial orations about the city of London being the cradle of liberty, the fountain-head of national glory, and all that sort of thing. If there was anything wrong in the municipal institutions of the country, the defect ought to be corrected by some legislative remedy; but the corporations, with all their faults, were the representatives of the people, and in their hands ought to be placed the power of controlling the markets, and regulating the supply of food for the citizens. The Government were overthrowing old institutions, and were proving to the world that they were not radicals but destructives. So strong a feeling had he with respect to the indignity which was about to be offered to the people at largo by investing the Government with powers which of right only belonged to the municipal representatives of the nation at large, that he was determined to divide against this Bill, even though he were to be his own teller, and were to walk into the lobby by himself alone. He begged to move that the Bill be read a third time that day six months. 1152
 MR. HUME  had voted for the extension of the system when the duties were so high that it was of vast importance to have the advantage of lodging the goods, and not paying the duty until the goods were sold; and he had thought that Manchester might, in fairness, have the privilege, if the merchants there considered it worth their while to bear the expenses of it. He could not see that any information was required, as regarded Manchester, which ought not to apply to all other places that
 1184 l., l. l., l. l., l. l., l.
 MR. HUME  was of opinion that it was not competent for Government to appoint 12 o'clock sittings, in order to obtain the advantage. It was never intended that Government should have the benefit of their own days and Tuesdays also.
 MR. HUME  was quite willing to admit that the Standing Orders had not been properly complied with; but he was very anxious that the Bill should go before the Select Committee in order that its principle might be considered. The Standing Orders Committee had done their duty; but as this Bill involved a very important question, and as the House had the power of suspending the Standing Orders, he submitted that they might quite consistently afford the requisite facilities for having the measure sent to a Committee upstairs.
 MR. HUME  knew nothing of the particulars of the Scarborough and Rochdale Savings Banks; but having been a Member of the Committee to inquire into the defalcations of the Irish banks, he left that Committee with the full conviction that, although there was no legal liability on the part of Government to pay the amount, the Government was morally bound to do so, for the unfortunate depositors left their money in the Irish banks under the impression that the Government was liable for the full amount. In Prance the Government undertook the responsibility of naming the officers of the savings banks, and were liable for every shilling; but in England there was a divided responsibility, partly on the depositor and partly on the Government, and the poor depositors knew not where their responsibility began, and where it ended. The fact was, that the Government was not legally responsible for any money until it had reached the Treasury; but how was the depositor to know when that took place? That was
 1205
 MR. HUME  hoped his hon. Friend would not press the Motion for an adjournment, as there was some other business on the paper which had not been disposed of.
 MR. SPOONER  thought the question had been argued on far too narrow grounds. The question was whether the inland bonding system ought to be extended; and he should feel disposed, if the Motion were carried, to move an instruction to the Committee to that effect. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had failed to point out any mischief which had arisen from the existence of bonded warehouses at Manchester. Had Liverpool suffered from it? He was informed not. A very fair  primâ facie 1187
 MR. SLANEY  considered this to be one of the most painful cases upon which he had ever been required to vote. The parties suffering had no legal claim on the Government; but a strong moral obligation rested on the Government, for, he asked, was there not in the minds of the depositors a complete conviction that the Government was responsible for the amount of money deposited? It was said they were only responsible for the amount which reached their hands. But was any man in humble life able to distinguish the difference? It was said, too, that it was the duty of the Government to have applied a remedy before the evil had become so great; but was it possible for persons in humble life to deposit their money in any other way than in sayings banks? They could not purchase lands or take mortgages, because of the complexity of title; and they were prevented putting money in trade, because of the complexity of our law of partnership. Under the circumstances he thought it would be better if the hon. Gentleman (Mr. H. Herbert) withdrew his Motion, in order to give time to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to bring in his Bill, which would make more safe these receptacles for the savings of the humble classes; and then he might renew his Motion, with a view to its having that acceptance which he (Mr. Slaney) believed it would meet with at their hands.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said, he wished it to be understood, that he had never said that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge had expressed an opinion that the expenses of the establishment in Manchester should he defrayed by the State. On the contrary, the right hon. Gentleman said quite the reverse. In October, 1842, when waited upon by a deputation, he said, "all his other objections had passed away, and that it only remained for him to ascertain whether the necessary expenditure would be repaid by the advantages to the public." One of two things only could now happen, the liability of the Manchester corporation had passed away, and that the question now remained between the trade of the district and the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer. There must now be either a discontinuance of the system, or payment by the State; and he
 1188
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  had never attributed to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge the statement that he expected the day would come when the State would bear the expense of the bonding system at Manchester. What he had stated was, that the objections of the right hon. Gentleman had been all reduced to one, viz., that the public benefit would not equal the expense.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the working of the system of warehousing foreign goods in bond in Manchester. The question he desired to submit to the consideration of a Committee was of especial importance to the towns surrounding Manchester, including Salford, Macclesfield, Bolton, Stockport, Oldham, Hyde, Ashton, and Staley-bridge, containing together a population little short of 1,000,000, who were large consumers of foreign produce, and who now enjoyed the privilege of warehousing foreign produce in Manchester without payment of duty. No less than nineteen memorials had been presented to the Government on this subject from the corporations and trades of those towns; and in bringing forward his proposal, he wished it to be clearly understood that he did not do so on behalf of the corporation of Manchester or any particular section of the residents in that city, but on behalf of the general industrial interests of the important district surrounding Manchester. If the warehousing of foreign goods without payment of duty were an advantage to any portion of the people of this country, it must be an especial advantage to the population of that district. If it were desirable to permit the warehousing of foreign goods in bond in ports along the coast of the United Kingdom, it was a still greater advantage to carry that warehousing system closer to the consuming population. The warehousing of foreign goods was now permitted in Manchester, and the population of the surrounding district had
 1165 l. 1166 1167 "That it appears to this Committee that the privilege of having bonded warehouses may be conceded to inland towns, under due restrictions and regulations, with advantage to trade and safety to the revenue." 1168 1169 l. 1170 primâ facie l. l. 1171 l., l. 1172 l. s. l. s. d.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, it was strange that the second reading of this Bill should he urged on at a time when it was impossible it could be fully considered. It touched on so many popular interests, including those of the Dissenters, that it was an absolute matter of justice that there should be an opportunity for considering it out of doors. It contained a great many clauses, and referred to eighteen Acts of Parliament. Three of the clauses all went in the same direction, to authorise the allotment of free seats in pews, and the imposition of pew rents in all churches built since 1800. It was, in fact, a measure of taxation, and of the most improper and inexpedient kind; for it taxed the people for going to church, who were at present not subject to that payment. This taxation would operate most oppressively on the poor; ancient parishes were exempted. Thus, the burden would be more heavy on the recently-formed parishes. If the clergy wore made to depend on the pew rents, this would be to introduce the worst feature of Dissenting voluntaryism, which rendered their ministers dependent on the caprices or changes of opinion of their hearers. This was done, while the report stated that the Church property was capable of realising 500,000 l. 1160
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  sec-
 1196 l. l. l. l., l., l., l. 1197
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  seconded the Motion. He said that there was amongst his constituents one unanimous feeling of dissatisfaction with the Bill, which would abrogate the immemorial rights of the municipal institutions, and give to the Secretary of State for the Home Department powers which had in no former period of English history been entrusted to him.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that it unfortunately happened that very often when they had a morning sitting, a House could not be got in the evening.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, all that was desired on the part of the promoters of this Bill was that its merits should be fairly examined before the Committee. A direct promise bad been made by the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) that all the Bills on this subject should go before the same Committee, and he did not see why that promise should not at present he fulfilled. The right hon. Baronet must he aware of the great dissatisfaction prevalent throughout the metropolis regarding the Government Bill. By that measure a tax to the extent of 5,000,000 l. 1148 l.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  recommended that the Motion should be withdrawn, as the sense of the House was manifestly against it. No material injury, after all, would be inflicted on the promoters of the measure by such a proceeding, inasmuch as the Bill was in the hands of every Member of the Water Supply Committee; and though the Bill was not regularly before them, it would be quite competent for them to introduce any of its clauses or provisions into any scheme which they might hereafter think fit to submit to the consideration of the House.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  entirely agreed with his right hon. Friend (Sir Gr. Grey) that the object of this Bill as stated by him was a good one, namely, to subdivide large parishes; but this Bill went far beyond that, and was not in accordance with the original intentions of the Commissioners. This was not the first time that a Bill of this kind had been proposed. One was proposed last year, and this was the same with some little alteration. That Bill gave power to the Commissioners to levy a church rate over the whole district, so that every person would come under this church rate at the very time that church rates were very obnoxious to the public at large. As an instance, take the parish of St. Pancras. It was proposed to build twenty additional churches; and if that Bill had been passed, there would be a church rate in every one of those twenty districts. The Bill was nothing more nor less than a Bill of the Bishop of London's, for the purpose of creating patronage, and taxing the people to support the Church. Such were the powers of the original Bill. In consequence of the remonstrances that were made, the noble Lord at the head of the Government said he could not consent to such propositions. What was their proposition now? Why, to enable the Bishops and others to put a tax upon seats which were now free. That was one of the objects of the Bill; but there were some other curious propositions
 1158 1159
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Bill was founded on the report of a Commission laid before Parliament last year on the subdivision of parishes. That Commission was appointed by the Crown, on the Motion of the noble Lord the late Member for Bath. The Bill made provision for the endowment of these subdivisions of parishes in certain cases. An objection had been raised, that one of the clauses of the Bill would enable the Commissioners to impose pew rents upon seats which had hitherto been occupied by the poor gratis, and certainly it would appear that such a power would operate unjustly. That objection, however, might be more appropriately discussed at a future stage of the measure. There were other provisions, which could only be considered in Committee. Those provisions were to subdivide parishes, securing a spiritual superintendent with better means of subsistence than at present. He should state before they went into Committee the course he proposed to take with regard to the clause to which objection had been made, and he did not ask the House, therefore, in assenting to the second reading of the Bill, to sanction that clause.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the report on which the Bill was founded was presented two years ago, and a measure had been introduced last Session that the opinion of the country might be obtained. To that Bill serious objections were raised, chiefly on the part of the Dissenters, and, in consequence, various alterations were made in it, but it did not pass. Now the objections of the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) were directed to that Bill, and not to the one now before the House, and he therefore did not consider it necessary to go into those objections. He considered that ample time had been given to consider the Bill, so far as to take the second reading, and it might be more fully considered in Committee. He thought the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) had put a wrong construction on the 11th Clause. The objection that the Bill merely sought to get public money, and increase the Church patronage, was wholly unfounded. Its leading object was to convert districts into independent parishes, and render the incumbents of those districts independent of the rector of the parish, who, under the existing arrangement, received the fees paid at the district churches. This he knew to have been the case in the district of St. Peter, Pimlico. As to patronage, the only effect of the Bill would be to take it away from the bishops and incumbents, and vest it in those who were disposed to promote the erection and endowment of churches. The Bill had not been prepared by the Government, but by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners; the Government had conducted it through the other House, and generally approved of its provisions. The Bill did not contemplate the raising of money from the public. All that it aimed at was to make the services of the Church more available, by rendering the ministers of district churches independent. With respect to that clause which proposed to give to the Commissioners the power to impose fees for the use of seats heretofore allotted to the exclusive use of the poor, he entirely disapproved of it, and it should have his strenuous opposition in Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was willing to admit that the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had vindicated his right to the praise of a persevering opposition to this Bill, for he continued to resist it and to protest against it, even after the City Members had abandoned their opposition. Nothing could be more absurd or more flagrantly irrational than to charge Government with a desire to legislate in a hasty and precipitate spirit in this matter, or to impute to them an anxiety to supersede the ancient rights and privileges of the city of London. Those who made such charges exhibited their prejudice, not their intelligence, and proved that they were in total ignorance of the true facts of the case. If the Government were fairly liable to any censure in this matter, it was that they had in their anxiety to please all parties delayed too long a measure of reform which was imperatively necessary for the welfare of the community; for so far back as the year 1809, the Committee of Trade and Navigation had drawn attention to the scandalous condition of Smithfield market, had denounced it as a nuisance, and had declared that some legislation with respect to it was imperatively required. Forty years had elapsed since then, and yet this necessary legislation had not as yet been introduced. And yet the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) would have it that the Government were proceeding with indecent haste. With respect to the Corporation of London, it was utterly untrue that the Government had any desire to supersede their ancient rights and privileges; on the contrary, they were, and had always been, most anxious that the Corporation should undertake the management of the market; and it was only after their repeated and peremptory refusals to do so that this Bill had been introduced. Even now the Government had consented that their own hands should be tied up for a period, in the hope that the Corporation would reconsider their determination, and at length
 1153
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that when the House sat on the Motion of Government, the Government business was entitled to precedence. At these morning sittings, when met for the transaction of specific business, such specific business took precedence of any order placed on the paper. He believed Mr. Speaker would concur with him in that opinion.
 Sir GEORGE GREY  said, he should refrain from entering into any discussion respecting the relative merits of the two Bills, but he rose chiefly to answer the appeal that had been made to him by the hon. Member who had just down (Mr. W. Williams), and which, certainly, was not a fair one. As the question related to a decision of the Standing Orders Committee, the Government ought not, and did not seek, to exercise any influence on the House, in its consideration of the subject. He thought, with the hon. Member opposite (Mr. W. Patten), that if, after the circumstances that had come to the knowledge of the House, it should decide upon the suspension of the Standing Orders, it might as well abolish the Standing Orders Committee altogether. With regard to the promise imputed to him, he had to say that he had never promised to refer this Bill to the Select Committee; and the House was aware that, even if he had said so, he had not the power to carry out such an intention. What he had said was, that he should have no objection to the principle of the Bill being considered by the House and by the Select Committee if thought proper; but he had spoken subject to the orders and regulations of that House. If the Standing Orders had been complied with, he would not have objected to the second reading, in order that the Bill might have been referred to the Select Committee. He might observe that the Select Committee was not obliged to pass any Bill sent before them; and it was very likely that, after the discussion which had taken place on the subject, the Committee might consider whether a measure could be submitted based on the representative system. In supporting the decision of the Standing Orders Committee, he begged distinctly to
 1149
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had two objections to the present Motion. One was not only the ordinary objection that it was an abstract resolution, but it was a resolution to which the Mover said, he had no wish to give any practical effect unless at some remote period—a resolution that assured the
 1190
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  was not prepared to vote upon the principle of the Bill; but if the division were to be at once taken, he should vote against the second reading, on the ground of want of time to examine the measure. He thought the more desirable course would be to adjourn the debate.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that the graziers and agriculturists wanted a convenient place to keep and refresh their cattle, should they not be sold. It was idle to say that the farmers and graziers were in favour of the retention of Smith-field, because the Select Committee had it in evidence that the farmers did not know their own cattle after they had been three days in London, so badly had they been used in the market. The value of all kinds of animals was deteriorated by the present system.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  said, the City was diametrically opposed to this Bill. The right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) complained that the City would do nothing to abate the nuisances connected with Smith-field. Why, the City was willing to lay out a large sum for the purpose of abating these nuisances, and improving the market; also to deprive itself of the benefit it now derived from the tolls, and in the end to make it almost a free market. The revenue at present derived was about 5,500 l. l., l.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  agreed in the opinion of the hon. Member who had preceded him, that the Bill had been brought forward a little too rapidly for proper discussion. He would, however, give his support to the second reading of the Bill. The hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) said this Bill was brought forward only to increase the patronage of the Bishop of London. Was it to be borne, when efforts were made to increase the stipends of ministers which were not enough to support single, leaving out of consideration married life, that one of the greatest of our bishops should be charged with desiring to increase his patronage? Why, the whole amount of patronage of these churches did not exceed that stipend which the hon. Baronet gave to his butler or valet. The incomes would not exceed 150 l. 1161
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  could not see how the grazier's interest could be served by his cattle being driven five additional miles through the streets. He objected to the Bill, because it did not state where the now market was to be, or what was to be the cost of it. The farmers south of the metropolis would not have to thank the Government for removing the market on the score of con-venience to themselves, or humanity to their animals.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  was surprised that the Gentlemen from Manchester should, for the paltry sum of 2,700 l.,
 Mk. EDWARD ELLICE  said, he would detain the House but a very short time, but he rose to represent to his hon. Friend, that in the present circumstances, as stated by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, it would be advisable not to press the Motion to a division, because he thought that the House, in this its present state, would be no index, on a division, as to the interest felt in this question. For himself he was assured that something must be done, and therefore, being in favour of the Bill, and representing a University which he was bound to say would be benefited by it, he thought the question would now be placed at a disadvantage by a division.
 SIR ROBERT FERGUSON  moved an Amendment to omit the words which confer on the Commissioners any power over hospitals, except that of inspection. His object was to restrict the operation of the Bill to dispensaries. He did not deny that the present hospital accommodation in Ireland was inadequate and defective; but he believed that the Committee was not at present in a condition to legislate on this branch of the question.
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to say a few words on the principle involved in this Bill, which appeared to him to be entirely novel. It was the first time, he believed, that any proposition had been brought forward for levying, through the medium of the poor-law machinery, taxes for other purposes than those of the relief of the poor. He did not mean to say that this objection pervaded the whole of the Bill, but it went through a great part of it. If this principle were established, the people of Ireland might afterwards be called upon to allow the machinery of the poor-law to be used for lunatic asylums, gaols, and other purposes, which were now supported by different means. He thought the mode of levying taxation as carried into operation under the poor-law sufficiently objectionable as it was, and only excusable under the circumstances in which the country was placed. He trusted, therefore, that the Committee would consider the matter well before they took a step of this kind. With regard to the details of the measure, he thought that the House was entitled to expect from his right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland a statement respecting the practical effect which he anticipated from the operation of this Bill. He admitted that the present mode of administering medical relief was not what it ought to be; but still admission did not involve a necessary acquiescence in the propriety of the change proposed. He should like to hear from his right hon. Friend an estimate of the number of dispensaries, hospitals, and medical officers which would be required if the measure became law. He should like also to know, though he did not expect an exact account, what amount of additional taxation would be wanted to be raised to carry out the measure.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, he hoped his hon. Friend would not accede to the request that had been made to him,
 1228
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  supported the measure, and thought the arguments of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Grattan), respecting the negligence of the gentry and otherwise, only proved the necessity for this Bill. He was not quite disposed to consent to the Amendment proposed, as he thought that plenty of men possessing the double qualification of physicians and surgeons might be found, and it was most desirable that gentlemen of the highest qualifications should be obtained for these appointments.
 MR. COWAN  then rose and said, that in moving the second reading of this Bill, he wished to guard English Members against a misapprehension into which they were likely to fall on the subject. Only last week the hon. Member for North Lancashire (Mr. Heywood) introduced to the consideration of the House a measure somewhat similar in title to the present; and, in doing so, that hon. Gentleman took occasion to go into the question of religious tests as they bore upon civil offices in the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin; but, as the House was aware, owing to a fatality that occurred on that occasion—the "count out"—no decision was pronounced upon the question. He wished to state, for the information of English Members, who might not be aware of the fact, that there was scarcely any similarity between the constitutions of the Scotch and English universities, particularly with reference to their relation to the Established Churches of the respective countries. The students in Scotland were not required to reside within the walls of the colleges; neither wore they required to subscribe any religious tests, either at the commencement of their studies, or when they were about to receive honours or degrees. The Royal Commission, which was appointed by the Crown in 1826 to inquire into the Scotch universities, and which reported in 1830, stated that—
 "There are few national institutions of long standing which have been more powerfully modified by the circumstances of the country than the universities in Scotland; and they have undoubtedly been gradually adapted, in an eminent degree, to the particular demands upon them, arising from the circumstances of the people for whose benefit they were designed. These universities are not now of an ecclesiastical character, or, in the ordinary acceptation of the term, ecclesiastical bodies. They are connected, it is true, with the Established Church of Scotland, the standards of which the Professors must acknowledge. Like other seminaries of education, they may be subject to the inspection of the Church on account of any religious opinions which may be taught in them. The Professors of divinity, whose instructions are intended for the members of the Established Church, are, in their charac-
 1211 1212 "And I promise that I shall follow no divisive course from the present establishment in this Church, renouncing all doctrines, tenets, and opinions whatsoever contrary to, or inconsistent with, the said doctrine, worship, discipline, or government of this Church." 1213 1214 l. 1215 Confession of Faith, 1216 Confession of Faith, bonâ fide 1217 "That the Senatus and Faculty of the University of St. Andrews, ought to be required forthwith to redress the evil which you have brought upon the Church, by taking all the steps competent to them for removing you from the office of Principal of the United College, and that the Senatus be required to report to the Presbytery,  quam primum, 1218 "The total amount of endowment was 2,024 l. l. l; l. l. l., l., 1219 l. l. l. s. d. l. l; l. l. 1220 "I have no hesitation in expressing my decided approval of the object you have in view, and my hearty wish that it may speedily be attained in all its extent. I am not able to conceive who is a gainer by the law as it now stands, or what party would be injured by its abrogation, whereas the hardship it imposes, and the evils of various kinds which it inflicts, are such that one may well wonder they can be overlooked or denied. To remove every unnecessary temptation to insincerity out of our neighbour's way, is a plain dictate of morality; and it is no less clearly a dictate both of justice and prudence, that conscientious men should not be placed by law in a worse position than others who are less scrupulous. The present law defends the universities and the studious youth against those Professors from whom they are in no danger; and it exposes both to that class of men from whom alone there is any danger to be apprehended. In all other cases, men are reckoned trustworthy, not according to their expressed opinions—much less according to opinions which some worldly object may tempt them to profess —but according to their actions; and conduct, not professed opinion, is generally held to be both the appropriate test of worth, and the proper subject of reward and punishment. Nor can I think that the Act of Security should form any barrier to the repeal of the present law. The Legislature has already abrogated so many provisions of that Act as had become inconsistent with the interests, and repugnant to the feelings, of the Scotch people—to promote whose interests and gratify whose feelings the Act was originally passed; and it appears to me an extravagant proposition that the British Legislature now has not all the powers possessed by the English and the Scotch Parliaments in the year 1707. On the whole, I have long been of opinion that the repeal of the present law, in so far as regards all the professorships of literature, science, and philosophy, is a measure demanded by justice, and dictated by prudence." 1221 "I hope it is to help you to carry out two projects in which I know you are interested. The one for abolishing the form of tests for our universities in Scotland is surely a most desirable measure. Being myself an English University man, is the very reason why I am in favour of it, because the system on which the Universities in the two countries are founded being so entirely different, tests are absurd in Scotland as they are reasonable in England."
 MR. COWAN  said, with all deference to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet, he could not feel at liberty to withdraw his Motion. He had stated before that an expression of public opinion in favour of this measure had come from several bodies in the city which he had the honour to represent. Twenty-seven members of the Town Council voted in favour of the Bill, against three who voted for the previous question. The same result, he believed, had taken place in all the burghs of Scotland. If this were an ordinary question, or if this wore the first time the question had been introduced, he would have complied with the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet; but he thought the people of Scotland had a right to know what were the sentiments of the Scotch Members on this subject, and what were the sentiments also, or rather what were the doings of the House in reference to it. Though this was originally a Government measure, and though he had pressed upon them the re-adoption of it early in the Session, though he had delayed bringing the question forward, in the hope that the Government would yet be persuaded to take up their own measure, yet he must say he had not received from them that support which he thought he had a right to expect. He must, therefore, divide the House.
 MR. ROCHE  was surprised to hear the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) say that what Ireland wanted was to be let alone. Was not the hon. and learned Gentleman aware that by the last census for Ireland it was ascertained that the population had diminished within ten years from 9,000,000 to 6,000,000? In the absence of any measure from the Government for the improvement and amelioration of the social condition of Ireland, he would support the principle of the present Bill, although he was by no means willing to bind himself to all the details. The Bill of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. T. M'Cullagh) was intended only to deal with lands that were not cleared from incumbrances, and upon which there were tenants. The fair purchaser could not be interfered with by this Bill, for it pro-
 1237
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  trusted that the Government would not for a moment, listen to this Bill. If it was a Bill intituled "a Bill to prevent any purchasers from being found for any Incumbered Estates in Ireland," he could understand it. The object was that land should be altogether leased in perpetuity as against the purchaser. Under such circumstances, was it possible that any purchaser could be found? It was hardly worth while to enter into a disscussion of its provisions, because he thought that they were so absurd as to render it impossible they could be assented to. If such a measure passed, it would have the effect of completely ruining property in that country by preventing the possibility of anything like a fair competition for the purchase of it. He, therefore, trusted that the House, even upon the ground of courtesy, would never assent to such a measure proceeding one stage further.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, if this Bill was adopted, the sum of 23,646 l., l. l. l. l., l. l. d. d. 1244
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he regretted very much that no Member of the Government was present when this measure was introduced by the hon. and learned Member for Dundalk; for so extraordinary a piece of legislation was never even introduced by the Ministers themselves for Ireland. He believed it was nothing more or less than a bold scheme of confiscation, which it was impossible could be entertained for one moment by that House.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  considered the statement of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland was very satisfactory. Remembering how landed property in Ireland was already burdened, he thought the Committee had a right to know what the views of the Government were. If a rate not exceeding twopence farthing or twopence halfpenny in the pound would suffice for all the purposes of this Bill, he thought the measure would be very advantageous to that country. He had an Amendment to move in the first clause, to substitute the word "or" for the word "and." His object was to give the power of selecting "a physician or surgeon," instead of "a physician and surgeon" for these charities.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, that much of the sickness in Ireland had been caused by the neglect of their duties to the poor on the part of the absentee gentry; and he objected to this Bill because it would reduce the present amount of medical relief from 118,000 l. l.
 MR. HATCHELL  said, he should have risen earlier, but he was anxious to see whether there was a second Member of the House who would support this Bill. He conceived that it was objectionable, not only in its details, but in its principle. It was impossible that it could be made anything like an effective measure by any amendments that could be made in it in Committee. It proposed a most unjustifiable encroachment upon the rights of property. He thought there could not be a more obnoxious proposal, unsupportable by any principle, that any body of Commissioners appointed for a particular purpose with a temporary power should be constituted into a body to administer the property of the landlords in Ireland which was encumbered to a greater or less extent. To say that land should be leased out on the terms prescribed by this Bill, was utterly irreconcilable with the rights of property, and therefore it was that he opposed the Bill. There might be cases calling for the interposition of the Legislature; but the question was, whether they should tolerate such a Bill as this even by reading it a second time. The Encumbered Estates Court was instituted to cure a great evil, arising from property having got into the Court of Chancery. The great complaint was, that the Court had power by its receiver to lease land, and therefore persons were interested in keeping the property unsold; and the Incumbered Estates Court was instituted for the purpose of facilitating the sale of property so circumstanced. In conclusion, he begged to move, that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 MR. REYNOLDS  warned the Committee against the adoption of this Amendment, and hoped that the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland would not consent to it, as hospitals and infirmaries ought, equally with dispensaries, to be placed under the inspection and supervision of the medical board. He thought great sacrifice of human life had arisen from the mismanagement of the hospitals, whether connected with the workhouse or otherwise; and there ought to be some protection given by the Bill to the sick poor against the cupidity of the local governing; bodies in certain districts. Economy of human life wont before economy of money; and he was glad to find that principle recognised by this Bill.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that if he thought the Government had any intention to permit this Bill to pass through a second reading, he would have given notice that he would move for its second reading that day six months. If this measure passed into a law, it would put an end to all security of property in Ireland. Such attempts at legislation as this did more injury to the introduction of capital into the country, and to the promotion of industry in Ireland, than anything that could well be imagined. What Ireland wanted was to be let alone. If property were adequately secured there, the country would go on advancing towards prosperity. The proposed measure violated the rights of property by throwing into the hands of three Commissioners the power of leasing any portion of the lands referred to them for sale, to any person, for 999 years, who could muster but one-fourth of its value. All they wanted in Ireland was simply the same security for life and property which they had in this country. He happened to have an account then by him which showed that the Incumbered Estates Court was already overburdened with the ordinary business appertaining to it, and already were the public serious sufferers by this state of things. By their own return it appeared that up to the 31st of March the total incumbrances amounted to 4,086,192 l. 1236 l., l. l.
 MR. EWART  said, if it was not the intention of other Members to address the House on this question, he would not detain them long from a division; but before sitting down, he wished to answer one or two of the remarks which had been made by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. W. Lockhart). The hon. Member said that they were bound by the Treaty of Union not to do anything that was contrary to the letter and the spirit of that treaty. Now, he apprehended that it was competent for Parliament, in certain cases, and under certain circumstances, to act contrary to the spirit of the Treaty of Union; and, if he was not mistaken, that had already been done. He would waive, indeed, the instance of violation which his hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Cowan) had quoted. He was not sufficiently learned in the Act to know whether the restoration of patronage did or did not violate the Act of Union; but, if he was not mistaken, there was a provision in the Treaty of Union by which the number of Members for Scotland was fixed at forty-five. [Sir GEORGE CLERK: Not less than forty-five.] What was the number of representatives
 1225 1226
 MR. W. LOCKHART  felt it to he his duty to oppose a Bill which he believed to be destructive to the Christian and Protestant character of the Universities of Scotland, and indeed hostile to all religion. The religious opinions of professors of literature and science are, it appears, to be considered as of no consequence. Now, the hon. Member for the City of Edinburgh must have done some violence to his feel-
 1222 1223 1224
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said he believed he should be best consulting the
 1231 1232 l. 1233 "My experience has impressed me with a very strong feeling in favour of letting land upon long tenures. I feel, therefore, that this Bill is a move in the right direction, especially that portion of it which would enable the tenants to pay one-fourth of the value as a fine. This provision is calculated, in my opinion, to be of the greatest benefit to all parties concerned. It will serve as an investment for the small capitalist as well as the larger, and I think you may be sure that land so disposed of will command a good price in the market." 1234
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said,
 1238 1239
 SIR GEORGE GREY  begged leave to say a few words. Having taken part some time ago in a Motion of this kind, and having supported a Bill involving the same principle as that which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowan) asked the House to assent to, he felt bound to state that the opinion which he then entertained as to that principle remained unaltered; and if the House went to a division, he should feel bound to support the second reading. At the same time, the House would remember that his (Sir G. Grey's) right hon. Friend the Secretary at War, who had brought forward a Bill of the same kind, and who was unfortunately prevented by indisposition from being present, had stated that the Government did not think that in the present Session it was expedient to press such a measure. He considered that the second reading of the Bill now would very inadequately express the real sense of the House upon the question. He doubted, therefore, the policy of the hon. Gentleman in bringing forward his measure at the present time, and he must say, that the present thin state of the House was not an index of the want of real interest being felt on this question; but it was that no one believed that this Bill was likely to pass during the present Session, and that the question, therefore, was not raised with any probability of success. With respect to the question itself, he believed that however useful or necessary these tests might have been at the time when they were originally instituted, the occasion for them had long since passed away, and their retention would not conduce to the advantage of the Universities themselves. If they were strictly enforced, the effect would be to exclude from the lay chairs many men eminent in literature and science, although that practical result was one which the good sense of the Universities had pro-vented from taking place. It was well known that persons not belonging to the Church of Scotland did hold chairs in the Universities, some without having signed the tests, whilst others had done so—in both cases showing that no real value was attached to them; and he was not aware that any practical inconvenience or danger to the Church had arisen in consequence. Such a measure as this would tend greatly to bring about that union of persons hold-
 1227
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, that considering this Bill had passed through the House in the last Session of Parliament, and had been read a second time in the course of the present, he was rather surprised to find his noble Friend asking for explanations with respect to the change of system in collecting funds for medical relief—a question on which he thought the House had been entirely agreed. His reason for proposing the
 1241 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1242 l., l. l.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  opposed the Amendment on the ground that the infirmaries and hospitals required supervision as much as the dispensaries. He felt bound to controvert the assertion that the burden under this Bill would fall heaviest upon the poorer classes. With regard to the infirmaries in particular, there could be no great loss from the sacrifice of subscriptions, because the total amount of the subscriptions to the dispensaries in Ireland in 1849 was only 1,300 l. 1245 l.,
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said,
 1243
 SIR, GEORGE GREY  considered it unnecessary to follow the hon. Gentleman through the details he had repeated. As to the Bill not having received due consideration and discussion, he could not avoid saying that it was somewhat strange if the contents of the Bill were so little known to hon. Members, seeing that it had been twice in a Committee of the whole House; that there had been some half-dozen of divisions upon it; and that the hon. Member had himself made at least a dozen speeches upon it.
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, that the hon. Gentleman, on a previous occasion, could only get seventeen Members to vote with him, against forty-five or forty-six against him; he, therefore, considered that there were no grounds for his complaints.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, that in his opinion the hon. Gentleman who now sat for the borough, ought never to have taken his seat after the Report of the Committee.
 1257
 MR. EDWARD ELLICE  said, that those Amendments had been most carefully considered by the hon. and learned Attorney General, and they had been introduced in consequence of the Sudbury Commission having proved abortive for the want of such powers. He was quite willing, however, to meet the objections of the hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) by the insertion of such words as would make the exemption co-extensive with the power to compel evidence.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  did not think that, in the event of a war, they would be able to man the Navy by impressment, and it was for the Committee to consider whether they would abandon the only means yet suggested with any chance of success for avoiding the impressment system. It must be remembered that only one portion of the plan proposed by the right hon. Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham) had yet been carried into effect. It was intended by the right hon. Baronet that, in the event of a war, merchant seamen should render compulsory service in the Navy, and that the register-tickets should be the moans of reaching the seamen. No occasion, however, had arisen for carrying into effect the compulsory powers of the Act, and therefore it was hardly fair
 1273
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that the Mercantile Marine Bill would render the system of registration much more complete and effective than it had hitherto been.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, he believed that all proper facilities were given. The usual hours of admission wore from ten to four, and the office was open every day except Saturdays. Calendars, or very full indexes of the contents of the State papers, down to the time of the Civil War, were in course of preparation, and orders had been given for printing them.
 Mr. DRUMMOND  said, that whoever had voted against the grant to Maynooth, and whoever meant to vote against the  Regium Donum
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that the ecclesiastical property in this country had been very badly managed by the Commissioners, who had allowed the Secretary to run away with 10,000 l.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, it was not competent to the hon. Member to move that the Vote be postponed; but he might, if he pleased, propose to negative it.
 SIR ROBERT FERGUSON  wished that the same system of payment of the items included in this Vote for England should be extended to Ireland.
 MR. MORE O'FERRAL  said, that the present was the only opportunity hon. Members possessed of gaining information of this kind, and these returns ought to be made intelligible.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that these offices and these grants were of very old date; and he thought it would be unfair to diminish the Vote now. The office of Queen's Limner was generally filled by some eminent Scottish painter. The Queen's plate, and the plate for the Caledonian Hunt, had been given by George III.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS : The office of "clockmaker" was no sinecure. The person filling that office had to attend to all the clocks at Holyrood.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, that he agreed with the hon. Member for the city of Dublin as to the bad management, inefficiency, and over-payment of the Board of Works. It required the most thorough investigation.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, that if this Bill renewed the power to seize growing crops, he would vote in favour of the insertion of the clause.
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, some of the figures in the Report of the Poor Law
 1292
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, that nothing could be more unsatisfactory than this Report. Some of the items appeared of a very unaccountable character. Why bad they no statement as to what had been paid for building and emigration?
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, he must beg the Chancellor of the Exchequer's pardon, but it bad been already spent.
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, there was a statement in the Report presented to that House a few days ago, that the Commissioners had thought fit to allocate a sum of money for the purposes of emigration, and another sum for the building of additional workhouses in distressed Unions; but it did not give them the least idea of the amounts so allocated, or the circumstances under which the expenditure was incurred. Now a return could he called for of the annual expenditure of the different Unions, and that was what the right hon. Baronet promised if he moved for it; but how were they to get to know the state of circumstances under which the expenditure for emigration and building was made? They were not stated in the Report of the Commissioners, and when he asked the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, he got no answer.
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, it was these appendices he complained of, as they afforded no information of the way in which the advances had been allocated and expended.
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, he must complain that the Poor Law Commissioners for Ireland had given no satisfactory account of the manner in which the rate in aid of last year had been disposed of. Nor had they given any precise information as to the disposal of the sum of 300,000 l. 1284
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the principle stated by the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond), and by the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, did not at all apply to this vote. It was totally a distinct question. This was a vote of money for carrying on a certain civil business, which civil business referred to ecclesiastical arrangements. It was intended to facilitate certain reforms in Church property, which reforms the State had thought it necessary to make; just as they might make a provision for a Commission to reform the Court of Chancery, or the Common Law Courts; and then it would be admitted that it was a matter of Government, the expense of which the State ought to pay, and not the suitors in the Court of Chancery. The vote had nothing to do with the functions of the Church, or with the spiritual duties of persons belonging to the Church; but was for an entirely civil office, to be carried on by civilians, who were to effect a reform in the general management of Church property.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the papers to which this vote referred had been in course of collection since the time of Henry VIII., and were very valuable. It was principally for their arrangement that this vote was required.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that two Commissioners, according to the Act of last year, were paid from the funds of the Church, and not from this Vote; and the effect of refusing a Vote of this kind would be, that the Commissioners would not be able to carry into effect, in many cases, the division of parishes, with the grant of allowances to clergymen for spiritual instruction. The only result, therefore, would be a diminution in the means of religious instruction provided for populous parishes. The relief of spiritual destitution was a public object, and he thought it only fair that Parliament should furnish part of the means for accomplishing it.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that by the Act of Parliament of last year, three Commissioners were to be appointed—two by the Crown, and one by the Archbishop of Canterbury. The Earl of Chichester and Mr. Shaw Lefevre were appointed by the Crown, and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) was nominated by the Archbishop of Cantor-bury. The pension which the right hon. Gentleman received was duo to him in consequence of having performed certain services for a certain period of time as one of the officers of the State; and the 1,000 l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  was of opinion that the important duties to which the hon. Member referred, could be more properly executed by a Lord Chancellor than by any other person. His experience and judicial position gave him greater authority than any one else with respect to any matters concerning the superior courts of justice. Hitherto the Lord Chancellor's judicial duties had been so exceedingly burdensome, that be had not been able to give the time which was desirable to the whole administration of justice in the country, whether in the common law or equity courts; but he (Lord John Russell) trusted that the Bill which he had lately brought in, and which seemed to be generally approved of, would enable the Lord Chancellor to give more time to the subject,
 1276
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  would beg to remind the hon. Member (Mr. Bright), that the Government had adopted many of the recommendations of the Committee. Indeed, he had gone as far as he possibly could—he would not say consistently with his own judgment, for his judgment was against several of the recommendations he had adopted in deference to that Committee. There had been great reductions
 1277 l. l. l. l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that in referring to the valuable services of Earl Granville as Vice-President of the Board of Trade, no appointment which he (Lord John Russell) had made had given greater satisfaction. The appointment had been ridiculed at the time, because the noble Earl had previously held the office of Master of the Buckhounds, and it was said he must be unfit to deal with subjects of trade; but it must be admitted by every one who had witnessed the able way in which the noble Earl discharged his duties, that the office could not have been more worthily bestowed.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the present proposition was only to vote for the provision of the money for the purpose proposed out of the Consolidated Fund.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Stuart) should take another opportunity of raising the question to which he had just referred, as it was not the proper time to discuss it when the House had before them a Motion for going into Committee, with a view to provide for a Judge's annuity.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thought it was desirable that business which was not opposed should be disposed of, though it might be after twelve.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  believed that on the settlement of the Civil List the grants of Queen's plates were fixed to be paid out of the amount set aside for the Master of the Horse; but certain amounts of this kind which had been defrayed out of the hereditary revenues of Scotland and Ireland were placed upon the Estimates. It had pleased Parliament to make provision for the Sovereign in lieu of the revenues of the Crown, and which, especially at the accession of William IV., had been given up. The hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) seemed to suppose that Parliament had made a bad bargain in the exchange. Whether the Crown had done wisely, he (Lord John Russell) would not say; but, in a matter affecting the dignity and liberality of the Crown, he thought that Parliament should not take away a grant that the Crown for a century had given.
 LORD NAAS  said, the Committee had been unanimous in thinking that the Board of Works and the Board of Fisheries could not be kept one and the same thing.
 MR. DISRAELI  wished the hon. Gentleman (Mr. W. Williams), who was about to divide the Committee, not upon the amount, but the principle, to explain what the principle was. The hon. Member said he believed that no Queen's plates were run for in England; but that was not the impression of hon. Gentlemen around him, one of whom had just told him that his
 1297
 MR. HAWES  said, he believed there had been a considerable extension of the suffrage in Demerara, and it was mainly to that point to which the Committee which the hon. Gentleman referred to directed its attention. He had always understood, and that House had recognised the distinction, that where there were two races, a coloured race and a white race, the former of which had long been subject to the latter, it was not expedient to give great political power to the coloured race. Besides the extension of the franchise, there had been a large reduction of expenditure, which was another of the points to which the Committee directed its attention. Both these important measures had been carried out with great ability by the present Governor. As the colony progressed in intelligence, it might be desirable to extend the franchise more to the coloured population; but in their present state he was not
 1272
 MR. COWAN  wished to avail himself of that opportunity of making another attempt to gain information with reference to the destitution which prevailed in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland. They had been told that Sir John M'Neill, the President of the Poor Law Board for Scotland, had made a personal inspection of the districts in which the destitution prevailed, and yet no Report had been presented to them of that inspection. He bad seen in the public papers alarming accounts of the distress which prevailed in that portion of Her Majesty's dominions, and be had been informed by parties on whom be placed reliance, that those accounts were greatly exaggerated, and they ought therefore to be furnished with authentic information on the subject. He wished to know when they would be supplied with a report on the subject, even if it were only an interim report?
 MR. FREWEN  explained that he had not complained of the precedence of any
 1255
 MR. FREWEN  said, he had complain-
 1254
 MR. FREWEN  said, he must complain of the conduct of the Government in getting the House adjourned when they pleased, and occupying all the hours which independent Members ought to have. An attempt had been made on Wednesday, at five minutes to six o'clock, to smuggle the second reading of a Bill which was not entered on the paper.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the practice of the House—for no rule existed on the subject—had always been, since he had had the honour of sitting in that chair, that at the morning sittings the Government Bills took precedence over other Bills; but other hon. Members were not precluded from putting down their own Bills for the morning sittings; and if they were put down, they would come on in the regular order, after the Government Bills, if there were any.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he would never shrink from his duty, whether the performance of it pleased or displeased any Chancellor of the Exchequer, or any Government. The shipowners in that case had been led to believe they might safely send their vessels to Denmark; and that was a strong reason why their claims should be allowed, however late in the day it was proposed to do them justice. He would, therefore, support the Motion of the hon. and learned Member opposite (Mr. Roebuck). He wished to know whore then was the hon. Member for Kinsale (Mr. Hawes), who had formerly voted for those claims? He was at the Crystal Palace, perhaps, patronising the industry of all nations, when he ought to he in his place in Parliament. As to Chancellors of the Exchequer, of course they backed one another in all these matters. "Scratch me, and I'll scratch you," was the word with these gentry.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester knew nothing of rational amusements. One of the greatest friends of the hon. Member was a keen sportsman, and he had furnished his table with more game than he ever had before. The hon. Member was a free trader, but he was not so rationally, for by the measures which he had supported, he had taken from the people of Ireland the means of improving their condition and of obtaining more food.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that if the Vote were raised to four times its present amount, he did not think the benefit would be derived by the Church. He had seen so little care shown for the interests of the Church by the noble Lord, that he would be pardoned for saying that he could not give credit to his representations.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  objected to the Vote, suspecting that none of the benefit of it was allowed to go to the Church; besides he detested any proceedings that had Commissioners attached to them.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that a more gross imposition never was practised than when a noble Lord in another place (Lord Monteagle) was "pitchforked" into this sinecure, for which he received 2,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied that every precaution which skill, ingenuity, and experience could devise, had been taken.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he could not enumerate any particular duties attached to this office, but there were various matters which necessarily came from time to time before the Cabinet requiring the attention of some Member of the Government who was not so fully occupied with the regular business of his office as to be unable to give proper care to these matters as they arose.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, those clerks were paid by the public because the public had an interest in their labours, and in the proper management of Church property.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was quite true that a person receiving a public pension, on being appointed again to a public office, would not receive both the pension and the salary; as, for instance, if Mr. Goulburn were appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer again, he would receive the salary of 5,000 l. l l. 1282
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that by the lion. Gentleman's own argument, that Church property was public property, the public must of course have an interest in it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the same question had been asked in a former Session, and had been answered in the same manner in which he was now about to answer it. These charges were imposed on the public revenue in consequence of the change made in the Corn Laws in 1846, and were then considered as a compensation to the agricultural interest for any loss it might sustain by reason of that change. The charges made upon the public revenue for the expenses of the constabulary of Ireland were much greater in proportion than any charges that were defrayed by the public on account of the Poor Law Unions in England. The expense of the constabulary in Ireland amounted to 580,000 l. l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would also appeal to the hon. Gentleman not to divide the Committee again, when the principle of the vote had been carried by the last division.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not think it would be advisable to separate the Fishery Commissioners from the Commissioners of the Board of Works.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the amount for the purposes of emigration had been paid out of the rate in aid.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had since discovered he was wrong in stating that the grants for emigration were made out of the rate in aid. They were made subsequently to the time this account was made up, and
 1293
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in reply, said, that a certain quantity of light sovereigns were from time to time returned to the Mint, and it was necessary to replace them occasionally by the issuing of new sovereigns. The cost of the coinage was, as stated in the Estimate, one-third per cent. He believed that the now system would come into operation in the course of a few weeks.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was proud to be able to hear his testimony to the ability of Sir John Herschell, who was not only a good astronomer, but one of the best men of business he ever met with. He had taken a most active interest in the superintendence of the proceedings of the Mint from the time of his appointment.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  said, that the intention of carrying the system into effect had not been abandoned.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he should imitate his hon. and learned Friend in the conciseness with which he should address the House, be-cause he thought the case was in a very small compass; and, after the speech made five years ago by the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Cardwell), which was so decisive an answer to the question, he was surprised that it should have been again brought forward. He could assure his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roe-
 1268 1269 l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, only a very small sum was asked, and the Government might easily subtract it from the salaries of the stipendiary magistrates in Ireland, who were useless, and apply it to the more useful purpose of promoting Irish fisheries.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the other night there had been a most audacious "pull at the Exchequer" for 2,700 l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he did not rise to oppose the Vote, but he wished to know what was the cause of the increase in the Vote for Ireland this year beyond that of last year, seeing that the amount of destitution had diminished in the present year?
 MR. SCULLY  wished to remind the Committee that 14,000 l.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that his conduct in that House had been always that of an independent Member, and upon the occasion referred to he had acted as such. For his part, he treated with the utmost contempt
 1303
 MR. BANKES  was quite ready to go on with the Bill, so far as he was concerned; but knowing that his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Newark (Mr. J. Stuart) entertained strong objections to the Bill, and wished to take part in the discussion, his hon. and learned Friend had stated so much in the House, and yet the Bill had been appointed for a time when his hon. and learned Friend was engaged in the Court of Chancery. There were at this moment sitting on the Government side of the House, just twelve Members, and no more; and they were the persons who were to decide upon this important measure. He had no hesitation in declaring that it was not decent that a Bill of this kind should have been discussed in the way it had. There were not twenty Members of the House who knew its contents. Why, it gave to three barristers, who might or might not be gentlemen of great ability, power which no Judge—not even the Lord Chancellor—had ever possessed. That power had been inserted by the hon. and learned Attorney General, who had admitted that no Judge had ever been invested with it. Power was given to call for the most intimate and confidential communications between the parties. He was willing to trust such a power to the House, but certainly would not consent to give it to three barristers. Moreover, the court would not be an open court. He would divide with his hon. Friend for the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. BANKES  said, that undoubtedly the legal number of Members to form a House were then present. Indeed, he believed that there were no less than twenty-five hon. Gentlemen on the Government side of the House. He did not pretend to say that the Government had not the power to pass the Bill, or any other Bill they liked; but that should not prevent him from giving his opposition to what he considered to be a bad measure. What were the circumstances? The Committee seated a Gentleman whom they suspected strongly to have been guilty of bribery, and they recommended an inquiry into the conduct of those whom they suspected of having been corrupted by him. He would submit to the inquiry, but it would be for him to consider whether the mode of inquiry proposed was fit and proper, and adapted to the case. In so doing he would first advert to the Clause giving power to these three Commissioners which should be given to no men, unless those of 'the highest judicial character, and who sat on a public tribunal, with the public eye upon them But these inquiries might be carried on in secret, behind the backs of the parties most concerned in them—those very persons whoso conduct was the subject of inquiry, and who had no right or opportunity of being present. To such a proposition he felt bound to say, No. When he found that in this case acts of such gross insolence towards this House had been done, that witnesses summoned by the authority of that House had been carried away with the full intention that they should be kept away until the power of the House expired with the end of the Session, then he must admit that some stringent and cogent remedy must be applied to such a case. But he had to inqure whether the remedy proposed was proper, sufficient, and safe. He might, as he had said already, consent to give this
 1258 1259
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  could not help remarking that, while the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board for England was satisfactory, the Report on the table was not satisfactory, as far as Ireland was concerned. He wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland to the fact that, of 249,000 inmates of the poorhouses in Ireland, 103,000 were children under fifteen years of ago. Under such a state of things, the education of the children in the workhouses became a matter of primary importance. He knew that in two or three places the Boards of Guardians had paid great attention to the subject; but the Poor Law Board had not encouraged them, and therefore their intentions were not carried out.
 MR. MOORE  asked whether hon. Gentlemen were willing to give back the revenue out of which these plates were formerly given?
 MR. MOORE  could inform the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lambeth that between twenty and twenty-five Queen's plates were annually given in England, the sum thus expended being from 2,000 l. l.
 SIR HENRY BARRON  said, that when the Corn Laws were abolished it was stated that a portion of the expenses for the maintenance of the constabulary in Ireland would be paid out of the Consolidated Fund, as an equivalent to Ireland; but that he considered no equivalent at all; and if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer asserted that it was an equivalent, he would say that it was a most inadequate equivalent. They gave to England and Scotland 90,000 l.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose was blushing for the misconduct of his own countrymen, who had introduced their new laws to Ireland, and scoured the rivers with their weir nets. The Government of Ireland had ceased to exist. He did not know where it was to he found. Was it at the Castle, or at London, or at Rome?
 MR. LABOUCHERE,  in reply, said, that the increase was explained in a note to the Estimates. He took this opportunity of making an explanation with respect to one item—the salary of the Commissioner of the Railway Department, the amount of which was 1,500 l. 1294 l. l.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, it was one of the functions of the Railway Department to take care that there was no infraction of any Act of Parliament relating to
 1295
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, since he had been connected with the Mercantile Marine Board, he had had opportunities of consulting captains of ships and many other persons with reference to the registration system, and he had found that the result of that system had been to prevent desertion in a great degree. Many frauds and imperfections still continued under it; but he was satisfied that its workings had been most beneficial. It was said to have caused great dissatisfaction. Well that, no doubt, was the fact; and if it had not been so, the Act which the Legislature lately, at his recommendation, put itself to the trouble of passing, would have proved wholly inoperative. Of course all the lodging-house keepers and low attorneys of our seaports were very much dissatisfied with the Act, and they had done all in their power to induce the sailors to get up an opposition to it. The excitement, however, which they had created, had, he believed, calmed down, and the sailors now began to see the advantages which the Act would confer upon them. There could be no doubt that the Act had done an infinity of service to the merchant service. Upwards of 1,000 masters and mates had been examined under the Act, and about 250 had failed in their examination. Many of those that had been rejected applied themselves afresh to instruction in their profession, and several of
 1274
 MR. LABOUCHERE  thought that the system of registration had been attended with the greatest advantage to merchant seamen. The same principle was carried out with regard to merchant seamen in the United States, and other countries. He had no doubt that experience and inquiry would suggest means of improving the present system of registration; but he thought the entire abolition of the system would be a most imprudent step.
 MR. BRIGHT  was willing to admit that Earl Granville had taken a very active part in the conduct of public business in the other House of Parliament, besides the onerous duties he had discharged out of doors as one of the Commissioners of the Great Exhibition, which office he had filled in the most satisfactory manner. Still, he thought that one of the three offices he had named might be advantageously done away with. The arguments of the noble Lord in support of these offices had been used against himself
 1278
 MR. BRIGHT  believed there were no less than three Members of the Cabinet holding offices which were pretty nearly sinecures. There were the Lord Privy Seal, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, and the Paymaster of the Forces. [Lord JOHN RUSSELL: No; the last is joined to the office of Vice-President of the Board of Trade.] Well, then, there was the holder of that office, able to give his attention to other matters, for he had this year rendered most important and efficient aid in regard to the Exhibition, and done more of the public service in the House of Lords than any other Minister. He must, however, protest against these votes after the evidence taken by the Committee on Official Salaries last year. That Committee could only obtain the evidence of the officials themselves, who, of course, thought their own offices of the greatest importance. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that the Lord Privy Seal had nothing in particular to do, but that he was necessary in the Cabinet to do anything that might be wanted. Now, the man who could do anything ought to be the very ablest in the Cabinet, but able men were never put into these offices. They were generally used as a means of paying off the supporters of a party, and were not at all necessary. The noble Lord had taken the course of disregarding six-sevenths of the Committee's recommendations, which had been made after a very careful inquiry. But, now that the pressure was in a degree withdrawn, the noble Lord declined to effect the reductions recommended. This held out no inducement to hon. Members to act on Select Committees.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought the noble Lord had completely failed in his argument. The vote was for effecting the improvement of Church property, and not for the building of any Dissenting schools or chapels. It was to enable the Church to get hold of its own funds by a better administration, and to apply them for strictly and exclusively Church purposes. It was very different from a reform in the Court of Chancery, or in the other law courts, because the law courts were not for a particular class like the Church, but for all classes in the country; and the courts had
 1283
 MR. BRIGHT  said, there was a large class in the country opposed to horseracing on moral and conscientious grounds, including many clergymen of the Church of England, and ministers of various denominations; and, on that ground alone, it might be doubted whether this was a fair appropriation of the public taxes. Any one who had this conscientious objection would have a right to complain of such a Vote. On the grounds of public service, and the necessity of economy, it would be impossible to justify the vote of this 1,574 l. Bell's Life
 MR. HATCHELL  said, that the Bill did not interfere with the law of Ireland as it stood. By the existing law no one could seize and distrain a growing crop in Ireland, without paying the landlord a year's rent, if it were due.
 MR. MACGREGOR  cordially admitted the laborious nature of the duties discharged by Earl Granville; and he could state that the clerks in the Board of Trade were absolutely slaves, especially during the Session of Parliament, when returns were continually being called for. Though anxious to economise in every way, he would not reduce any of the salaries in that office.
 MR. PLUMPTRE  also regretted the proposed arrangement. He should be sorry if the public lost the services of Sir Edward Ryan; and he thought the public would be glad to bear an addition of expense, rather than a diminution, to increase the efficiency of the Railway Department.
 MR. REYNOLDS  objected to the vote, on the ground that it was a mischievous and extravagant board. All the patronage, all the large salaries, he found, were given to Englishmen, instead of to natives of Ireland. Were the people of Scotland tired of the 14,000 l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  thought the whole of this Vote should be postponed, in order to give the Government time to reconsider it. One of the items now proposed was a sum of 41,724 l. l. l. l. l. 1285 l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, if it were not competent to him to move the postponement of this Vote, he should not divide the Committee, because he was not prepared to negative the entire Vote. He was not satisfied with the right hon. Gentleman's explanation with respect to the returns. The preparation of them was only scriveners' work, and his statement that they might have been presented within forty-eight hours was made on the authority of an hon. Gentleman who was formerly connected with the Poor Law Commission.
 MR. REYNOLDS  would take that opportunity of stating that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, having relieved the agriculturists of England and
 1291 l l.
 MR. ROEBUCK  rose to move a Resolution, of which he had given notice, on the subject of the Danish claims. He wished in the first instance to ascertain from the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer the grounds on which he objected to these claims. By Danish claims he did not mean foreign claims, but the claims on the part of British merchants for the loss they had sustained in 1807, in consequence of the conduct of the British Government. Napoleon having struck down Austria, Prussia, and Russia, and the Treaty of Tilsit having been entered into, England was desirous of striking a blow which should in some way cripple his power; and in order the more effectually to manage that point, every means had been taken to prevent English merchants from understanding what the Government were about to do. The merchants had been solicited to go to the Baltic. They had asked if they would be safe in going there, and they had received assurances that they were perfectly safe. A large number of them proceeded to the Baltic under that impression, and a considerable amount of property had been sent to the Baltic and to Denmark. Very soon afterwards the English fleet was sent to the Baltic. In consequence an embargo was placed on all British property, even to the book debts of the merchants. Copenhagen was then bombarded, and a capitulation took place; but what happened? All the property on which an embargo had been laid had been confiscated by the Danish Government; and, although compensation had since been granted for the book debts and the property on shore, no compensation had been given for the other property afloat. An embargo had been previously laid on all Danish vessels, and no Danish vessel was allowed to depart from an English port. In the month of November of the same year, England chose to confiscate all the property on which the embargo had been laid. This property, which had amounted to about 3,000,000 l. 1266 1267 l. "V. R. It must at all times be my most oar-nest desire to attend to the wishes of the House of Commons, and I shall be ready to give effect to thorn in this instance whenever the means shall be provided by the House." l.
 MR. JOHN STUART  said, he should regret to see the Bill defeat its own purpose, by reason of the inattention which had been manifested, not only to the drawing up of the provisions of the measure, hut to the rights and privileges of Her Majesty's subjects. He had already pointed out to the Government, who so ostentatiously talked of being the guardians of the rights and privileges of Englishmen, the propriety of proceeding with this matter in a constitutional way. With great respect, hut with great earnestness, he would request the attention of the hon. and learned Attorney and Solicitor Generals to the provisions of the Bill. Why was the House called upon to legislate? Because a petition had been presented from St. Albans, complaining of bribery at the last election; because the Committee to which that petition had been referred—a judicial tribunal, with the parties before it—had entirely failed to accomplish the purpose for which they had been appointed. Then, the parties before this judicial tribunal had failed to make out their ease, and after that came a Report from the Committee, stating their belief that gross bribery had been practised at the last election; that their endeavours to ascertain the truth had been defeated by improper moans; but still, notwithstanding all this, that the Member had been duly elected. Then came a recommendation of further proceedings to do that which the Committee themselves had failed to accomplish. He should really have thought that common sense would have been used in framing the Bill so as to form a proper tribunal. Other means could have been found to ascertain the state of the borough of St. Albans as regarded the allegations, and more than suspicions, of bribery, not only at the last, but at preceding elections; but, instead of taking a constitutional course, the Government chose to appoint Commissioners with inquisitorial powers that would violate the rights of any of the people of England who should he so unfortunate as to come within the scope of this Commission. Did the Bill provide either for eliciting the truth from those who complained of bribery, and showed that they had the means of proving it, or
 1262 1263 ex parte
 MR. JOHN STUART  said, he did not complain that Government should have the power to prefer any measures which they thought of importance; but he thought that the House was entitled to know what Bills were or were not considered Government Bills. For his part, he did not understand the present to be a Government Bill. He made no complaint of inconvenience in being obliged to attend on this occasion to discuss the Bill. He was not so presumptuous as to expect that his individual wishes should be consulted in the matter; and, now that he was there, he confessed it would be more inconvenient for him that the discussion should be postponed than that it should go on. His hon. Friend the Member for East Sussex (Mr. Frowen) had reason to complain that his convenience had been disregarded.
 MR. JOHN STUART  said, that it would be impossible to remedy the delay of business in the Court of Chancery by any new provisions, without accompanying them with an increase of the force in the Registrar's department.
 MR. JOHN STUART  would suggest that independent Members were subjected to great hardships if adjournment were moved by supporters of the Government on business which the Government would not assist.
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, he had recently seen that it was the opinion of forty-five Members of Parliament, and many of the bishops, that if the property of the Church were properly managed, it might be made to yield an increase of another 500,000 l. 1280
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, the Government had some time ago announced their intention to appoint persons who had passed an examination under the system established by the Board of Education, but who were not sufficiently qualified to be appointed masters of schools, to subordinate offices in the public departments, and he wished to know whether that expressed intention had been carried into effect?
 MR. BROTHERTON  had no motive or reason for moving the adjournment the other night but this, that he was determined that when the House met at noon, he would prevent discussions going on after midnight, if he could.
 MR. BROTHERTON  gave notice that,
 1304
 MR. HENLEY  said, that there were several classes of men subject to impressment, as, for instance, watermen and fishermen, who were not affected by the ticket system.
 MR. HENLEY  was much gratified at the explanation given by the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that he found that the sum to be voted for education in workhouses was to be reduced, as compared with last year, from 35,000 l. l. 1287 l. l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that it would not be candid to the hon. Gentleman, if he did not point out to him that such an alteration as he proposed would override the whole object of the clause, and prevent
 1261
 MR. HENLEY  said, that before the division was taken, he wished to put a few questions, although he hardly knew to whom, respecting the provisions of the Bill. Perhaps the hon. Member for St. Andrews (Mr. E. Ellice) would inform him whether some provisions of this Bill were fit to become law, or whether they had not inadvertently crept in by some accident or chance medley, and without that duo consideration which was so requisite. The 7th Clause conferred a general power to compel parties to give evidence and produce documents; but he would ask the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary of State if all the provisions of the clause were necessary? By the 8th Clause, as it originally stood, power was given to indemnify parties who wore engaged in any act of bribery connected with the St. Albans election; and it went on to give power to compel those parties to give evidence even if it tended to criminate themselves; but they were to be preserved from penal consequences for any acts which
 1260
 MR. HUME  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary whether any arrangements had been made, or were making, for carrying out the recommendation of the Royal Commission as to the future management of the British Museum by a small executive board?
 MR. HUME  said, that the management had not been satisfactory, but very far from it, and that complaints had arisen even against the Royal Commissioners. He felt himself called upon to protest against the way in which such institutions were managed, and particularly when the public money was regularly voted for their support.
 MR. HUME  said, he had been anxious to bring before the House the conduct of the Colonial Department respecting Demerara, having been a Member of a Committee upstairs which recommended several reforms, and having presented a petition two months ago from that colony, complaining that Government did not extend to them the principles of self-government. It was a notorious fact that the Colonial Department was at variance with every one of our colonies. He wished to know whether anything had been done with regard to Demerara?
 MR. HUME  considered that the registration system had entirely failed to accomplish the objects with which it was established, and it had undoubtedly occasioned great discontent among the merchant seamen.
 MR. HUME  said, he objected to the amount included in this vote for the registration of merchant seamen. The system was established on the recommendation of the right hon. Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham); but he believed the registration tickets had been applied to most mischievous purposes.
 MR. HUME  thought, that it was no answer to the complaint of the Irish Members that the Government voted larger sums for other matters connected with that country. With respect to the constabulary, about which so much had been said, it bad been stated by an hon. Member connected with the north of Ireland, that there was no necessity whatever for keeping up the constabulary in that part of the country; and, in doing so, they were therefore voting away money uselessly which might be applied to useful purposes. If they granted money for hospitals and schools in England and Scotland, they ought to do so also for Ireland.
 Mr. HUME  thought that as regarded
 1286 l.
 MR. HUME  would like to know what advantage the public had, as not one farthing of the money ever came into the Exchequer?
 MR. HUME  said, it could not be denied that great dissatisfaction still prevailed with reference to this Act. He had received a communication that very day from the sailors of Sunderland, who desired to be informed when an opportunity was likely to be afforded to them to come up to London and prove the inconveniences to which the Act had subjected them. They complained particularly of that part of the Act which prevented them from making their own contracts. The Government had not proposed a similar system of registration with regard to stokers and engineers engaged in steam navigation; and yet, if it was useful for the one class, it was equally useful for the other. The sin of having proposed the registration system was upon the head of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon, and he should like to hear what he had to say in its defence.
 MR. HUME  said, that it was well known that the same man frequently registered himself two or three times in different names, and therefore the registration afforded no means of ascertaining accurately the actual number of merchant seamen.
 MR. HUME  suggested that the Lord Privy Seal might undertake the functions of Minister of Justice, an officer who was very much wanted. The late Lord Lang-dale was strongly in favour of the appointment of a department of that nature.
 MR. HUME  did not think the Lord Chancellor ought to be called on to perform those duties. New courts were about to be created, and it would be most important that they should be properly superintended.
 MR. HUME  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government wished the Committee to infer that if this vote wore taken away, it would diminish the funds now applicable for useful purposes connected with the State. Now, he (Mr. Hume) considered that the property of the Church was public property, and ought to be made applicable for any purpose connected with the religious welfare of the people. But there was another important circumstance to which he wished to call the noble Lord's attention. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) was one of the Commissioners, and, under the Act of last Session, the right hon. Gentleman received 1,000 l. 1281 l. l.
 MR. HUME  said, the Act prescribed that, if an officer drawing a pension for past services should receive subsequent employment, his pension should then be merged in the salary paid for that subsequent employment. As a matter of law and equity, he put it to the Committee whether the public ought not to be protected against this double payment? It was no answer to say that the extra 1,000 l.
 MR. HUME  asked whether regulations had been made to prevent the recurrence of the fraud which had been formerly practised with respect to Exchcquer-bills?
 MR. HUME  wished to know what facilities of access were given to persons desirous of consulting the State papers?
 MR. HUME  said, the Scotch people were most anxious to get rid of their fishery boards.
 MR. HUME  moved to reduce the Vote by the sum of 1,574 l.
 MR. HUME  said, economy consisted in small sums, and, therefore, it was more important that he should divide.
 MR. HUME  hoped the Government would not alter their plan. Sir Edward Ryan could not have any peculiar knowledge of railways, from the circumstance, of his having been an Indian Judge for so long a period. He was sorry to hear such doleful lamentations at the proposed arrangement: it would appear as if Sir Edward Ryan had entirely managed the railways. All he did was to give legal advice, and probably the country would have the advantage of obtaining as good legal advice from the gentleman to whom it was now proposed to give an additional salary.
 MR. HUME  thought that these absurdities had existed too long, and ought to be done away with. He put it to the public spirit of hon. Gentlemen from Scotlaud to divide against this paltry Vote. The "Scottish Archers" had a very fine uniform, and ought to think the privilege of wearing it well worth its cost. He, however, did not wish to do away with the office of Historiographer. This might be usefully filled by distinguished persons. He hoped the Government would at once promise that these other items would not appear in the estimates next year, and so save the Committee the trouble of dividing.
 MR. HUME  thought it was a great pity that they should be quarrelling among one another. He hoped, however, they would look fairly at this Vote. The principle involved was a plain one. The Committee which settled the Civil List retained all that was required for the due maintenance of the dignity of the Crown. These Votes were not retained—simply because the
 1299
 MR. HUME  begged to ask whether it was any portion of the duty of this department to attend to what were called Parliamentary trains, the rate of travelling of which was very slow, and regarding which many complaints were made?
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether the Master of the Mint, Sir John Herschell, gave his attendance, as unless he did so, he did not think it a wise appointment; but if he did give his attendance, he should be happy to find that Government had been able to employ him.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to know on what ground the estimate for coining more gold was made? There was a great quantity of it in the Bank, and plenty in the country. He also wished to know when the new system was to be brought into operation?
 MR. NAPIER  thought that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Youghal misunderstood the law in Ireland with regard to growing crops. He did not apprehend that this Bill would alter the law with respect to distraining crops.
 MR. BAINES  said, that no one could be more sensible than he was of the great importance of directing the attention of the Poor Law Board steadily towards the improvement of the education given in workhouses. He believed that considerable improvements in that education had been made lately, and were still going on, and he looked forward with confident hope to still further improvements being made. Although the vote under this head would be reduced from 35,000 l. l. l. l. 1288
 MR. BAINES  said, that the powers of the Poor Law Commissioners with respect to district schools were very limited. The Poor Law Amendment Act of 1844 gave power to Boards of Guardians to combine several Parishes and Unions into school districts, and to erect schools in some convenient central place, apart from the workhouses, for the common purpose of better educating the pauper children; but the Act merely enabled them, and did not make it compulsory upon them, to do so. It was left to the discretion of Boards of Guardians to say whether they would avail themselves of the powers given them by the Act or not; but if they did avail themselves of those powers, the Poor Law Board had power to direct all further proceedings. He was happy to say that in many important places, and especially in the metropolis and neighbourhood, the Boards of Guardians had had what he would call the wisdom to see the importance of prevent-
 1289
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL : As I see the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton) is waiting for orders, I move that the House do now adjourn. If the noble Lord refers to the conduct pursued by the hon. Member, he will know the reason why I do so.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, that after the explanation of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary he would not press his Motion for the adjournment of the House.
 MR. MORE O'FERRALL  wished an explanation in reference to the Poor Law accounts. It appeared that 1,430,000 l. l. l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  hoped the hon. Member (Mr. Brotherton) would move adjournments impartially, and not merely when there were Motions to come on which might not be agreeable to the Government.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, Parliament had taken the management of the Irish fisheries out of the hands of the Irish people. [ Cries of Cries of
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  wished some explanation to be given respecting the item of 1,100 l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  objected to the Bill being extended to Ireland, as it took away from the Irish tenant the common-law right to protect his growing crops. It was argued that this injustice was to be committed in order to make the law uniform in England and in Ireland. The people of Ireland renounced the benefit which it was intended to confer on them,
 1306
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, as there was only one other Irish Member in the House with himself, he would not divide the House.
 MR. BOOKER  had heard with pain that a new arrangement was likely to deprive the public of the services of Sir Edward Ryan, than whom a more valuable public officer never existed. Considering the rapid development of the railway system, he did not think it would be for the public advantage that the Railway Department should be amalgamated with the already overburdened Board of Trade. The railway companies might be made to contribute a sum for the maintenance of the Railway Department, which would reduce the contribution from the public purse some trifling amount.
 MR. BOOKER  had no desire to cast imputations upon the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board, or the officers under him; but he begged to say that he had had the honour of presenting several petitions, very numerously signed, from the county which he represented (Herefordshire), complaining that the Boards of Guardians were too much controlled by the Poor Law Inspectors, and stating that, in the opinion of the petitioners, the Boards of Guardians were perfectly competent to conduct their own affairs, and that a considerable amount might well be saved by reducing the number of Inspectors. It appeared that the Inspectors were twelve in number, that their salaries amounted to 7,800 l. l. 1290
 MR. W. EVANS  was of opinion that horseracing led to immorality. He was sure the public of Scotland would willingly forego those plates.
 MR. EWART  wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board how far the recommendation of the inspectors of workhouses with reference to the education of children in schools, separate from the workhouse, had been carried into effect?
 MR. W. J. FOX  should oppose this vote, on the ground that it was a tax upon Dissenters for the benefit of the Church. Whether it was church rates, or a vote applied to purposes for extending the influence of the Church, the principle was the same—it was that of taxing the people at large for the benefit of a particular class; and, therefore, Dissenters were justified in remonstrating against it.
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  said, he rose to second the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend (Captain Archdall) for the adjournment of the House. On Tuesday night last, the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton) moved the adjournment of the House when there was a Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend's on the Paper (for correspondence between the Irish Government and Orange lodges), which was of great importance, and which he had had no earlier opportunity of making. His hon. and gallant Friend wished to defend himself from some imputations referred to himself personally, and he wished to defend himself also from the charges of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, who was interested in the question.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  wished for an explanation of the item, "two gentlemen at
 1300 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the noble Lord had borne out his assertion. He (Mr. W. Williams) said he was not aware that in any of the miscellaneous estimates, any Queen's plates were given in England. It now appeared that these plates were paid out of the Civil List, and those for Ireland and Scotland ought to come from the same source.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : If I have said one sentence inconsistent with the rules of this House, I will of course withdraw it at once. But for the hon. Baronet to say, as he did, that I am incapable of uttering twenty sentences. I listened attentively, and I am sure he used that expression to me. There are very few men I have a higher respect for than the hon. Baronet, and he is the last person I would utter one single word against to hurt his feelings.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that his intention was to disallow such Votes equally in England.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : I shall not condescend to notice the impertinent language of the hon. Baronet. ["Oh, oh!"  and
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to the items of this Vote. What did Her
 1296 l. s.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the Queen enjoyed a civil list of 385,000 l. l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the plates for England had long since been withdrawn from the Estimates, and that no distinction ought to be made in favour of Scotland. It was not the amount of the grant to which he objected, but the principle.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  wanted to know why the Dissenters of this country should he taxed to support such a Commission? How was it that the public paid the clerks to the Commission, whilst the Commissioners were, at least partially, paid out of the Church funds?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought it most unjust that the people of this country should be taxed to pay officers for managing the affairs of the bishops, deans, and chapters, and other departments of the Church. Church property ought to be made to pay the salaries of those officers who managed it, and not to make them a charge upon the public funds. The revenues of the Church, which amounted to about 6,000,000 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS,  wished all our other functionaries were as efficient as Earl Granville; but he must insist that the Government were treating the Committee very ill in making reductions to the ox-tout of only 3,000 l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  wished to know what duties the Lord Privy Seal had to perform?
 MR. GROGAN  said, he must complain of the curt manner in which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer treated a subject so intimately connected with the welfare of Ireland.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he must appeal to the Committee. Time was valuable, and he hoped the hon. Member would not press his Amendment to a division.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  begged to assure the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Archdall) he was not aware he intended to make the Motion which had stood in his name for many weeks on Tuesday last, nor had the hon. and gallant Member stated he wished to do so. He (Sir G. Grey) had not the least objection to the Motion being made at any time as an unopposed
 1305
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the report of Sir John M'Neill should be laid on the table as soon as possible.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, this Vote was only a small portion of the expenses of the Commissioners, and it had always been paid ever since their appointment. It was less in amount this year than it had hitherto been, owing to a reduction in the establishment. This Vote came annually before Parliament, and gave the Committee an opportunity of obtaining information as to the proceedings of the Commissioners.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that no measures had been taken to carry out the recommendations of the Royal Commission as to the management of the Museum in future by a small executive board. He could, however, assure his hon. Friend that the strongest desire existed to place the management on the most satisfactory footing, and with that view certain alterations had been made. The Museum was managed by trustees, and two vacancies which had lately occurred had been filled up by the appointment of two of the Royal Commissioners.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Bill was not a Government Bill; but at the same time, he did not think it could be considered as a Bill emanating from a private Member of the House. It had been introduced on the recommendation—the unanimous recommendation, he believed—of the Select Committee. It might, therefore, be considered as a Bill specially belonging to the House, the object of which was to promote purity of election; and, although it was not a Government Bill, the Government felt that they ought to facilitate, as far as possible, the progress of the Bill, and not allow it by any means to be postponed to so late a period as that it could not fairly be considered by the other House of Parliament. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr. Frewen), he thought that he was the last man in that House who ought to have complained. The hon. Member was aware that Wednesday was an open day for independent Members, and that his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) had stated that no Government business would be allowed to interfere with other business on that day. If the hon. Member, therefore, had placed his Bill on the paper yesterday (Wednesday), it might have easily been brought on before three o'clock; because it was not until all the Bills of other Members had been gone through, that the Government brought on the Medical Charities Bill. He hoped they would now proceed to the consideration of the Bill before the House.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  considered that the most effectual means of inducing seamen to enter the Navy would be to increase the pay and promote the comforts of those employed in the service.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that it was with much reluctance that he rose to answer the appeal which had been made to him, for seventeen long years had elapsed since he first recommended the measure for the registration of seamen; and he regretted to say that his avocations since that time had withdrawn his attention from the subject, and he was not very well aware how the measure had really worked. The hon. and gallant Officer below him (Captain Harris) was quite correct in saying that he did not introduce this measure as one complete in itself, but as one that might be subsidiary to ulterior arrangements. He did not mean to say that, in case of a great naval war breaking out, impressment, as a last resort, could be dispensed with; but then it should be borne in mind that it could only be adopted as a last resource, and he thought that a system of registration would be available in promoting a system of compulsory service in a time of war for a limited period. Having ceased to hold any connection with the Admiralty, he had not matured any plan on the subject himself, hut he was still disposed to think that his right hon. Friend at the
 1275
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : Sir, I appeal to you to say whether anything I have said now or at any other time in this House can justify any hon. Member in applying to me the language of the hon. Member for Lambeth. [Mr. W. Williams here rose.] If the hon. Member rises to apologise, I will sit down immediately. [The hon. Member for Lambeth here sat down.] But, if he does not, I must be permitted to tell him that he is not the man who is entitled to tell me that I have used impertinent language.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : The hon. Member for Lambeth would pardon him for saying that he (Mr. W. Williams) did not say that if there were Queen's plates given in England he would oppose them; he said that no money was given for such purposes. The Crown had, in his opinion, made a bad bargain when it exchanged its hereditary revenues for the civil list
 1298 l. l.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  thanked the hon. Member for the kind manner in which he had referred to him, and would not prolong this discussion.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  would remind the Committee that the vote directly encouraged the breed of horses in Ireland, one of the most lucrative things that country possessed.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, he could not give any information except what was on the paper; but if any particular items were moved for, he would endeavour to furnish them.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, the Return was made out according to the Act; and any further information, as he had already said, might be obtained on being moved for.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, he was ready to defend the Irish Poor Law Commission when the proper time for doing so arrived, and he had no doubt he should be able to vindicate them in the 'estimation of the House, if not of the hon. Member for the city of Dublin (Mr. Reynolds). As to the returns which had been referred to by the hon. Member, no unnecessary delay had taken place in laying them on the table. There had been a great pressure upon the clerks; and besides, in consequence of discrepancies in the returns from the unions, they had to be sent back for correction. The papers had that day been laid on the table, and if the hon. Member thought they could have been prepared in forty-eight hours, he would only ask him to look at their great bulk.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, it was owing to the number of extra clerks who had been employed during the pressure of distress, and whose services they did not think it desirable to dispense with as yet.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, if the hon. Member would point out any Union regarding which he wished for a return of the nature alluded to, he should do his best to obtain it.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  was not able to state of what these particular expenses consisted; but if the hon. Member wished for information on any points, and moved for it, he would take care that it should be furnished.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought the House ought not to adopt this clause. If, under the Act of 1829, such letters of ordination had been received, there was nothing to prevent their being received under this Act. But he thought the House ought not to adopt a clause which might give a sanction to the supposition that any act done under titles which might be assumed in contravention of the provisions of this Bill, could be, under any circumstances, received in evidence in Courts of Law. This clause was liable to that construction, and he should therefore ask the House to negative it.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, surely the Government were not going to leave the speech of the right hon. Gentleman
 1326
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that nothing could he further from his wish than in any way to interfere with the Act to which the clause referred; but it did not appear to him that the present Bill would do so, and he should wait with great curiosity to hear in what manner the hon. Gentleman thought it would. But it might he said that, as it was at all events merely surplusage, there could be no valid objection to the introduction of the clause. But the hon. Member would recollect, or at least the House would remember, that a vast deal of argument had been based upon this very Act of Parliament, which it had been said had rendered legal the appointment of these archbishops and bishops, against whom the Bill was directed. He objected, therefore, to the confirming by a Public Act what was at present only a clause in a Private Act.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  understood the Amendments of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon to be of a threefold nature. He proposed to in-
 1347 1348 1349
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it now remained to the House to deal with the enacting parts of the Bill, and they would do well to consider a little the course on which they had entered. He was not opposed to these Amendments because they effected any great alteration in the Bill, but rather for a contrary reason, for it might be doubted whether by the adoption of them they were not leading the public to suppose, that in these alterations the towers of our Church and the bulwarks of our Protestant Zion were to be found. ["Oh, oh!"] Those were the words of the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon. That hon. and learned Gentleman said, he would confine his Amendments to make the Bill complete and effective, and concluded a speech of great ability and eloquence, by stating that he thought they had arrived at a period of the history of the Church, when every step they took was of the utmost importance; that they were approaching to a crisis in their history when it behoved the Church to mark well for towers, and set up her bulwarks; and his hon. and learned Friend added, that he proposed to strengthen the Church
 1352 1353 1354 l. l. 1355
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  wished to know whether the noble Lord intended to ask the House to divide on this Amendment? He did not care much for the
 1358
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  regretted he was not present when the hon. and learned Member for Newark brought forward the subject. The Motion, he thought, pointed to two distinct matters: one, that the Commission on which he had the honour to serve should be augmented by two Members not belonging to the profession; and the other, that the Commission should be directed to attend to the proceedings in the Masters' Offices, with a view to make an immediate report on the subject. He should shortly state why he conceived the Motion would frustrate, instead of promote, the object which his hon. and learned Friend had doubtless in view, viz., to endeavour as speedily and as effectively as possible to reform the Court of Chancery. A Commission, as the House was aware, had been appointed to inquire into various measures which might load to that reform. Upon that Commission there were now serving seven Commissioners who were all members of the Bar at the time of their appointment, but two of whom had since been promoted to the Bench, viz., the Master of the Rolls and Vice-Chancellor Turner. Now he was quite certain his hon. and learned Friend would not think that the Commission had in say way suffered by the promotion of those learned gentlemen to the offices they so ably filled, seeing that the Commission still retained their valuable services with the additional weight of their judicial capacity. With reference to the proposal to add two Commissioners to the present number, he begged to say, that all experience in matters of this description, whether as respected
 1360
 MR. ELLICE  said, that there had been various inquiries into the abuses of the Court of Chancery; but hitherto, at all events, the unlearned public had derived no advantage from them. He remembered perfectly well that when two Vice-Chancellors were appointed some years ago, it was said that those appointments would produce an efficient remedy to the grievances complained of; but to this it was answered that the appointment of two Vice-Chancellors could in no respect diminish the evils arising from the mass of business in the Master's office; and from that time to the present not one step had been taken to remedy that grievance.
 1361 1362
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, he had not been unwilling to do what he could towards carrying out such reforms as might be useful in the administration of justice in all its various departments. He admitted that the grievances and com-
 1363 1364 1365 1366 1367
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that system had been changed.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  had no doubt the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Keogh) had no intention, in moving his clause, to do more than to prevent prosecutions by indictment from being taken; but the effect of his clause might be to prevent parties from bringing suits relating to private interests.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  would state, in a few words, the course he had taken, and the course he was disposed to take, in reference to this Amendment. It had been his intention to oppose all the clauses proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Keogh), with the exception of that clause which he had already supported, namely, one to prevent the Charitable Bequests Act being affected by any of the provisions of that Bill. Some of his friends around him thought that, as the clause at present under consideration would not do more than what the Government had already declared to be their intention, namely, that all prosecutions under the second clause should be taken by the Attorney General, the clause might be agreed to; but, as he said, it was not his intention to admit it, although he was at first disposed to lean to that view of the case, because he thought it was better not to agree to any clause the effects of which might give rise to inconveniences which had not been anticipated. With respect to the substance of the clause, the hon. and learned Gentleman could not deny that the penalty of 100 l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The hon. and learned Gentleman has spoken with great ability, no doubt, in defence of the proposition he has brought forward; and he has told the House, after many vituperative and disparaging epithets, applied to the present Bill, that if his Amendments are accepted, they will make the Bill complete, comprehensive, and efficient; and the hon. and learned Gentleman, in terms of a similar kind, has ventured to promise that, while if the present Bill be adopted, we shall have no defence or guard, yet that, if his Amendments were adopted, you will have a complete and efficient defence against the aggression that has been made. Now, Sir, I really am surprised, considering those Amendments, and after all the hon. and learned Gentleman has said of them, that he should attribute such a mighty effect to the alterations he proposes, which go very much to points which are already in the Bill, and propose certain changes that I cannot think are either very valuable or effective for the object in
 1339 1340 1341 1342 1343 1344 1345 1346
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  would answer the questions put in his two characters, as one of the Commissioners of the Exhibition, and as one of Her Majesty's Ministers. Speaking in the first character, he observed that the House would recollect that great anxiety was expressed last year lest the temporary building intended for the Exhibition in Hyde Park would be converted into a permanent structure, thereby causing a great portion of Hyde Park, usually left open to the recreation of the public, to be devoted to the purpose of a building. In the progress of the proceedings, the Commissioners of the Exhibition made a formal agreement with the Commissioners of the Woods and Forests, by which the former agreed that the Exhibition should not be kept open longer than the 1st of November, and that within six months after that period the building should be entirely taken down and removed, and the ground restored to its former state. That was the agreement which the Commissioners made, and he conceived that they had no power to act otherwise than in accordance with that agreement, and that they had no intention to ask to be permitted to depart from the terms stipulated. Now, with respect to the question as it concerned the Government, his answer must be a very short one for the present; and it was, that this subject had not hitherto been a matter of deliberation with the Government at all. He must say, for his own part, that he had not received materials at present on which, in his opinion, the Government could form
 1315
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that there was no intention of affecting the provisions of the Bequests Act by the present measure, and he would be quite willing to adopt the clause, provided it were restricted to the words down to the word "Ireland."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he would not take a division now on this and the other Amendment; but on the third reading of the Bill he should take a division on them.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  replied, that he had no objection to the Bill being reprinted in its altered form, and that he proposed taking the third reading on Friday next, if that would suit his right hon. Friend.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that it would be useless to divide on the second Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman on the Preamble, as it was merely a formal sequence to the first, and the result would, of course, be the same.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  was ready to admit that there were many reforms that might be made in the Court of Chancery. At the same time, it was no great encouragement to make reforms when they found that the complaints remained exactly the same after the reforms had been carried out as they were before they were devised. The complaint as to length of time in respect of Chancery suits had been in a great degree remedied by the appointment of other Judges in the Court of Chancery; and on more than one occasion in the last six years, when he had asked what was the state of business in the Court of Chancery, he was told the causes sot down at the beginning of term were heard before the end of the term. His late noble Friend (Lord Cottenham) declared in the House of Lords, that it had more than once occurred that there was no appeal to be heard. That was a great change from the time they might recollect, when old and valued friends of his complained with great truth of the want of decisions, and of the great arrears of business. There is now, I believe, owing to accidental causes, a heavy arrear of appeals in the Court of Chancery; but I believe, even in this respect, the Court is in a much better position than it was in fifteen or twenty years ago. Another great complaint was the hour-warrants, and the right hon. Baronet the ber for Ripon said, it was too much that that system should go on, and that to that day nothing had been done. Now, if the right hon. Gentleman had inquired, he might have found that two eminent Judges, whose recent loss they must so much regret—Lord Cottenham and Lord Langdale—met frequently on this subject; that it employed much of their thought, and that, more than a year ago, orders were issued with their authority with respect to hour-warrants, making a great change, and he believed the hour-warrants were now set aside by another system, there being now a list of the causes to be gone through by the Masters. Some hon. Gentleman said, "Why not put an end to
 1376 1377 1378 l.
 MR. STAFFORD  rose to ask the First Lord of the Treasury whether the Commissioners of the Exhibition considered themselves bound to remove the edifice existing in Hyde Park; and, if so, whether Her Majesty's Ministers were prepared to take any steps to maintain it in its present position? And, in order that he might have the opportunity of making a few observations, he moved that the House at its rising adjourn to Monday next. He did not bring the subject forward in any spirit of hostility to the Government, or with any wish to imply that they ought previously to this to have taken the matter into consideration. It would have been premature to bring forward the question earlier, for the public were not supposed to have before sufficient grounds on which to form an opinion relative to it. The House would recollect that when the arrangement was made with the Commissioners for the removal of the then proposed building in Hyde Park, there was no idea entertained of the materials of which it would ultimately be composed—indeed, it was understood that the edifice would be constructed of the usual building materials. There were, however, many reasons why the present structure should be retained, and the question now rested on a different ground from what it did when the arrangement for the removal of the building was made with the Commissioners. The first question which he put to the noble Lord at the head of the Government was a matter of mere form, for the House was aware that, according to the present arrangement, no choice was left with the Commissioners, if the House did not interfere, but to destroy the structure; but, whether maintained in its present state, or removed, he felt convinced that the edifice was of a national and important character, and that it would not be satisfactory to the public at large if this question were not brought forward before an advanced period of the Session, when many Members would have left town, and when the few who remained might be called on to pronounce a decision which might not be received with, satisfaction by
 1314
 MR. FREWEN  said, that he had stated in a private note to the right hon. Baronet the reasons which had induced him to bring the Bill forward. He had pointed out to the Government the evils of the existing law, and had asked them to bring forward a measure themselves, which they had refused to do. He would not say what he thought of their conduct, but he gave notice that he would for the remainder of the Session divide the House against every Bill brought forward by the Government after twelve o'clock at night.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  then moved an Amendment—
 "In Clause 1, line 21, to leave out the words 'the said Brief, Rescript,' for the purpose of inserting the words 'all such Briefs, Rescripts.'"
 Sir FREDERIC THESIGER  then proposed, in Clause 2, page 2, line 25, after the word "Act," to insert these words:—
 "Any person shall obtain or cause to be procured from the Bishop or See of Rome, or shall publish or put in use within any part of the United Kingdom, any such Bull, Brief, Rescript, or Letters Apostolical, or any other instrument or writing, for the purpose of constituting such Archbishops or Bishops of such pretended Provinces, Sees, or Dioceses within the United Kingdom, or if." "Or by action of debt at the suit of any person in one of Her Majesty's superior courts of law, with the consent of Her Majesty's Attorney General in England and Ireland, or Her Majesty's Advocate in Scotland, as the case may be."
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER,  in bringing forward the Amendment of which he had given notice, begged the attention of those hon. Members who regarded this Bill, not as an Act of vengeance for the past, but as a security for what might come, and who believed that the measure as it had come from the hands of the Government was not adequate to the occasion. He had been charged with inconsistency in the course he was now taking, as contrasted with his course in having been a party to the Act of 1846, for the relief of the Roman Catholics from penalties to which they had been made liable by ancient and obsolete statutes. He certainly had been a party to the Act of 1844, as well as to the prior Act of 1846; and if anything could have made him doubt the policy of those measures, it would have been the events which had since taken place, and which had awakened so much anxiety in the country. Could any one have supposed, when they were pursuing a course of kindness and conciliation, in relaxing the penal laws which had so long disfigured the Statute-book, that advantage would have been taken of the concessions then made to strike a blow at our national in-
 1329 "Let us suppose, though it is almost extravagant to suppose it, that any attempt were made by the Pope to assert sovereign authority in these realms, or interfere with the Queen's Authority, my belief is, that no such Bull would be observed by any Roman Catholic, but that it would be a dead letter."—[3  Hansard, 1330 1331 1332 Tablet, 1333 1334 1335 1336 "Have been unrolled penalties, Hung up, like unscourcd armour, on the walls, Which now for nineteen zodiacs long have slept, And never worn in use." 1337 1338 "If after all our protests and brave words we permit power real and substantial to be conferred upon the Pope—if we evade the real contest by a mock battle about titles, and legislate against shadows while we turn aside from the substance—then, indeed, the honour of England is trampled in the dust, and in the victory of the insolence of Papal pretension, over the dignity of our ancient and time-honoured monarchy, and the enthusiasm of our noble-hearted people, the heaviest blow that the last three centuries have witnessed will be struck at the cause of human liberty and human progress."
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, the Attorney General was quite right. In spite of the clause referred to, the Cemeteries Act was a Private Act. The recital of the titles referred to in an Act of Parliament did not create a new law, nor make Dr. Murray a legal Archbishop of Dublin. It was in fact a mere mistake, and they ought to give it their deliberate sanction, by repeating it in a Public Act. It being perfectly clear that this was so, the Attorney General was right in opposing the Clause.
 MR. GRATTAN  asked, was the noble Lord aware of the spirit now raging in Ireland—that within the last two months Catholic altars had been violated, and that parties had rushed in and attacked the priests while in the discharge of their duties? Some years ago, in the north of Ireland, a Catholic priest was indicted, and there was a verdict against him, and he was sentenced by Protestant magistrates to be publicly flogged in the streets. The Attorney General for Ireland (Lord Plunkett) stopped the execution of the sentence; but if he had not, what would have been the consequence? What would they say if they saw the Bishop of Exeter flogged in the streets of London? Hon. Gentlemen laughed; but what was good for an Irishman was good for an Englishman; and if an Irish priest was flogged in Dublin, he did not see why a Protestant bishop should not be flogged in London. He warned them that if they went on as they were going on now, Ireland would not be worth possessing, because there was still some spirit and courage amongst her people, and they would not submit to insults which he was sure Englishmen would not submit to.
 MR. J. EVANS  could hardly believe that the observations he had just heard emanating from the Master of the Rolls were uttered by the same person who, as Attorney General, had so admirably conducted the reform of the Court of Chancery in Ireland. As to the hon. and learned Member for Aylesbury, he obviously considered the Court of Chancery to be quite a specimen of perfectibility all but attained; he had warned the House against
 1372
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, it appeared to him that the reasons assigned by the noble Lord against this clause were of no weight. He said the Attorney and Solicitor General were of opinion that no prosecutions
 1324 l. l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  begged to express his surprise at hearing the Attorney General calling this a Local or Private Act, whereas its last clause expressly declared that it was a Public Act. The 27th and 28th sections gave to his Grace, Daniel Murray, archbishop, and to his successors exercising the same spiritual jurisdiction as he now exercises in the diocese of Dublin, the right to appoint a clergyman, and to remove him for any cause that might
 1328
 MR. REYNOLDS  moved the following Clause:—
 "Be it Enacted, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to repeal or affect an Act passed in the tenth year of the reign of Her present Majesty, intituled, 'An Act for the maintenance of the Cemeteries at Golden Bridge and Prospect, in the county of Dublin, and to create a perpetual succession in the governing body or Committee for managing the same.'"
 MR. REYNOLDS  seconded the clause.
 MR. REYNOLDS  seconded the clause.
 MR. JOHN STUART  was very glad the noble Lord had acceded to his Motion, and he was happy that, by pressing the matter upon his attention, he had in some way contributed to convince him of the propriety of his object.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the speeches of the three hon. Gentlemen who were Members of the Commission under consideration rendered it perfectly clear that from them the country was to expect no practical reform of the Court of Chancery and its abominations. The speech of the Master of the Rolls—a most unexpected one, certainly, from him—was little more than an apology for the present system of that Court; while as to the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Aylesbury, it was little short of a proposition that the Court of Chancery was a perfect thing; at any rate, he had not indicated in the slightest degree any opinion which could lead the House to suppose that he saw any evils or difficulties in the system of the Master's Offices, against which so much complaint was made; and though the Master of the Rolls had admitted that there was no chance of a disputed partership account ever coming out of the Master's Office, not a word indicated that the system of taking accounts in the Master's Office—a system which, in the eyes of all who knew anything about it, as victims or as observers, was an utter monstrosity, required, in the hon. and learned Gentleman's opinion, the smallest modification. Inquiry! Why, the flagrancy of the whole iniquity was as clear to the public as the sun at noonday. There had been plenty of inquiry. What the public wanted now, and what the public would have, was action—no tinkering up of the rotten system, but a thorough clearance of the rottenness. As to the accounts, little more was needed than that the practice respecting them should be assimilated to that of the Court of Bankruptcy. He called upon the Government to give their most serious and most unflinching consideration to this vital subject.
 MR. NAPIER  expressed his concurrence in the clause down as far as the word "Ireland." And
 MR. NAPIER  remarked that the noble Lord had alluded to the Attorney General in Ireland at a former period. Chief Justice Blackburne, as Attorney General, was not afraid to attack Mr. O'Connell, the leading Roman Catholic in Ireland; and the Master of the Rolls, as Attorney General, had also prosecuted Mr. O'Connell. With such Attorneys General there had been no violation of the law. Before the accession of the noble Lord to office, the law had not been violated. In the month of October, 1847, there was an address presented to Lord Clarendon from the Roman Catholic Prelates, and that address was signed "John, Archbishop of Tuam, Chairman," and "J. Derry, Bishop of Clonfert," as Secretary. The able reply of Lord Clarendon to that address began "My Lords;" and there the law was clearly violated. Previous to that time there had been no violation of the law. What was wanted was a reasonable, a constitutional, and, above all, an honest vindication of the law. The object of the Amendment proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Abingdon was to vindicate the authority of the law in every part of the Queen's dominions where that law was violated. If the law was the same in Ireland as in England, then let them take care, reasonably and firmly, that its supremacy was asserted in both countries. That being the aim of his hon. and learned Friend, he should support his Amendment.
 MR. SPOONER  seconded the clause.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  thought, after the speech they had just heard from the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had addressed the House, there could be no more cogent reasons advanced for the proceeding recommended by his hon. and learned Friend near him. As to the delays of the Court of Chancery, there could be no doubt on the mind of any one. He had been dragged into that Court against his will on one occasion, and had been kept there six years without any result. After every effort to obtain a hearing at the end of that period, he had obtained one which lasted ten minutes, and he had been told by the Master of the Rolls that the parties had no business to take him into that
 1368
 MR. KEOGH  proposed a new Clause, saving the powers of the 7 and 8 Victoria, c. 97. It was to the following effect:—
 "Be it Enacted, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to annul, repeal, or ïn any manner affect any provision contained in an Act passed in the eighth year of the reign of Her present Majesty, intituled 'An Act for the more effectual Application of Charitable Donations and Bequests in Ireland,' or to render illegal or void any Disposition of Property by will or otherwise already made, which but for the passing of this Act would have been legal and valid."
 MR. KEOGH  then moved a Clause, saving the right of giving letters of ordination in evidence:—
 "Be it Enacted, That nothing herein contained shall in any manner prevent the reception in evidence, in any Court of Law or Equity in this Kingdom, of any Letter of Ordination or other document conferring ecclesiastical powers upon any Clergyman of the Roman Catholic Church, which, but for the passing of this Act, would have been so received."
 MR. KEOGH  then moved the following additional Clause:—
 "Be it Enacted, That no proceedings shall be taken under this Act save and except by Her Majesty's Attorney General for the time being in England and Ireland, and by the Lord Advocate in Scotland."
 MR. KEOGH  begged to alter his clause to avoid the difficulty pointed out by the right hon. Recorder.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that a similar clause had formerly been proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Midhurst; only there was this important difference between the two, that the clause of the hon. and learned Member, if adopt-
 1318 de novo.
 SIR G. GREY  observed that no reasons had been assigned for making what appeared to him to be a very unjust and partial alteration in the law, and he should therefore oppose the Motion, and move as an Amendment that the Bill he read a second time that day six months.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  would tell the House frankly that he was weary of inquiry; he thought they had inquired too much, and done too little. For two Sessions he had devoted a large portion of his time, with his hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) to an inquiry before a Committee of the House, composed of some of the most distinguished lawyers. There were upon that Committee the right hon. the Master of the Rolls, Sir G. Turner, the hon. Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole), and the Solicitor General, and he believed that in their report they were unanimous. They exhausted inquiry upon a very important subject, namely, the payment by fees of the greater part of the officers attached to the Court of Chancery. Incidentally also they inquired into the duties were performed. They presented two reports
 1373 l. l. 1374
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Changed, indeed! The form has been partially altered; but the evil itself remains unredressed. He could not say he was satisfied with the attendance of the Masters. They did not go to their offices so early as the Judges, and they left them much sooner. Then ail their business was not in the nature of a judicial proceeding; and he conceived that a great part of it might be done as satisfactorily by persons of much lower standing, and receiving much inferior pay. He was sure that if the Government set about reforming these things in earnest, they would, in a short time, to the gratification of the feelings of both Houses of Parliament, and to the immense satisfaction of the public, obtain a great, extensive, and most satisfactory amendment of this administration of justice. It had been asked, why the Bill recommended by the Committee had not been introduced. He believed the reason to he this: they had as Chairman of that Committee a most amiable and intelligent gentleman, who was now an Under Secretary of State; but, unfortunately, his health broke down during the recess. His health was now happily restored, and if he would now in-
 1375
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  would not object to Friday next, but he thought that sufficient time should be given to allow the Bill to be sent to Ireland in its altered form, that the people of that country might have an opportunity of seeing it.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that as he understood the noble Lord, the Government did not intend to offer any further opposition at present to the Amendments which had boon moved by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Abingdon. They now came to the conclusion of those Amendments, and the Bill had assumed the altered shape which those Amendments gave it. Under these circumstances, which were somewhat peculiar, he wished to call the attention of the House to the fact that the Bill now consisted of a preamble of more than usual length, and only there clauses. The preamble had, as the House was aware, been materially altered, and the two principal clauses had also been altered in a manner against which the Government had strongly protested, declaring that the changes had, in their opinion, materially deteriorated the quality of the measure. [ Cries of
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, it was not his intention to inflict upon the House any legal argument, because, on a former occasion, he had availed himself of the op-
 1325
 MR. BETHELL  said, he must express his regret that so much time had been lost in this discussion, inasmuch as there stood in the Orders of the Day for discussion, a Bill which, he believed, would go far to remedy many of the evils which were now complained of. He sincerely concurred in that part of the appeal of the hon. Member for Coventry, in trusting that the noble Lord at the head of the Government would not allow the Session to pass without carrying into effect some of the recommendations of the Crown with respect to the reform of the Court of Chancery. The name of the noble Lord had been associated with many great reforms in the institutions of the country; and he hoped that it would have the additional honour of being connected with the reform of our judicial system. The House must not, however, give way to idle clamour or to unfounded complaints. They must not forget that the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery had arisen from the narrow and repudiating principles of the courts of common law—courts which had refused to meet the difficulties arising from an extended system of jurisprudence, and which refused to extend their rules so as to meet the enlarged relations and growing requirements of society. The jurisdiction by way of interdict now exercised by the Court of Chancery—namely, by injunction, had always been repudiated by the Courts of Common Law. All these important jurisdictions the Courts of Law had thrown upon the Courts of Chancery; yet while this was the case, the Court of Chancery had been stinted and starved, and four or five Judges were required to perform duties which it would require thirty more properly to perform. On one side of Westminster Hall there were these four or five Judges administering an enormous amount of property; and on the other side of Westminster Hall there were fifteen Judges, whose duties were, in comparison, light. He would therefore ask, was not Parliament responsible for a great portion of these evils, and for a continuance of those evils of which so much complaint had been
 1369 1370 1371
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  contended that the insertion of the title of archbishop in a Private Bill was not a recognition of it by the Legislature.
 MR. W. MILES  moved the following Clause, of which he had given notice:—
 "And be it enacted, That if a penalty shall be recovered by judgment or verdict against any person for a second offence under this Act, it shall be lawful for Her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Home Department, if in the circumstances of the case the same shall appear fit, by notice in writing signed by him, to require such person to depart out of the realm within a time to be limited in such notice; and if such person shall afterwards be found therein, it shall be lawful for Her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Home Department by warrant under his hand, to give such person in charge of one of Her Majesty's Messengers, or of such other person or persons to whom he shall think fit to direct such warrant, in order to his being conducted out of the kingdom."
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that, having been the author of the unfortunate Treasury Minute which had been so much objected to, he was anxious not to appear as one seeking to avoid his actual share of responsibility. The House had been given to understand, by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey), that they had only to repeal that Treasury Minute, and then there would he no difficulty in preventing the present adulteration of coffee. He was sorry to say that ten years' experience respecting the case of tobacco, convinced him that the truth was entirely the reverse of that assertion. From 1832 downwards, the statements were, that the adulteration of coffee and tobacco had gone on to a great extent, and that the use of chicory had very much increased. This Treasury Minute was issued on the representations of the most respectable part of the trade, that the existing legislation was a punishment upon the honest dealer, and a protection to the dishonest dealer; and that whilst they themselves did not mix any chicory with their coffee, their neighbours did, and took away their trade from them thereby. The respectable part of the trade, whom he consulted, also declared, that the law was so inefficient, that if the whole of its pow-
 1400
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : Mr. Bernal, I beg to remind the Committee that the agreement with our colonists in 1846 was, that the changes then made should be a final one; but that that principle has been departed from, I infer from the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for he now says that he cannot deny that there is a difference in the freight of Canadian and Baltic timber. I say there has been a departure from the principle laid down in 1846. I believe that in Canada they are debating whether they ought not to impose a high duty on American produce, in consequence of the Americans not having reduced their tariff. I cannot allow this Bill to proceed without entering my protest against the injustice which I think we are inflicting on our colonists.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, the words were introduced into the Act of last year on the best legal advice he could get in that House, and, acting on the same advice, he had introduced them into this Bill.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if the words were omitted, the provisions of the Public Health Act might be overturned.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he must oppose the proposition. He was quite ready to admit that Hastings was one of the dirtiest towns in England; but the point was, that St. Leonard's, being a clean town, could not be justly laden with the expense of cleansing Hastings.
 MR. PIGOTT  said, the people of Hastings were not unanimously desirous of being included within the operations of the Health of Towns Bill.
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  said,
 1403 l.
 MR. FULLER  moved that Hastings be inserted in the Schedule.
 MR. DISRAELI * said: The hon. Gentleman the Member for Bridport (Mr. Mitchell) has very unexpectedly made a very unfair attack upon me. The hon. Gentleman seems to suppose that it is not open to us to impugn the authority of a mere Vote of this House; that if once its opinion is expressed in that manner—[Mr. MITCHELL: Without opposition.]—Without opposition—I am not aware that the qualification of the hon. Member makes any difference in the question he raises; or in the constitutional principle at stake. Does the hon. Gentleman mean to maintain that a vote of this House is equivalent to an Act of Parliament? It has always been assumed that when a Ministry proposed to this House to sanction by a mere Vote an alteration in the tariff, it did so under circumstances so well matured and considered, that the country might usually assume that the Vote thus called for would afterwards be ratified in the form of a Bill. No doubt could in general be entertained that such an anticipation would be justified. Still it never has been held for an instant that a Vote of this House on a Customs question was equal to a solemn decision by an Act of the Legislature. What, then, has happened this Session? What the circumstances that have occurred? We have assented to certain alterations in the tariff under quite different circumstances from those under which the Bill to sanction those alterations is now brought before the House. The circumstances of the revenue have greatly changed between the one period and the other. The condition of the revenue to a certain degree is now precarious, and the surplus which was announced by the Minister at the commencement of the Session, and which he distributed in the mode which seemed best to him—one of these being the remission of the Timber Duties referred to by the hon. Gentleman—has become essentially provisional. In this state of affairs, then, I thought I was not taking an unusual course, but, on the contrary, one in accordance with the custom of this House, before we were prorogued, and sent back to our constituents, if I endeavoured that we should clearly understand our financial position. That has always been considered a subject on which it was most important that we should possess the most clear conceptions, and one peculiarly the care of
 1417 1418 l. 1419 1420 1421 1422 1423 1424 1425 1426 1427 1428 1429 primâ facie 1430 1431 1432 1433 1434 l. l. l, 1435 l. l. l. 1436 l. 1437 l.; l., 1438 1439 1440
 MR. FREWEN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the subject brought forward by the hon. Member for
 1446
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: Not long ago the hon. Member who has just sat down paid a compliment to my noble Friend (Lord John Russell) and myself, which we did not at all feel ourselves entitled to, when he said he admired our speeches; but added that we depended on them, and not upon our measures. I really think I am justified in retorting that observation on the hon. Member himself in the present instance. I assure the hon. Gentleman that I feel the very highest admiration for the orations which he (Mr. Disraeli) is in the habit of addressing to this House; but, unfortunately, this is the third time this Session that the hon. Gentleman has spoken on this subject of taxation and finance, and that, at the conclusion of an able speech, he has left us as before in the most complete ignorance of
 1441 1442 l. l., 1443 1444 l. 1445 l., l. l.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the subject had only been mentioned to him a few days ago, and he had not had time to consider it; but his present impression was in favour of the retention of the duty, which was only a low one, and did not practically interfere with the use of the article. He would, however, consider the question before the bringing up of the Report.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that since the Resolution had been adopted in Committee, the scale of duties had been altered so as to suit more fully the convenience of the timber dealers, but the same amount of duty would be raised as he had originally estimated.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought he would best consult the wish of the Committee—and he hoped of his right hon. Friend—if he now refrained from entering generally into the question of the navigation laws. When his right hon. Friend brought that question before the House, it would be the duty of himself or of his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade to show why the Government most widely differed from his opinion, and to prove that, so far from the repeal of those laws having been injurious to the shipping interests, they had been benefited by such repeal, and that the country at large had from that measure obtained great benefits. The opinion of the right hon. Gentleman was, no doubt, entitled to great weight. He did not propose, however, to enter into any specific opposition to the present Motion, but merely asked for an explanation of the views of the Government. Now, the Resolution for the reduction of the timber duties having passed through a Committee of the whole House without any opposition being offered to it, he had felt himself authorised to allow the reduction to take effect at once (the parties introducing timber at the reduced duties, of course giving a bond for the payment of the higher ones should the reduction not be ultimately assented to), and he thought it would be a great hardship if the Committee now refused to sanction the reduction, when transactions involving duty to the amount of 100,000 l. 1411 "In our market for colonial wood we cannot at present trace any visible effect by the change of foreign duty" [the protecting duty]. "Pine woods having been brought down below the producing rate, and being in a great measure free from the influence of Baltic competition, we think their lowest price will have been seen this spring. We have yet to see what is the capability of increasing the supply of foreign white wood to interfere with the great spruce trade of British America, still inclining to believe that any marked demand in Norway, at Gottenburg, or in Russia, for white-wood deals, would so far augment the shipping price as to leave colonial timber cheaper. It is evident that the reduction of foreign duty will stimulate consumption, and its effect will not be limited to foreign wood, but carry with it a fair share of cheap colonial wood also."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had already explained that he did not think colonial and foreign timber were put on a footing of equality by the arrangement of 1846, because the importation of foreign timber had fallen off. He could not think it right to impose duties with the view of countervailing freight in the case of timber from Canada, any more than in the case of coffee from Java, or of sugar from Brazil.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was the last person who should attribute to his hon. Friend that he was influenced by any interest on his part in the importation of coffee. He gave him full credit for the motives which influenced him in bringing forward this Motion; but he certainly was a little surprised at a Motion of this kind. Mixtures of Various kinds took place in almost everything we ate and drank. But his hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon wished to go back to the system of interference by the Excise. In 1832 coffee-dealers were not allowed to have chicory in their possession. Between that period and 1840, they were allowed to
 1392 "We are prepared to prove that previous to the introduction of chicory a large portion of coffee that was sent us to roast was so offensive during the process of roasting that our men could scarcely bear themselves in the premises, and were compelled to leave and get into the air to recover themselves. What has become of all this trash now? Why, the trade will not buy it, and the importers do not send it. The trade can afford to give long prices for their coffee, and by buying fine chicory they can afford to give the working classes a better drinking article, and far more wholesome, than half the coffee that was sent into this country twenty or even fourteen years ago." 1393 "I believe I am one of the most extensive growers in this country. I hope it will be a sufficient apology for my troubling you on this subject. I believe there are 20,000 people engaged at this time in the necessary cleaning and culti-
 1394
 MR. CARDWELL  would suggest that lancewood poles, which were employed in various delicate parts of different manufactures, and gave rise to a considerable employment of labour, while they paid but a small amount of duty, should partake of the entire remission of duty which had been extended to furniture woods with such good effect.
 MR. CARDWELL  thought it very undesirable that there should be any doubt as to what was done in 1846. The principle then established was that the law applied to corn should be applied to timber also; that is, that we, the empire of Great Britain and Ireland, should consult our own convenience and advantage, and that exclusively, with reference to imports from foreign countries. From that period the duties on the raw materials of manufactures had been reduced, on silk, cotton, flax, and the like; the duty on glass had been removed. All articles necessary for native manufacture came into this country free. The object was to encourage native industry by placing the raw materials of manufacture within reach of the native manufacturer at the lowest possible price. The duty on one article alone remained, namely, on timber. A great advance was made in the reduction of that duty in 1846, and the reason why it was not then still further reduced was that owing to the nature of the supply of timber which came down the rivers falling into the Baltic, the advantage, if the duties were reduced more rapidly, would go into the pocket of the foreign producer, and not into that of the consumer. He presumed that was also the reason why the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer only now proposed a reduction of 7 s. d. 1415
 MR. CAYLEY  said, his constituents in the North Riding of Yorkshire were chicory growers to a largo extent. They had been induced to grow that crop because they found that nothing else would pay since the repeal of the corn laws, and he felt hound to defend their interests. It had been said that on this occasion the agricultural party should not be divided, and he
 1406
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he must protest against the assumption that the maintenance of the present Timber Duties would benefit the agricultural interest. Native timber was never so unsaleable; and it was remarkable that while almost every other article had risen in price during the last 100 years, native timber had fallen considerably.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) had declared that he did not wish the country to understand that the window tax was not to be repealed; and the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford did not wish, in supporting the present Amendment, to affirm that the remission of the duties on coffee or timber should not take place. The Motion before the House declared it inexpedient to make any considerable reduction of taxation in the course of the present Session, especially considering that the income tax had been voted only for a single year. That Motion had been supported by two distinguished Members of that House; by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, and the right hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his scat. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had declared that he did not wish the House to understand that he was against the repeal of the window tax. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had stated it as his opinion, that in supporting this Motion, the House did not express an opinion that the duties on coffee should be continued. What was the question before the House? This was the practical question which the House had to determine, namely, whether the arrangement proposed by the Government with regard to the remission of the window tax, and the reduction of the duty on coffee and timber, should be persisted in; or whether, on the other hand, the determination of this House to grant the income tax only for a single year was a matter of such grave import as to justify them in deranging the whole of the financial scheme of the year, and disappointing the expectations of the country with regard to the proposed repeal of the window tax, and reduction of the duty on coffee and timber. He was not at all prepared to justify the Resolution which had been adopted to continue the income tax for a single year, for he had never so much regretted any Vote since he had had the honour of a seat in that House. He knew that that Vote had been come to by a union of parties of the utmost diversity of sentiment, and the most discordant opinions. He was not, however, of opinion
 1452
 MR. HERRIES  said, that the object of the Motion of which he had given notice, and to which the lion. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had adverted, was not to obtain the re-enactment of the Navigation Laws, but to procure some relief for the interest which he conceived had been injured by their repeal.
 MR. HERRIES  said: I am desirous of knowing from the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he intends to make any alteration in the Timher Duties. From all parts of the country I have received very strong remonstrances on the suhject. The shipowners of the city of London, whose petition I had the honour to present, give the strongest reasons for not making alterations in the Timber Duties in the manner in which it is proposed to make them. If the Committee will bear with mo for a few moments, I think I can satisfy them that by it a great injury would he inflicted both on the shipping as well as on the colonial interest. It may he remembered, that in 1846, an adjustment was made of the Timber Duties, in order to establish what should be considered as perfect free trade between Canadian and the Baltic interests. The distinctive duties put on had reference to the difference of freight between the Baltic and our North American possessions. And the difficulty in making an adjustment was to allow for the differences arising from the trading between England and those places, and to fix the amount of compensation. The differential duty was, I think, 30 s. s. 1409 s. s., s. s. 1410
 MR. HERRIES  must protest against the idea that lion. Gentlemen on that side of the House were sanctioning swindling.
 MR. HERRIES : The hon. Gentleman has totally misapplied his harsh language; and as for the great shipbuilder in Glasgow, of whom he speaks, I am not aware that I received any communication whatever from him. The communications to which I have alluded are from Sunderland, Liverpool, and all parts of the country, and not confined to a few places or a few persons. I can only say that there are very respectable witnesses on this side of the question. The right hon. Baronet the Chancellor of the Exchequer, however, has not answered my observations with re-
 1413
 MR. HERRIES  assumed that, as the right lion. Gentleman (Sir F. Baring) was the author of the Treasury Minute in question, he had exhausted all the arguments which could be urged in its defence. And, after all, what had he said? All he had said was that with him it was a matter of necessity. But, he said, that if they now insisted in enforcing by means of the Excise a check on this fraudulent practice, they would increase immorality greatly by extending the Excise laws. The Government said they would not extend the operations of the Excise officer; but they allowed him to visit every grocer's shop for fraudulent mixtures of pepper and other articles, while coffee was to be left untouched. This was the first time he had heard the head of a department sanction the commission of fraud. A technical objection had been taken to the Motion on the ground that an Excise Clause was proposed to be introduced into a Customs Bill. But that was not correct. If the House should accede to the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. T. Baring), it would not follow I that Excise officers must of necessity be the persons employed, for it would be quite competent for the Treasury to employ the
 1401
 MR. WAWN  had not to find fault with the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer for reducing the duty on timber, but could not understand why the right hon. Member for Stamford, as a friend to the shipping interest, objected to the reduction. [Mr. HERRIES: Not a bit.] The whole gist of the right hon. Gentleman's argument was that he found fault with the Chancellor of the Exchequer for proposing this reduction. There was one point, however, to which the attention of the Government ought to he directed. Why should vessels built in the Baltic of duty-free timber be allowed, on coming to this country, to have the benefit of the British register? A vessel had arrived at South Shields, which had been built in the Baltic of duty-free timber; but she came here to contend on equal terms with vessels built of duty-paid timber.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought it was part of the agreement of 1846 that justice should he done to our shipowners and shipwrights. He regretted that a single foreign ship should be allowed to come in under the circumstances which at present existed. Ships were now built in the Baltic, and the moment they arrived here they obtained a British register. He thought the reduction of the duty ought not to be only for the advantage of the foreigner. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Herries) when he intended to bring forward his Motion with respect to the navigation laws, for he thought that a discussion on that subject would be the means of removing many mistakes which existed at the present moment in reference to the operation of those laws. The Government was destroying the coasting trade in consequence of not relieving them from the duties for the support of light-houses, which were so very heavy. He was sorry to say that he could not get the Board of Trade to move on this subject.
 MR. HUME  said, it appeared he had been the marplot of the Government on this question of the income tax. He was, however, under no alarm whatever on the
 1453 s. l.
 MR. HUME  said, he would only refer for one moment to the Treasury Minute which the Goverment was called upon to rescind. The Minute in question was issued for the purpose of putting a stop to harassing prosecutions on the part of the Excise against the sellers of chicory and coffee. On the 4th of August, 1840, an application was made to the Treasury respecting a prosecution against certain parties resident in Liverpool, who sold coffee and chicory. The Treasury was of opinion that those prosecutions were unwise, and should be dropped, because coffee mixed with chicory paid the Excise duty, and the revenue was in no wise injured. So long as this was the case, he thought the Government had acted wisely, and that an Excise officer had no right to interfere between the seller and the consumer.
 MR. MULLINGS  thought the words in question only made the Bill consistent with the former Act.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that however hon. Gentlemen might object to taking coffee before their dinner, he could not but feel that this was a question of great importance to the commerce of the country. A greater delusion had never been foisted upon the public than that relating to the alleged adulterations of coffee, which had been first hatched by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey), and was now fathered by the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring), and which had been so ably exposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Baring). The whole gist of the matter was, that hon. Gentlemen opposite called upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer to violate a very important principle, and to interfere in all the petty details of commerce, instead of leaving them to the fair spirit of competition. The question had not been properly represented. The fraud, if any, was sanctioned by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Herries), who declared that the mixture consisted of only one-fourth part coffee; whereas they had it on unquestionable authority, from the most respectable members of the trade, that pure coffee formed 75 per cent of the mixture. He had been informed, by one highly respectable dealer, that, in consequence of the late representations about bullocks' blood, and so forth, a great demand had arisen for "Anstey's Pure;" but those who had tried it had come back in a fortnight, saying, "Let us have no more of this stuff, for which we pay 1 s. d. s." 1402 l.
 MR. R. W. CRAWFORD , as a commercial man, begged to express his entire concurrence in the Motion of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. T. Baring). Neither the growers of Ceylon, nor the importers of it into this country, nor even a considerable portion of the dealers, objected to the use of chicory as chicory; but their objections were confined entirely to the use of various substances for the employment of which the present system afforded such facilities to the unscrupulous dealers in the country. The mixture of coffee with chicory was forbidden by an express Act of Parliament; and yet the Government had taken upon themselves to suspend the operation of that Act, and thereby to enable the frauds to be practised of which
 1395
 MR. HOLLOND  said, Hastings was originally included within the operation of the Bill by the Board of Health.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, the speech of the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Tyrell), though amusing, was entirely beside the question. Nobody wanted to interfere with the growth of chicory, or to prevent the agricultural mind from indulging in ingenious speculations on the culture of that root. All that was wanted was to prevent substitutes from being sold for things which they wore not, and for prices which, if offered fairly in the market, they would not fetch. Taking the value of chicory at 4 d. d. s. 1398 1399
 MR. THOMAS BARING  rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice relative to the adulteration of Coffee. He said, that this subject had been under discussion so recently, that perhaps some apology was necessary for again bringing it under the notice of the House. After the very slight majority which the Government had obtained against him, after the opinions expressed in various quarters and from different parties in that House who were not unacquainted with the subject, and after the general manifestation of
 1385 1386 d., d., d. d. d., d. d. d. d., d., d. d. d., s. d. s. 1387 l. 1388 1389 d. d. s. d. d. d. 1390 1391
 MR. MITCHELL : I said the effect of it would be to swindle.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, that the reduction in the price of Baltic timber since the alteration of the duty was 10 s., s. d. 1412 l.
 MR. WAKLEY : It is queer writing; the writer seems to have a twist in his hand as well as in his head. "The row against chicory," said the writer, "has, I have no doubt, been got up by the coffee merchants and brokers, and it is not impossible that the  Lancet 1405
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the question before the House was in reality this—shall the Government of England sanction a practice of this kind, and will the House of Commons declare its approbation? Whether chicory were an unhealthy root or not, was not the question—the question was, shall the Government, which dares on certain occasions to institute prosecutions for adulteration, give its sanction to adulteration for a purpose not explained? Believing the practice of adulteration in this case, as well as in others, to be most unjust, immoral, and injurious to the character of the Legislature of this country, he, for one, should give a most cordial vote in favour of the Motion of the hon. Member for Huntingdon. He understood that before he came down to the House certain allusions had been made in the course of
 1404
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he must confess that in listening to the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire it had occurred to him that there was one part of it which he could have wished to have received a fuller development under his hands. He referred to the particular course which he appeared to indicate the House should pursue in the event of the adoption of his Motion. But with the objections which he (Mr. Gladstone) had stated upon a former occasion to the financial plans of the Government, he could not refuse to give his support to a Motion which, in his opinion, assorted a sound financial principle in opposition to those plans. He should endavour to state with great brevity, and at the same time with great plainness, the course which it appeared to him the House was bound to pursue. At the commencement of the year the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to repeal the window tax; and he likewise proposed the renewal of the income tax for the ordinary period of three years. Even under these circumstances, he must confess it appeared to him most unwise and most hazardous as regarded the permanent maintenance of public credit to part with an impost of so important a character as that of the window tax; and in professing to find a substitute for that impost in the form of a house tax, to place that house tax upon the very narrow, and, as he thought, the very illegitimate, basis which the Government had chosen for its foundation. He objected to the plan proposed
 1447 1448 1449 l. 1450 l 1451
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  seconded the Motion.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL : You have got it in your hand.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL , in explanation, assured the hon. Member for Finsbury that, in reading the extract from the communication he had received, he did not mean seriously to convey any insinuation against him. He entirely acquitted that hon. Gentleman of being influenced by the motives imputed to him. But when motives were bandied about from all quarters against the chicory supporters, he thought he would just read a part of one communition he had received; but in so doing he had furnished the hon. Gentleman against whom it was directed with the communication from which he made the extract.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, when he had last addressed the House on this subject he had made some reflections, which were perhaps contrary to the rules of the House, upon the disinterestedness of the hon. Member who had introduced the Motion; and he deeply regretted that he could not remove that impression from his mind, notwithstanding the hon. Gentleman's straightforward disavowal. The hon. Gentleman had admitted that he was largely interested in coffee plantations in the island of Ceylon and the West Indies. [Mr. T. BARING: Not the West Indies.] He had certainly understood from the speech from the throne—from the commercial throne which the hon. Gentleman occupied in the City, that he was interested in plantations in the West Indies; but at all events the hon. Gentleman had recently by the fall of the hammer possessed himself of a valuable tract of country in Ceylon. A gentleman who at that moment was staying at his (Sir J. Tyrell's) house, had furnished him with the particulars. His friend had been an unfortunate speculator in coffee. About four years ago he was possessed of some 7,000 l. l., 1396 l. s. d. Lancet 1397
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, notwithstanding what passed the other night, he was of opinion that they ought to leave out the words then introduced into the Bill. Both he and the House were taken by surprise. He was, by finding the House in Committee on the Bill which had been in the notices for months. He objected to the words at the time, and he found that his Friend Lord Ashley, now the Earl of
 1457
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, if the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) had made himself as well acquainted with the provisions of the Board of Health Act as with the operations of the Woods and Forests department, he would have known that there was a power in that Act to charge special districts for any benefits which might be specially conferred upon them.
