 SIR R. W. BULKELEY  rose and said: Sir, it now becomes my duty to offer to the House a few observations in moving an Address in answer to the gracious communication you have this day received from the Throne. The House, I am aware, is at all times most indulgent to those who are in the habit of taking an active part in their debates; how much more, then, must I require their indulgence, when, though a very old Member of this House, I have never for one moment intruded myself on its time and attention, and when the subjects upon which I have undertaken to address you, are of no ordinary importance, and the time one of no ordinary anxiety. The Member to whom is allotted the task of moving the Address is usually looked upon by the House as an uncompromising supporter of the Government in existence; and as thereby evincing not only his approbation of their measures past, but his perfect confidence in them as regards those which they are about to propose. I will acknowledge honestly that this is precisely my position. I have been in Parliament many years, and during that time I have seen many measures of vast importance introduced into this House for the benefit of the people. During that time I have seen all our most cherished institutions improved, strengthened, and extended, until we have arrived at a degree of greatness and prosperity which in my conscience I believe was never yet exceeded by any nation; the Throne better supported—the succession to the Throne placed beyond doubt—the Established Church, whose connection with the State many Members of this House think of the greatest consequence, second only in importance to the maintenance of the Throne itself, increased in its usefulness, its revenues more equitably distributed, its duties more regularly enforced, hundreds of churches erected, and thousands of pastors added to those who perform her ministrations. I have seen education more widely extended, and now reduced to something like a system. I have seen our commerce enlarged, and commercial monopoly
 62 63 64 l. coup d'éetat 65 66 67 l. l. l. 68 69 70 l. 71 72 sine quâ non 73 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to convey to Her Majesty the dutiful Thanks of this House for Her Most gracious Speech from the Throne: "Humbly to concur with Her Majesty, that the period has arrived when, according to usage, Her Majesty can again avail Herself of our advice and assistance in the preparation and adoption of measures which the welfare of the Country may require: "That we rejoice to learn that Her Majesty continues to maintain the most friendly relations with Foreign Powers: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty, for acquainting us that the complicated Affairs of the Duchies of Holstein and Sleswig have continued to engage Her attention, and that Her Majesty has every reason to expect that the Treaty between Germany and Denmark, which was concluded at Berlin in the year before last, will in a short time be fully and completely executed: "To assure Her Majesty, that we participate in the regret which Her Majesty has expressed,
 74 "That, while we unite with Her Majesty in the sincere satisfaction with which Her Majesty has observed the tranquillity which has prevailed throughout the greater portion of Ireland, we deplore in common with Her Majesty that certain parts of the Counties of Armagh, Monaghan, and Louth have been marked by the commission of outrages of the most serious description; that we rejoice to learn that the powers of the existing Law have been promptly exerted for the detection of the offenders, and for the repression of a system of crime and violence fatal to the best interests of the Country; that we thank Her Majesty for acquainting us that Her attention will continue to be directed to this important object: "To thank Her Majesty for having ordered Estimates of the Expenses of the current year to be laid before us; and for the confidence which Her Majesty has been pleased to express in our loyalty and zeal to make adequate provision for the Public Service: "To convey to Her Majesty our thanks for informing us that where any increase has been made in the Estimates of the present over the past year, such explanations will be given as will, Her Majesty trusts, satisfy us that such increase is consistent with a steady adherence to a pacific policy, and with the dictates of a wise economy: "To thank Her Majesty for informing us that the improvement of the Administration of Justice in its various departments has continued to receive Her anxious attention, and that in furtherance of that object Her Majesty has directed Hills to be prepared founded upon the Reports made to Her Majesty by the respective Commissioners appointed to inquire into the practice and proceedings of the Superior Courts of Law and Equity: "That we humbly concur with Her Majesty in the persuasion that nothing tends more to the peace, prosperity, and contentment of a Country, than the speedy and impartial administration of justice, and it will be our duty to give our best consideration to those measures which Her Majesty has recommended to our attention on this subject: "To express our thanks to Her Majesty for informing us that Her Majesty believes that there is no necessity to renew the Act of 1848, for sus-
 75 "Humbly to state to Her Majesty, that we participate in the satisfaction which Her Majesty has been pleased to express in being able to inform us, that the large reductions of Taxes which have taken place of late years have not been attended with a proportionate diminution of the National Income; that we rejoice to learn that, while the reduction of Taxation has tended greatly to the relief and comfort of Her Majesty's subjects, the Revenue of the past year has been fully adequate to the demands of the Public Service: "Humbly to join with Her Majesty in acknowledging, with thankfulness to Almighty God, that tranquillity, good order, and willing obedience to the Laws, continue to prevail generally throughout the Country: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for the expression of Her opinion that this is a fitting time for calmly considering whether it may not be advisable to make such Amendments in the Act of the late reign, relating to the Representation of the Commons in Parliament, as may be deemed calculated to carry into more complete effect the principles upon which that Law is founded: "That we thank Her Majesty for the expression of the confidence which Her Majesty feels that, in any such consideration, we shall firmly adhere to the acknowledged principles of the Constitution, by which the Prerogatives of the Crown, the authority of both Houses of Parliament, and the Rights and Liberties of the People, are equally secured."
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, if he had addressed the House, and made observations of a similar nature to those which had been used by the hon. Baronet who moved the Address, he had no doubt the House would say that he was introducing a subject which was not germane to the question in hand, and that in fact he was merely riding his hobby. The hon. Baronet the Member for Anglesey had very early in his speech referred in a disparaging manner to the visit of Kossuth to this country. Now, he thought that the manner in which Kossuth was received by the people of this country, showed that the feelings of all the working and of all the middle classes were in favour of that great patriot; and if the same feeling did not pervade the higher classes, he could only say that that backwardness on their part did them little credit. He could add his testimony to what had been already said by the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz), and the hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Geach); one of whom said, that he was not supported by the people of this country on account of his advocating republican doctrines; and the other said, he did not call upon this country to interfere in arms on behalf of any foreign country whatever. He (Lord D. Stuart) believed that the people of this country saw in Kossuth, and that they still saw in him, an illustrious man struggling against a barbarous tyranny for the rights of his country; and that as to whether he was a republican or a monarchist, they did not care one straw about the matter. He must
 122 sine quâ non 123 124
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I am quite ready to answer the appeal that has been made to me by my hon. Friend the Member for Marylebone. I cannot do so, however, without entering a good deal into statements of details, both with respect to the particular occurrence to which my hon. Friend has alluded, and with respect to the administration of Foreign Affairs. I hope, therefore, the House will give me its indulgence, that if other topics in the Speech from the Throne are hereafter alluded to, and if any explanation in regard to them shall be required from me, I may be allowed to refer to them. I will now, Sir, proceed to answer the questions of my hon. Friend. I am entirely ready to admit that which he has stated, that in the debate of 1850, with respect to Greek affairs, I expressed the utmost confidence in the administration of Foreign Affairs by
 89 90 "The Queen requires, first, that Lord Palmerston will distinctly state what he proposes in a given case, in order that the Queen may know as distinctly to what She is giving Her Royal sanction. Secondly, having once given Her sanction to a measure, that it be not arbitrarily altered or modified by the Minister. Such an act She must consider as failing in sincerity towards the Crown, and justly to be visited by the exercise of Her constitutional right of dismissing that Minister. She expects to be kept informed of what passes between him and the foreign Ministers before important decisions are taken, based upon that intercourse; to receive the foreign despatches in good time; and to have the drafts for Her approval sent to Her in sufficient time to make Herself acquainted with their contents before they must be sent off. The Queen thinks it best that Lord John Russell should show this letter to Lord Palmerston." "I have taken a copy of this memorandum of the Queen, and will not fail to attend to the directions which it contains." "Take the case of the Prime Minister. You must presume that he reads every important despatch from every foreign Court. He cannot consult with the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and exercise the influence which he ought to have with respect to the conduct of Foreign Affairs, unless he he master of everything of real importance passing in that department." 91 92 93 "Foreign Office, Dec. 6, 1851. "My Lord—I have received and laid before the Queen your Excellency's despatch, No. 365, of the 3rd instant, requesting to be furnished with instructions for your guidance in the present state of affairs in France. I am commanded by Her Majesty to instruct your Excellency to make no change in your relations with the French Government. It is Her Majesty's desire that nothing should be done by her Ambassador at Paris which could wear the appearance of an interference of any kind in the internal affairs of France.—I am, &c. "PALMERSTON." "Paris, Dec. 6, 1851. "My Lord—I this morning received your Lordship's despatch, No. 600, of yesterday's date, and I afterwards called on M. Turgot, and informed him that I had received Her Majesty's commands to say that I need make no change in my relations with the French Government in consequence of what had passed. I added, that if there had been some little delay in making this communication, it arose from material circumstances not connected with any doubt on the subject. M. Turgot said that delay had been of less importance, as he had two days since heard from M. Walewski that your Lordship had expressed to him your entire approbation of the act of the President, and your conviction that he could not have acted otherwise than he had done. I said I had no knowledge of any such communication, and no instructions beyond our invariable rule to do nothing which should have the appearance of interfering in any way in the internal affairs of France, but that I had often had an opportunity of showing, under very varied circumstances, that whatever might be the Government here, I attached the utmost importance to maintaining the most amicable relations between the two countries. I added that I was sure, had the Government known of the
 94 "NORMANBY." 95 "Paris, Dec. 15,1851. "My Lord—In my despatch, No. 372, of the 5th inst., notifying my communication of my instructions to M. Turgot, I reported that his Excellency had mentioned that M. Walewski had written a despatch in which he stated that your Lordship had expressed your complete approbation of the course taken by the President in the recent  coup d'état. "NORMANBY." 96 "Foreign Office,Dec. 16, 1851. "My Lord—I have received your Excellency's despatch, No. 406, of the 15th inst., referring to the statement made to you by the French Minister for Foreign Affairs on the occasion of your communicating to his Excellency the instructions with which you have been furnished by Her Majesty's Government for your guidance in the present state of affairs in France; and I have to state to your Excellency that there has been nothing in the language which I have held, nor in the opinions which I have at any time expressed on the recent events in France, which has been in any way inconsistent with the instructions addressed to your Excellency—to abstain from anything which could bear the appearance of any interference in the internal affairs of France. The instructions contained in my despatch, No. 600, of the 5th inst., to which your Excellency refers, were sent to you, not in reply to a question as to what opinions your Excellency should express, but in reply to a question which I understood to be, whether your Excellency should continue your usual diplomatic relations with the President during the interval which was to elapse between the date of your Excellency's despatch, No. 365, of the 3rd inst., and the voting by the French nation on the question to be proposed to them by the President. As to approving or condemning the step taken by the President in dissolving the Assembly, I conceive it is for the French nation, and not for the British Secretary of State, or for the British Ambassador, to pronounce judgment on that event; but if your Excellency wishes to know my own opinion on the change which has taken place in France, it is that such a state of antagonism had arisen between the President and the Assembly, that it was becoming every day more clear that their co-existence could not be of long duration; and it seemed to me better for the interests of France, and through them for the interests of the rest of Europe, that the power of the President should prevail, inasmuch as the continuance of his authority might afford a prospect of the maintenance of social order in France; whereas the divisions of opinions and parties in the Assembly appeared to betoken that their victory over the President would be the starting point for disastrous civil strife. Whether my opinion was right or wrong, it seems to be shared by persons interested in property in France, as far at least as the great and sudden rise in the funds and in other investments may be assumed to be indications of increasing confidence in the improved prospect of internal tranquillity in France.—I am, &c, "PALMERSTON." 97 98 99 100 101 Laughter. 102 103 quid velis exponere, quid sends dicere 104 "Whether this portion of the world were rent By the rude ocean from the continent, Or thus created, it was sure designed To be the sacred refuge of mankind."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, there are some few points which have been mentioned in the course of the debate, on which the House, perhaps, will allow me to offer some explanation. In the first place, I wish to allude to what has fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, and to state what has occurred with regard to some approbation that I was supposed to have expressed as to the acts of the President of the French Republic. Now, the question did not turn on any conversation between one person and the other, because, as I stated at the commencement of this debate, if the noble Lord had written to the Marquess of Normanby to say that what had passed was to be considered as having occurred in familiar conversation, there would have been no difficulty in the matter; but the noble Lord has not taken that course, but has adhered to what he then said. Having heard of this matter, I took the opportunity of asking the French Ambassador whether he could tell me what passed in the conversation which I had with him; and the answer which I received was, that he had only a vague re-
 154 155 s. 156
 MR. DISRAELI : I am unwilling, Sir, to assent to the Address to the Throne without making a few observations. I know that it is by no means agreeable to make any comments on the first night of our meeting on an Address to the Crown, on which no Amendment is offered. The subjects are so interesting, they are so various, they are so universally engaging, that nobody really thinks that it is anybody's business to attend to them; and everybody is convinced that, in the course of the Session, legitimate opportunities will be afforded of discussing in detail the programme of questions which the Government places before the House on what is really not the least important night of our meeting; and then it often happens that we are afterwards told by a Minister, if we oppose some of his propositions in the course of the Session, that the House is pledged by the unanimity with which they assented to the principle on the first night of the Session—an assent of which no one is conscious. Therefore, I am rather disposed at all times, although the office is not an agreeable one, not to pass by without observation the Address, though no Amendment is brought forward which naturally arrests the attention and secures the notice of the House. There certainly is to-night a reason why I think it scarcely respectful either to the Government, or to other great personages, to pass unnoticed the, if not unprecedented, at all events interesting and remarkable, scene with which the opening of this Session of Parliament has been ushered in. Sir, I have always observed, in an experience of the House of Commons, which, I am sorry to say, now begins to be longer than I care to recollect, that if it be the fortune of an hon. Member to make an inquiry of a Minister, he is in general not very successful in eliciting any particular information; and I am bound to say that I do not think that the hon. Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall) has to-night proved a particular exception to our general experience. The hon. Baronet gave due notice of his intention to address an inquiry to the First Minister on a subject of imperial interest. The First Minister has responded to his inquiry, and
 136 137 138 139 140 141 142 143 144 145 146 147 148 149 Economist 150 151 152 l. 153
 MR. GEACH  said, he could corroborate what had fallen from the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz) as to the reception of M. Kossuth by the manufacturers. He (Mr. Geach) repudiated the idea that those who extended the hand of friendship to Kossuth were influenced by the fact that he was a republican. He (Mr. Geach) had never heard M. Kossuth say, either in any of his speeches or of the communications he had had with him, anything which could favour the idea that he sought the intervention of this country; on the contrary, he objected to intervention; and if the Hungarians had been left to settle their own disputes, the result would have been very different. He (Mr. Geach) also had to deplore that the hon. Baronet the mover of the Address, should have thought proper to apply the term "upstart usurper" to the President of France, who had been elected in the first instance by 4,000,000, and afterwards by 7,000,000 votes. He (Mr. Geach) had had engagements which had caused him to be a great deal in France since the 2nd of December. He had therefore had many opportunities of gathering the opinions of all classes in that country as to late events; and he could declare that there was an almost universal feeling of satisfaction at the solution of the difficulties by which the people of France had been surrounded. It was not a question as to what would have been abstractedly the best thing, but it was a question of what was the best under the circumstances; and though he should himself have been glad to have seen our neighbours enjoying the same liberal constitution with ourselves, he could not help feel-
 119
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he had to report to the House that the House had been that
 61
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  strongly condemned the commercial policy of the Government. He said he must attribute a considerable portion of the depression in trade to the Great Exhibition of Industry in the past year. There was but one opinion—and it was universal—as to the gross insult which had been offered to the merchants and tradesmen of this country by the wholesale introduction of foreigners and their wares which had taken place in consequence of the Exhibition; and, for his own part, he would not for a thousand guineas enter the walls or approach within smell of the unwieldy, ill-devised, and unwholesome Castle of Glass.
 157
 MR. ROCHE  said, that the fearful murders alluded to by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, were as abhorrent to him as they could be to anybody, and he was ready to consent to almost any sacrifice to put them down; but he could not agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman as to his remedies, which, if they were anything, meant that the Government should try again a system of coercion. Depend upon it, that broken reed would fail them, and they never would be able to cure the evil by coercive measures. It was agreed on all hands that the causes of these outrages arose
 134 135
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he wished to make an observation with respect to what had fallen from the hon. Baronet the mover of the Address, in reference to the motives that had actuated the manufacturers in their reception of Kossuth. The hon. Baronet said that they had received him with the warmth they had exhibited because he (M. Kossuth) was a republican. Now, he (Mr. Muntz) begged, for his own part, to state that in taking part in his reception he had never once given the matter a thought, whether he was a republican, a monarchist, or an oligarchist; and he (Mr. Muntz) could likewise any the same for a large portion of his constituents. They had received M. Kossuth because they saw in him a man who had exerted himself much in opposition to a treacherous oppressor, and who would have done so successfully but for the interference of another country. The hon. Baronet had likewise stated that M. Kossuth had asked for the intervention of this country; but he (Mr. Muntz) could assure the House that he had never done any thing of the kind. What he asked for was non-intervention on the part of other countries. In this he (Mr. Muntz) entirely agreed with him, and so did his constituents; because, if when the governors and the governed of a country were at issue, and if when either party had gained an advantage, another nation was to step in and tyrannise over the party which had so gained the advantage, then every Government must soon become a despotism. If Russia, or any other third party, were allowed to interfere in this manner in the affairs of another country, every other Continental State would soon become a despotism, and they would join to make this country adopt the same form of government.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that he did not intend to enter into a discussion of the various topics which had been adverted to in Her Majesty's Speech; but he would make a few observations on the reasons which the noble Lord at the head of the Government had thought necessary to give for the retirement of the noble Lord the late Secretary for Foreign Affairs. He did not exactly understand on what grounds this explanation had been given. Had it been
 117 118
 MR. GRATTAN  was sorry that he could not offer his congratulations to the noble Lord at the head of the Government for the manner in which the government of Ireland had been carried on under his Administration. During the five or six years of a Whig Ministry, the middle classes of the people of Ireland had been driven from the country, and poverty had spread through all ranks. The noble Lord, in alluding to three counties in Ireland, had stigmatised the inhabitants as assassins. Now, why did he not bring some proof of that charge? He had not alleged one tittle of evidence in support of his accusations; but he had merely succeeded in showing the exceedingly ill manner in which the country was governed. The Roman Catholic population were compelled to support the Protestant clergy. The Protestant Church of Ireland was a great and crying injustice, and ought to be immediately abolished; and the case was made worse by the system of proselytism that was going on. Ireland required to be governed by maxims of common sense, and not by setting its different classes at war with one another.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he must deny the assertion that the lion, and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) had said that it was necessary to have a Coercion Act for Ireland. On the contrary, the hon. and learned Gentleman said the ordinary law of the land would be sufficient to repress all outrages existing there, provided it were properly administered. He (Mr. Whiteside) could bear his testimony to the fact that the law was not properly administered in Ireland. He bad been nineteen years on the Northern Circuit, and at no period within his memory had the three counties of Armagh, Monaghan, and Louth been in a more disturbed state than at the present time. The arm of the assassin was firm and strong; the arm of justice was paralysed. All he asked was, that the law might be so administered by sincere and conscientious men that the lives of honest people should be protected, and due punishment be made to overtake the guilty.
 MR. BONHAM CARTER  rose to second the Address. The hon. Member commenced by requesting the considerate indulgence of the House, remarking that when he remembered that of late years the position which he then occupied had often fallen to the lot of those of greater experience than himself, and when he considered the great importance of the subjects which had been submitted to the attention of the House in Her Majesty's Speech, he felt he had need of the fullest measure of their forbearance. Nor could he forget that on the present occasion
 76 77 "Populus nobilissimus; quique magnitudinem suam malit justitiâ tueri, sine cupiditate, sine impotentiâ quieti secretique; nulla provocant bella; prompta tamen omnibus arma, ac, si res poscat, exercitus. Quiescentibus eadem fama." 78 79 80 l. 81 82 "As regards our own publications, they are mainly addressed to classes of a generally humble position, and amount to about 10,000,000 sheets per annum. It may be curious for you to know that, in proportion as we go on, we find it necessary to rise in point of style and subject. What we gave ten years ago would not do now, such is the improvement in popular tastes. In twenty years we are conscious of a very great change in this respect. The higher order of workmen, such as foremen, steady journeymen, and people in a small way way of business, are all very different from what they were when we began our literary occupation." "The number of books read in mechanics' institutes and similar societies is multiplied prodigiously. Many have very valuable libraries, winch are extensively used for reference and home reading." 83 84 "Naught shall make us rue, If England to herself prove true."
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he should be sorry if this debate arising out of the Speech delivered from the Throne passed with only a simple personal explanation. That Speech had travelled over a great variety of subjects, embracing almost every interest of the country, and after this statement, which the Chief of the Executive had made to the great council of the nation, he thought it unworthy of them that their discussion should turn wholly upon the question, why one nobleman had thought proper to dismiss another? But he desired, before touching farther upon that subject, to bring out of the discussion they had heard, some sort of moral, if he might so express it, as to the peculiar position which the Government was now in. It was admitted by the noble Lord at the head of the Government himself, and it was felt by every man in the country, that the position of affairs at home, in the colonies, and abroad, was in the highest degree critical. At the moment when they in England were on the eve of great administrative changes, there was a great want of energy, of firmness, of knowledge, of capacity, even in our common domestic administration, in addition to which we had in every colony discontent bordering on disaffection, and in some actual war; while on the Continent of Europe liberty was stricken down—representative government almost entirely abolished—despotism everywhere triumphant, and nothing in Europe which was not at the will of the persons in power there; and in England they were trembling, not with fear, but with anxiety, lest the peace of this great country should be invaded. Surely this was a time when they ought to scan narrowly, if not with severity, the power and capacity of those who were charged with the destinies of this country. It was at this critical period that the most marked person in the Administration—he around whom almost all the party battles of the Administration had been fought— whose political existence had been made the political existence of the Government itself—the person on whose being in office the Government rested their existence as
 128 129 130 131 132
 MR. NAPIER  was anxious to ask attention for a very few minutes to that portion of Her Majesty's Speech which related to Ireland, because he did believe that when that portion of the Speech was read in Ireland it would be received with disappointment and dismay. One part of the Speech relating to Ireland had reference to those three counties in the north where the recent murders had been committed. Within the space of two or three years there had been nine cases of murder and attempts at murder, and in no one instance, as yet, had there been a conviction for these desperate attempts. A special commission had been issued, and for the first time in his (Mr. Napier's) experience, that special commission had proved an abortion. They read in the Speech that the attention of Her Majesty would be directed to this most important subject; but in the meanwhile, whilst they were theorising on this question, and considering what had best be done, a reign of terror prevailed, and the most estimable persons lived in constant dread of seeing the sanctity of their families invaded by the midnight horrors of merciless assassination. Now, he had said from the first, that the remedy for this state of things was not to be sought in any Parliamentary magic, but in every man doing his duty honestly; and the most important thing to be done was to give the protection of the law to every one, and to bring all offenders to summary and condign punishment. A special commission had been issued by the Government of Earl Grey with the most distinguished success; but the present had proved quite abortive, and for reasons which he was not at liberty to go into; first, because the hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland was not present: and, secondly, because, until the commission was brought to a close, it would neither be proper or constitutional to enter into any minute account of the circumstances. He wished, however, to point out to the House that these attempts were not directed merely against the gentry; the farmers were also the object of them, and one of the first of the murders that took place was that of a small farmer, named M'Taggart. When the first Rib-
 133
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, the noble Lord the Member for Marylobone (Lord D. Stuart) had commenced his observations by some severe remarks on the speech of the hon. Baronet who moved the Address. He thought that whatever cavil might be taken at some expressions which were used by a speaker unaccustomed to address the House, still he thought the House would join with him in an expression of admiration—and a feeling of regret that the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Bulkeley) did not oftener mingle in the debates of the House, in which He was so well qualified to take a part. The course of the debate had been wrapt up, he might say, in one absorbing subject, which would almost make it look like impertinence to allude to any other point. But he felt there were other points which were equally interesting to the country. Mention had been made of the state of Ireland in Her Majesty's Speech, and he was rather surprised that not one Irish Member had got upon his legs to say a word in reference to that allusion. He wished to say a word in allusion to that part of the Speech where Her Majesty said it was not necessary to call upon the House for additional powers. Now, whatever his own opinion might be—and certainly he was not likely to quarrel with Government because they did not come forward to ask for extraordinary powers—he thought the House might consider whether, in the existing state of three counties in the north of Ireland, the present mode of trial by jury was adequate for the
 126 coup d'état "Power without right is one of the most pernicious and detestable things which the human imagination can conceive. It is not only pernicious to the man who holds it, but it is most destructive to the people over whom it is held. It is, in short,  res detestabilis et caduca. 127
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  thought the noble Lord at the head of the Government would find that the speech of the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie) in a great measure represented the opinions of Europe on the subject of the dismissal of the late Foreign Secretary. He believed when the reports of this debate went forth to the public it would scarcely be credited in Europe that upon the mere ground of Ministerial etiquette and discipline a great change had taken place in the Government of this country, and that an important Minister had been summarily dismissed from office. He did not presume to doubt the perfect veracity of all that had been stated by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell); but he believed that public opinion, both in this country and elsewhere, would see beyond the statement he had made motives and intentions which he had not expressed, and of which he was, perhaps, hardly conscious himself. It might be said that the character and reputation of a Minister were hardly understood until he had lost power; and it was perhaps only when the news of the fall of Lord Palmerston spread throughout Europe that the estimation in with the noble Lord was held was really ascertained. What was the meaning of the universal jubilee of the absolutist Powers of Europe—of the rejoicings of the oppressors, and the lamentations of the oppressed? What was the reason that Lord Palmerston's fall had been regarded as showing the accession of the English Government to the new order of things to be inaugurated in Europe—in which England might perhaps be allowed to keep her
 120 121
 MR. HAYTER  said, it might be convenient if he were to state to the House the order in which it was proposed to proceed with public business. On Monday, the 9th of February, the First Lord of the Treasury would ask leave to introduce a Bill to extend the Right of Voting for Members of Parliament, and to amend the Laws relating to the Representation of the People; and on Friday, the 13th, the noble Lord would ask leave to introduce a Bill to amend the Laws respecting the Local Militia. On the same day the President of the Board of Trade would ask leave to introduce a Bill to carry into effect certain provisions contained in the Copyright Treaty with France. On Monday, the 16th, the Solicitor General would ask leave to introduce a Bill respecting the Court of Chancery; and on the same day the Secretary of State for the Home Department would ask leave to bring in a Bill to disfranchise the Borough of St. Albans.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL : Mr. Speaker, I beg to assure the House that I do not rise at this moment for the purpose of offering any opposition to the Address that has been moved by my hon. Friend the Member for Anglesey; but as I observe that the first paragraph of that Address relates to the foreign policy of this country, and as great and important changes have taken place in the Ministry of this country, especially in that part of it which relates to the administration of our Foreign Affairs, I trust I may be excused if I take this, the first opportunity the Session affords me, of asking the noble Lord at the head of the Government to give to us, and to give to the country, some explanation of the causes which led to the change to which I have referred; and although I am perfectly well aware that the course I am now taking is an unusual one, yet it is consequent on circumstances which are of rare occurrence. But we have had in late years a precedent for the very course I am now adopting; and it is a precedent which must be in the recollection of many of those I now have the honour of addressing. On the 29th of January, 1828, Parliament met after a change that took place in the Administration of this country; and almost immediately after the Address had been moved, the Government was called upon for an explanation of the circumstances that had led to the alteration in the Cabinet; and although an objection was made to give that explanation at that moment, it was not in consequence of the time at which the explanation was asked—but the reason for not giving it was a good and sound one— it was because the individuals who were concerned in it were not present in the House at that moment; and on referring to the debates that took place at that time, you will find that the then Secretary at War (Lord Palmerston) stated that such explanation would not be given until the parties concerned were present. In this instance I believe the parties concerned are present; and in the instance to which I have referred, as soon as the parties concerned
 85 "That the principles on which the Foreign Policy of Her Majesty's Government has been regulated have been such as were calculated to maintain the honour and dignity of this country; and, in times of unexampled difficulty, to pie-serve peace between England and the various nations of the world." 86 "Let not any man, therefore, be misled by the notion which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford stated last night, that while my noble Friend was Foreign Secretary this country was constantly on the brink of war. Why, that would be indeed a strange conclusion to come to, seeing that, in the thirty-five years of peace we have so happily enjoyed, for upwards of fourteen of them the foreign affairs of this country have been under the peculiar administration of my noble Friend. If such has been the case, I think it is presumption that there has been, however it may be denied, a foreign cabal at work, which has endeavoured to impose upon the public of England false statements, which, for the sake of its own ends, has raised unfounded suspicions with respect to the foreign policy of England, and which endeavouvs to overturn that foreign policy, partly out of a wish to see a Government more favourable to views of absolute power on the Continent, and partly out of a wish to diminish the power and reputation of England." [3  Hansard 87 Times Times Breslau Gazette "There is a report here (in Vienna) of certain secret negotiations carried on by persons holding high position in England with the Court of Vienna, unknown to Lord Palmerston, having for their object a closer alliance between the two Courts, and at the same time the withdrawal of the noble Lord from the British Ministry." 88
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the language of the Speech was perfectly correct in stating that the outrages were confined only to certain districts in the counties of Armagh, Monaghan, and Louth. If the hon. Gentleman meant to impugn the conduct of the Irish Government by saying that there had not been an honest and zealous attempt on its part to put into force all the powers which were vested by the law in the Lord Lieutenant, he (Sir George Grey) would be quite ready to meet him upon that point on a future occasion, and to demonstrate that the assertion was utterly incorrect. The hon. and learned Gentleman was mistaken if he supposed that the Speech contained any statement to the effect that the Government might not hereafter deem it necessary to meet the prevalence of crime and outrage in Ireland by powers of an extraordinary character. The Government hoped that the powers of the existing law would be sufficient for the punishment and suppression of the evil; but if they should be disappointed in that expectation, they would have no hesitation in applying to Parliament for more extensive powers.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  thought the noble Lord who had just sat down had somewhat misapprehended the effect of the explanations that had been given. He stated to the House that five other Cabinet Ministers had been guilty of the same conduct which had been imputed to the late1 Foreign Secretary. Now he (Sir H. Verney) understood that the gravamen of the charge against the noble Lord was, not that he had addressed to Count Walewski a verbal approbation of the  coup d'état coup d'état. 125
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am sure the House will feel that after what has passed on the part of my hon. Friend
 105 106 coup d'état 107 108 coup d'état. 109 coup d'état; 110 111 112 113 114 115 116
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  wished to put a question to the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Woods and Forests (Lord Seymour). In explanation, he should observe that the annual Report of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests to Parliament had generally received the signatures of all the three Commissioners; but the last report of July 30, 1851, had received only the signatures of two out of the three Commissioners. He asked, therefore, if all the three Commissioners concurred in sanctioning all the statements made in the last annual Report, and placed in the hands of Members of Parliament in December of that year; and if so, why that Report had been signed only by two instead of three Commissioners. He wished, in fact, to know if the Report had been submitted to Mr. Kennedy, and bad his concurrence?
 LORD SEYMOUR  wished first to correct his noble Friend as to the title he had given him (Lord Seymour), namely, the Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests. In consequence of the separation of offices by the Act of last Session, he was no longer Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests, though he still continued Chief Commissioner of Works and Buildings. With respect to the signature of the Report by two Commissioners only, his noble Friend might have been aware that it was not necessary for all three Commissioners to sign any Report to the Treasury. Two signatures had always been sufficient, though he would readily admit that it was usual for all three to sign the Reports
 159
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  would then give notice, that on Thursday week he should move for any minutes of papers which would explain the reason why Mr. Kennedy had abstained from submitting his signature to the annual Report of the 30th of July, 1851.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he had brought in the Bill with the view of obtaining the opinions of the public regarding it; and he meant again to introduce the Bill in the present Session, in order that it might be referred to a Committee, with the view of obtaining such information as was not to be procured in any other way.
 CAPTAIN FITZROY  wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department could state what proceedings were intended to be taken under the Act of last Session, in reference to the construction of a new cattle market for the metropolis in place of Smithfield? He believed that the interval of six months allowed by the Act of last Session before the choice should be made, had now expired?
 CAPTAIN FITZROY  wished to know whether another Act would be necessary?
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  moved the usual Sessional Orders.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  trusted the House would not agree to the Amendment of his hon. Friend. He was afraid
 162
 CAPTAIN FITZROY  suggested to his hon. Friend the substitution of a Committee to inquire into the warming and ventilating of the House, for the examination of Dr. Reid at the bar, for they would only get an  exparte
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, no object would be gained by calling Dr. Reid to the bar, and it would be better to have a Committee, which would be able to ascertain what was required, and decide on what should be done. Hon. Gentlemen should remember that they had themselves determined that the House should be ventilated by Dr. Reid, while the rest of the arrangements of the building, including lighting, were left in the hands of Mr. Barry. The conflict between these gentlemen had caused some confusion, and the House was suffering in consequence. Many of the alterations, however, which had been proposed last year had been only lately carried out, and the ventilation was not yet brought to full perfection, so that it could not be said to have had a fair trial. He thought the best course would be the appointment of a Committee.
 MR. FITZROY  asked whether the noble Lord would move for the appointment of a Committee?
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he should have no objection to do so.
 MR. ADDERLEY  begged to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies whether a petition had been received at the Colonial Office from Inhabitants of the Cape to Her Majesty, praying Her to refuse Her assent to Ordinances passed by the reconstructed Legislative Council previously to proceeding with their new Constitution; also, whether he will lay copies of all such ordinances immediately before this House? He also wished to know whether a petition had been received, praying Her Majesty to expedite the construction of the Constitution, and to refuse Her sanction to any alteration, on the part of the Legislative Council, in the constitutional Ordinances; and whether there would be any objection to produce such Ordinances, together with any resolutions for altering them which might have been passed.
 MR. SPEAKER  accordingly read them  seriatim.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  most cordially agreed with what had fallen from the hon. Member for Montrose. He had seen public money voted away when only fifteen Members were present, and some of them asleep on the benches. He thought, therefore, it was high time that some step should be taken, and he, for one, would always be happy to oppose any attempt at abuse in this respect by Ministers.
 MR. ROEBUCK  asked whether the two persons who had signed the petition were not the chairman and secretary of a public meeting?
 MR. BROTHERTON  supported the Motion. He stated at the same time, that as he could not expect that if the House negatived the present Motion they would agree to that which he had given notice (that the Speaker should leave the chair at twelve o'clock), he would not in that case bring forward his resolution.
 MR. HUME  said, that upon the previous evening he was unfortunately unable to make any remarks upon the Address, as in consequence of the state of the atmosphere in the House he was obliged to
 163 164 165 166 167 l. l. l. 168 169
 MR. HUME  said, that no doubt cases might occur which it would be desirable to treat as exceptions to the general rule which he wished to be laid down, and then the standing order could be suspended, as in similar instances.
 MR. HUME  proposed to add to the Standing Orders, "and that no Vote for money be taken in Committee after midnight." During the last four or five Sessions a practice had gained ground of money being voted when the House was almost empty, at a period when nobody expected that any question of importance could possibly come on. It was not so much the fear of abuses being committed under such circumstances, which would be checked in the presence of a larger number of Members, which induced him to make this proposition, as the fear of the appearance it would have with the country, if they adhered to their ordinary course in this matter. He was anxious that a fixed rule on this subject should be laid down and adopted, because it was extremely inconvenient, when the money votes came on, for any man to rise and oppose a vote. When the Tories were in office for twelve or fourteen years, he had never allowed a single farthing to pass after twelve o'clock. He had been blamed for relaxing his insistence on that rule; and, thinking that equal justice should be done to both parties, he hoped the House would agree to his proposal.
 MR. HUME  did not think any benefit
 172
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, perhaps the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Works and Buildings would be good enough to inform the House what course he intended to take with respect to the Metropolis Buildings Bill, laid on the table at the close of last Session, and whether he intended to persevere with it?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, as many opportunities for discussing colonial affairs would occur, he should not at present say a word on the subject; but he
 170 l. 171
 MR. F. PEEL  said, he knew one was chairman of Cape Town Assembly, and the other a commissioner of Cape Town; but he was not aware whether they signed on behalf of any public bodies.
 MR. F. PEEL  replied, that a petition signed by two persons had been received, praying Her Majesty not to sanction any Ordinances, except such as were necessary to carry out the constitution. There would be no objection to lay copies of the Ordi-
 160
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had no reason to believe that the Corporation would apply for any new Bill, so far at least as powers for holding the new market were concerned. The Act gave certain powers to the Commissioners that Her
 161
 SIR GEORGE GREY  begged to state that, on the 29th of January, the day before the expiration of the six months allowed by law, he had received formal notice from the Corporation of London that they desired to undertake the formation of a new metropolitan market, and to defray the expenses incidental to such formation out of their corporate funds.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  moved, "that a Supply be granted to Her Majesty."
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that having heard the report that a chandelier had fallen upon the floor of the House, he sent for Mr. Barry, who, in reply to a question upon the subject, presented him with a paper (signed by the contractor, the clerk of the works, the foreman, and every one engaged in the building) denying that such was the fact. On the 3rd of January a workman let fall a piece of iron, which went through the floor of the House, and this might have given rise to the report. The defective burning of the lamps arose, he understood, partly from there having been a leakage of the gas, and partly from its not having been possible for the gas-fitters to complete their work within the time expected.
 MR. SPEAKER  read the portion of the Speech relating to the Estimates of the present year.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that his right hon. Friend
 186
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that although there was a great diversity of opinion as to the desirableness of any legislation on the subject, he could not see that there was any objection to be made to the hon. Gentleman opposite having leave to introduce his Bill.
 MR. HUME  could only say that if Her Majesty's Government allowed a Bill of such importance as this to pass without a word, the House would be better without them.
 MR. HUME  thought they should have some reason assigned for this Motion. He had received no instruction from Scotland that any such Bill was necessary, and knew nothing of it; but they should have some ground assigned for proposing to disturb all the vested interests, many of them important, by a new measure that would re-establish a monopoly, and make changes very undesirable.
 MR. HUME  begged to ask whether, in presenting the Estimates for the Army and Navy to the House, it was the intention of the Government to carry out any of the recommendations lately made of changes which had been proved to be absolutely necessary by the evidence taken before the Committee which sat three years ago. The evidence taken before that Committee of which he was a Member, showed clearly and distinctly that improvements of great importance, not only with regard to the inefficiency but the economy of both services could be effected. Although that Committee separated last Session under peculiar circumstances, and did not make so full report as was intended, in consequence of the loss of their chairman, they did offer some recommendations, and he wished to know if it would appear from the Estimates whether those recommendations were to be carried out.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that he did not make the statement with reference to the fall of the chandelier on his own responsibility; he had it from a Member of the Government, the noble Lord the Member for Lichfield (Lord Anson), who told it to him upon the authority of the seconder of the Address (Mr. Carter).
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said, this was a mere preliminary step towards the introduction of a Bill. If the hon. Gentleman would wait till he saw the Bill, he (Mr. Mackenzie) thought he would see that there was no intention of establishing a monopoly. A Bill had been passed in the other House last year, which came to that House so late in the Session that it was impossible to pass it into law. He wished only to reintroduce that Bill early into the House, and should propose after the second reading to refer it to a Select Committee competent to deal with this question, from whose deliberations he hoped such a measure would come forth as the House would be satisfied to pass. It was not very agreeable for a Scottish Member to be called upon to state the grounds of this measure in the grievous amount of drunkenness that prevailed in Scotland, and the enormous consumption of whisky by the lower orders of that country. He believed it was acknowledged by everybody who had been there, that it was very desirable some measure checking the facilities for
 185
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  moved that the House resolve itself into Committee of the whole House to consider the laws regulating Public Houses in Scotland, with the view of introducing a Bill on the subject.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Works. It had been stated on the previous evening by the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne), that one of the chandeliers suspended from the roof of the House had fallen. He should, therefore, be glad to know if the noble Lord was in a position to assure the House that there was no danger of any similar occurrence taking place? He also wished to know whether any means could be taken to make the lamps burn?
 LORD SEYMOUR  laid on the table the Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the best and most convenient site for building a new bridge at Westminster.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, the result of the Commission was, a Report recommending that a new bridge be constructed at Westminster. In accordance with the recommendation of that Report, he had given the regular notices, so that he might be enabled, if Parliament should seem to wish the matter to be carried out according to the recommendation of the Commission, to bring in a Bill for the purpose. In bringing in the Bill which would be necessary for constructing a new bridge, he intended to introduce some clauses to transfer the property of the Bridge Commissioners to the Commissioners of Works. He did not think it necessary to have separate Bills for the two objects, but it was desirable to wait till the Report should be in the hands of Members, in order to see whether it
 197
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he would give notice on an early day.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the relief of the Suitors in the Court of Chancery. He was aware that some apology was required for prefacing by any remarks the introduction of a Bill which was not likely to meet with any objection; but he was anxious to take the first opportunity of stating briefly to the House the course of measures which it was in the contemplation of the Government to take for the amendment of those abuses and grievances which had for a long time existed in the Court of Chancery, in which, he was happy to say, so much interest of late years had been taken by that House, and to which such pointed allusion was made by the lion. Baronet who moved the Address in reply to Her Majesty's gracious Speech from the Throne. The hon. Baronet was, perhaps, somewhat carried away by the warmth of his own feelings in respect to the case, in which, although not a party concerned, he was still deeply interested; but of that warmth he (the Solicitor General) was not disposed to complain, because he took it to be only a mark of that general discomfort and dissatisfaction which must be felt by a great proportion of the suitors of that Court with respect to the heavy expenses and long delays to which they were subjected. He thought, however, that he had a right to complain of the hon. Baronet's remark, that he had little hope that the numerous lawyers who occupied seats in that House would take steps for reforming the Court of Chancery, because it was not likely that those
 202 203 204 l. l. l. 205 l. l., l. l., l., l. l. 206 l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. d., l. l. l. 207 l., l. l. l., l. l. l. 208 l., l. l. l. l. l. l., l., 209 l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. 210 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 211 l., l., l., l., l. 212 213 l. l., l., l. s. d. l. s. d. . l. l. l., l. s. d. l. l. Parliamentary Paper, No. Session 214 215
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he was desirous at that early period of the Session to obtain leave to bring in a Bill respecting the supply of water to the metropolis; and he would take that opportunity of stating to the House the views he entertained upon the subject. He considered the House to be already in possession of sufficient information by means of Committees and Commissions, which had inquired into the sub-
 216 217 l. l. 218 219 220
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, when the Houses of Parliament had been committed to his charge, he had himself asked Dr. Reid what impediments there were in the way of the ventilation, and was told by that gentleman that there had been impediments existing for the last five years. Now, if Dr. Reid were called to the bar, the House, in seeking to be informed of those causes, must necessarily enter into a great deal of detail, involving perhaps other persons whom it would be necessary in justice to listen to in reply. He was anxious to avoid placing the House in this position, and would therefore suggest the appointment of a Committee to take the subject under inquiry, in which case they would have the opportunity of hearing what was necessary to be heard in reply to the statement of Dr. Reid.
 MR. MOFFATT  moved, as an Amendment, that the question of the ventilation of the House be referred to a Select Committee.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, it did not follow that because Dr. Reid had stated the impediments in the way of his ventilating the House were of five years' standing, that therefore it would take him five years to explain them to the House; and, in fact, Dr. Reid believed he could make everything clear on the subject in the space of ten minutes. At one time hon. Members were warm, and at another time cold; they had water coming down in all directions, one of the candelabra would not burn, and no man could enter the House without feeling that he was exposed to a great degree of discomfort, which, in many cases, would prevent his paying that attention to business which he ought to give. He hoped the subject would receive immediate attention from the House.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  seconded the Motion.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he rose to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government, of which he had given notice. There had appeared in all the public papers a statement with respect to an outrage committed on an English gentleman travelling in Italy, at Florence, by the Austrian soldiery stationed there. It appeared that a gentleman named Mather, happening to be in the street at Florence when a regiment was passing, inadvertently got into the way of the soldiers, and suddenly found himself struck with the flat of a sword by one of the officers. Turning round to ask what was the occasion of this assault, he received from some person a blow of the fist; and while he was reeling under the effects of that blow, and in the act of falling, the officer who first struck him, and who was in command of the troops, cut him down, inflicting a very severe wound upon his head. It did not actually fracture his skull, but it appeared that it was not far from so doing, and the unfortunate man was left weltering in his blood in the street. He was taken up by some passers-by, and carried to the hospital, where he remained for a considerable time; and it was proved that the wound he received was of a very serious, if not of a dangerous, nature. It was also stated that the gentleman representing this Government at the Court of Tuscany, the Secretary of Legation, made representations to the Austrian commanding officer,
 198
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, in reply to the question of the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone, I beg to state that the account which has appeared in the papers of this transaction, is, I believe, very nearly a correct one. There is no difference between the English account and the Austrian, except as to one or two points. It appears that the gentleman was walking behind the band of the regiment, listening to the music, and that there was some obstruction in the street which brought him near the officer who was in command of the troop. The officer struck him with the flat of his sword, and he turned round and was about to complain, when he was struck on the face by another officer. Then, according to his own account, he put up his hand to his face to cover it, and immediately the officer who had first struck him, and who was in command of his troops, cut him down with a stroke of his sword. He bled very much, and was taken to the hospital. This is the English account. The Austrian account, so far as I understand it, is that, in the first place, it is the usage of the Austrian army not to allow any officer to be insulted when on duty in command of troops, and that some officers have been obliged to leave the army in consequence of having submitted to what was considered an outrage. That in this case the officer in command of a regiment, finding that he was prevented from proceeding at the head of it, owing to a person who was before him, and who, as he conceived, from the shape of his hat, was an Italian Liberal, thought that this person meant to insult him, and touched him with the flat of his sword, desiring him to get out of his way; that the person did not do so; that another officer then interfered and struck him on the face; that then the party (and this is the chief difference between the English
 199
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that some particular points of the decision to which the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) had referred, were now under the consideration of the law officers of the Crown, and no final determination could be come to by the Government on the subject until the law officers had given their opinion as to what course should be taken.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he must confess the ventilation of the House was not perfect; but he did not think, if Dr. Reid were called to the bar, the question for the consideration of the House would be found to be so simple a one as some hon. Members seemed to suppose. Although they might question Dr. Reid, who might be able in ten minutes to explain that which he considered the cause of the inefficient ventilation, and that which he wished to be done, yet that which he wished to be done might not be in any means in accordance with the opinions of the architect. In that case would the House refuse to hear Mr. Barry; would they decide that everything Dr. Reid desired was to be carried out, perhaps at very great additional expense, without keeping in view what might be proper architectural difficulties? They must accordingly hear Mr. Barry, and they must hear whether Dr. Reid's objections and views were, in the judgment of the House, a sufficient answer to Mr. Barry or not. The question was one which could hardly be considered by the whole House. It would, probably, take some days to decide upon, and it would be far better disposed of if referred to a Select Committee.
 LORD MARCUS HILL  appeared at the bar, and being called on by Mr. Speaker, said: I have to state, that in obedience to the commands of this House, I have had the honour of waiting on Her Majesty, and presenting the Address of this honourable House, to which Her Majesty has been graciously pleased to return the following Answer:—
 "I have received with much satisfaction your loyal and dutiful Address. "You may rely on My earnest desire to co-operate with you in your endeavours to promote the welfare and prosperity of all classes of My subjects."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, several hon. Members on that side of the House had suffered severely from the state of the atmosphere. He thought that it did not ne-
 234
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was impossible to give an answer in a case involving legal points unless notice of the precise nature of the question was given; and, as he had only received a general notice of the right hon. Gentleman's intention to put some question with reference to duties, he was not prepared to say whether the right hon. Member had correctly stated the decision of the Court of Law. He might say, however, that the Government had no intention at present of taking any steps with the view of reversing the decision of the Court of Exchequer.
 MR. MOWATT  said, he rose to ask a similar leave to that of the noble Lord,
 221 222 223 224 d. d. 225 l. d. l. l.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  thought the House had wholly neglected its duty, as holding the purse-strings of the nation, in permitting so much extravagance in the outlay upon the Houses of Parliament. If either the architecture or the ventilation of the House must give way, he thought it ought to be the former. The atmosphere of the House had been almost insufferable of late.
 MR. HUME  hoped the Motion of the hon. Member for Middlesex would not be opposed. The appointment of a Committee was very well, looking to some distant period, but this was a subject demanding immediate inquiry. He hoped the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) did not mean the House to adjourn until the Committee had made its report. What hon. Members wanted to hear was, who had directions from Government to ventilate the House? The noble Lord said that Dr. Reid had; but hon. Members could hardly judge of this, though they knew very well that the House was not ventilated. Were the Commons of England to be put about in the way they had been? No less than 200,000 l.
 MR. HUME  said, that the Motion was a very proper one, and he hoped that the House would agree to grant the supplies necessary. All that he asked was that the Estimates should be laid upon the table of the House at as early a period as possible, in order that there might be ample time for their consideration; and as
 201
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE,  in moving "that Dr. Reid be called to the Bar of the House and questioned as to the means at his disposal for ventilating the New Buildings," said, that a good supply of air was even more important than a good supply of water, and his present Motion more nearly affected hon. Members than that last under discussion, for it related to the supply of fresh air to this House. Assuredly nothing could be worse than the present state of the ventilation. It was suggested that the subject should be referred to a Committee, but he had strong objections to any such course. In the first place, three Committees had already sat to consider the matter; and to adopt a similar course now would be to shelve the whole question, for they would sit in a room upstairs, they would make a report at the end of the Session, and meanwhile hon. Members would be subject to all the hot and cold blasts from which they had suffered since the Session commenced. Now, he proposed that the House should exert the power it had in the matter, and with this view he would call Dr. Reid to the bar, and, without entering into the personal dispute between that gentleman and Mr. Barry, he would put to him six questions. He would ask him, first—and he invited the noble Lord's (Lord Seymour's) attention to this question—whether there was any impediment to the full and proper action of his plan for the ventilation to the House? Secondly, what those impediments were as to matters of fact,
 232
 MR. SLANEY  considered, that in any Bill that House might adopt, it would be obligatory to have water supplied to the dwellings of the humbler classes, below a certain amount; and, if he had understood his noble Friend (Lord Seymour) aright, I it was intended that this provision should; be enforced. It was one of the greatest evils that existed in many large towns that no such obligation existed, and the consequence was, that the owner of the house would not pay the rate, the poor occupant was not able to pay, and small tenements went unsupplied with water, entailing oftentimes a state of disease which was productive of considerable expense to the ratepayers. Another point to which he wished to refer was this—that though in his opinion it was not absolutely necessary that the same parties who had the management of the sewerage should have the management of the water supply, it was absolutely necessary that they should have such a command over the supply as to carry out what was essential for purposes of drainage. It appeared to him perfectly practicable to call upon the company, or whoever they might be, to grant such a supply of water as was necessary properly to cleanse the sewere. Every one knew that under the improved mode of drainage through piping it was quite impossible to have a perfect system of sewerage unless there was a sufficient supply of water, and that sufficient supply of water it would be necessary to procure by means of stringent provisions in any Bill that was adopted.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer. During last year a prosecution was instituted by the Board of Inland Revenue against the publishers of a work called  The Narrative of Current Events, 200
 MR. W. BROWN  said, he knew an hon. Member who had caught a severe cold in consequence of the blasts of cold air that were admitted into the House, and who had been obliged to keep his bed ever since.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that no expense would be incurred on account of the militia until the Government had taken the opinion of the House upon the subject, with the exception merely of the charge of the inspection and drilling of the militia staff from time to time.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  considered that the hon. Member for Falmouth (Mr.
 229 230
 SIR JOHN JOHNSTONE,  as one of those connected with a large water company in the metropolis, had looked forward with great anxiety to the Government Bill
 231
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  begged to ask the noble Lord whether he could state at what period the Bill would be introduced? because it was very clear, that, if the Report of the Commissioners were carried into effect, no time ought to be lost in preparing and introducing such a Bill. He apprehended that there would be no objection whatever to the introduction of such a measure; and as the season would soon be advancing, and the necessary preparations ought to be made, he trusted the noble Lord would not delay it.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he would take this occasion of asking the noble Lord, whether, in compliance with the recommendation of the Commissioners, confirmed as that recommendation had been by the Reports of two successive Committees of that House, he was at present prepared to bring in a Bill for transferring to the department over which he presided the property of the trust estates of Westminster bridge?
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  explained, that he was quite aware of the necessity, under the regulation of the House, of referring the Bill to the Committee upstairs; but what he complained of was, that his noble Friend proposed to leave the Committee to complete his unfinished Bill for him.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he proposed making a few remarks on both the Bills just brought before the House, and should now be able to do so without troubling the House more than once. He concluded that the Bill of the noble Lord, as well as that of the hon. Member, were to be submitted to a Select Committee as rival
 226 Cries of 227 l. l. 228 s. s. s. l. l. l.,
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he considered that the Bill proposed by the noble Lord would be regarded as some improvement upon the old Reform Act; and he believed that the public would think that there was something more in it than that infinitesimal dose of reform which had been promised to them in a well-known publication. He wished that when the noble Lord had turned his attention to the extension of the franchise, he would have considered and taken that method which offered the best and surest mode of extending it, which was by giving to the people protection at the polling booths. That was a point which ought to have been introduced into the Bill, and he felt certain that it would be a great disappointment when it was found that it had been omitted. A strong feeling existed on the subject of "protection to voters." If the noble Lord had given protection to every man having the right to vote, he would thereby have extended the register and increased the poll-book, both of them curtailed by intimidation—if he had taken care that the voter should be allowed the means of protecting himself, by secrecy, in giving his vote, he would have taken a step, one of the most constitutional he could have taken, and one which would have been most satisfactory to the electors at large. He begged to state that he should propose, in the course of the discussion upon the measure, to make that improvement in it, and endeavour to induce the House to give to the people of England that which they so eminently deserved—protection by ballot in the exercise of that franchise which was their undisputed right.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL , as an Irish representative and a Roman Catholic, wished to take that the first opportunity he had of returning his earnest thanks to the noble Lord for doing away with that most insulting of oaths, which the law hitherto imposed upon Members of his religious creed. He believed the measure would be fully appreciated in Ireland, and he hoped the noble Lord would have simply the Oath of Allegiance as competent to admit Members to that House. The people of Ireland had always proved their allegiance to Her Majesty; they were ready to do so again, and he was sure that portion of the Bill of the noble Lord, to which he had more particularly alluded, would be regarded in Ireland with ardent gratitude.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  rose to protest against the stigma which the hon. Baronet who spoke last but one, attempted to fasten on the borough which he had the honour to represent. He would challenge that hon. Gentleman, or any one else, to go down and ascertain from his political opponents at Christchurch, whether there had been any bribery or undue influence exercised at his election. It was too bad for these "two patriots" of Marylebone to come down and brand boroughs with corruption, because they had small constituencies. He thought the Bill would at least have the effect of opening the eyes of the public to the real merits of what were called "popular orators;" and that the poorer working classes when represented by such a class of men, would not continue to give them their support, but would require more solid quali-
 317
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  said, that as one of those who had, last year, refused to support the isolated propositions for reform which were brought forward or suggested, and who had preferred to wait for the measure which the noble Lord had promised to bring forward in the present Session, and which he had ventured to think would prove a satisfactory measure, he had listened with interest to the announcement of his plans which the noble Lord had that night made; and though the Bill to be brought forward did not go quite so far, perhaps, as he might have wished, yet he did think that when the country came to consider it, the people would not look upon it as that milk and water measure which it had been described to be by the hon. Member for Bolton (Sir J. Walmsley), but that they would rather consider it, on the whole, as a great extension of the franchise, lie confessed, however, he had hoped that the noble Lord would have held out to them some prospect that the advantages he calculated upon from the measure he had announced, should have been effected by means of the ballot; and he much regretted to find that one Cabinet Minister (Mr. Fox Maule) had already recanted his opinions on a measure (the ballot) which he (Mr. Stanley) believed in his conscience to be necessary for the due exercise of the elective franchise.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he must admit there was a very great difference between the state of feeling in that House and the state of public opinion out of doors on the subject of reform, and that which existed in the House and in the country at the time when the first Reform Bill was introduced; but it would be a great mistake to argue from that difference that there was not an earnest feeling in the country in favour of reform. Twenty years ago, when the first Reform Bill was introduced, it was well known that the measure to be brought forward would be of a large and comprehensive nature: it therefore enlisted the ardent sympathies of liberal men; while, on the other side, Gentlemen were indignant that there should be any extension of popular rights; and Gentlemen who rejoiced in Gatton and Old Sarum, and boroughmongers of every class, were incensed to the highest degree at the idea of being deprived of that unrighteous power which they had wielded so long; and they came down to that House in great numbers to defend the abuses in which they rejoiced; but now he did not think that men on the Liberal side of the House, or the Liberal party in the country, had formed such sanguine expectations: and neither were Gentlemen opposite
 313 l. l.; l. l. s. 314 315 316
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, as the details of the Bill would naturally come under discussion at a future period, he would confine himself to the principle. The measure did not differ very widely in principle from that which had been announced some time ago, and was expected by all sides of the House. He differed from those who thought it an extremely shortcoming measure. He believed that in all parts of the country, with the exception, perhaps, of Lancashire and the west of Yorkshire, it would be received with extreme satisfaction. After the exposure of last Session with respect to what took place in the small boroughs, it would have been impossible to leave those boroughs in their present state. The mode of dealing with them proposed by the noble Lord certainly interfered as little with existing interests as any that could be named. The proposed reduction of the franchise was a very extensive measure, and went as far as was safe in that direction. It was difficult to say how far the proposed alteration in the county franchise would extend the suffrage, but there was no doubt it would
 298
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  expressed a hope that the second reading would not be fixed for so early a day.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  then said he would take the second reading, instead of on Monday se'nnight, on the Friday in that week.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : On Wednesday or Thursday.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I will bring in the Bill on Wednesday, or, it may be, Thursday. I will then propose that it be read a second time on Friday fortnight.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I have now, Sir, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to extend the Right of Voting for Members of Parliament, and to amend the laws relating to the representation of the People. The state of affairs in which I bring forward this Motion ought to be satisfactory to Parliament and to the country. On looking back for the last four years, we have seen the continent of Europe torn by convulsions; but during that period the aspect of this country has been tranquil and loyal, and any threatened danger to our institutions has been met by the general spirit and unanimous feeling of the country. Sir, it appears to me that this is the proper time for considering whether any further extension can be given to the right of voting consistently with the principles of the constitution, by which the prerogatives of the Crown, and the authority of both Houses of Parliament, and the rights and liberties of the people, are equally secured. I know, Sir, there are some who say that we ought to wait rather until there is agitation on the subject—that it is better to legislate upon a subject of this kind when the passions of the people have been aroused—that then there is great discontent on the one side, and great fear on the other. Sir, I totally differ from that opinion. If we think it is desirable to make any further extension of
 253 254 255 l. 256 l. 257 "In the representation, as we propose to leave it, there will still be a class which some may think a blot on our system, but the existence, I think, will add to the permanence of Parliament, and to the welfare of the people—I mean that there will be a hundred or more Members from places of three, four, five, or six thousand inhabitants, who will not perhaps immediately represent any particular interest, and who may, therefore, be better qualified to speak and inform the House on great questions of general interest to the community. If we had proceeded as some recommended, viz., to destroy the existing system, and to allow none but Members from counties, and large cities and towns, although it would have been a representation of the landed, commercial, and manufacturing interests, something would still have been wanting to its completeness. That something I find in a number of persons not connected either with the land, commerce, or manufactures, but who are certainly well worthy to enter these walls, and able to give advice and advance opinions important to the welfare of the community."—[3  Hansard 258 259 260 l. 261 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 262 s. l. l. l. l. s. s. 263 264 l. l. 265 266 267 l. l. 268 l. l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that, with reference to the first part of this question, he might state that when he entered office he received Her Majesty's directions that all foreign despatches should be sent to Her Majesty; and the letter which he had read on a previous evening was only confirmatory of that instruction. On inquiring of Her Majesty whether colonial despatches also were to be submitted to Her Majesty, Her Majesty was pleased to say that She was desirous to know all important decisions affecting the Colonial Office, but that every particular despatch need not be submitted to Her. What was done with respect to this particular de-
 252
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL , in reply to the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Newdegate), said he proposed to take the second reading of the Bill on Monday se'nnight.
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not think that statement satisfactory. It is impossible
 302 303 304 305 306 l. l. 307 308
 MR. DISRAELI : Some doubt, I understand, prevails as to the time at which the noble Lord proposes to move the Second Reading of the Bill. I was, unfortunately, not in the House when the noble Lord referred to this subject, but I understand that the Bill is not ready to be laid upon the table. It is customary when a statement of importance, such as that which the noble Lord has this evening made, is addressed to the House, that the Bill on which it professes to be founded should be laid on the table at the same time; but I understand it is the intention of the noble Lord not to bring in the Bill until Wednesday next.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to know for what day the second reading of the Bill would stand. The Bill was of great importance, and he therefore trusted the noble Lord would afford the House and the country full time for the consideration of its details. Before the noble Lord answered his question, he begged to express his regret that the noble Lord seemed determined not to have the sanction of Christianity for his measure; and his hearty concurrence in the able protest against the proposed alteration of the Oaths of Members of Parliament so ably made by the
 295
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House, that he had received a Letter, dated Police Court, Bow Street, 9th February, 1852, and signed T. Henry, which he read to the House, as follows:—
 "Police Court, Bow Street, 9th Feb., 1852. "Sir—As I understand it is the practice to communicate to the House the arrest of a Member of Parliament, I beg leave to report to you, that Mr. Feargus O'Connor was convicted by me: this day for having assaulted a Police Constable on last Saturday night, and was committed to prison for seven days, under the provisions of the 2nd and 3rd Victoria, chap. 47, sect. 18.—I have the honour to be, your obedient Servant, "T. Henry, A Magistrate of Bow Street Police Court. "Right Honourable the Speaker of the House of Commons," &c.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he must claim credit for having suggested the 50 l. 301
 MR. ROCHE  begged to congratulate the House and the country upon the liberal and enlightened speech which they had just heard from the hon. Member for Inverness-shire. Nobody could doubt the march of intellect and the progress of opinion when they heard such liberal sentiments coming from that portion of the House which used to be called the Tory camp, and he confessed his curiosity was greatly excited to see the new Reform Bill to be brought in by those hon. Members. After the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down, going far beyond the Bill of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and after the speech of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), giving a qualified approval to the noble Lord's measure, there could be no mistake about getting a Reform Bill. A Reform Bill they must have, because it was declared on both sides of the House that reform was necessary and needed. But he wished to know distinctly, was the Bill, or was it not, to be extended in its integrity to Ireland? He quite agreed with the hon. Member who spoke last, that by the Reform Bill of 1832 great injustice was done to Scotland, and still greater injustice to Ireland. Nothing could be more monstrous or more unjust than the apportionment of representation to Ireland. If population were taken alone as the basis, instead of 105, the Irish representatives ought to number 207. If
 294
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that although it was not for him to give any opinion as to whether the measure of the noble Lord was one which would be satisfactory to the country, he was not surprised at the speech made by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright); and, in fact, he should be surprised if those who sat on the opposite side of the House, and who regarded reform as an article of faith—he should be surprised if those hon. Gentlemen did not feel some disappointment that a measure so imperfect as the present should have been submitted to that House as a satisfac-
 289 290 291 Parliamentary Companion 292 "——To bear those ills we have Than fly to others that we know not of." 293
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had been endeavouring to weigh the various portions of the propositions which the noble Lord had submitted to the House, and he was bound in fairness to admit that while there were some portions of it of which he entirely disapproved, and with respect to which the noble Lord had fallen very far short of that which it was his duty to propose, and which the country expected from him, still he was bound to say there were some portions of the measure which would give some degree of satisfaction to large classes outside that House. It was perhaps difficult to say so soon after the measure was laid before them how much good it would do. He spoke of good, of course, not in the direction of the hon. Baronet the Member for Radnorshire (Sir J. Walsh), but in the direction of those opinions which he (Mr. Bright) was known there and elsewhere to entertain in respect to the extension of the franchise. However, as the noble Lord's speech would be all over the country to-morrow, he thought it was quite fair that they who differed considerably from his views should have the opportunity of making some observations on that speech, in order that when the public read, as every man in England who could read would to-morrow read the speech of the noble Lord, they might, if they thought it worth while, read the speeches of those who differed from him. Now, the great proposal—democratic proposal—of the noble Lord was the 5 l. 282 283 l. l. l. l. l. l. 284 l. s. l. l. 285 286 l. l. 287 288
 MR. HERRIES  wished to know when it would be read a first time.
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie) would retract the statement which he had made, that the borough of Tavistock, which he had the honour of representing, was under the nomination of the Duke of Bedford: the assertion he considered most unfair. He recollected, that the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) asked, last Session, what right had hon. Gentlemen on that (the Ministerial) side of the House to say that hon. Members on the other side were against the extension of the suffrage? He believed that the object of the hon. Gentleman in putting that question was to reserve to his party the opportunity of outbidding the Government on the subject of Parliamentary Reform. The observations which had been made by the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie), he suspected, had for their object to catch Irish Members, by pointing out the injustice which had been done to Ireland. The hon. Member's object was to defeat the present measure, by combining against the Government two very incongruous elements. He, therefore, warned the liberal party against this attempt to create division in their camp. He implored them to accept the measure, such as it was; and before he sat down he
 296
 MR. JOHN WILLIAMS  said, that he wished to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government. A noble Duke, in another place, had lately, in speaking of Sir Harry Smith, referred to his conduct in terms of approval, and had spoken highly of his military services. Since then, however, a blue book upon the affairs of the Cape of Good Hope had been circulated [ Parliamentary Papers
 MR. HUME  said, he had waited with great anxiety for the statement which had just been addressed to the House; and he begged to say, at the outset, that in much that had fallen from the noble Lord he entirely and most heartily concurred. But, excellent as was the statement of the noble
 269 270
 MR. P. H. HOWARD  begged to differ from the hon. Baronet as to the attention and temper with which the propositions of the noble Lord had been received. He contended that the propositions which had been submitted to the House had been received with earnest attention and manful approbation. The proposition which went to reduce the franchise to 5 l. 277 s.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  thought there was some confusion in the minds of hon. Members on that (the Government) side of the House. As far as he understood the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), it was not proposed to call upon those Members who were in favour of a larger extension of the suffrage to make their election between his (the noble Lord's) plan and their own. It was not a compromise proposed, but an instalment offered, and the noble Lord, at the conclusion of his speech, which he (Mr. Anstey) thought made a deep impression on those around him, pointed to the time when it would be in the power of the Minister to propose to Parliament the adoption of a much larger measure of reform, suited, as he anticipated, to the progress of national education. The noble Lord did not propose to the House this as a final measure, but as one which the circumstances of the country warranted him in submitting to the approbation of the Legislature. That being the view in which the noble Lord proposed the measure, it would be perfectly consistent if he should hereafter be induced to accede to the vain hope expressed in the remarkable speech of the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie), which, if it meant anything at all, referred to the large measure of reform once propounded by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli). Nothing in the details of the Bill, and nothing promised by either the hon. Member for Inverness-shire, or the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, would induce him (Mr. Anstey) to withhold his support in this Session to the present Bill, or in a future Session to a scheme of Parliamentary reform, grounded on triennial Parliaments and household suffrage. If the noble Lord succeeded—and succeed he trusted he would—in carrying the present measure, it would facilitate the progress of a larger measure at a future time, and a large step would be taken towards that protection of the voter which he had tardily and reluctantly come to consider indispensable, and without which any measure must be a mischief and a delusion. He was now satisfied that whether a tenant sought protection against his landlord, a shopkeeper against his customers, or a Roman Catholic against his intermeddling priest, the ballot was the only remedy which promised to
 299 l.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, in previous Sessions the Government had been charged with not introducing a measure of reform, and now the Gentlemen opposite came forward and said the noble Lord was too hasty in his proposal, and was about to cause unnecessary excitement among the people during this happy state of peaceable prosperity; and the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) called upon the noble Lord to postpone the Bill for an indefinite time—one of the most monstrous propositions he ever heard. As the right hon. Gentleman (Sir G. Grey) had shown, the material points alluded to by the hon. Member were matters of detail, and these would naturally be considered in Committee. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) said, the Bill ought to have been laid on the table of the House at once, and blamed the noble Lord for not having it ready at this moment. That hon. Gentleman was not a Member of the House when the first Reform Bill was introduced; but he could tell him that his noble Friend was now acting in the same way as he then did. On the 10th of March, leave was given to bring in the first Reform Bill, and it was read a first time on the 14th of March. That was the very course now pro-
 310 311 l. l. l. 312 l. l. l. l.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had listened, as he always did, with attention to the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and he must confess he was unable to discover whether he was to be numbered among the supporters or the opponents of the Bill. From some of his observations it might be implied that he would have been very glad if an extension of the suffrage had not been proposed by the Government; but now, when an outline of the proposed measure had been given by his noble Friend, the hon. Gentleman stated that to the principle of that measure he did not see any objection. Then the hon. Member asked for a month's delay, in order that the minute details of the Bill might be considered by the country and the House. Now, the details of the measure were questions essentially for the Committee, such, for example, as whether a town should be joined with one borough or with another. He hoped, therefore, the House would not consent to the delay proposed by the hon. Gentleman. He agreed with him that other subjects of great importance required the attention of Parliament; but the best way to ensure their consideration was to incur no delay in proceeding with the Bill now before the House. The hon. Gentleman said it was a very unusual occurrence not to lay a Bill before the House on the night on which leave was given to bring it in; but he believed he was wholly mistaken as to the usual course in this matter, and that it was very common to allow an interval of a couple of days before a Bill is presented. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stamford asked a question as to the day fixed for the second reading; and his noble Friend in reply gave a full fortnight, not between the present time and the second reading, but from the time when the Bill would be in their hands. Such a period he did not think at all unreasonable. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) hinted something about manœuvres and tricks with reference to the arrangements under the Bill, and founded that suspicion on what he said had notoriously taken place with the Reform Bill of 1832. What the circumstances were to which the hon. Gentleman referred, he knew not; but if any proposals were made by Ministers that could be called in question, ample opportunities would be given of stating objections when they
 309 l. l.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, that the friends of reform seemed to find it very difficult to define the principle of the proposed Bill. Now, he ventured to suggest that if it were entitled "a Bill for the continuance of Her Majesty's present Ministers in office," it would not be a bad definition of its object at least. If one might judge by the declarations of those who called themselves the friends of reform, the measure was not likely to give general satisfaction. It was not approved of by the hon. Member for Bolton (Sir J. Walmsley), or by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. Anstey). He must say that, with respect to the constituency in Essex in which Harwich was situated, and to which reference had been made, he believed that the Bill would be perfectly
 300
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, it was about twenty years ago since he had the advantage, or disadvantage, of witnessing the exposition of the noble Lord in introducing the great Reform Bill, which afterwards became the law of the laud; and when he contrasted the manner in which the announcement of that measure was received by the House of Commons—when he recollected the intense excitement which pervaded all parts of the House, and when
 271 272 273 274 275 276
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he must express the gratification with which he had listened to the speech of the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie). In his opinion the measure was not worthy of approbation. It would not be received with approval by the people out of doors; it was, in fact, a small measure, totally unworthy of the noble Lord and his colleagues. There were fifty or sixty boroughs returning two representatives having less than 500 voters. But was the noble Lord aware that there were 627 large towns in this country, that were assessed to the income tax to the amount of 15,300,000 l. 297 l. l.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that whether the present Motion were considered one entitled to no particular degree of interest, or whether it were a question the most important which had ever been brought forward, this at least was clear, that three of the four Gentlemen who had risen since the noble Lord had introduced the subject, had taken different grounds of objection to it; yet had, as it appeared to him from the silence of the House, not represented more than their own individual opinions. The contrast which his hon. Friend (Sir J. Walsh) had called to their recollections, had operated very forcibly on his own mind. The House of Commons of February, 1852, was certainly very different from the House of Commons of March, 1831, when the subject of Parliamentary Reform was first brought forward by the noble Lord as the organ of the Government of that
 278 279 octroyée 280 281
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the extension of the Irish Parliamentary franchise would be provided for by a distinct Bill; but there were some parts of the Bill for leave to introduce which he moved on the previous evening—for instance, that relating to the Oaths to be taken by Members of that House—which would apply to Ireland as well as to England.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that, although the hon. and learned Member had given notice of this question, he was not aware that he had intended to bring it forward on that day, and he was therefore not then prepared to answer it. He would make inquiries on the subject, and answer the question on a future day; but at present he believed that his noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs had no means of answering the question.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, as the Government have been appealed to, I will state generally the course they have pursued on this subject. We found when we came into office that Bills upon this subject had been introduced, and we took those Bills for the foundations of the measures we proposed. In more than one Session of Parliament the Chief Secretary for Ireland introduced Bills on this subject, one of which was sent into a Committee. The hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Keogh), and the hon. Member for Car-low (Mr. Sadleir), served upon that Committee, as did many other Irish Members of great knowledge and experience. My right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary gave very considerable time and attention to its proceedings; and, with no very ambitious hopes, he bestowed great labour upon it, I was kept informed of the results, and I was told that after many meetings there was an agreement among the Members of the Committee as to what clauses should be adopted and amended. That Bill rather came under the designation of what might be called a sensible Bill; but it did not follow because the Bill was a sensible Bill, that it would be acceptable or give satisfaction to people in Ireland. We were informed that the Bill would be the textbook for agitators: that it was said, "Look at the clauses of this Bill, see how the tenant is robbed, see how injustice is perpetrated. This is the Bill of the Government, and you may see how much they wish to oppress the people of Ireland." That was the sort of language used to-
 359 360
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I understood the hon. Gentleman otherwise. You cannot by law produce that confidence which ought to exist between landlord and tenant. Look at the case of many estates in England, where there are no leases, but where the landlord and tenant conjointly erect farm buildings of great value, and where perfect confidence exists on both sides. The tenant feels that his landlord will not deprive him of the advantages to which he is justly entitled. Look at the cases more general in Scotland where the lease is more in the nature of a commercial transaction. The tenant has his lease for nineteen or twenty-one years, and he makes his calculation whether he will reap the benefit of any improvements, and he makes them or not accordingly. In both these cases the two parties are satisfied in the trustworthiness of the other. But if you have no such feeling—if you have no such confidence—I will defy any Government or any law to bestow it by an Act of Parliament. Well, then, if you come forward and say farm buildings are an improvement, and it is the custom, if the tenant makes improvements, that the landlord
 361
 MR. ROCHE  said, that whatever had been the information that had resulted or would result from the present discussion, Her Majesty's Government, at all events, had done very little to elucidate this difficult question. The greatest misfortune which could befall a country was, that it should find itself with a Government who in times of danger or difficulty were either unable or unwilling to govern it rightly; and, judging from the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for Ireland, that country was in such a position. Nothing was more futile than for that right hon. Gentleman to say he would meet the present difficulties of Ireland by that old system of coercion, by that vain attempt at what he called strengthening the law there, or by an alteration in the jury system. By anything so shallow as this, the unhappy state of Ireland could never be settled; and his hon. Friend who had just spoken, had acted much more fairly and candidly, not only with the House but with the country, in calling upon those Irish Members who defended tenant-right to come forward. He (Mr. Roche) was not prepared to approve altogether of the Bill of the hon. Member for Rochdale; but he did not hesitate, for one, to say that many things might be done in Ireland to settle to a certain extent the unhappy relations between landlord and tenant. In dealing with this question they had first to consider what were the relations of landlords and tenants. These relations were the relations of debtor and creditor, and nothing else. Landlord and tenant ought to deal with one another, and to be dealt with, as debtor and creditor; and the question was, why were not debtors and creditors in connection with land subject to the same laws as ordinary debtors and creditors? The ordinary debtor and creditor law was on a most satisfactory footing. The special debtor and creditor law, in respect to landlord and tenants, was on a most unsatisfactory footing. The result was the evil which they saw in the present condition of Ireland. Whoever heard of paying butchers' bills or bakers' bills with bullet? Yet the agrarian outrages and murders in
 348 349 350 per se
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  gave his hearty assent to the principle of the Bill. It was his belief that the counties would be fully compensated by the returns of the railways. There was a case in this country, of the river Weaver, in Cheshire, the receipts from which went in reduction of the county rates. There was no attempt
 376
 COLONEL DUNNE  believed that the feeling of the Irish Members generally was in favour of this Bill, though he, for one, did not wish to commit himself on details. With regard to what the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) had said, that no Grand Juries had signified their assent to the principle of the measure, the reason of that was, that no assizes had been held since the question was mooted; but if the second reading was fixed at a reasonable period, the Grand Juries would have met in the interim, and the Government would then have the advantage of knowing their opinions.
 MR. MOORE  would act upon the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), and would endeavour, categorically, and in as few words as possible, to state to the House what was the evil of which the bulk of the population of Ireland complained. And inasmuch as the Bill of the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. S. Crawford) was not before the House, he (Mr. Moore) would confine himself strictly to the relation of the wrong, and would not enter at all into the remedy. And to confine himself still more carefully within the sphere of his own experience and observation, he would limit himself to
 351
 MR. MOORE  explained: He did not claim for the tenant restitution of any wrong committed, but that the wrong should not be allowed in future.
 MR. AGLIONBY  agreed with the hon. Member who had last spoken that laws could not make people moral, but yet they might alter those laws which had a tendency to promote immorality. For his own part, however, be should have been better pleased if the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) had turned his attention to secure a good system of rural police, rather than reverting to the old system of magisterial licences.
 MR. AGLIONBY  thought the debate was verging very closely upon party and personal attacks, and that the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Athlone (Mr. Keogh) was not so much directed to the elucidation of this great question as to a party fight; nor had the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) by his speech at all cleared up the difficulty which surrounded the question. There seemed some fatality in their endeavours to improve Ireland, since it invariably elicited such warm feeling; and though the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) said it was not his duty or the duty of his hon. relative to frame this Bill, he must tell him and all the Irish Members that it was the duty of all well-wishers of their country to lay aside all party feelings upon questions immediately affecting the interests of their constituents. He believed, with the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that legislation would do little to create confidence between landlord and tenant—that that must be the consequence of a good feeling between the different parties. In England we are subjected to the same laws that existed in Ireland, yet there was no complaint on the subject. A tenant living upon church lands could only take a lease for seven years; and if he made any
 372
 MR. AGLIONBY , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to effect the compulsory enfranchisement of lands of copyhold and customary tenure, said, that he considered he should best consult the feelings of the House by shortly stating what had been done on this subject. The House would recollect that his own Bill of last Session, and that of the hon. Member for Cirencester (Mr. Mullings), had both been referred to a Select Committee, and it was a remarkable fact that that Committee never had a division. They unanimously agreed to a Report, and had instructed him to prepare and to present a Bill in accordance with it. A Bill accordingly was framed, but on account of the lateness of the Session he was requested by the House to withdraw it, and reintroduce it this Session. It had been printed and circulated during the recess, and he now asked leave to reintroduce it as printed, without the alteration of a single word. He would explain the principles of the Bill on the second reading.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, he wished the minds of English Members to be disabused of the impression conveyed by the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department—that the combination existing in the north of Ireland was a combination to lower rents. He could not attribute the attacks on Mr. Chambre or Mr. Bateson to a combination having such an object. It would be much better to state the fact, if it were true, that houses were pulled down over the heads of their occupants, and that men had gone into houses to set fire to them to force the tenants out. He would ask English Gentlemen whether these were English practices? The Government should know the real cause of the disturbances by means of their law officers, and if they did not apply a remedy they should exonerate the character of the people. The hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. S. Crawford) did not propose to appoint a set of men to fix an arbitrary amount of rent; but he merely proposed to appoint persons who would decide the amount of compensation to which the tenant was entitled for any improvements he might have made. The right hon. Baronet had not referred at all to the case of improvements effected by the tenants. It was unjust that a person should expend large sums of money for the improvement of the estate occupied by him, and be then turned out of possession without compensation. In no case ought the landlord to be exonerated from giving compensation. A great deal of the evil which existed in Ireland arose from absenteeism. He knew of a property which was worth
 343 l. l. l. 344 l. l. 345
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he did not rise to make any objection to the Motion; on the contrary, he was glad that this measure should be placed before Parliament and the public in Ireland, the principle embodied in the Bill having received so general an assent in the course of last Session. As his hon. Friend had just stated, the principle of the Bill was brought under the attention of the Government at the close of last Session, by a deputation composed of various parties, when his noble Friend at the head of the Government expressed his willingness to agree to such a measure, provided there was a general assent to its principle on the part of the people of Ireland. Since that time the Government had not received any assurance from any of the Grand Juries of Ireland that they were anxious for such a measure. Had they received any such assurance, they were so convinced of the importance of extending the railway system in Ireland, as conferring great benefit on the country, that they would have brought the subject before the House. But they had not hitherto received any such assurance as would induce or justify
 375
 MR. KERSHAW  hoped that the hon. Member for Droitwich would state what was the principle of the Bill which he was about to introduce.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that often as he had listened to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester with pleasure, he had never done so with greater gratification than on the present occasion. The hon. Gentleman stated to the House that he had visited Ireland on one occasion for two or three weeks, and that during that time he had applied his great understanding to the condition of the law of landlord and tenant as it existed in that country;
 369 370 371
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he would not have offered a single word to the House at this stage of the measure but for the observations of the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne), who, he was afraid, had said something to lead the House to suppose that he had a specific for this very
 366 367 368
 MR. SADLEIR  said, the noble Lord had misunderstood him. It never entered into his imagination that confidence between landlord and tenant could be established by legislation.
 MR. SADLEIR  considered that the hon. Baronet who had just addressed the House misunderstood the nature of the Bill which it was proposed to introduce. He (Mr. Sadleir) did not think, under the provisions of the Bill, there would be any encouragement to an indolent or ill-conducted tenant. The hon. Baronet had shown, in the county with which he was connected, what he considered the vicious working of the Tenant Right. He had put the case of a tenant who, by the sale of his goodwill in his holding, obtained the means of paying his arrears, with sufficient also to enable him to emigrate to America. There was another view, however, of the question—another case which was of frequent occurrence in many
 354 355 356
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  continued: The only view he had in making a reference to
 352 353
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  observed that, as he understood the proposition of the hon. Member, he would vest in the landlords now just so much property as they had when Ireland was desolate and waste 300 years ago.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HUME  said, he had listened with great regret to the charges which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Grattan) had brought against the Government and against the occupants of the benches on that (the Ministerial) side of the House. He (Mr. Hume) did not see the justice of the accusations; and he certainly did not see the advantages of them. The House would be glad to hear the hon. Gentleman if, instead of urging these charges, he would tell the House what this Motion really meant. Surely there were hon. Members present who were capable of explaining to the House what it was the Irish people wanted, and what it was the landlords objected to. Let the House understand what was really the feeling upon the subject, and not run into matters which did not relate to it in any degree. There was no doubt that this question was of the greatest importance, and excited the utmost interest in Ireland. There had been numerous meetings respecting what was called tenant-right in Ireland, and he had read the reports of these meetings. He had, however, noticed that the discussions in Ireland had been of a very one-sided character. There had been an assertion, not an argument, in this matter; and even the Irish Members who had spoken had not stated at all definitely the principles upon which tenant-right rested. The House of Commons was, however, the fitting arena for temperate discussion; and he hoped that, on this occasion, hon. Gentlemen representing Irish constituencies would enter upon this discussion temper-
 346 347
 MR. BAINES  said, that the arrangements already made for the conduct of the public business in that House, would, he apprehended, prevent his introducing a Bill on this subject early in the Session. The Government, and no member of it more than himself, were fully aware of the importance of the subject, and of the necessity, daily becoming more evident, of introducing some material change in the Law of Settlement; and if it appeared in the course of the Session that there was any possibility of legislating on the subject, he was authorised to state that the Government would be prepared to introduce a measure.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, if there was one reason more pressing than another which should induce Government to legislate on this subject, he thought it was that by so doing they would, at the approaching election, take away one of those popular claptraps which were the means of introducing into that House Members who had very little practical knowledge of the working of the law of landlord and tenant, who held language out of that House most advantageous to the tenant, and who in that House supported Bills which were of a character the House could not agree to. Therefore he joined with the hon. Member for Mayo (Mr. Moore), and the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Roche), in urging the Government to do something in this matter. But he must say it was not very encouraging to the Government to hear the very few suggestions thrown out. The hon. Member for Cork, notwithstanding his practical knowledge and the good sense he always displays, only recommends an alteration in the law of distress. If he was correctly informed, the evils inflicted by the law of distress were not confined to Ireland, and the arguments he used were just as applicable to the whole of the United Kingdom. In Scotland, for instance, a distraint can even reach the crop after it has been converted into flour, and is on the road to the market. Another hon. Member complained of the large stream of emigration which was constantly draining the country. He thought emigration was natural to the distresses under which the country laboured; but, as regarded the south of Ireland, he believed that it was slowly emerging from the effects of the storm of agitation which passed over it. The hon. Member for Mayo described the calamities of the country 200 years back; and what remedy did he propose? None at all. Then came the hon. Member for Carlow (Mr. Sadleir), than whom no one
 357 358 ,La propriété c'est le vol.
 MR. SLANEY  said, he must express a hope that his hon. Friend (Sir J. Pakington) would endeavour to apply such a remedy to the evils of which he complained as would not raise the price of the article of life in question. The Gentlemen who spoke so frequently of the immorality occasioned by beershops would do a great
 378
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  wished to put a question of which he had given notice to the noble Lord at the head of the Government. It had been stated that British subjects of great respectability (including a Protestant clergyman), who had been residing in Hungary for ten years, during which it was a Protestant country, and latterly under the protection of the Austrian constitution, which secures liberty of conscience to all, had been, by an arbitrary order of the Cabinet of Vienna, compelled to quit their residence at Pesth and the Austrian territories within six days. To comply with this order, they were compelled to make large sacrifices of property, and to expose their families, many of the members of which were of tender age, to the hardship of a long and painful route at an inclement season of the year. No charge had been brought against them affecting their loyalty to the Government under which they lived, and they had the highest testimonials of approbation from their spiritual superiors at home, the Free Church of Scotland. He wished to know whether, supposing the Austrian law of domicile to be as he had assumed it, and the facts which he had stated to be true, the Government had taken any, and, if so, what measures, to procure from the Cabinet of Vienna satisfaction for this gross violation of national right?
 MR. LENNARD  said, he objected strongly to the Bill proposed by the hon. Member for Rochdale; and he thought the hon. and learned Member for Athlone had not put the question fairly, when he asked whether a tenant ought not to be compensated for improvements made by him. He (Mr. Lennard) admitted that, if the improvements were made under the eye and with the consent of the landlord, the tenant would be entitled to compensation. In England this state of things is provided for by previous arrangement; but by the present Bill the landlord was to make compensation, whether the alterations had been made with his consent or not. He considered this a great injustice—a great encroachment on the rights of property, almost amounting to confiscation, taking away all discretion from the landlord, and fixing him with a responsibility against his will. He wished the Government had objected to the introduction of the Bill, even for discussion; but as it had not done so, all he could do would he to protest against it at the present time.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  moved for, and obtained leave to bring in a Bill to establish county financial boards for the assessing of county rates, and for the administration of county expenditure in England and Wales.
 MR. MITCHELL  moved to renew the Select Committee of last Session, appointed to inquire into the constitution and management of the Board of Customs, and, in doing so, said that he was only carrying out the desire of the Committee. He might say that, though the Committee
 379
 MR. MITCHELL  was not very well acquainted with the provisions of the hon. Baronet's measure, but if it were intended to place beershops on the same footing as public-houses, he would give it his most strenuous opposition, because he believed the effect of that system was to give the large brewers a practical monopoly that enabled them to make great fortunes at the expense of the people.
 MR. EWART  feared that the morality of the people was not to be promoted by Acts of Parliament. He knew that the beersellers of the metropolis, who were a most respectable set of men, had a strong-feeling on the subject, and he hoped, therefore, the hon. Gentleman would not press his measure without giving all parties an opportunity to be heard.
 MR. KEOGH  did not intend to address the House upon the present occasion, as he thought there would be many opportunities for discussing the measure, more especially as he learned that the Government would not oppose the introduction of the Bill. But as the debate had proceeded so far, and as they had been invited to discuss the principle of the Bill, he would
 362 "However ignorant many of us may be of the state of Ireland, we have here the best evidence that can be procured, the evidence of persons best acquainted with that country—of magistrates for many years, of farmers, of those who have been employed by the Crown—and all tell you that the possession of land is that which makes the difference between existing and starving amongst the
 363 "'Famine is in thy cheeks, Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes, Upon thy back hangs ragged misery. The world is not thy friend, nor the world's law; The world affords no law to make thee rich: Then be not poor, but break it.' Such is the incentive which is given to the poor Irish peasant to break the law, which he considers deprives him of the means of obtaining a subsistence. On this ground I say, then, if you were right to introduce any measure to repress crime beyond the ordinary powers of the law, it would have been right at the same time to introduce other measures by which the means of subsistence might be increased, and by which the land, upon which alone the Irish peasant subsists, might be brought more within his reach, and other mode of occupation allowed to him more than he now possesses" [3  Hansard 364 365
 MR. KEOGH  seconded the Motion.
 MR. KEOGH  begged to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, whether provisions for the extension of the Irish franchise would be included in the measure for reforming the English franchise? He thought it very important that Ireland should he included in the same Bill with England; and the course which he and other Members were likely to take with respect to this measure would depend very much upon the purport of the noble Lord's answer upon this point.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  moved for leave to bring in a Bill, to enable Grand Juries in Ireland to make Presentments in aid of Railways, in certain cases. He felt it was not necessary to trespass, at any length, upon the time of the House, in advocating the introduction of this measure, for, if he had been at all successful in sounding the intentions of hon. Members, there was no probability of the Bill being
 373 374
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  was sorry that the Bill was the same as last year, because he believed that the provisions of that Bill would have been exceedingly injurious in certain parts of the country, and particularly in his own district. If the measure had applied only to the agricultural districts, he would have offered no opposition, because it might be that abuses existed there; but he believed that with regard to large towns, the provisions of the Bill were not necessary, while he had every reason to believe they were likely to inflict serious injury. He hoped, therefore, the hon. Gentleman would give ample time for the consideration of the measure.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  begged to move for leave to bring in a Bill to provide for the better securing and regulating the custom of Tenant Right as practised in the province of Ulster, and to secure compensation to improving tenants who may not make claim under the said custom, and to limit the power of eviction in certain cases. At the close of the last Session he was invited to call a meeting of Members of Parliament and other persons interested in the subject in Dublin during
 334 "And in one respect more miserable than bond slaves, for commonly the bond slave is fed by his lord; but here the lord was fed by his bond slave, and this made the land waste and the people idle; and hereupon, of necessity, came depopulation, banishment, and extirpation, and such as remained became idlers and lookers-on; and this oppression did of force and necessity
 335 "We are satisfied that enactments calculated to promote the improvement of the country, and so to extend the demand for free and profitable labour, should make essential parts of any law for ameliorating the condition of the poor. We see that the labouring class are eager for work; that work there is not for them, and that they are therefore, and not from any fault of their own, in permanent want." —"recommended to the consideration of Parliament, measures which, with a due regard to the rights of property, might advance the social condition of the people, and tend to the permanent Improvement of that part of the United Kingdom." 336 337 l. l. l. 338 v. Jurist l. l. 339 "That in order to encourage the investment of the tenant's own capital upon his land, his right to compensation for permanent improvements should be recognised by law." l. 340
 MR. GROGAN  was glad that the professions of friendship to Ireland, which had been so often made by Her Majesty's Government, and which had been so long barren, were now likely to be productive in the way of not opposing, at least, a Bill that promised to be of the highest utility to that country. If the Grand Juries of Ireland were willing to tax themselves and their fellow ratepayers for the construction of railways, he thought it was not asking too much of Her Majesty's Government that they should support a measure of legislation that was calculated to enable them to do so.
 SIR G. GREY  said, that the House, having upon several former occasions given leave to the hon. Member to lay upon the table of the House a Bill upon this subject, it was not his wish on the part of the Government to offer any obstruction to the hon. Gentleman taking the same course on the present occasion. But, in stating thus much, he thought it was due to the hon. Member to say that if his Bill were of the same character as that which had been rejected by a large majority on a former occasion, he (Sir G. Grey) could hold out no hope that he would support the second reading. The hon. Gentleman had adverted to the evils, unfortunately too well known, that were connected with the tenure of land in Ireland. The hon. Member had alluded to the insecurity of the tenants for improvements, and to the vast amount of land that was occupied by tenants at will; he also alluded to the vast quantities of land held in very small lots by the tenants of a landlord who, perhaps, owned a large tract of country—to the system of middlemen—all which, he said, led to bad husbandry, great discontent, and other evils with which they were unfortunately too well acquainted. Now, he (Sir G. Grey) must say he thought that the remedy proposed by the hon. Gentleman on former occasions, and which he seemed to be now about to propose again, was wholly inadequate to meet those evils, or remove the causes that had led to them. The hon. Member had spoken of the necessity of enacting a law to allow compensation to tenants for improvements which increased the value of the land, utterly irrespective of the rent which was paid by the tenant for the occupation
 341 342
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  wished to ask the right hon. President of the Poor Law Board whether he intended in the course of the present Session to bring forward any measure for amending the Law of Settlement?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, his object in rising was to request permission from the House to bring now precisely the same Bill which he introduced at the close of last Session. He must therefore move that the House resolve itself into Committee in point of form, as this Bill related to the affairs of the Exchequer. He sought by this Bill to extend the provisions of an Act, passed some years before, with the addition of some new provisions regarding the police, and other matters. The Bill upon the whole was founded on the Report of a Committee of the other House of Parliament, which sat upon the subject in 1849 and 1850, and the evidence taken by that Committee would afford abundant proof, if any were required, of the very serious evils which had arisen in all parts of the country out of the present state of the law with regard to the sale of beer. Complaints on the subject had been so generally and so loudly expressed, both out of doors and by petitions to that House,
 377
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the Bill was the same as that brought in last Session, and as the hon. Gentleman would find it in the library, he did not think he should be justified in taking up the time of the House by further reference to it. He might, however, be permitted to say, with regard to the observation made by the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Scholefield), that the Bill was prospective only, and he might add that some of the loudest complaints came from the most populous towns.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  admitted the great importance of the Bill, but thought it was exceedingly desirable that the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and also the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, should be in the House when the measure was under discussion. He was of opinion that it would be of advantage to postpone the second reading, and, with the permission of the House, he would move the adjournment of the debate to Wednesday next. [ Cries of
 MR. COWPER  said, he had to express his regret that he should be under the necessity of opposing this Bill. His objections went rather to its principle than to its object. His main objection was, that the Bill contained a clause which enacted robbery and plunder. The Bill professed to improve the supply of water received from the New River Company; and if it were desired only to improve the supply of water, he would not offer any opposition. But the Bill gave the company power to take water which did not belong to them. It gave them power to take a portion of the river Lea, and the whole of one of its tributaries. For a great many years the property of the Lea had been admitted to rest in the river Lea trustees. A question had arisen between the river Lea trustees and the New River Company relating to the amount of water allowed to be taken from the river Lea; and it had become the subject of a suit in Chancery. If the clause to which he objected in the Bill were to pass, the company would acquire a right to which they had no claim. The money which would be wasted in the proceedings before a Committee might be better applied to the improvement of the navigation of the river Lea. There was another reason for which he asked the House to refuse a second reading to this Bill. The New River Company had at that moment two Bills before the House; and the other Bill—which had been brought forward last year, to enable them to make such improvements as might be necessary in the distribution of the water—would give them all the powers they required. The hon. Gentleman concluded by moving that the Bill be read a Second Time.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  moved that the House resolve itself into a Committee of Supply.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  replied, that the rate of interest during the last year had been 1½d. per diem.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, in the absence of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he could not give an answer to the question of the hon. Member for Montrose.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, the Vote he asked the Committee to come to did not at all bind them with regard to the interest, but merely related to the making good those Exchequer Bills which had been already issued.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, his
 400
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he could not but admit that the ventilation of the House was very imperfect, and the lighting also; but the best thing they could do was not to inquire into the original cause of the evils, but into the mode by which those evils wore to be remedied. As for himself, he had had nothing to do with the arrangements of the House until November last; and so long ago as 1846 it was decided that Dr. Reid should ventilate the House of Commons, but that the rest of the building should be left to Mr. Barry, who had been selected by the House of Lords to ventilate their House, in which he supposed the House of Commons could not interfere. He found that they had
 407 l. l. l. 408 l. 409 l. 410 l.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, the matter was shortly this: Mr. Barry had spent 150,000 l. l. 411 carte blanche
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, that ventilation made no portion of the science of geology, and that therefore Sir Henry De la Beche, whatever his acquirements as a scientific man and a geologist, would not be the most proper person to decide what was best to be done. The ventilation of the Museum of Practical Geology was by no means perfect. Dr. Reid had, at all events, kept his promise in ventilating the old House. He recommended the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Osborne) to adhere to his Motion, and to call on Dr. Reid to make a statement of what he was prepared to do.
 CAPTAIN FITZROY  said, that when the question was last before the House, he was of opinion the examination of Dr. Reid would leave them just where they had been, and in that opinion he was now confirmed. It was necessarily an  ex parte
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, his hon. Friend seemed to think that he had been uncharitable to Dr. Reid in what he had stated. Now, the figures which he had quoted had been taken from a printed paper laid before the House on the 14th of August, 1850 [ Parliamentary Papers, No.
 LORD HARRY VANE  hoped the House would confide in the noble Lord (Lord Seymour), and not tie him down to the employment of any particular person, but place the full and entire management under him, so that he might consult whomsoever he thought fit. He agreed entirely with the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne) in thinking that the ventilation and the lighting of the House should be placed under the same authority.
 MR. COWAN  wished to call the attention of the House to an extract from a foreign journal, containing an account of a number of experiments on the subject of ventilation, which had been very striking in their results. The machine made use of was capable of producing ten times the fresh air which he believed was necessary for the supply of the House; and he should be most happy to communicate with the noble Lord (Lord Seymour), if the matter were placed in his hands. The extract to which he referred also contained some valuable hints as to the ventilation of mines and collieries.
 MR. PACKE  thought it must be very clear, from the statement made by the noble Lord (Lord Seymour), that the large expenditure which he had mentioned was attributable to there not having been a written agreement with those who had been intrusted with the carrying out of the building.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  always suspected what would become of matters intrusted to the head of the Board of Works; the fate of the marble arch had taught him to distrust that department. Supposing the Government were to be turned out, as he hoped they would be before long, who was to be responsible then, and what would become of the House?
 MR. ROCHE  rejoiced the House had taken the matter into its own hands, and
 413
 MR. ROCHE  seconded the Motion. What the Irish Members required was a clear bill of particulars with regard to the money advanced during the late famine. They had been charged with repudiation, and with acting an ungrateful part to the Parliament and people of Great Britain; but they only wanted to make it clear what Ireland had actually received. If it should
 417
 MR. CARDWELL  hoped that neither high authority nor great ability would be successful in defeating a measure of this kind on dilatory pleas which he thought he could show were in their nature purely technical, and in their operation entirely inconsistent and opposed to one another. There came before the House 40,500 persons, ratepayers of Manchester and of the adjoining districts, including the bishop, dean, chapter, and clergy, the Independent ministers, the Wesleyan ministers, and almost, if not altogether, every denomination, constituting the majority, both in numbers and value, not merely of the whole community, but of every particular district of the community, and they were all in favour of the Bill. [Mr. BRIGHT: Subject to inquiry.] Subject to inquiry—then go into Committee and inquire. Upwards of 40,000 ratepayers had signed the petition, and when they came before the House on the second reading of the Bill, how were they met? Not by argument against the principle of the measure, but by two dilatory pleas. The two Members of Parliament for Manchester, speaking against a majority of the ratepayers of Manchester, claimed that the Bill should be delayed for this reason—that the corporation might have an opportunity of considering it, while, in fact, the Bill had been before the public of Manchester for the last two years. [Mr. BRIGHT: The
 392 393
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  regretted that the hon. Gentleman had not called for returns of the works commenced under the Act passed by Sir Robert Peel's Administration, the 9 & 10  Vict. Vict.
 COLONEL DUNNE  moved for a return of all Works, the execution of which were undertaken by the Board of Works, on the authority of the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, under the Act 9 & 10  Vict.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that be thought the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat had failed to reply to the objection of his (Mr. Bright's) right hon. Colleague (Mr. M. Gibson), that the corporation of Manchester had not yet had an opportunity of discussing the Bill; and that if the House proceeded immediately to read it a second time, there would not be time for the corporation to present a petition, so as to entitle themselves to be hoard in opposition to it before the Committee. Now, it was no doubt true that this measure, and another with a similar object, had been discussed in Manchester, though not, he thought, for two years, yet certainly
 386 387
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, it was his intention to support the Bill, not only so far as the technical forms of the House were concerned, but also upon its merits. He felt bound to say a few words on the subject, as he had taken charge of this particular department of the private business of the House. With respect to what had fallen from the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson), as to the propriety of postponing this Bill for a fortnight, because the corporation of Manchester had not had an opportunity of expressing their opinion upon its merits, he was in a position to state to the House that this Bill had been under discussion in Manchester for now more than two years, and that during that period it had formed a prominent subject of discussion in the newspapers of every party. Its nature had, therefore, been fully known in Manchester for many months, and it was therefore in the power of any party in that borough to take the proper steps for opposing it in Parliament if they were so disposed. But he strongly suspected that the reason why the corporation of Manchester had not presented any petition against the Bill was, that there was no very great objection to the Bill on the part of the corporation collectively, though there might be on the part of some of its Members. For every party in that town, whatever might be their opinions, looked with great approbation upon those who had brought forward this Bill, and who had for two years bestowed great pains and labour upon its preparation. There could be no necessity for postponing the second reading upon the grounds stated by the right hon. Member for Manchester, because no doubt the Bill would be opposed in Committee, and any feeling which might be entertained upon the subject by the corporation of Manchester would receive the greatest attention from them in a matter in which that body were so vitally interested. With regard to the merits of the Bill, he must say, there was no subject which had created such a strong feeling in the county he had the honour to represent (Lancashire) as that of education, which had been discussed in every part of the county for several years. There was a party who wished to establish a ge-
 384 385
 MR. BROTHERTON , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, that its object was to provide a free education for the poor inhabitants of the boroughs of Manchester and Salford; and so far as those boroughs were concerned, to carry out the
 380 381
 MR. HUME  said, as an ardent supporter of education, he must appeal to his hon. Friend who had charge of the Bill whether standing on a matter of form was calculated to advance the common object? Could the delay of a few days affect the great principle so unanimously adopted with respect to the necessity of promoting education? He held an entirely different opinion from those who regarded this Bill as being of the nature of a private Bill. He had ventured last night to call the attention of the noble Lord at the head of the Government to the Bill, stating that it appeared to him to involve a great public question which it was not proper to discuss on a private Bill, and expressing the hope that the noble Lord would be in his place when the measure came on for discussion to-day. He regretted that the noble Lord, being
 396
 MR. HUME  said, the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) had expressed himself as entirely of opinion that the lighting and ventilation should be under one management. Now, that was just the effect of his hon. Friend's Resolution, which did not bind the noble Lord to any particular course; and he thought, therefore, it would be well for the House to agree to the Motion. It would be found that in 1845 and 1847 he objected to the whole course taken by the Government with regard to the new House, and he then advised that two individuals should he made responsible in carrying out the building, and that it should not be left to the authority of the First Commissioner of the Board of Works, who changed with every Administration, and had not time to attend to the duties. The consequence of the neglect of this advice might be seen in the extraordinary expenditure which they had heard that night. He should, tomorrow, ask the House to direct a return to be made, which would show the gross mismanagement that had prevailed from first to last in the building. He would not say so much upon the subject if he had
 414
 MR. HUME  said, he would avail himself of the opportunity on the bringing up of the Report of the Committee, to ask for information respecting the rate of interest.
 MR. HUME  would merely ask, further, whether the time had not come when the state of the money market would not admit of a lower rate of interest?
 MR. HUME  wished to know what had been the rate of interest which the Exchequer Bills had borne during the last year?
 MR. HUME  thought the House ought to decide this matter in accordance with the Resolution it adopted on the 1st of
 399 sub silentio
 MR. NAPIER  knew of a case in Armagh which showed the necessity and importance of these returns being made. The Irish Members had a right to see the particulars of these works, that they might know what works were executed by the Board of Works, and what sums were
 418
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE , in reply, said, that one statement made by the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Works was not exactly true as regarded Dr. Reid. The noble Lord stated that 57,000 l. 415 l. ex parte Laughter
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : Sir, the Motion of which I have given notice, to consider the evidence given by Dr. Reid, at the bar, relating to the ventilation of the House, may not be worthy of the attention that other subjects which come under the consideration of the House may demand; but I hope the House will consider the great wear and tear of constitution to which Members in the constant habit of attending this House are subject. When we consider the large per centage of Members who regularly attend their Parliamentary duties for six months in the year, I think I am entitled to some support in drawing their attention to this subject, and I trust that my Motion will meet with their approbation. It was said by the late Sidney Smith, with reference to the practice of locking up passengers in railway trains, that no attention would be given to that subject until some great dignitary of the Church was roasted in a railway carriage. I am of opinion that until some of the more robust Members who now occupy the Treasury benches are ventilated into another place, or some of the Members of the country party on the opposite side of the House are stifled, we shall have no remedy for the crying evils to which we are now subject. Now it has been proposed to send this subject to a Committee; but I am prepared to prove that the bad ventilation is neither attributable to Dr, Reid nor to Mr. Barry. The
 401 402 403 404 405
 MR. BOOKER  considered that the House was under great obligations to the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne) for the attention which he had paid to the subject. He (Mr. Booker) thought the people of England would be satisfied by the statement of the noble Lord that the House of Commons had been guilty of gross and profligate expenditure of the public money with very little result. The suggestion of the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) was an exceedingly valuable one. He (Mr. Booker) was perfectly willing to leave the subject in his hands, and considered that he might derive great assistance from the valuable suggestions which might be obtained from the present learned and able director of the Museum of Geology, Sir Henry De la Beche, who had paid great attention to the subject of ventilation.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he thought the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton) had given a somewhat too highly coloured description of the amount of support which the Bill had received in Manchester. It was perfectly true that the Bill was supported by a large body of the ratepayers paying upon a very considerable assessment, and also that it was promoted by gentlemen whose opinions are entitled to great consideration and deference; but it was not correct to say that the Bill was supported by the whole of the inhabitants of Manchester. [Mr. BROTHERTON: I did not say so.] He had understood his hon. Friend to say, that the Bill was supported generally by the inhabitants of the borough. However, up to this moment, he, as the representative of Manchester, had received no intimation whatever of the course which the corporation of Manchester, the legitimate representative of that great body of the ratepayers, was prepared to take upon this occasion. Indeed, the hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. W. Brown) appeared rather to contemplate referring the Bill to a Committee upstairs, with the view of supplying the Government with information on which a measure might be founded
 382
 MR. T. GREENE  felt it due to Mr. Barry and Dr. Reid to state, that the expenditure had been to a great degree on other parts of the House, in the Committee-rooms, corridors, and lobbies, and in eluded gas, fuel, steam, and assistants. He hoped the House would not hastily come to the conclusion that they would accede to the proposal made by the hon. Member opposite, but that they would leave the matter in the hands of the noble Lord at the head of the Board of Works, who had the same interest as every other hon. Gentleman in making the ventilation as perfect as possible, and who had every means of examining the subject carefully.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the great difficulty which he felt with regard to this Bill, and the point to which he was most anxious that the attention of the House should be called, was this, that on the present occasion, under the name, and he had no doubt the technical definitions, of a private Bill, the House was discussing, not only that which was a public measure, as affecting the public and the general law of the country, but that which was a public measure of the very highest importance, involving the most serious difficulties and the very highest principles which that House could upon any occasion be called upon to consider. And he must say that he felt very great difficulty when a question of this kind was brought before them only eight days after the opening of the Session, mixed up with a multitude of other private Bills, when hon. Members were beset out of doors with gentlemen full of zeal for this Water Bill and that Water Bill, and when the House approached the discussion under the circumstances and in the state of mind in which it usually came to the consideration of private business—a state of mind differing totally from that calm and deliberate composure which a measure of this kind required. The hon. Member for North Lancashire (Mr. W. Patten) had said that this Bill applied en-
 388 389 390 391
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, that as one of the Members for the county of Essex, he had looked into the trusts of the river Lea. He found that under several Acts of Parliament the trustees had exercised their rights not as a speculative company, but for the purpose of doing justice to the objects of the trust, and preserving the navigation of the river Lea in serviceable order. If any surplus remained, they applied it to lowering tolls or otherwise for the public benefit, because the trustees did not desire to accumulate money for their own advantage. They thought it unjust that they should be dragged before Committees to expend the produce of their tolls in defending property protected by Acts of Parliament. When certain rights had been conferred upon them by such Acts, it was not fitting that they should be told those rights were to be taken from them in favour of a private company. It was almost insinuated by the promoters of the Bill, that the trustees of the river Lea had never obtained an injunction in the Court of Chancery; but the fact was that an injunction had been obtained at one time, but the New River Company having altered their tactics, the trustees were advised to go to a court of law to recover damages. Therefore, whether the notice of the action was given on that day or a month ago, made no difference. He trusted the House would at once reject the Bill, on the ground that it was an invasion of the rights of the trustees of the river Lea, and an interference with questions submitted to the highest court of judicature in this country.
 MR. W. BROWN,  in seconding the Motion, said, that he was very desirous to see this Bill sent to a Committee upstairs, because he thought that a good deal of valuable evidence would be elicited, and that even if this Bill did not pass during the present Session, the investigation would put the Government in possession of much information, which would be of great value to the Prime Minister in the preparation of the general measure of education, which he had announced his intention of introducing next year.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he would not have thought it necessary to say anything after the lucid speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), were it not that an impression might have been produced by what was said by the hon. Member for North Lancashire (Mr. W. Patten), and the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Cardwell), that there was something approaching to unanimity amongst the religionists of different persuasions in Manchester, on the subject of this Bill. That, most assuredly, was very far from being the case. The Catholic priesthood of Manchester, the Jews, and the Society of Friends in Manchester, had all remonstrated and protested against the provisions of this measure. There were also other rival societies in the field, and out of throe public meetings held on the subject, one only was in support of this measure, and two were hostile to it. It was said that the majority of persons on the rating-books had signed the
 394 395
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said, he had acted as Chairman of a Committee to which, three years ago, had been referred a Bill relating to the river Lea navigation, and having for its object the improvement of the navigation for the public good. The trustees were compelled to incur great expense; but it was obvious that if the tributary stream were taken away, so great a quantity of water would be abstracted as to occasion serious detriment to the property of the trust. He should, therefore, support the Motion of the hon. Member for Hertford (Mr. Cowper).
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  would submit that the time had come when the public were entitled to have the interest on Exchequer Bills materially reduced; and said he must express his regret that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not in his place to explain the course he intended to take in the matter.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought the House ought to be informed at what rate of interest the Exchequer Bills under consideration were to be reissued.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  said, he rose to second the Resolution which had been proposed by his hon. Friend, to whom, he thought, the House ought to be much obliged for the pains he had bestowed on this subject. But he thought his hon. Friend had fallen into two mistakes. In the first place he talked of the prospective fate of the robust Members of this House if the present state of things was continued; but he (Sir J. Pakington) was of opinion that if the present system of lighting and ventilating was not changed,
 406
 SIR L. O'BRIEN  said, the mistake arose from calling these "works." They were not works at all; it was a mere clumsy machinery for distributing money among a starving population, which money the people of Ireland were now called upon to repay. The House was no doubt under the impression that value had been given for this money. Some lives were no doubt preserved during the famine; but let the House consider on whom the responsibility of saving those lives fell. The Government wished to throw the responsibility of repaying this money upon the gentry and landed proprietary, who did their utmost during the famine, and whose estates at the time of the famine were taxed as high as they could possibly bear. What further responsibility remained belonged to Parliament and to the Government. The landed proprietors of Ireland might be responsible in terms, but he did not think they were morally responsible for one farthing of this debt.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he should willingly second the Amendment. He was strongly convinced the House was not a proper tribunal to decide whether Mr. Barry or Dr. Reid should have the new palace, or a portion of it, placed irrevocably in his hands; and that the claims of the architect had not been sufficiently represented, for, though no words of disrespect had been used towards his character, there had been a very strong expression of feeling with regard to his rival. The House had certainly now a right to say they would consider their own convenience. The noble Lord the First Commissioner of the Board of Works might reflect whether it would not be better to get rid of the windows which gave no light. He would say nothing of the passages which led to nothing; but the object of windows was to give light, and, in his opinion, it would be far preferable to exclude the daylight, and have artificial light during their day sittings, than to deliberate in the artificial darkness which those windows created. When he considered the expense which the House had sanctioned in ventilation, without saying anything of warming and lighting, he felt that, whether as Committees or as an aggregate body, they would feel nothing but regret for the past. There had been no returns moved for. [Mr. HUME: Yes, I called for them.] Spirits from the vasty deep might be called; but would they come? No such returns had been made; and it must have struck the conscience of every man in that House that he had sanctioned such expenditure without inquiry. It would be best now to leave the matter to the despotic authority of the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) without any associate. Before he sat down he thought it right to say, that whatever the merits of the Mr. Faraday, mentioned by Lord Seymour, he was not the eminent Professor Faraday whose name was so well known to the world. He had every confidence in the noble Lord at the head of the Board of Works, who, during the short period which he had occupied his present position, had shown so much ability and attention to the duties of his office, and he would cordially recommend the House to leave the matter entirely in his hands.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, that he had been requested by the promoters of the Bill, in consequence of the absence of the hon. Member for Scarborough (Sir J. Johnstone) and another hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Bill, to watch the proceedings at the present stage of its progress. The argument of the hon. Member for Hertford (Mr. Cowper) rested mainly on the ground that the Bill interfered with suits at law now actually pending. He had been informed
 398
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he felt it his duty to express his opinion, that when the proper time arrived, it would be demonstrated that the present Board of Admiralty, that had been so much abused in this matter, had done more than any of their predecessors to promote the health and comfort of those engaged in the naval service. The hon. and gallant Gentleman (Col. Chatterton) made a charge against one of the finest transport ships in Her Majesty's Navy—a large frigate which had been selected for conversion into a yacht by George IV., a ship perfectly sound in all respects; indeed, he defied any man who knew anything of the subject, to say there was a finer vessel in the service. Hon. Gentlemen laid it down that anything the Admiralty did was bad, and took up charges which were flung about in the newspapers, and came down here to repeat them, taking them all for granted. [Col.
 455 Megœra Megœra Megœra
 MR. MILES  said, he was not a little astonished at the speech of the gallant Admiral who had just sat down. He (Mr. Miles) regretted that the case of the  Apollo Megœra "The preserved meats (Goldner's patent) are now being done away with; but it was truly disgusting to see the contents of some of the tins; the offal, in some cases, with the dung inside, look-
 456 l l "In the first place the quantity condemned to be returned into store for the benefit of the Crown, or to be thrown overboard, is very great. In the second place, there is a great loss of weight in boiling; the meat is cut into four-pound pieces, including bone, before boiling, and the average weight has been about 1¼lb. after, hardly ever 21b.;
 457 
 
 SOUND. CONDEMNED. 
 — Proper Allowance. Extra, to make up deficiencies in weight. To be sold for the benefit of the Crown. So bad that it required to be thrown overboard. 
 lb. lb. lb. lb. 
 Beef … 2,445 1,012 1,824 1,118 
 Pork … 6,023 2,092 40 28 The beef condemned was repacked and examined in January, 1849. The cause of decay seemed to be from the great quantity of blood left in the meat. The worst meat for losing weight was supplied to Government in Oct., 1847, or rather, I say, packed at that time; the pork was examined in January, 1850."
 MR. CORRY  said, that having been connected with the Admiralty at the time the provisions were supplied to Sir John Franklin's expedition in 1845, he felt bound to remove the impression which appeared to be entertained, that the crews of the Arctic vessels were suffering from the improper food supplied by Mr. Goldner. In 1845 preserved meat was not issued as an article of food, but as one of medical comfort. At that time so excellent were these provisions that not more than one per cent of them had been found to be bad, while in the best qualities of Irish salt meat it amounted to from two to three per cent; so that in point of fact, there was then greater safety in the potted meat than in the ordinary salt provisions. The medical comforts of the crew were, however, most I carefully looked to. The ordinary preserved meat for the use of the Navy was supplied to the Admiralty at the price of 5 d 458 d s
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  (who was imperfectly heard), was understood to say that, so far from objecting to the Motion of the hon. Baronet, he would give the Committee what they asked for, with the sincerest pleasure, not only on the grounds stated, but on account of many things which had been stated elsewhere; because he was anxious that they might be brought
 445 Megœra 446 447 448 St. Vincent 449 450 451
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  was only too happy to give the fullest facilities, and to make the inquiry as strict and as searching as possible.
 MR. HEADLAM,  in rising to move the reappointment of the Select Committee of last Session to inquire into the Laws of Mortmain, said, that the Committee examined a great number of witnesses, some of whom gave very interesting and valuable evidence. Owing, however, to the late period of the Session to which their inquiries extended, the Committee separated without making any Report. He was now anxious that the Committee should be reappointed in order that they might receive some slight additional evidence before proceeding to make a Report. The Master of the Rolls for Ireland had been an active member of the Board for administering the Charitable Bequests Act in Ireland, and was able to give some valuable evidence to the Committee. He was unable to come over last Session, and he (Mr. Headlam) wished the Committee to be reappointed, in order that his evidence might be taken on the operation of the present Law of Mortmain. There was some misapprehension as to the objects of the Committee, but he trusted their labours would lead to the law being placed upon a better foundation than at present. The Act of Lord Hardwicke had entirely failed in its object, and an Amendment in the law was requisite. They had no desire to offer any impediments to the stream of charitable donations; but they considered that it was infinitely better for those who had anything to give to give it during their own
 461
 MR. COWPER  said, that the only objection he had to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman was, that no such documents were in existence. There had been no tender made for 3 s d nil 464 l l l l l 465 l l l l
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, he did not think it was desirable that they should, in the Motion now before them, enter into all the points which had been raised by the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), or the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume); but at the very severe censure that had been passed on the Board of Customs, he felt he could not remain wholly silent. He did altogether question the statement that the Board had thrown any difficulty in the way of the progress of the trials which had been alluded to, or that they had placed any impediment in the way of the trade of this country. The present Board was at least as liberal as any which preceded it. It had originated many improvements, and it was not right to say that it had thrown impediments in the way of justice. It was the duty of the Board to see that the statutes relating to the Customs were faithfully acted up to. They had to see that the law as to the Customs' duties was carried into effect, and, being responsible to the Crown for the collection of 22,000,000 l 474
 MR. PEEL  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend and consolidate the Laws relating to the Carriage of Passengers by Sea. As the Bill involved no new principle of legislation, he did not feel called upon to make any remarks, except that its object was to render more effective the laws now in existence. A Committee had been appointed on this subject last Session, presided over by the right hon. Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert), and the report of that Committee contained a variety of suggestions of great value, most of which he had embodied in the Bill he now sought to introduce. He anticipated it would, if agreed to by the House, be a measure which would have the effect of providing more efficiently for the comfort and the security of the hundreds of thousands of our fellow-subjects who now left the shores of the United Kingdom every year for Australia or the United States.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the provisions of the Bill did not include what were called cabin passengers, but they did include intermediate, as well as steerage passengers.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  seconded the Motion.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : Sir, having had the honour to second the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Peters-field (Sir W. Jolliffe), I must beg the attention of the House to a few remarks I have to offer. The right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Baring) has taunted me, that, induced by local interests, I have dictated to my hon. Friend what course he should pursue. Sir, I utterly deny the statement, although, from my local interests, I should be perfectly justified in so doing. I shall now beg, in a few words, to call the atten-
 452 coup d'état Fury 453 Apollo Apollo Apollo 454 Apollo d
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that Mr. Speaker had explained that the rule of the House was, that each Member should write down his own name when handing in his notice to be balloted for. The hon. Gentleman had then no great ground for complaint, as the omission was his own. It was obvious that the clerk might have other business to attend to at the same time these notices were being handed in. It would, therefore, be unjust to make the clerk responsible in such matters. He would, however, admit that some inconvenience was suffered on the present occasion by the hon. Baronet. There would be some advantage in the hon. Baronet calling attention to the matter, because hon. Members will in future see that they will be responsible for putting clown their own names.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he was perfectly ready to assent to the appointment of the Committee, with the view that it might be able to point out such alterations in the laws or regulations of the Customs as might be useful to the commerce of the country, and be conducive to the public service. After listening to the representation of the deputations to which the hon. Member had referred, and considering a very long and elaborate report from the Board of Customs, he had been ready to appoint a Commission on the subject. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Mitchell), however, preferred a Committee of that House; and now, after he (Lord John Russell) had complied with the preference of the hon. Gentleman, he was told by the hon. Member for Lambeth that this was done for the purpose of delay. [Mr. Williams: I said I hoped it was not done for the purpose of delay.] He had no doubt that the very able Gentlemen who were to be nominated members of the Committee would apply themselves to the consideration of those reforms that might be usefully made. With regard to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, that the Board of Customs should be abolished, and that one Commissioner should be appointed who should have a seat in that House and be a Member of the Cabinet, he did not think it would be an advisable change; and, if he did adopt it, he was afraid he should be told that he had done it for the sake of patronage. He must also say, with regard to the present Chairman at the Board of Customs, Sir Thomas Fremantle, that the right hon. Gentleman was no political friend of his, because in that House the right hon. Gentleman was generally entirely opposed to him in political sentiments, and was placed by the late Sir Robert Peel in the very high and responsible situation which he now held; but he believed that a man of greater honour or of more attentive industry in the performance of his duties could not be found. With regard to some of the legal questions that had arisen, the hon. Gentleman had considered himself hound to take legal opinions, which opinions could not have been well founded; but he (Lord J. Russell) thought there was nothing
 472
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that if the hon. Baronet wished to give notice of a Motion, he should write it down on paper and also his name, for every Member was responsible for his own name appearing upon the notice paper. If the clerk wrote down the name of the Member upon such paper, it
 437
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he was not at all surprised at the Government preferring a Hungarian Jew contractor to one of our own countrymen. He had often recommended an improvement in the construction of the Board of Admiralty—worse than it now was could not he conceived. Too many cooks spoiled the broth. He recommended the cutting down of two lay Lords; and he should say of them as he said of a noble relative of his who was in the Admiralty Board, that he would be sea-sick in a punt under Westminster Bridge. As regarded the contracts for
 459 Dublin World l World
 MR. ROCHE  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would also give some information of the mode in which he proposed to carry
 467
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  would be very happy to take the return in any way the Admiralty might wish; but surely the hon. Member for Montrose had not been in the House when he (Mr. French) made the statement that 270,000 l l
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  moved for
 "Copies of the Tender made, or Agreement or Contract entered into, with the West India Mail Packet Company, to carry the Mail to the Brazils at three shillings and twopence per mile, and the number of voyages performed by that Company under such Tender, Agreement, or Contract." l l 462 s d s d Esk l l l Amazon 463
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  rejoiced that this subject had been brought before the House. He had listened with much attention to what had said on both sides, and it struck him that if Gentlemen on the other side of the House (the Opposition) were to have their Committee, they were giving evidence before the Committee sat. The Committee would hear evidence on all sides, whereas those hon. Gentlemen were only making statements and reading letters which they had received from parties interested on one side of the question. No doubt those who now administered the affairs of the Navy would be able in Committee to answer all the points which hon. Gentlemen were now prematurely bringing forward. He had belonged to the Navy before the discovery of the art of preserving meats, and he was not sorry for it; but they had brought that meat into consumption in the Navy, and it was his opinion that unless the system of supply was much amended, it was not likely to be finally approved of.
 MR. J. BELL  said, the Bill for regulating the qualifications of Pharmaceutical Chemists, which he asked leave to bring in, was the same he introduced in the last Session, with Amendments, to meet objections then raised against it. To comply with the forms of the House, he would move that the House resolve itself into Committee for the purpose of giving leave for the introduction of the Bill.
 MR. J. BELL  said, he had been in communication with the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department; he had no objection to bringing in the Bill, and as soon as he had seen it he would state whether he would support it or not. The objections last year were, that the Bill gave too much power to the body which it created, and it had since been altered to meet those objections.
 MR. MACGREGOR  was anxious not to let the question pass without a few words of observation. With the exception of the ships of the United States, the British Navy was better victualled than those of any other service in the world. It was a fact which ought to be extensively known that the victualling of ships was exclusively made up without reference to preserved meats. A sufficient quantity of food was put on board, and preserved meats were only superadded to the store already obtained. This was a circumstance which, were it known, would allay much anxiety in the residents of many of the seaport towns. The right hon. Baronet at the head of the Admiralty had taken as much care and bestowed as much pains on his department, as any person who had ever preceded him in that office; and if blame were to be attached to any person, it certainly was not the right hon. Baronet. There had been a great deal of exaggeration on the subject, and he was quite satisfied that upon investigation it would turn out that the First Lord of the Admiralty had taken every possible precaution in the way of security. It was clearly impossible, however, that he could foresee how this contract would turn out. He (Mr. Mac-
 460
 MR. HUME  said, the explanation of the
 466 l l
 MR. HUME  did not believe there was a man connected with the trade of this country, whether in England, Scotland, or Ireland, who had not fully made up his mind that the Board of Customs ought long ago to have been remodelled. This was not a question of politics; every class of the mercantile community had already expressed their condemnation of the present system, and he could only regret that Her Majesty's Government, with such a mass of evidence before them, should still hesitate upon the subject. He also had long known Sir Thomas Fremantle, and had been opposed to him for years in that House. He could also bear his testimony that he had always considered him to act like a gentleman in all his proceedings there. But his observations were directed against Sir Thomas Fremantle, not in his personal character, but as the head of a Board which had made itself notorious for causing delay in the transmission of all sorts of goods, whether exports or imports. Indeed, he had lived long enough to say, that he now began to doubt all Boards; he was for one or more responsible individuals in every department. Since, however, Her Majesty's Government wished to have the opinion of the Committee, he trusted that the Committee would go into the whole question, and particularly that they would review the whole proceedings respecting the late compromise with the Dock Companies which he considered discreditable to both parties, and which he believed had been come to in order to prevent this Committee from offering any opinion upon the conduct of the Board. But he trusted the Committee would go into the whole question, and see who was in fault, whether the Dock Companies had been guilty of fraud, or whether the Board of Customs had acted ignorantly or maliciously in bringing against them a criminal charge. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had given the Committee a fair challenge, and he trusted the Committee would accept it, and inquire not only into what was fact, but with regard to the future remodelling of the Board, and whether any reductions could be made in its staff, for he regretted to say, that though the late Sir Robert Peel had reduced or abolished between 600 and 700 articles of customs, yet no reduction whatever had taken place in the number of officers.
 MR. HUME  submitted that there ought to be laid upon the table of the House a return of all the ships carrying emigrants which had been lost during the past year, inasmuch as there existed out of doors a strong opinion that there was a great want of attention on the part of the authorities with respect to that examination into the seaworthiness of emigrant ships which the House had desired should be made. It was a matter of the greatest importance, as he could assure the House that he knew of cases in which persons desirous of emigrating had been deterred from doing so by the serious and repeated losses of emigrants, from the ignorance of the officers, or the badness of the ships.
 MR. HUME  wished to know, whether anything had been added to render the Bill more acceptable, and whether it had received the approbation of Her Majesty's Ministers?
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  wished to know whether this Bill applied only to steerage passengers, or to cabin and intermediate passengers also? Ships, not called emigrant ships, but which, nevertheless, took out emigrants, were often scandalously deficient in their supplies of food and water, as well as defective in construction and arrangement; and their sanitary regulations were, in fact, no regulations at all. He made a voyage to the Cape himself in one of these vessels, and he could assure the House that not a day
 476
 MR. MITCHELL  said, that hon. Members on the Government benches had fallen into one or two slight inaccuracies. The noble Lord the Member for the city of London, had said, that if any mistake had been committed by the Board of Customs, it had been under the direction of its legal adviser; but the evidence went to show that, although in every step they had legal advice, the Board and its Chairman had exercised their own discretion as to the manner in which they should carry out the law. He (Mr. Mitchell) therefore protested against the assumption that if there were any blame, it was attributable merely to a lawyer's mistake, and not the Commissioners of Customs themselves. Sir Thomas Fremantle admitted over and over again to the Committee that he had acted upon his own discretion. Another statement, that made by the hon. Member for Herefordshire (Mr. C. Lewis), might be technically right, but it was substantially wrong. The hon. Gentleman said, that the proposal for a compromise came first from the Dock Company. The first letter of the correspondence which eventually led to a compromise might be written by the Dock Company; but if the hon. Gentleman would inquire, he would find that Sir Thomas Fremantle, when he went down to the docks with a foreign gentleman, condescended to ask Mr. Cattley, the chairman of the Company, whom he had charged with smuggling, to go over the docks with them, saying that they should no doubt be as good friends as ever when all this was blown over; and he would find, too, that the officers of the Customs repeatedly intimated that the Commissioners were quite ready to accept proposals for a compromise. That was not in evidence, but he felt bound to mention it, inasmuch as the statement of the hon. Member for Herefordshire, that the Dock Company made the original proposal for a compromise was also not in evidence. He would express no opinion whatever on this subject; but as far as in him lay, he would, if the Committee were reappointed, do his duty in respect to the inquiry.
 MR. MITCHELL  moved the appointment of the Select Committee on Customs.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he must call for an assurance from the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland that the same course would not be pursued with this Bill as was pursued last Session, when, within three days of the prorogation it was abandoned, and all their labour was found to have been in vain.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought there was already sufficient evidence to satisfy the Government that there ought to be some change in this department, and therefore he did not see the necessity for the appointment of the Committee. Three years ago a Commission was appointed, including officials and Lords of the Treasury, and they reported that the Commissioners and officers of Customs had been guilty of neglect of duty, and had shown their in-competency in the issue of orders which it was impossible for officers under them to carry out. The Customs presented such a scene of mismanagement that frauds had to an unknown extent taken place, in which officers of the Customs of high rank had been concerned. There was overwhelming and, if possible, stronger evidence before the Committee appointed last Session of the total in-competency of the Board. The blame rested, he believed, more with the mode in which the Board was constituted, than with the individuals of which it was composed; though when they looked at the appointments to that Board—not in reference to the present Board more than to any former Board—it did appear the Commissioners—of which there were nine—were not appointed for their competency to discharge the duties of the office, but merely to fill places; and he had heard it often described as a sort of refuge for the destitute. The cases of the St. Katherine and London Docks further showed that the Board of Customs ought not any longer to be entrusted with the management of that important department; and he was surprised that the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government, having seen the Report of that case—having seen the Report of the Commission, and having heard the statements which had been made before him by the leading merchants of the city of London and of Liverpool, showing the total inefficiency of the present system for the collection of revenue, did not propose any change. With regard to
 469 l l l l l l l l l l l l 470 l s 471
 MR. GOOLD,  on behalf of his emigrating countrymen, expressed his gratitude to the hon. Member (Mr. Peel) for this measure, which he believed was very much required.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  thought he was placed in a most unfair position. It was no doubt desirable that the rules of the House should be observed. He believed it was the constant practice of Members to walk up to the clerk and to request him to add their names to the list in the usual way. He (Sir J. Pakington) had uniformly proceeded in that way he did not believe that he had ever done otherwise. In this case he had received the distinct promise of the clerk, and he would remind the clerk that at the same time he informed him (Sir J. Pakington) that it would be irregular for him to put more than one notice on the paper. He therefore put in only one notice, and he now requested the right hon. (the Speaker), when the names of those balloting had been called over, that he would be kind enough to call upon the clerk for the second notice. It was clear that the omission was accidental; but he submitted that he should not be placed in this position. The ballot should be fairly carried out, and be therefore moved that it be repeated.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that if that was the sense of the House in regard to its rules he was ready to bow to it, and to submit with the greatest deference to the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman in the chair. He, however, felt that he had not been well treated. He did not know what the practice of others was, but he did not remember any one instance in which he had ever written his own name upon the paper. He therefore considered that he
 438
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  begged leave to call the attention of the right hon. the Speaker, as well as that of the House, to the position in which he unexpectedly found himself placed at that moment by the omission, though he was sure most unintententional, of the clerk at the table. He had given instructions to the clerk to put his name in the glass when the ballot took place for Motions; but under this circumstance he would move that the ballot be repeated.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  rose to move—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the Contracts, and the mode of making them, for the supply of Meat Provisions for the use of Her Majesty's Navy during the years 1847, 1848, 1849, 1850, and 1851; into the causes which have led to the receiving into the Government Stores, and to the issuing for the use of Her Majesty's Ships on Foreign Service, certain preserved meats, which have proved to be unfit for human food; and into the means by which an occurrence so prejudicial to the Public Service may most effectually be prevented." 439 440 l 441 442 443 Rattlesnake 444 Investigator Enterprise North Star Resolute Assistance, Pioneer Intrepid
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE,  in reply, said, he had, in bringing forward the Motion, acted on his own responsibility, and not under the advice of any person or party whatever. He was satisfied that the inquiry should include the years 1845 and 1846, and, therefore, he was prepared to adopt that portion of the suggestion which would include the victualling of the  Erebus Terror
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to make better provisions for the paving, lighting, cleansing, supplying with water, and regulation of towns in Ireland.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, it did unfortunately happen that at the end of last Session it was found impossible to carry a great number of Irish Bills successfully through the House. That very important Bill, for the better Administration of Justice, was carried, but the Bill now before the House was abandoned. For himself, he could only say it was his full determination to omit no effort which should bring this Bill to a successful issue during the present Session. He had fixed the second reading for this day week, and should name an early day for going into Committee. In the last Session many clauses were inserted in Committee, which occupied a great deal of time; but many of those Amendments were now included in the Bill.
 MR. SANDARS  gave notice that on Monday he would ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether it was his intention to institute an inquiry into the frightful loss of life which had recently occurred at Holmfirth, and whether any funds would be made available on behalf of the sufferers?
 VISCOUNT MAHON  said, that, so far from offering any opposition to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman, he thought, on the contrary, that he was entitled to the thanks of the public for the care he had bestowed on the subject. He thought also that the thanks of the public, and more especially of men of letters, were due to the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), under
 501 Cosmos; 502
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  replied, that there was so far truth in the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that certain persons, ministers of the Scotch Free Church, who were residing in the Austrian territories, for the purpose of the conversion of the Jews to the Christian faith, had been expelled from those territories. Those persons stated that they had not attempted to make proselytes from the Roman Catholic to the Protestant faith, but that their sole endeavour was to promote Christianity among the Jewish population. They certainly seemed to have been persons who entirely separated themselves from any political associations or proceedings whatever. But when the hon. and learned Member asked him whether liberty of conscience was secured by the ancient laws of Hungary, and the constitution of 1848, he (Lord John Russell) could only state that it was well known that the ancient laws of Hungary were exceedingly favourable to religious freedom, and so, he believed, was the constitution of 1848: but these laws had at present no effect in Hungary, and the Austrian Government had thought proper to repeal the constitution. Her Majesty's Government had not at present information of the grounds upon which the steps that the question referred to had been taken; but upon representation made to Lord Granville, he had addressed a communication upon the subject to Her Majesty's Minister at Vienna. He (Lord John Russell) was not able to state whether the proceedings of the Austrian Government had been against the present municipal laws of the Austrian empire, or contrary to international rights; but undoubtedly, the case called for explanation, from the hardship of the sudden expulsion of innocent persons, and their considerable loss of property in consequence of that expulsion.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  understood that a correspondence had taken place with regard, he believed, to the emoluments the canon was to receive, and there would be no objection to lay it on the table. His hon. Friend seemed to be under some misapprehension as to the value of the "golden canonry." The Ecclesiastical Commissioners had been taking measures to reduce all the canonries to 1,000 l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I think that the hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland was perfectly justified in what he said in reference to the observations of the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen. The hon. and learned Attorney General did not allude to any statement which was made during the progress of the last Reform Bill for Ireland as to reducing the borough franchise from 8 l. l., 525 l. primâ facie 526
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, that, in the eloquent panegyric which the learned Lord had passed on his eloquent predecessor, whom all who knew must esteem and admire, as one distinguished by great ability and not less distinguished by every good and amiable quality of life, he cordially concurred; but with regard to the measure introduced by the noble Lord, he could not allow even the first stage to be taken in regard to it, without expressing his strong conviction that it was most ill-timed, uncalled for, and in a wrong direction. The provision which the learned Lord had shadowed forth as affecting the county constituencies of Scotland—with which he was more immediately concerned—would, he believed, furnish a class of persons much less qualified to exercise the franchise with advantage to the country than those who were now entitled to vote. He did not mean to say that tenants occupying farms between 20 l. l. 509 l., l. l. 510
 MR. ROCHE  was glad that he had given way to his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, because they had heard from his hon. and learned Friend a clear vindication of himself and his colleagues. The hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) had said it would require the genius of a statesman to discover the necessity for this Reform Bill. Now, if that were the case, every man in Ireland was a statesman, for there was hardly a man in it who did not think that it ought to be enlarged. Nothing in his view could be more unjust than that Enniskillen, for example, with its 172 electors, should have half as much weight and voice in that house as the county of Cork, which had 13,000 electors. Such a state of things ought not to be continued. He was glad that a measure substantially identical with the English Reform Bill was to be proposed for Ireland. It was true that while the limit was taken of 500 electors in England, no alteration was to be made in the Irish boroughs having 400 electors. This, however, was merely a difference in figures, and practically it would be no difference at all, because there would be the same number grouped together as having under 400 electors as there would have been if 500 had been taken. He trusted the Bill for Ireland would be carried through by the Government  pari passu 531 l. l. l.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  could only say, in answer to the question of the noble Lord, that at present he was not aware of any negotiations going on with any country but the one he had already adverted to; but it was the intention of Government, when this Bill should become law, to communicate the law as it should then stand to the various countries of the world, especially to the United States, and to urge upon them the subject, in order that a negotiation might be entered into that would lead to a satisfactory conclusion.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to carry into effect certain provisions contained in the Copyright Treaty with France, and said, that inasmuch as this Bill contained a principle of legislation novel to the House, it would perhaps be deemed proper that he should in a very few words explain what that principle, or extension of principle, was. The House were aware that by an Act passed in 1838 the subject of international copyright generally was raised. By that Act (1 & 2  Vict. Vict. 499 500
 The LORD ADVOCATE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to extend the Right of Voting for Members of Parliament, and to amend the Laws relating to the Representation of the People in Scotland. The learned Lord said that the provisions of this Bill would be so nearly identical with those of the Bill moved the other night, by the noble Lord at the head of the Government for England, that he need not detain the House with many observations. There was a topic, however, to which he could not help adverting. It was the good fortune of his noble Friend who introduced the English Bill, not only to have introduced and witnessed throughout its whole career the results of the first measure of reform, but also to have been the instrument of introducing the second measure, which was intended to extend it. In regard to reform in Scot-
 503 504 505 l. l. l. l., l. l. 506 l. l. 507 Hansard, 508
 The LORD ADVOCATE  was understood to say that the law of Scotland did not at present require that the property should be free from debt, in order to give a right of voting. The present Bill would contain provisions on that subject intended to prevent that state of the law being abused, in the way of creating fictitious votes. The subject had been made a matter of consultation, the result of which was, that no alteration in the law should be made in any other respect. He should be ready at a future day to explain the reasons for that decision. Scotland having a very perfect system of registration of titles, stood in a different position from England with regard to the power of parties to make real property the subject of credit, and he thought it would considerably limit the right of voting, and throw obstacles in the way of ordinary and  bonâ 514 fide
 MR. WHITESIDE  thought that a more
 519 nil. l. 520 521 522 l. l.
 MR. HATCHELL  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman's observations were made with a double view: first, to call the attention of the House to the necessity of amending the Reform Bill; and, next, to bring under discussion some intended Bill with respect to the formation of juries in Ireland. As to the latter, he thought it would be most unreasonable to expect him to enter upon the discussion of a measure which was not now before the House. As to the former point, the amendment of the Reform Bill, the hon. and learned Member seemed to intimate that the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Somerville) had discovered
 523 524
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, he always held the principle that taxation and representation should go hand in hand. He considered that the Bill was exceedingly unsatisfactory with regard to Scotland, and that it was casting an extraordinary reflection on the property, industry, and intelligence of that part of the kingdom, that it should only be represented in that House by 53 Members. He agreed with all that had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Newark (Mr. John Stuart), with respect to the large Scotch counties. He would take the case of Aberdeenshire, with its immense population and its exten-
 516
 MR. REYNOLDS  remembered that when an Irish Reform Bill was last before the House, the debate had been conducted without any heat. It was also to be remarked that the discussion on the Scotch Reform Bill, introduced that night, had been in perfect good temper. He therefore regretted that, on this occasion, on the bringing forward of a new Irish Reform Bill, gall and bitterness should have been instilled into the debate by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Enniskillen. It appeared to him (Mr. Reynolds) that the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman that evening was most injudicious. The hon. and learned Gentleman might have taken a better opportunity of bearing his angry testimony against his own countrymen. It appeared to him, that on an occasion like this, the people of Ireland ought not to be described by an Irishman to the British senate as perjurers and assassins, and, as such, unworthy to be possessed of civil rights. [Mr. WHITESIDE: I most distinctly deny the fact.] He was happy that the hon. and learned Gentleman was ready to deny the fact. But what had the hon. and learned Gentleman said? He said, "If you confer a 5 l. 527 l. 528 529
 MR. JOHN STUART  thought that if the Bill were accurately described by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), when he said that, instead of improving the representation either of counties or boroughs, it would only lead to continual agitations upon the subject, then it was deeply to be regretted that the fruits of the noble Lord's labours should be so unworthy the attention of the Douse. To him it was a matter of great surprise that upon the introduction of a question of this kind, and when the learned Lord Advocate referred to what took place on the Scotch Reform Bill of 1832, he did not also notice the fact that the sense of the House was on that occasion taken, after an extraordinary debate, upon the question of the county representation in Scotland. It was then proposed to the House that the county representation of Scotland should be revised, in regard to the number of Members who should appear in this House as the representatives of Scotch counties; and its attention was called to the circumstance that several of the great counties of Scotland—Perthshire, Aberdeenshire, Lanarkshire, and Inverness-shire—all of them having immense populations and a large amount of property, returning to this House but one Member each, whilst insignificant boroughs in England, with not one-tenth of their populations, or of their importance in point of property, returned two Members to Parliament? The proposition made by Sir George Murray upon this subject had the support of a considerable portion of the Members of this House, and it had the reluctant, the avowedly-reluctant, opposition of Lord Jeffrey; and his (Mr. Stuart's) hon. Friend (Mr. Bruce), who had declared his change of opinion upon other matters, seemed to have changed his opinion also on that; for if he (Mr. Stuart) was not mistaken, his hon. Friend voted at that time for Sir G. Murray's Amendment. Well, a proposition, reluctantly opposed by Lord Jeffrey, and founded upon justice and common sense, was at least entitled to consideration in bringing forward a measure of this kind. The circumstances and the situation of the constituencies of the larger Scotch counties were very extraordinary indeed; and he hoped that when the attention of Government should be applied to this point, they would give it their full and fair con-
 515
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  believed it would be found that great inconvenience and expense would be occasioned by adding small country places to the small boroughs, and he questioned whether as good a constituency could be got from these small boroughs as by disfranchising them, and transferring their representation to the counties and larger towns and cities. That would be a better and much mote permanent arrangement than the one now proposed was likely to be. Some of these boroughs had increased in population concurrently with the decrease in the county population; not from any increase of industry or prosperity, but because the people who had lost their land had betaken themselves to the towns, where they swelled the population from which the future constituencies were to be drawn. He was afraid that the arrangement now proposed would not be satisfactory. He (Sir J. Young) had no fears for himself of a 5 l. l. 534
 MR. HUME  was not surprised at the observations of the hon. Member (Mr. C. Bruce). He was only consistent; for since he had been in Parliament, he had always been a strenuous opponent of reform and popular progress. He did expect that the hon. Member for Inverness-shire, by his enlightened speech, with which he (Mr. Hume) was delighted, would have benefited those around him more than it appeared he had. He was sorry for it; but he thanked the hon. Member for the very able manner in which he had stated what the Government ought to have done, lie wished they had done so, for they would have avoided what the hon. Member well called this peddling reform. This was a
 511 512 s. l., 513
 MR. NAPIER  would not have interposed in the debate, only that some of the views put forward by his hon. Friends the Members for Enniskillen and Inverness, had been perverted or misunderstood. The hon. Member for Inverness had suggested that there should be a principle of consistency in this matter. If towns having small constituencies were locked together so that a certain number of electors should return a certain number of representatives, how were they to deal with such constituencies as the city of London, if it was to go through the country and give to every 400 electors the election of a representative; but it was not the suggestion of the hon. Member for Inverness to reduce the
 532 l. l. l. vice versâ?
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  hoped that no attempt would be made to obstruct this Bill. The hon. Member for Dublin blamed the noble Lord for not having engrafted this Bill on the English Reform Bill, and said, that the law of the two countries was the same. But there was not a Gentleman in the House besides the hon. Member for Dublin who did not know that though the common law might be the same in the two countries, the statute law had disturbed this uniformity of the law. The mode of registration was different in Ireland, and there was a difference in a variety of other respects. It was, therefore, more convenient that there should be a separate Bill. After what had been said, he need say but little on the bad taste of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite in turning the impunity from law in Ireland into a joke. It was a sneer unworthy of any one, and especially of the hon. and learned Gentleman. When the last Bill was before the House, he proposed that it should be made to meet the exigencies of the country, and that the suffrage should be household. But the House of Lords raised the franchise higher than what had been agreed to by that House, which was considered already too high. When it came back, the noble Lord at the head of the Government said the House of Lords had made a mistake, and that the form in which the Bill had passed this House was a compromise. The Irish Members, almost to a man, called upon the noble Lord to reject the Lords' Amendments. However, they were agreed to, and the Bill passed; but, if there was one thing better understood than another in the country, it was this—that no Irish Member who had voted for it in any stage, considered it as a settlement of the question, and that Her Majesty's Government were bound to consider how soon they could bring in another Bill. After this it was monstrous to hear, not the hon. Member for Enniskillen, because he was not in the House at the time, but the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Grogan) who was, say that that was a settlement of the question. There would be ample
 530
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government a question on the subject of the recent expulsion of certain Scottish clergymen from the Austrian territories, by order of Prince Schwarzenberg, and, as it was alleged, in contravention of the municipal laws of the Austrian empire, as well as of internal rights. He would not now recapitulate the facts to which his question referred; but he wished to draw the noble Lord's attention to its importance, relating, as it did, to the expulsion of certain Scottish clergymen from the Austrian territory, under circumstances of great cruelty and hardship. He wished to ask whether the statement of facts which he (Mr. Anstey) had made on a former occasion was correct, and also whether it was not true that under the laws of Hungary before the revolution, and under the Austrian constitution of 1848, ample liberty of conscience was secured to persons of the religious persuasion of these gentlemen? He wished
 497
 MR. EWART  said, that while he agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose upon the general principle of widening the basis of representation in Scotland, he differed from him with regard to making payment of rates the basis of representation in that country, as it was well known that in many parts of Scotland the people were not rated at all. He had not yet heard whether the 40 s.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  rose, not for the purpose of offering any remarks upon the details of the Bill; these he should reserve till it came to a second reading; but he wished to put a question to the learned Lord Advocate with regard to a circumstance which took place on the first Reform Bill. It was well known to all Scotchmen, that, in ascertaining the value of property in Scotland which gave the franchise, the fact of its being charged with debt was not taken into consideration. Thus, if a house of the yearly value of 10 l. l., bonâ fide
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who last addressed them, had told them that in 1851 no exception was taken to a 8 l. 533 l. l. l. l.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  wished to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Government with reference to an appointment which had lately taken place to a canonry in the Cathedral church of Durham. In 1836 Dr. Maltby was appointed Bishop of Durham, and he (Sir B. Hall) found from the Parliamentary papers that 8,000 l. 496 l. l.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he had the advantage over his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Whiteside) in possessing a seat in that House in 1850, and he could assure the right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Hatchell) that he remembered no such promise or understanding as that now mentioned in connection with the measure of that date. What he did remember was utterly inconsistent with any such understanding; for on a specific and positive Motion being made by his hon. colleague (Mr. Reynolds) to reduce the proposition of the Government from an 8 l. l.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was in a condition to answer the question at once. He had received from the magistrates an account of the appalling calamity to which the hon. Member referred, and they stated that an inquest had been begun on some of the bodies that had been found, and they requested the Government to send a competent engineer to attend the adjourned inquest, and to make previous inquiries as to the cause of the accident; they also stated something as to another reservoir, with respect to which they thought investigation desirable. A gentleman had accordingly been directed to go down and watch the proceedings, and render any assistance to the magistrates that he could. With regard to the last part of the question, he could not hold out hopes of any assistance from the public money; and he trusted that the case would be amply met by public subscriptions.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to extend the Right of Voting for Members of Parliament, and to amend the Laws relating to the Representation of the People in Ireland, and said, that the question of the Irish franchise having been so recently under the consideration of the House, the Bill he now proposed to introduce would not deal so extensively with that subject as it would have done had not the subject been so recently before Parliament. The House would remember that in the year 1850 it was his duty, in consequence of the almost extinction of the county constituencies in Ireland, to submit for their acceptance a Bill for the amendment of the representation in that country. The House would also remember that at that period the measure to which he alluded underwent very great discussion, and he believed there was scarcely a Gentleman in the House who was not fully convinced that the time had arrived when the interference of the Legislature was absolutely necessary. At that time the county re-
 517 Parliamentary Papers, No. Session bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide 518 l. l. l. l.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, from all the information he could collect, the country would be too glad to see the Government doing anything in the direction of the present proposal, to be very critical as to the measures proposed. There was a general impression of the necessity for being prepared, not against what reasonable and sagacious men might do, but unreasonable
 564 matériel personnel
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  hoped the noble Lord would consider whether the present measure should not be extended to Ireland. Taking as an instance the county of which he was a native, and the chief town of which he had the honour to represent—Kerry, the people of that county was preeminently loyal. That county was a range of coast extending from the Shannon to as far as Bantry Bay; and yet what was the force which that county possessed? They had one weak depôt, a small constabulary force, which the magistrates of the county were endeavouring to reduce, and a body of Coast Guard, mostly worn-out men, and many of them more fit for Greenwich Hospital than to be on service. Considering the condition of a country like Ireland, nothing could be more easy than for an enemy to effect a landing there. On two occasions such a circumstance had been accomplished. He trusted the noble Lord would not leave the miserable inhabitants of that country without the same defence as he was now providing for England. He was quite sure that if the measure were extended to Ireland, it would be received with thanks, and that the Government would find an organised force collected there that would withstand the efforts of any foreign enemy who should attempt to invade its shores.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, he approved of something being done, for he considered it quite disgraceful that people should be thrown so often into such a state of panic as they lately had been on the subject of invasion. The hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Mr. Cobden) had admitted to-night more than he had ever heard him previously admit—that our commercial relations were much larger than
 587
 SIR F. BARING  thought he should be able on an early day to bring in a measure on the subject, and hoped the hon. and gallant Member would therefore postpone for the present any Motion he might contemplate with regard to it.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the system intended to be introduced by the present measure was exactly that which the hon. Baronet wished, namely, to substitute a simple measure instead of one of great complication. By the existing system there were 90 different officers, who received 330,000 different payments, and the amount of these payments was between 112,000 l. l. l. 599
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he was glad to have the opportunity of stating how completely, as it appeared to him, the observations made by a noble and learned Lord elsewhere (the Lord Chancellor), and to which reference had been made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon, had been misunderstood. Unquestionably that noble and learned Lord was placed in a very unusual position in being interrogated on a number of questions of detail with reference to measures which were not only not then under discussion in the place where the questions were put, but which had not then been even introduced before either branch of the Legis-
 602 603 604
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he had heard the speech of the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat, with great satisfaction, and he rejoiced that his noble Friend had coincided completely with the Government as to the necessity of being prepared with a force of the description of a militia body; but his noble Friend was mistaken in supposing the Government Bill could be amended by substituting in place of a local a permanent, or regular militia. That subject had undergone great consideration at the hands of the Government, and to their minds it appeared far better to confine themselves in the present instance to a militia of a local rather than of a permanent character. The regular militia was composed of men who were permitted to serve by substitute, and that arrangement created so much confusion that it was often impossible to put their hand on the militiaman when his services were required. Under the system by which substitutes were admitted, a man might serve as such in the county of York, and when the training was over there, he might resort to the county of Somerset, and serve as a substitute there. Thus 5,000, or 6,000 men might in this way be doing the duty of the whole militia force. That might not be discovered in time of peace; but in time of war, when the substitute was detained in the first corps in which he was enrolled, there would be a lamentable deficiency of trained men. Besides, the Government did not propose to go so far as the expense of a regular militia. All that was aimed at under present circumstances was a force which should be mustered, partly drilled, and rendered easy of enrolment whenever the necessity arose of having recourse to their services. By the old system it took many weeks before even the lists preparatory to a ballot could be made out, and many months before the men could he enrolled. It was not proposed by this Act to render every man between the ages of eighteen and forty-five liable to ballot, as by the old Militia Act, whereby married men were
 582 583 584
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, the people of Scotland, even those belonging to the Established Church, were beginning to see the impropriety of imposing on the lay professors Tests which it was perfectly well known had been to some extent taken by people who were notoriously not of the; faith which they professed. Now, nothing could possibly be so damaging to the characters of the instructors of youth as to tender to them any test which did not appear to bind, and which was not of  bonâ fide
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that when the Bill was introduced, its provisions would
 630
 Mr. SIDNEY HERBERT : No; the law provided for the removal of the general militia at any time. What he had referred to was the moving of the local militia
 590
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he could bear testimony to the fact stated by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Lord Palmerston), that the opinion which he had expressed to-night on the subject of the militia was no new opinion, for when he (Mr. S. Herbert) held the office of Secretary of War the noble Lord frequently questioned him on the subject in this House. Those questions had not been without effect, for the late Government were so fully persuaded of the necessity of taking some steps in the matter, that at the desire of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon (Sir James Graham), then Secretary for the Home Department, and of the late Sir Robert Peel, he (Mr. S. Herbert) drew up a Bill for the revising of the militia laws, with the view of bringing the subject before Parliament; but the measure
 588 589
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  wished to put this test to the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) who had spoken of the corruption of the House, whether, being a member of a certain political club, he ever tried to get rid of a man who bore the character of having corrupted more electors than any man of his age? he asked the hon. Gentleman whether he ever heard of the name of Mr. Coppock, that remarkably active member of the Reform Club; and whether, if he were a member of the Reform Club, he had ever tried to purge that society of his company? No sooner had a vacancy occurred in the representation, than that gentleman was busy, first with the members of the Reform Club, then with the constituency on the scene of action. Had the hon. and learned Gentleman ever tried to put a stop to that gentleman's conduct, which had been notorious for the last twenty years? he thought when the hon. and learned Gentleman spoke of shams, he, like others, was but making a pretence, well knowing a dissolution was near at hand, and sincerely hoping such a debate would not be without its weight at the poll.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he had asked the hon. and learned Gentleman a question, and his answer had no bearing on it whatever. Was not the hon. and learned Gentlemen a Member of the Reform Club?
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON : That is an answer.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON , in seconding the Amendment, begged to say that in alluding to the corrupt practices of St. Albans, he had not had the slightest intention of imputing to the hon and learned Member for Sheffield any share in those transactions. But the hon. and learned Member was generally very free in the imputation of motives to hon. Members on that side of the House; and since the word "sham" had been used, he (Lord C. Hamilton) merely wished to ask the hon. and learned Member, whether as a private individual he had used his influence to remove from that society which was supposed to be the nucleus of liberal policy a person who was supposed to be an instrument of corruption. If the hon. and learned Member was as sincere as he (Lord C. Hamilton) was, in wishing to put down bribery and corruption—and he believed that the hon. and learned Member was perfectly sincere—he would persevere in using his best exertions to expose and put a stop to such practices as had been carried on at St. Albans.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, the hon Member for Harwich (Mr. Bagshaw) had spoken in defence of his constituents, but he did not know whether what he had said would do them a great deal of good, or arrest the wish of the House to get rid both of corrupt and nomination boroughs. He hoped the House would yet adopt such measures as would make the representation a reality, and not a mockery. The hon. Gentleman, however, to prove the purity of his constituents, cited the case of Sir John Cam Hobhouse, who was elected for Harwich without going near it; and he thought that a defence. He (Lord D. Stuart) did not think a man's being unknown to a community was any proof of the purity of his election. He knew an instance of a man who now sat in the House of Lords, who, before Parliament
 611
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  saie, they had had the Bill of which the right hon. Gentleman spoke before them; but he thought the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume) bad better wait till he saw the present Bill.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down supposes, without any warrant or foundation whatever, that Ireland is not placed in this Bill in consequence of some distrust of the J loyalty of Irishmen. Sir, as I have already said, there is no sort of foundation for such a supposition. It would have created the greatest confusion if we had proposed to introduce into the same Bill different authorities with regard to Irish parishes and Irish unions; and, therefore, we took first a Militia Bill which affected England, and made that the foundation, not making it applicable either to Scotland any more than to Ireland. At the same time we imply no distrust of the loyalty of Scotchmen. We do not say the Scotch people are not loyal, but we say we wish, in the first instance, to introduce a Militia local Bill for England. There is another thing which I stated with regard to this Bill, namely, that a portion of the police force employed in the metropolis, and in the great towns of some larger counties, was regarded as a part of the quota to be furnished, and was so far an exemption from the obligations of the Bill. If the same principle is applied to Ireland, where there is a large force of constabulary formed entirely of Irishmen, who have always behaved well in every respect, and are, I believe, as fine a body of men—some 10,000 or 12,000 strong—as can be mustered; of course, that circumstance has to be considered, when we have to introduce a Bill for Ireland. It is a matter for consideration whether we shall follow this Bill up, when it has been approved by both Houses, by Bills with regard to Ireland and Scotland; and if no measure is introduced for Scotland or Ireland, it will be from other causes than a want of confidence in the people of Ireland or Scotland.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  wished to observe, that he had no objection to send the Bill before a Select Committee to consider the details of the question; but if the House desired it, he was quite prepared to carry it through the various stages without that course.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I think it will be more convenient to discuss the subject in Committee, where Members may ask questions and receive explanations, and make remarks upon the matter, without being fettered by some of the rules of debate in a sitting of the House.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I will explain the measure at length in Committee.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, in 1848 I made a statement to the House with respect to the defences of this country, and in the course of my statement, I said I thought it would be desirable to form a foundation for a permanent militia force, which might be of great service in case of invasion. Unfortunately, that proposition of mine, and other propositions with respect to the naval and military service, were coupled with a proposal for increased taxation, which became very unpalatable to the House and to the country, and the Government did not persevere in the proposal. I recall it to recollection now, chiefly for the purpose of showing that, in the opinion of Her Majesty's Government, without any pressure of extraordinary circumstances, it was wise to make provision for the defence of the country. At the time at which I then addressed the House Louis Philippe was upon the throne of France; there was no apparent revolution at hand; the disposition of that King was known to be pacific; his counsels were moderate and wise. At that time I thought it would be advisable to make permanent provision for the defences of the country; and I now renew the proposition, with the hope that the House and the country will take the same view which Her Majesty's Government take, that it would be wise to have a permanent force of militia. When I say that, it is not that I mean to depart in any respect from the assurances which were given in Her Majesty's Speech, that the relations of this country with foreign Powers were of a friendly nature, and that there was nothing apparently at hand to disturb those relations; but at the same time I think it never can be assumed that a country in the position in which this country is can be secure from the danger of war. In the first place, we may have some aggression upon some of our possessions, or even upon our own country. In the next place, it is possible that we may have some dispute with respect to the rights of our subjects, or injury supposed to be inflicted upon them by subjects of other countries. In the third place, we are hound by treaty with respect to several of the countries of Europe to defend them, if attacked. [An Hon. MEMBER: No.] Yes; I will only mention one instance; we are
 552 553 554 555 556 557 558 l. 559
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : This is a Bill only for England and Wales. With respect to Ireland, we do not propose a local militia.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : In counties. They are not to be taken out of their own counties without their own consent, except in cases of danger of invasion, or of other imminent danger.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I rise to suggest to the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield that he should avail himself of the proper opportunity, if the present is not considered a fair one by the Government, for pressing his Motion, which I think is a very proper Motion. I also wish to make one observation upon the charge made by the right hon. Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Hayter) against my hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner). The right hon. Gentleman says that my hon. Friend insinuated a charge against the Government. Now my hon. Friend merely read evidence.
 626 l. l. l. 627
 MR. COWAN  would give the Committee an instance of the absurdity of the present law regarding Tests in the University of Edinburgh. The Greek Professorship, one of the most important chairs there, being vacant, was applied for by upwards of twenty candidates, among whom were some of the most eminent men the country could produce; but out of those twenty only four were legally qualified to be inducted. It was in the power of the Town Council to prevent the induction to the chair of the most accomplished scholar. He hoped this Bill would meet with the hearty support of both sides of the House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  was sure that, after the very able and patriotic speech of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton—a speech which evinced the truest English spirit—a spirit that noble Lord had on many important occasions manifested—it was not necessary for him to trouble the Committee with many observations. No one was in a position to give a more independent or a more competent opinion on the subject before the House than the noble Lord, having lately left the Government, and being perhaps more versed in the relations of this country with foreign States, and their present attitude, than any other person. Assured, as he was, that the circumstances of the country were not such as to warrant an overweening confidence in the perpetuation of peace, he hoped that England would not suffer herself to be misled by the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) into that state of over-confidence with which he would inspire the House. The hon. Member for the West Riding had not been very successful as the prophet of peace, for last Session he and the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) said there were no pirates in Sarawak. One of their witnesses was a Mr. Burns, who had since paid with his life the price of his temerity and overconfidence. He did not wish to enter into any discussion of the necessity for the measure which had been announced; but after careful inquiry of those who were most competent to give information on such subjects, he was convinced that he was doing his duty, as a Member of the Opposition, in supporting the proposal now made; in saying that, he was not of course pledging himself to the forthcoming measure in all its details. In 1848 he (Mr. Newdegate) opposed the embodiment of the militia; but in 1852 he would support a defensive measure such as the Government had proposed. He was confident he was doing his duty in giving to the proposal of the Government a general support.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that a Session or two ago their ears were dinned with the words reform, retrenchment, peace—they were told of nothing but harmony, amity, and peaceful confederation to promote the welfare of mankind, and such stuff; and this humbug reached its climax in that Great Exhibition. Everything was then to be happy and prosperous. He never joined in that cant. Her Majesty's Government, and, he grieved to say, many of our gentry, were "hail, fellow! well met," with every foreign ragamuffin. Her Majesty's Government was foremost indeed—every foreigner was a brother and a friend—no matter what or who he was, the foreigner was taken by the hand, whilst our own poor people were neglected. But, not content with all this fuss about foreigners, nothing would suit the Government but that those amicable strangers should be allowed to pry into our dockyards, and inspect the Tower and our arsenals. The whole nakedness of the country was laid open to them, and now we were about to reap the fruits of our generosity. Higher and better people than the noble Lord and his Colleagues countenanced this delusion; but the absurdity had now passed away, and instead of the olive branch they were to have the trumpet. He objected to the scheme of the noble Lord, which he thought in a great measure designed to promote,
 565
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had been charged with corruption because he had exercised Christian charity towards a Christian people. He had been charged with giving away coals in the winter. He had done so, and he would do it again. But what was the situation of the Government? He talked of Greenwich. Had the Government had nothing to do with that election? Would the noble Lord at the head of the Government say that he had not sanctioned many acts which amounted to bribery, and that he had not unduly influenced boroughs and counties,—aye, and a city, too? The fact was, that the Government found fault with humble individuals for acts of charity, and if they would not vote for the noble Lord's party, they soon got a broad hint that they were not wanted. He was astonished that the Government, who needed reform themselves, should dare to make a victim of a small borough like St. Albans. He had never influenced a tenant of his own to give a vote, nor would he do so; but he would not be restrained from visiting the poor man in his cottage, and relieving his wants. It was unfair to visit poor parties in the manner proposed, when their superiors were tenfold more guilty.
 MR. ROCHE  said, he entirely concurred in the eulogium passed by the noble Lord
 585 586
 Mr. REPTON  said, that having been called upon by the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, he would trouble the House with a very few words. He would be very short and very brief. He regretted that he did not possess the power of carrying the House with him, evening after evening, as the hon. and learned Member for Youghal was so capable of doing. This House had last year appointed certain Commissioners to inquire into the conduct pursued at the St. Albans election. They pursued their inquiry—they made their Report. He bowed to that Report, which he thought a perfectly just one. With regard to himself he had no share in any such transactions when he was a candidate there in 1841. He stood a second time as a candidate for St. Albans at the last election in 1847. He went there with a firm desire to resist everything like bribery and corruption. He said that he would not advance any money for such improper purposes. He told his agent that he would sooner lose the election over and over again than lend himself to such practices. He went to the poll; but from what he saw on that day he felt convinced, by the manner in which the poll was carried, that bribery was in some shape or another resorted to. The Commissioners put the question to him; and he answered, unhesitatingly and frankly, that he believed bribery had been carried on. About ten days after the election a number of bills were brought to him to pay. Although his legal adviser told him that he was not bound to pay, he felt, upon the point of honour, that he was called upon to pay them, and he did so. He then declared, both publicly and privately, that he would never again be a candidate for St. Albans. He had been called upon by the House to make a statement. He had nothing more to say, except that, upon the word of a gentleman, what he had stated was the truth.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  would reserve his opinion of the Militia Bill till it was before the House; but he hoped they would always remember that our first and best defence was the British Channel. He thought they had no cause to be at all alarmed about steam vessels. However much the intention of an enemy to attack this country might be forwarded by steam, the power of prevention on our part was quite as great. He had no doubt whatever, that with the power that steam had of getting to any given spot in almost any weather, it would be morally impossible for an enemy to come over without being attacked by our naval force. But then he concurred in what had been said by previous speakers about drawing more of their navy home. They had them scattered everywhere, and very needlessly in some places, as to numbers; but if they wanted defence let them be drawn home, for that was their right defence. If they only took due precautions with their Navy, they would never have an enemy land upon these shores. They might have an irruption—a kind of piratical expedition—but no real invasion. They had double the population that existed when the war ceased; they had ships also equal in size to those of any enemy, and steamers able to cope with any that were afloat. In time of peace their consuls abroad would be sure to inform them if any hostile preparations were going forward. In the case of France, Cherbourg was the only
 596
 Mr. G. THOMPSON  wished to offer a few remarks with regard to what had been said relating to the Reform Club. He did not think they would be doing strict justice if they were to censure Mr. Coppock,
 620
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, that the borough of Harwich being unrepresented in that House—[ Cries of
 Mr. KER SEYMER  hoped the noble Lord at the head of the Government would adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert), and not refer so important a matter as the present measure to a Select Committee. He differed entirely from the hon. Member for the West Riding as to the feeling of the people of England on the subject. He did not allude to the opinions of that portion of them who were members of peace societies, or to their platform orators; but to the great bulk of the people.
 MR. J. BELL  said, I rise, Sir, to say that I shall prefer reserving myself for the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, upon several occasions during this unfortunate transaction he had been placed under a kind of restraint by the urgent desire of some of his friends that he should not take any part in these proceedings. The consequence was, that for about fifteen months he had had a kind of incubus hanging over him, and he had not had the slightest opportunity of making any remark in explanation of the facts
 614 615 616 617 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 618
 The LORD ADVOCATE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend certain provisions in the Laws relating to the number and election of Magistrates and Councillors in the Burghs in Scotland.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, any communication made to him by the hon. Member would meet with his immediate attention.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  moved—
 "That this House will immediately resolve itself into a Committee to consider of abolishing Tests in the Universities of Scotland."
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, there was a clear distinction between the two cases mentioned by the noble Lord who had just spoken; he did not desire to mix up the two matters in the present discussion. The consideration of the question mooted by the noble Lord would be better disposed of in another Bill.
 MR. WHITESIDE  begged to ask the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department whether the attention of the Government had been directed to that part of the St. Albans evidence which stated that Government places had been the reward of persons who had committed corruption on behalf of Reform candidates?
 MR. BAGSHAW  said, that no one doubted that up to 1841 the greatest possible corruption did exist at the elections for the borough of Harwich; but he emphatically denied that anything of the sort had taken place since that time. Could anything show it more than the circumstance of Sir John Cam Hobhouse's having been nominated for the borough, and being returned for it without having ever seen the place? But unquestionably, from that time to the present, nothing in the shape of corruption had existed in the borough; and he was delighted to find that the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster would move for a Commission to inquire into the corrupt practices alleged to prevail there, as the bad odour and bad character of the borough would be at once obliterated, and it would come out pure and shining from the ordeal.
 MR. REYNOLDS  supposed that he was to consider that the noble Lord had now answered his (Mr. Reynolds') question, but he was at a loss how to interpret the answer. He did not know whether the exception of Ireland from the Government plan was to be regarded as a boon or an insult. As an Irishman he could not accept the exemption of Ireland as a compliment. If the arguments of the noble Lord were good for embodying a local militia in England—and he (Mr. Reynolds) was not prepared to say that they were not good—those arguments were still better as applied to Ireland. If it was necessary because of the fear of an invasion from some part of the Continent—and he could not guess as to the particular country by which they were most likely to be interfered with—to raise a local militia in England, there was more urgent need of possessing such a force in Ireland, where, in consequence of her geographical position, the danger was still greater. He must remind the noble Lord that an Irish local militia was embodied once before at a time of great peril, when the existence of the empire was in the scale. He must remind the noble Lord, in particular, of 1798, when an armed French force arrived at Killala, and marched without impediment from the Bay of Killala to the centre of Sligo; and it should not be forgotten that that force was
 560
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, the noble Lord had not replied to his question as to whether this Bill would apply to Ireland.
 MR. REYNOLDS  wished to know whe-
 551
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he was anxious to do away with a sham. There could not be a doubt of the downright corruption of the House. There could not be a shadow of doubt in any man's mind—in his own heart he could not hesitate to decide that such was the case. The question he wished to put to the House was this: Wherein lay the difference between this corruption which they were about to punish in the many, and that which they were in the habit of seeing in a single rich man with
 610 l. l. Ironical cheers. l.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I am, but I never go there.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished the House would allow him to answer the question put to him by the noble Lord. He said he was now Member for Sheffield. He meant simply to answer the question.
 612 Laughter.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he would withdraw his Amendment, and should move on the second reading of the Bill, that Mr. Coppock be called to the Bar of the House.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to say a few words upon this Motion, for the Government were affected by it. As far
 621 pointing to the bar of the House 622
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he was willing to withdraw his Motion for the present. He begged to give notice, however, that after the second reading of the Bill, and on the Motion that the Bill should be committed, he should move that Mr. Coppock be called to the bar. He withdrew the Motion now on the full understanding that when he brought it forward at the proper time there would be no opposition on the part of the Government to his Motion.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Then I will not withdraw my Amendment.
 MR. TRELAWNY  thought foreign Governments would have no jealousy on this subject, as they might very naturally suppose the militia would become necessary to suppress those seditious proceedings of foreigners in this country of which they had complained. He demurred to the statement that, because the party he generally voted with chose to maintain the executive force of the country, therefore they were not entitled to be called radical reformers. Notwithstanding all the money that had been spent, he maintained that they were still very inadequately defended in the west of England. It was most essential that the Tagus fleet should be recalled. He believed this had been done, and that the  Arethusa
 MR. HENLEY  had heard with great pleasure the statement of his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, if he rightly understood the observations he had addressed to the House; because, viewing his hon. and learned Friend as a fair and proper exponent of the mind of the Lord Chancellor in that House, if he (Mr. Henley) rightly caught his meaning, it was this, that the supposed or presumed doubt of the Lord Chancellor in another place had reference not to the subject-matter of the report, or that particular and important part of it to which the light hon. Gentleman had referred, but to the details of the measure which might be prepared to carry out that subject-matter. He trusted he had rightly understood his hon. and learned Friend, because, if it were so, it did to a great degree relieve his mind, and he thought it would relieve the minds of other persons, of the fear they might have entertained of the Government not sanctioning the carrying out that part of the recommendations of the Commissioners. After the announcement made in the early part of the Queen's Speech as to the intention of the Government, followed up by the statement of the Prime Minister as to the introduction of this Bill, it was not surprising that that
 605
 MR. HUME  would not have risen again but for the very erroneous statements made by the hon. Member who had just spoken. The hon. Gentleman read to the House a paper written, he supposed, ten years ago, and did not seem to be aware that within these five years every arm of the British Army had been changed. Every gun used in the Affghan war had been changed, as was proved before a Committee of that House. He thought that the public mind ought to be disabused of the idea that the Army was inefficiently armed. Sir Hussey Vivian sent to every State in Europe a commission of officers to bring home the best muskets that could be found. These arms, when brought bore, were thoroughly tried both by officers and men. Reports of these trials were given in; and in consequence of those reports, Sir Hussey Vivian directed that the very best arms should be prepared for the British Army. Every one of them had been altered; the whole of the flint guns had been taken away, and those with percussion locks put in their place. Why, they had voted 150,000 l. 595
 MR. HUME  rose to ask the noble Lord whether he did not think the old laws relating to the militia should be repealed, and a new enactment made? They had heard from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. S. Herbert), that he had it in contemplation to consolidate those laws, and doubtless his measure would be found ready in the War Office; but at any rate it, would be much easier to begin anew than to refer to old enactments which nobody understood.
 MR. HUME  said, he had heard the statement of the noble Lord with deep regret. He (Mr. Hume) was totally opposed to this project. He was as earnest in his desire that the country should run no risk as any one else; but if they were in danger, he was for having a proper regular force, as, for instance, the existing force properly applied; and he warned the Committee and the country against sanctioning the principle involved, and all the social mischief implied, in the scheme of a local militia. The militia was an old and worn-out expedient. The militia was resorted to for the purpose of avoiding the putting the Crown in possession of too great a standing army; and the course which was formerly taken in removing the militia force from under the control of the Crown, and placing it under the government of a Committee of the House of Commons, indicated the jealousy which had existed between the Crown and the Parliament, and out of which sprung the very idea of such a force at all. That jealousy had now long ceased; and no one within those walls would have any jealousy of any powers Her Majesty might enjoy as the executive officer of this country; for the Crown, like every individual in the nation, would be bound by the rules which the constitution laid down. Why, then, were they to revert back to a system of war preparation which no longer was necessary? This scheme would be a tax bearing most unjustly upon those classes who would be drafted into the local militia. The service would be compulsory; and thus
 561 l. 562 l. 563
 MR. HUME  objected to going into Committee without some reasons being stated. There had been no ballot for the militia for many years, and he should object altogether to the industrious classes being disturbed now for such a purpose, and peaceable and quiet habits interfered with by a measure most unequal in its pressure, and for which no reason was given.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  thought his hon. Friend had just substantiated all that he had said. His hon. Friend had great confidence in the present ruler of France. He did not know whether he had French railway shares or not; but he had such confidence in the President as to believe that the man who upset the French constitution without notice would not send an army against this country. His hon. Friend was completely run away with. He failed in his logical deductions whenever he talked of peace; but he was bound to say that in his explanation he had borne out all that he (Mr. B. Osborne) had said regarding him.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, there was much inconvenience in discussing a measure that was not printed. He would express no opinion as to the policy of forming a militia, reserving that till the Bill was before the House; but he must express his dissent from some observations of a Gentleman for whom he had the greatest
 591 592 s.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he had always observed, in his not very long experience of that House, that when a Gentleman who got up to speak upon any subject found either a want of logical power to give his reasons, or, still more, if he was not prepared to give any opinion on the measure at all, he very often fell off into a misrepresentation of what other people had said. His hon. Friend who had just spoken had charged him with having said that he believed our safety was, that the French army had too much morality to invade this country. Now, what he had said was, when told that 10,000 or 15,000 men would be thrown upon our shores as buccaneers, without any declaration of war, that he had that opinion of the French army that they would not find an officer to lead them. He had gone so far as to say that they would be hanged if they were taken alive. On a future occasion opportunities would be given
 593
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, the hon. Member for Bedford (Sir H. Verney) has stated that he hoped, as Englishmen were insured for everything else that they possessed, they would consent to pay for the insurance of their lives, their liberties, and their properties. I have no hesitation in saying that Englishmen are quite willing to pay an insurance for their lives, their liberties, and their property; but the question is, not whether they pay an insurance or not, but whether they pay enough insurance or not for those lives, those liberties, and that property. The question is, whether having already effected an insurance in the Royal Exchange, they should be called upon to insure in the Phœnix as well? The question is, whether they have not already amply insured this country from all hostile attacks by
 568 l. l. l. l. l. l. 569 Albion Bellerophon Indefatigable Phœton Queen Trafalgar Vengeance Superb Britannia Arethusa Arrogant Hogue Leander Prince Regent l. 570 Waterloo Neptune Rodney Blenheim Edinburgh Excellent Victory Boscawen Fisgard Impregnable St. George Saturn 571 572 573 s. s. United Service Journal "What we have to dread is, not an invasion, but a hostile descent, throwing on some part of our coast a force of 10,000 or 12,000 men, who, although not strong enough to occupy the country, might do irreparable mischief before they are subdued. A buccaneering expedition might even make its way into the Thames, and demand a Canton ransom from the metropolis of the world."' United Service Journal. 574 l. l. 575
 MR. SPOONER  considered the subject then before the House one of grave importance, and which required an answer on the part of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary different from that which he had just given to the question put by the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside). On turning to the evidence the House would see that Mr. Coppock was asked—
 "Have you, as a matter of feet—we do not ask any details or any names—exerted yourself to obtain places for those who have served you on those occasions, either under Government or elsewhere?—I have exerted myself on every occasion to serve those to whom I considered myself indebted. "But in that particular way of obtaining a place?—Not more in that way than in any other. "Have you in that way?—I have taken people into my own office; I have placed them in other people's offices; I have got them situations on railways, and I have got them situations anywhere. 613 "Have you got them situations under Government in any one case?—I certainly have been the means of recommending people to situations under Government. "And they have obtained them ultimately?—I have had clerks in my own office who have had situations from Government. "Have you, as a matter of fact—I do not ask any details or any names—exerted yourself to obtain places for those who have served you on those occasions, either under Government or elsewhere?—Certainly, I have exerted myself to serve parties who have served me."
 MR. ALCOCK  would also support the measure, and was strongly in favour of a better equipment of the Army. Sir Charles Shaw had stated that 500 men, well equipped and armed, would be equal to 3,000 armed as at present; and the  Examiner 594 Quarterly Review
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  thought the hon. and gallant Gentleman should remember that if the population had increased to the extent which he stated, that population had at the same time been disarmed, and become unwarlike. Parliament had constantly followed the pernicious system of suspending, by the annual Militia Bill, those old wholesome measures of our forefathers by which a constitutional force was created, disciplined, and kept up, sufficient to encounter all the terrors of invasion with which they had been amused, and yet not sufficient to inspire any of that alarm which justly attached to an increase of the standing Army. He agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) that this conscription should be general and equal, and not confined to those who were between the ages of twenty and twenty-three, otherwise it would not be just; and it should be similar to that prevailing in the Channel Islands, where every male person more than six months resident was liable to serve in person or deputy in a regiment the depôt of which was not more than two miles from his place of residence. That was the law which he wished to see adopted in this country, because he believed that was the only way in which they could obtain a reduction in the standing Army, of which they had already seen the dangers in a neighbouring country, where a standing army had overturned the constitution, and that among a population which was not, as ours was, unused to arms. Therefore, though he did not share the alarm regarding an invasion, yet he thought such a measure as the present was well adapted to check that which the ability, the honesty, and the courage of the President of France were only adequate to—a piratical invasion of the coast, where booty was to be gained without the risk of fighting. But at the same time he wished to see no limitation with respect to age; and he hoped the noble Lord would listen to the strong objections of the hon. Member for Montrose and other Members in this respect, for he saw no reason for the population of this country being saddled with taxes to support a standing army for doing that which they could, and which they ought to do
 597
 Mr. CHISIIOLM ANSTEY  would remind the House that there were two Members for St. Albans sitting in the House. One sat upon the Government side, the other upon the Opposition side. The Member who sat upon the Government side of the House, who was the junior and the least experienced, had been heard that night at considerable length; but though the other Member had been frequently called upon, he had not as yet favoured them with his explanation upon the matter. Having heard the one Member, he thought that it was but fair his Colleague should state his views upon the subject. He took
 619
 MR. EWART  begged to call the attention of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate to a defect which existed in the present Municipal Law of Scotland. When the Municipal Corporations Bill was before the House, there were nine boroughs in the schedule which were stated to require reform, but they were omitted from the Bill on the understanding that they would be dealt with by a separate Bill; but this was never done, and there was one borough which was connected with the district he (Mr. Ewart) had the honour to represent, in which the magistrates were self-elected, and disposed of the funds of the corporation without being responsible to any constituency. It was also the case with a borough forming part of the district of Montrose. He hoped that the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate would take the opportunity afforded by this Bill to deal with this question. He would at present leave it in his hands; but if the right hon. and learned Lord did not turn his attention to the matter, he (Mr. Ewart) would bring forward a Motion on the subject.
 MR. HAYTER  said, that the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) had thrown out gentle insinuations that the Government had acted corruptly in making promises, or that some Government had made some promises; but those allegations wore of too general a nature to allow him to give them what he then proposed to give them, an unqualified denial. He could only deny, so far as he was concerned, that there was any ground for any such insinuations. But the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield became more specific in his charges, and stated that Mr. Coppock was a dispenser of the places of the Government. But where in the evidence did hon. Gentlemen find anything to warrant such an assertion? So far as he (Mr. Hayter) knew, Mr. Coppock had no connexion with the Government with respect to St. Albans, except that he had happened to be present when the hon. Member for St. Albans (Mr. J. Bell) had shown him (Mr. Hayter) his address. That was all that he had had to do with him directly or indirectly. He thought the address was; such a one as was consistent with the views of the hon. Member. Mr. Coppock had never in his life asked him (Mr. Hayter) a favour. It was also insinuated that some promises had been made by Mr. Coppock to Mr. Edwards, who relied on them; but he (Mr. Hayter) begged to deny in the most explicit manner, as far as he was concerned, that any promise or expectation had ever been held out by the Government with respect to the election at St. Albans.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  was glad that the two subjects were not mixed up in the present Bill, which, as he understood it, applied only to lay professors, he should not now oppose. If the people of Scotland were prepared to let those tests be abolished, and took no steps to strengthen their hands in that House, he would not, single-handed, take upon himself to fight their battle. If, on the contrary, they detitioned against the abolition of those
 629
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said, that any measure brought forward to abolish Tests for parochial schoolmasters in Scotland would meet with his most uncompromising opposition.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, with respect to the Amendment of which he had given notice—to include Harwich in the Bill—he believed there were ample and substantial grounds why such a Motion should be agreed to. But he was aware that technical objections might be proposed. A Commission had not sat with respect to this borough. There had, however, been a Committee to inquire into the corruption that had taken place in Harwich; and it was his impression that if a Commission were appointed to inquire into the practices that prevailed there, instead of a lesser case than at St. Albans, greater corruption would be found in Harwich, and more ingrained in the constituency. The Committee over which the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) had presided, had done all that a Commission appointed by the Crown could do, and therefore, instead of proposing as an Amendment on that occasion the Motion of which he had given notice, he should to-morrow move that no new writ should be issued for Harwich without ten days' notice, which would afford an opportunity of taking the sense of the House upon the propriety of that borough being disfranchised.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was ignorant of any such rewards having been given by the Government to which he belonged for any such corrupt practices; but the evidence referred to having been given on oath, it was not for him, of course, to question it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside), asked me if I was aware that it was stated that places had been given by Government upon the application of certain parties. I told him that if it was so I was ignorant of it; that I had no cognisance of it; but if it was stated upon oath before the Commission, I had no reason to doubt it. I can only say that, judging from the cheers with which the observations of the hon. Member for South Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) was greeted, no Member now in this House has been guilty of such a course of proceeding.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  would appeal to the House whether it could assent to the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member with a due regard to its own character, and acting in that deliberative manner to which, he thought, they were bound to adhere. What he had stated Was, that if any hon. Member should think there were sufficient grounds for hearing Mr. Coppock at the bar, the proper mode of proceeding would be to give notice of a Motion to that
 625
 SIR GEORGE GREY  would appeal to the House whether the hon. and learned Gentleman was using the Government fairly in insinuating, as he had just done, that he (Sir G. Grey) had given a pledge on the part of the Government that they would accede to his Motion before they had heard the grounds for it stated. He had given no such pledge.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the course which had just been pursued by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) was the most extraordinary and unprecedented he ever remembered to have seen in that House. He (Sir G. Grey) had risen about an hour and a half ago, in pursuance of a notice given on the very first day of the Session, to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the disfranchisement of the borough of St. Albans. There was also on the paper a notice of an Amendment by the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans), which, for the reasons which the House had heard, had not been pressed upon their consideration that evening. There was not the slightest hint that any other Amendment was likely to be moved, although the Report of the Commissioners, and the evidence which was taken before them, had been in the hands of Members for nearly two weeks. During the discussion which had taken place that evening, the hon. and learned Gentleman, and the noble Lord (Lord C. Hamilton), who had seconded his Amendment, had both, by the courtesy of the House, been permitted to make two distinct speeches; and yet neither of them had hinted in their speeches that they had any objection to make to the introduction of the Bill. It was only after the House had given leave to introduce the Bill, and upon the formal question which had been put from the chair, that the name of the Attorney General should be associated with his (Sir G. Grey) in bringing in the Bill, that the hon. and learned Gentleman, nettled at some observations that had fallen from the noble Lord opposite (Lord C. Hamilton), rose to explain, and concluded by moving that Mr. Coppock be called to the bar, and that without reading one word of Mr. Coppock's evidence in support of his Motion—without, indeed, stating any grounds whatever for it, except his own belief, which he (Sir G. Grey) begged the House to receive with due caution, that Mr. Coppock had been employed as an agent of the Government in corrupting the electors of St. Albans. Now, speaking for himself, he (Sir G. Grey) could only express his firm belief that there was not the shadow of a foundation for the assumption of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He thought the House ought to pause before it called Mr. Coppock to the bar upon the mere suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, unfortified by any evidence which could support such a
 624
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House had understood with perfect correctness the statement made by his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General. The Report had been presented only a few days before the meeting of Parliament: it was immediately brought under the consideration of the Government, and a passage was introduced in the Queen's Speech relating to the measure to be founded on that Report; and his noble Friend at the head of the Government thought that the most distinct and authoritative manner in which the intention of the Government could be expressed would be by giving notice of an early day for the introduction of a Bill founded on that Report. He could not sit down, however, without stating that from all he had heard, the legal part of the Commission had derived the greatest possible benefit from the cordial assistance they had received from the association of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon (Sir James Graham), and the hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley); and the Report, which was unanimously agreed to by the Commission, was one for which the public must feel deeply indebted to them.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to disfranchise the borough of St. Albans, said, the House would remember the proceedings connected with the last election for the borough of St. Albans, and were aware that in consequence of the obstacles that were thrown in the way of a complete inquiry into those proceedings, the House passed an Act last Session in the preamble of which it was stated—
 "There is reason to believe that the practice of bribery at elections of Members to serve in Parliament for the borough of St. Albans hath long prevailed in the said borough, and that bribery to a great extent hath been systematically committed there at the last election of a Member of Parliament;" 606 —"with an investigation into the facts connected with the last election, in order to ascertain whether the corrupt practices alleged to have prevailed were confined to that election, or whether they were the result of a system or practice of bribery which there was reason to believe had long prevailed in the borough. This course of proceeding soon disclosed that the practices referred to were the result of a system which was the ordinary accompaniment of every contest." [ Parliamentary Papers, No. l. l. l. "Mr. Bell made his entry into St. Albans on Monday, the 2nd of December, 1850, when the apparent canvass commenced, but Edwards had already begun to see the electors at the committee-room in Sovereign-alley, The course adopted then, and pursued up to the day of election, was one of systematic, unblushing bribery, which, but for the failure of evidence before the Committee of the House of Commons, we should have thought could not have escaped detection. The house in Sovereign-alley was taken by Edwards. It consisted of throe rooms below, and two above; in one of the rooms below there was always refreshment, and there the voters attended from time to time in great numbers, in the evening, and waited until they were introduced to Edwards. A doorkeeper was stationed at the head of the stairs, whose duty it was to introduce the voters who inquired for Edwards, singly, to his presence, in a room where be sat alone. His brother-in-law had at former elections acted as doorkeeper; but on this occasion the office was filled by one of Edwards' sons. Edwards began to see the electors in this room on the 29th or 30th
 607 l. l. l. "Having now presented to Your Majesty the facts of the two elections in 1847 and 1850, and detailed the system of bribery adopted, we think it right to add that the habit of taking bribes was not confined to those who might plead the state of their circumstances as a temptation, but was usual with many who from their position might have been supposed least likely to accept them. Professional men and tradesmen of a superior class admitted that they received money for their votes, and were active in bribing others, and persons holding subordinate offices connected with the administration of justice in the borough were deeply implicated in these disgraceful transactions. The system had so long prevailed, and corruption was so widely extended, that the moral sense of the inhabitants was deadened, and they evinced no shame when they avowed their participation in these practices. From this sweeping charge we are happy to be able to exempt the clergy of all denominations, and some of the principal inhabitants of the town, who united their efforts to put an end to so degrading a system." 608 "That the practice of bribery at elections for Members to serve in Parliament for the borough of St. Albans hath long prevailed in the said borough, and that bribery to a great extent was systematically committed there at the last election of a Member to serve in Parliament."
 Sir GEORGE GREY  said, a distinction had been drawn by the right hon. Gentleman between the local and the general militia, and a preference expressed by him for the latter. The real difference was, that one was an offensive force, while the other was purely defensive. All they now wanted to provide was a defensive force—a force to guard this kingdom in the event of an invasion against the attack of a foreign country. They did not want, what was wanted at the conclusion of the Continental war, a militia which should set free every soldier of the regular army in the country, so that the latter might be employed, not for purposes of internal defence, but to carry on the war on the Continent of Europe. It was well known that at the period to which he referred, the militia all through the country did the duty which was originally performed by the soldiers of the line. More than that, the militia then afforded the most valuable means of recruiting the Army. They had no such intention at the present moment. They had no anticipation of a war on the Continent in which this country would have to take a part; but if unfortunately circumstances should occur to render such a force indispensable, it would then be for Parliament to determine what course should be taken to enable the country to maintain its honour and its interests. That, however, was not what was now contemplated. All the Government felt it their duty to do at present was to provide a force which might serve as a purely defensive force against foreign invasion. If a foreign invasion took place, the local militia would be available for that purpose; beyond that they did not think it right to go. The right hon. Gentleman who spoke last thought that the removal of the local militia from one part of the kingdom to another pending a negotiation would amount to a declaration of war. So would the removal of the general militia.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had not stated that every individual soldier was sent out of the country; but had the militia not been embodied, there would have been a necessity for 82,000 more soldiers at home.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the right hon. Gentleman appeared to contemplate the embodiment of a regular militia, as an army in the country, capable of being moved to the coast in the event of an invasion. That was a course which at present they need not contemplate; and, should it be necessary to employ the militia as they were employed at the end of the Continental war, probably the better course would be to increase the Army by a certain amount. The object they had in view was purely defensive in itself; it was one of which no foreign country could complain, for it was not to provide a means of aggression against any other country.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he must complain of the manner in which the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had spoken of the soldiers of the British Army. He (Sir H. Verney) would maintain that there was not a more honourable, well-conducted, and moral set of men in the country ever collected together in a body of 600 or 800 than those who composed a regiment of British soldiers. What was the fact? Every regiment had a library, consisting of 5,000 or 6,000 volumes, which were paid for by the men themselves, and the library was conducted by noncommissioned officers. In each regiment there was a school open for the soldiers morning and evening. On one evening in each week the commanding officer procured a lecture to be given; and on another evening in the week some scientific and intellectual entertainment was afforded to the soldiers. He could not avoid making these few remarks when be heard the character of the British soldier calumniated and spoken of in a way which it did not deserve. It was with some degree of regret that he had heard the proposal of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, for he could not believe that a force so collected, so organised, and so disciplined as was proposed, could be competent successfully to encounter an invasion of this country. If they were to have a militia force, let it be thoroughly efficient. He believed that nothing would be more easy than to raise one battalion or even two battalions in each county, who, instead of being demoralised by becoming soldiers, would
 566 567
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, this was an important Bill, and one to which he believed the highest authority in the Court of Chancery could have no objection, because it conferred upon him additional, and, as some might think, too much power. It was proposed by this Bill to abolish all fees—a proposal in which he (Sir H. Willoughby) entirely concurred; but then it was also proposed that the money which was to be paid in lieu of fees should be raised by stamps to be issued with the sanction of the Lord Chancellor. Now he wished to ask whether this power of the Lord Chancellor to issue stamps was to be limited, and, if so, to what amount? for in this case the House would remember that they were parting with the important power of taxing Her Majesty's subjects through the Stamp Office. There was another point on which he wished for some information. One class of officers in the Chancery Court was to be paid from this fund arising out of fees and stamps, while another class was to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund. Now he thought that a great advantage would arise from having all the officers paid out of one fund, and then
 598
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  had been nominated to serve on the last Harwich Election Committee; that election was voided not on the proof of any corrupt practice, but because the polling booths had been carried away while an election was polling, before four o'clock.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, I do not rise to oppose the second reading of this Bill: on the contrary, having in former Sessions complained of the delay which has taken place in giving effect to the recommendations of the two Reports of the Select Committee on which this measure is founded, I have now great pleasure in expressing my satisfaction at this Bill being introduced. This is not the moment to go into the details of the Bill. I think that in general the details are satisfactory, and such as are calculated to carry into effect the recommendations of the Committee—though there are certain points on which their recommendations have not been adopted; and when this measure is in Committee it will be my duty to call attention to some of those particular points. But at present I rise to ask a question of my hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General with respect to a matter that is germane to the subject of this Bill. The House will recollect that on the 27th of last June the House agreed to a unanimous Address to Her Majesty, praying that to the Members composing the Chancery Commission, two Gentlemen not of the legal profession might be added:
 —"and also praying that Her Majesty would be graciously pleased to cause instructions to be given to the said Commissioners to direct their immediate attention to the course of business before the Masters in Ordinary of the said Court, so as to report as speedily as may be their opinion as to the proper steps for regulating the business in those offices in such manner as to diminish the delay and expense to the suitors." 600 601
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  begged that the noble Lord, before the debate proceeded further, would state one point more clearly. The noble Lord had not stated how the force was to be distributed over the country with regard to the counties.
 VISCOUNT MELGUND  thought the Bill was a good one, so far as it went; but the fact was, that the law was, to all intents and purposes, obsolete at the present moment, and there were many persons holding offices in the Scotch Universities who were not members of the Church of Scotland. One very desirable point omitted in the present Bill wrs the abolition of Tests now imposed on parish schoolmasters, who were now subject to the same Tests as were now proposed to be repealed in the case of University Professors. He could not see why the Government should select only one of the classes of educators, Professors in Universities, as the objects of their legislation, and exclude from the benefits of the present measure all those who were included in the operation of the old Acts. If the Government did not take up this subject, he would endeavour, by every means in his power, to prevail on the House to abolish the laws which were a disgrace to the Statute-book.
 VISCOUNT MELGUND  wished to know whether the Government intended to introduce a clause in the Education Bill which they had promised, for the repeal of the Test imposed on parochial schoolmasters; but
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I have heard with satisfaction the speech of the hon. and gallant Gentleman on this side of the House., the hon. Member for Bradford (Col. Thompson), who expressed his gratification that Her Majesty's Government were at last doing something, and were proposing a measure on the subject of the present discussion. My satisfaction, I can, however, assure the House, is not founded on any temporary panic, or on any opinion that there is now pressing on us any danger which has not existed at any former period. I trust our relations with all those countries from which, under any circumstances, danger might arise, are friendly, and that there is no question at present likely to arise which can expose this country to the danger of war. But the noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government knows that so long ago as the year 1846 I took the liberty of pressing on him my opinion, that on general principles, and with a view to the permanent and lasting interests of the country, it was desirable that some such measure of precaution should be taken as that which is the object of the present proposal, and I have at various times renewed my instances; but there were difficulties which prevented my recommendations from being carried into effect. I am glad, Sir, those difficulties have disappeared, and that Her Majesty's Government are now enabled to propose measures lo provide more adequately for the defence of the country. There are hon. Gentlemen who say they hope we may not be again engaged in Continental warfare, or mix ourselves up unnecessarily with Continental quarrels. Sir, I agree with them entirely; but, as the noble Lord truly said, we have engagements, and some of them of long standing, which may involve us in discussions with other countries. [Lord JOHN RUSSELL: Hear, hear!] We have political interests beyond our own shores; and there are changes which it would not suit either the safety of this country or its dignity, that we should sit quietly by, and
 576 577 Excellent Victory 578 579 580 581
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he rose to set the right hon. Baronet right on a matter of fact. The right hon. Baronet had stated that, at the close of the last war, the regular militia did the whole of the military duty of the country, by which means the Government was enabled to send all the regular force abroad. Now, in January, 1814, the regular militia in the United Kingdom amounted to 82,000, and the regular troops at home to 56,000.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : 56,000 troops form a wide margin.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that the questions that had been put by the hon. and gallant Member would perhaps have been better put on the discussion on the Army Estimates; but he would endeavour to answer them as briefly as possible. With regard to the first question which had been put to him by the hon. and gallant Member, he begged to say that, being but a short time in office, his attention had not as yet been directed to the matter to which it referred. With regard to the second question, he could assure the hon. and gallant Gentleman, that it was his intention to direct his attention to all questions affecting the comforts and interest of the Army; and that in zeal for the service he hoped he should not be found inferior to any gallant officer who, in the double capacity of an officer in the Army and a representative of
 652 l.
 MR. PEEL : In the year 1836 an Act of Parliament was passed bringing British subjects in territories adjacent to the Colony of the Cape, and south of the 25th degree of south latitude, under the jurisdiction of criminal laws and courts of the colony of the Cape. The object of that Act was to protect the natives against the outrages and violence of any of the British subjects. That Act was, I believe, found to be of considerable service in checking outrages; but a difficulty arose with respect to assigning limitations, and fixing upon the exact latitude of the spot where a crime was committed; and a recommendation was made, with a view of removing that objection, to do away with the limitation of the degree, and, at all events, to extend the jurisdiction of the courts of the colony as far as the Equator; and Earl Grey did announce to Sir Harry Smith that it was his intention to bring in a Bill, and to act upon that recommendation. If matters had proceeded in conformity with that recommendation, a Bill would have been introduced last Session; but, seeing the state of affairs on the eastern frontier of the colony, it was not thought advisable to proceed with that measure; and as the war still continues on the eastern frontier of the Cape, no step has been taken for the preparation of such a measure as that to which the hon. Gentleman refers.
 MR. MOFFATT  was glad to hear this avowal; because it seemed to him that the whole weight of evidence taken before the Committee last year was very much in favour of limited liability as it at present existed in most parts of the United States, Holland, France, and some of the commercial States of Germany.
 MR. HEADLAM  congratulated the hon. Gentleman who had moved the Resolution, that there was a good hope of the favourable termination of his exertions. He did not think the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) had been quite fair in attributing to the hon. Gentleman a desire to encourage the investments of the savings of the humbler classes in schemes of a speculative character. The hon. Gentleman's object was, to put it in the power of poor persons to obtain capital on better terms, with which to carry on their business. In 1847, he (Mr. Headlam) had moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the formation of joint-stock companies on the principle of limited partnership; and he was still of opinion that that principle would be much more advantageously applied to such companies than the present.
 678
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, the great question with the working classes was not generally so much the amount of the yearly interest they obtained upon their savings, as the certainty that they could recover them whenever they pleased. He thought that encouragement to the associations which had been spoken of would do much injury by fostering habits of speculation or of improvidence, which would be sure to result when the working people found that the savings which they had hoarded with such care were wasted by imprudent investments. He did not think, however, that there would be any great or important difficulty in giving persons desirous to associate together with a small capital the means of settling their disputes inter se, the want of which he believed formed a much more serious obstacle in such associations than the question of limited or unlimited liability. He begged therefore most earnestly to draw the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade and of the Government to this point. If the House would read the evidence given before the Committee last year, they would find that all the witnesses considered this their chief grievance; and it was in fact a grievance which had created more discontent amongst the working classes than any other whatever. In conclusion, he felt sure that the importance of the general question would secure for it a prompt
 679
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that the satisfaction he had felt at the announcement of a Commission on the law of partnership had been considerably qualified by the fact, as he had understood the right hon. Gentleman, that the gravest and most serious principle involved in it, namely, unlimited liability, would not be approached.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that the Motion of which he had given notice was for the Abolition of Stamps imposed upon Receipts. He had hoped that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer would have remitted this tax long since, in consequence of the representations that had been made to him, more especially as the reduction of other stamp duties had given great relief to the public. The chief argument which, in his opinion, was in favour of the abolition of this tax, was its systematic evasion on the part of the public. This was the greatest evil to which a tax could be exposed. The late Sir Robert Peel was so strongly of this opinion that he remitted the auction duty, although the remission at that time was neither demanded nor expected. There were few taxes which in principle were more objectionable than this, for it was a tax which almost more than any other was liable to that great moral and practical evil, the being open to continual evasion, and with impunity, on the part of all classes of society. The systematic evasion of the law with respect to receipt stamps was best shown by reference to the decrease in the duty received by the Government from this source. Notwithstanding the greatly increased number of payments which were now made, the revenue from receipt stamps was falling off every year. In the year 1848 the amount derived from receipt stamps was 162,750 l. l. l. l. 696 "London, April 24th, 1850. "Sir—I have not the least doubt but you will be surprised at receiving this from me, but necessity makes men desperate. I have, in the whole, six of your unstamped bills, which if they should by chance fall into the hands of the Commissioners of Stamps and Taxes, you are aware of what will be the result. Now, the best way to obviate such a chance will be for you to remit me a Post Office order for whatever trifle you can spare in cash, just to cover my present necessity. You shall have, whatever sum it is, returned within three months, as I expect to realise a little money within that time; and I will send you, by return of post, all your unstamped bills. If you feel inclined to favour me, let me have an answer by return of post; if not, I shall not deem it necessary to take any means to prevent the said bills from falling into the Commissioners' hands, which it is very possible they may do, unless care is taken to prevent it. You will please to direct to me, 10, Wilson-court, Wilson-street, Gray's-inn-road, London. You are aware, perhaps, that I have had the misfortune to let the Stamp Office get hold of one or two lots of bills, which I hope you will endeavour to prevent in your case, by complying with my suggestion. You can make an order payable at Mr. Ogg, Money Order Office, Gray's-inn-road, for what sum you may think proper, and by return of post, as I am in great need at present, and you will much oblige me, and also prevent any ill effects arising from the aforementioned circumstances, as I am afraid the Stamp Office will ultimately get hold of all the unstamped bills which I have in my possession, which will be entirely obviated by your complying with my request, as I shall then have it in my power to remit them to you, and you can perhaps take better care of them than if they are left in my hands. "P.S.—An answer, as I said, by return of post, will much oblige, as delays are dangerous, and I have enclosed one of your bills, that you may know all is right. "To Mr. Daniel Oliver, Wholesale Grocer." 697 l., l. "The crossing a cheque with the name of a banker cannot he meant to operate as an endorsement to that banker; for it is not meant to transfer the property in it to him, and it wants the essential ingredient in endorsements, which is delivery. It cannot be supposed to be something equivalent to a direction to the drawer not to pay to the bearer, but to a particular person only, for it would then come under the operation of the stamp law, 55  Geo. l. 698
 COLONEL THOMPSON  would say, in answer to the appeal to Members of the House, whether they were not in the habit of declining to give or take receipt stamps, that he never did such a thing in his life. It was against his interest to decline a stamp, for he put himself in the power of another to the extent of the money paid. He never knew any one refuse to give a receipt stamp if asked. There was a feeling of honour about it. Take the case of landlord and tenant, for instance; it would not be handsome to refuse. Tradesmen, in general, did not feel any objection to give a receipt stamp,
 701
 MR. COWPER  was glad the hon. Gentleman had moved for papers on the subjects to which he had adverted; for it was only in the absence of any correct information that the hon. Gentleman could have made his statement. He spoke of a certain conditional or provisional contract which be supposed to have been made with Mr. Walton. The fact was, that the tender having been some time ago received, it was necessary to prepare a formal document, called "articles of agreement," which were of considerable length, and which had not yet been signed. It was useless for the hon. Member to move for the contract, because, not being signed, it was not legally in existence. As soon as it was signed, the Admiralty would be happy to produce it. He was surprised the hon. Member should bring so many accusations against the company. He said that they had no vessels. [Mr. F. FRENCH: That they are no company.] On the contrary, he (Mr. Cowper) was told that they were a company; that they had applied to the President of the Board of Trade for a charter of incorporation; that the Board of Trade had no objection, and had signified their intention to grant the charter. He could not say whether all the legal preliminaries had been gone through; but he expected before long that every formality would be complied with. He was also informed that the company had got two screw vessels of great speed capable of performing the services with efficiency. He believed there
 703 l. l., "Copies  ordered,
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of War if he intends to recommend the discontinuance of the deductions to which officers of the cavalry are subject in paying for the forage of their regimental charges, kept for the public service, whilst other mounted officers in the service receive an allowance for that purpose: also, if he has directed his attention to the justice and expediency of granting to officers in command of cavalry regiments the allowance called "command money," which the officers commanding infantry regiments receive; also, if the right hon. Gentleman has directed his attention, or intends to direct his attention, to the expediency of recommending to Her Majesty to grant to the sergeants of the Army a continuance of that "pay for good conduct" which they enjoyed as privates and corporals, but were compelled to resign upon promotion to the rank of sergeant; also, if he intends to recommend an increase of the allowance of 2,000 l. l.
 MR. FOX MAULE : Sir, in reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman, I can only state that I have looked into the subject to which his notice refers; and I must remind him, in the first instance, that those papers which were presented to the House of Commons to which he alludes, never pretended to be the entire despatches to which he has referred. They were laid upon the table of the House as the extracts which, at that time, it appeared to my noble Friend then at the head of the Board of Control, would be sufficient to inform the House of Commons with reference to the policy pursued in regard to Cabool, without producing papers which then would have been inconvenient for the public service. The House will, perhaps, recollect that this question has been twice discussed with reference to those despatches. The last discussion that took place was a full one, in 1842, on which occasion my noble Friend (Lord Broughton) justified himself and the Government of the day for not producing any more of those despatches. In reply to the direct question of my hon. Friend, I may state that it is not my intention to lay those despatches now,  in extenso,
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  moved an Address for sundry returns in connexion with the proposed alteration of the Parliamentary franchise.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that after the appeal of his right hon. Friend, he could not refuse to wait a few days; but if the information he required should not then be supplied, his right hon. Friend must excuse him if he should repeat his present Motion.
 MR. DISRAELI  begged to thank the hon. Gentleman who had brought forward this Motion, for having introduced it to the notice of the House, and which he had done in such a way as thoroughly to engage its attention. He thought it should also be well understood that the subject brought before the consideration of hon. Members referred really to the whole question of savings banks throughout the kingdom, and not merely to those in Ireland, or to a few others; so that the importance
 668
 MR. ADDERLEY : I beg to ask the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the
 654
 MR. HINDLEY  expressed his hope that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer would direct his attention to the suggestion of a uniform receipt stamp. The introduction of such a measure would be just to all parties, and would give general satisfaction.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was very much afraid that if he were to assent to the repeal of this tax on the grounds which had been stated by the hon. Member for Newcastle-upon-Tyne, he would soon have but few taxes left. They had long heard that certain taxes pressed hard on particular interests, interfered with some process of manufacture, or diminished consumption; but almost the sole ground on which his hon. Friend had proposed the repeal of this tax was, that people did not like to pay it. The House had very recently negatived the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans) with respect to the duty on carriages; and that Motion was based, like the present one, on the frequent practice of evasion. His hon. Friend the Member for Preston (Sir G. Strickland) had stated some time ago that if they repealed all the taxes which were evaded, there would soon be no direct, and very few indirect, taxes left. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Headlam) had said that so long ago as 1828, the giving of a stamped receipt was a reflection upon the integrity of the man who paid the money; but he could not see how that could be the case. He did not understand how the enforcing a receipt could be a reflection on the integrity of the man who paid the money. Looking over the list of taxes, he did not think this was one of those which had the first claim to repeal; and the tendency of such demands as the present one was to compel the Government to have recourse to indirect taxation. He confessed he did not much pity persons who incurred hardships by the evasion of the law; they had it in their power to protect themselves. He did not
 699 l. l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was afraid that he could not at present agree to the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend. At the same time he must do him the justice to say that he had very fairly stated his case; and he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should not speak the truth if he did not admit that that there was a good deal in the operation of the tax which was not at all satisfactory. He also must say that of all the various persons who had done him the honour to wait on him to ask for a revision or reduction of taxation, no persons had made a fairer statement than those who had asked for the reduction of the carriage duty, He did not think, however, that the calculations which his hon. and gallant Friend had made as to the amount which would be received if the proposed rates were substituted, were quite justified by the information which he had obtained. He hardly remembered any proposed reduction of taxation, on making which he had not been told that he knew nothing about the matter, and that in the end the tax would produce a much larger amount than before.
 690 l. l. l., 691 l., l. l. l. l.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was no objection to give the information required by his noble Friend, but he hoped he would not press his Motion in its present shape. A portion of the information would be given in returns moved for by his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary, and another portion in the plan promised by his noble Friend at the head of the Government to the hon. Member for Manchester, both of which would be ready in a few days. With regard to giving the precise number of 5 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his hon. Friend had introduced into his speech a number of topics not very closely connected with the Motion which stood in his name on the notice paper. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would, however, attempt very shortly to dispose of one or two of those extraneous matters. First of all, with regard to his remarks on the personal character and responsibility of Mr. Tidd Pratt. Mr. Tidd Pratt was not a Government officer, because he was appointed under an Act of Parliament; nor was he under the control of the Government. He was named as the person whom depositors or trustees of savings banks might call in if they thought fit; but unless they called him in, he had no right whatever to interfere in their affairs; and it was not in his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) power to send Mr. Tidd Pratt to make any inquiry into the state of savings banks, unless that gentleman was requested by the trustees or depositors so to do, or to arbitrate with respect to any dispute between them. Therefore, when his hon. Friend said Mr. Tidd Pratt was a Government officer, he must have known, from his experience in the Committee which sat on savings banks, that such was not the; case. With regard to the Dublin case, he would go no further into that question at present than to state that when Mr. Tidd Pratt was sent over in 1831 to inquire into the state of the hank, he was utterly deceived by those whose duty it was to give him information on the subject. He gave certain advice on a certain representation of
 662 663 664 665
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  moved for copies of the contract which were entered into with Mr. Walton for the carriage of the mails to Australia, and to the West Indies and the Brazils. He found, on inquiry, that the contract with Mr. Walton had not been completed, and that only a provisional contract had been entered into, and that no security had yet been taken by the Board of Admiralty. He believed the route by the Cape was the only one by which emigrants from Europe could reach Australia; and this was the moment chosen by the Admiralty to limit their mails to every alternate month. The Admiralty had the means of carrying out the communication through established companies, whose capital was paid up, and whose vessels were ready to perform the voyage. They had received offers from one company at least to carry the mails to Australia by the Cape, and he believed they would carry them at a small rate monthly; but notwithstanding this offer, they had entered into an arrangement to carry the mails at a lower rate and at an impossible speed, with a gentleman whose company was not yet formed; and if the statements in circulation were correct, that the performance of the contract would entail a loss of 6,000 l. 702 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  could not vote with the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, not only for the reason stated by the hon. Member for Bolton (Sir J. Walmsley), but because he thought it was a question that ought to be taken up in connexion with another on which several meetings had already been held throughout the country, the duty levied on post horses. An hon. Member had already given notice of a Motion on that subject, and he hoped, therefore, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman would postpone his Motion till the whole question could be brought under the consideration of the House.
 MR. AGLIONBY  would support the Motion of the hon. Member (Mr. Headlam) not to remit, but to alter, this mode of taxation; and he trusted that the hon. Gentleman would go to a division upon the question, that the public might see who were, and who were not, in favour of this proposal. The majority would not be given to the right hon. Chanoellor of the Exchequer because of his arguments, but for another reason, which so often gave a majority to those benches. It might be true
 700
 MR. AGLIONBY  regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer dealt in assertion rather than in argument. The right hon. Gentleman had asserted that the revenue would lose 200,000 l. l.
 MR. GRATTAN  said, he had very little confidence in any resolutions unless a Bill were introduced to deal with the subject. If the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was unable to deal with it, let him transfer it to the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of Dublin (Mr. Reynolds), who, though he might not bring the same amount of ability to the task as the right hon. Gentleman could, would bring great earnestness to the consideration of the question.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, that in rising to propose the Resolution of which he had given notice, relative to the neglect of Her Majesty's Government in not introducing any measure for the regulation of Savings Banks, he felt that some apology was due to the House. It might be fairly said, that, considering the immense importance of the subject, and the interests it involved, it was one which should have been brought before the House by a more experienced Member than himself; but if the House would bear with him while he stated very shortly the position of this question as regarded the country and the House, he thought they would acquit him of any un-
 655 "Your Committee have proceeded with the inquiry intrusted to them by the House; but, owing to the late period of the Session, they found themselves unable to bring it to a satisfactory conclusion, and they are of opinion that it is advisable that a further inquiry should take place either during the recess or in the next Session of Parliament into the existing system of savings hanks. They are of opinion, however, that it is expedient that a Bill should be introduced in the present Session of Parliament regulating the liability of trustees of savings banks." 656 "Your Committee have observed with much satisfaction that the Chancellor of the Exchequer has introduced a Savings-bank Bill which is calculated to remedy several important defects in the existing law, and extends the responsibility of Her Majesty's Government to the depositors, and they therefore abstain from all observations on this part of the subject, further than to state the conviction which this inquiry has forced upon them, of the urgent necessity for further legislation if these institutions (which have acquired of late years an extent and importance so little anticipated by the original founders of savings banks) are to preserve their hold on the confidence of the country, or produce the beneficial results expected from them, in encouraging and rewarding the industry and self-denial of the working classes." 657 "With regard to all persons who had taken part in the management of the affairs of those institutions, that however active and energetic might have been the zeal of individuals in forming the establishment, it was exceedingly difficult to insure their regular attention to its concerns for any length of time. Without being disposed to attribute blame to individual trustees for the management of savings banks—for, if be were to do that, he believed he should himself come in for a fair share of it—he was afraid that, with some exceptions, the general practice was, that no very regular attendance was given, and that the affairs of the bank were left very much to the management of the secretary, treasurer, clerk, or by whatever other name the person left in charge was called, and that salutary cheek was not exercised by the trustees or the manager which was perfectly indispensable to the proper management of the establishment. Even in some establishments which had the reputation of being by no means ill managed, he had reason to believe that the trustees had been in the habit of signing blank forms, and even cheeks, to be filled up by the acting manager, at his sole discretion; and, in point of fact, the check exercised according to the existing practice was much more nominal than real." [3  Hansard, 658 659 l. "This determination I should have regretted if I had found that in fact the arbitrator had gone through the due course of inquiry, by the result of which alone he could have been warranted in awarding that this defendant was indebted to the plaintiff and the other depositors in the whole amount of their deposits. But, as far as I can judge, this conclusion was arrived at as the consequence of a very large deficiency of the back funds, without inquiry into the causes of the deficiency, without ascertaining to whose misconduct it was attributable, and without taking the accounts necessary to establish the right of the plaintiff to be paid twenty shillings in the pound by the defendant as his personal debtor." 660 "Mr. Coupe asked the opinion of the learned Gentleman as to a new bank, for public confidence had gone in the old one. It would be a calamitous matter if there was not another savings bank, but established upon a safe principle, in which people could deposit their money without fee. Perhaps Mr. Tidd Pratt could give some information. Mr. Pratt said there was a new Bill now before Government, and it was only the business of the House of Commons that had prevented its being brought on. It was all ready, and he had no hesitation in saying that the provisions in it were such as would entirely prevent any occurrence of frauds of the kind perpetrated in St. Helens, or of any kind whatsoever, provided the depositor paid his money at the office, and during the office hours in which the bank was open; and, therefore, he hoped that until this Bill became law—and he apprehended the time would not be long before it was—the gentlemen of the neighbourhood would, among themselves, form an institution to go on until the new provisions came into force. And, as he said before, he hoped the Bill would be such that no fraud could occur under its provisions, or, if there did, no depositor could lose a halfpenny. Mr. Coupe: Do you expect passing this soon? Mr. Pratt: Not a doubt about it; the Bill is not only written, but it is printed, and all the provisions are such as will prevent any fraud of this kind." 661
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, that after the pledge which had been given by the Government, it was not his intention to divide the House.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  could assure his hon. Friend that he was not disposed to undervalue the importance of the subject, or withhold the tribute of sincere respect which the great time and attention he had bestowed upon the subject richly merited.
 674 675 676 l., 677
 MR. LABOUCHERE  could assure the hon. Gentleman that the instructions to the Commission would be of the most unrestricted nature. He had only been endeavouring to explain his own sentiments upon the subject.
 MR. J. ELLIS  rose to deny that the people would be willing to have their spring carts retaxed. He believed it would be impossible to do it, and to retax the farmers, of all people. With regard to the main question, he agreed with the hon. Member for Bolton (Sir J. Walmsley), that it would be better to relieve the people at large than those who could afford carriages.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that in agreeing with the Motion of the hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. H. Herbert), he thought he had a right to express disappointment at the conduct of Government; but he derived some satisfaction from the pledge of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he would introduce a Bill to amend the law relating to savings banks in the present Session. Recollecting what had occurred in the Committee of 1848, he could not reconcile the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that Mr. Tidd Pratt was not an officer of the Government, with the proof that had been given of his conduct. Mr. Tidd Pratt had acted to all intents and purposes as a Government officer, interfering and advising, and in many instances giving most improper and pernicious advice; and now they were told Government were not responsible for his acts. Who, then, were responsible to the unfortunate creatures who had lost upwards of 64,000 l. s. 666 l. s. l.
 MR. TRELAWNY  said, he had read the blue book on the subject, and was of opinion that it was one which ought to be approached with great caution. There was, however, an instance in which the principle of limited liability was in actual operation to a great extent. In Cornwall, under what was called the cost-book principle, thousands of shares in mines were held without any liability beyond their amount, and were transferred with facility. This system had been at work in that part of England for years, was generally well understood, and was not found to have occasioned any evil. His opinion was, that, if a Commission were appointed, it ought also to inquire into the banking laws, because the subject, as limited by the terms of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury's Motion, was apt to lead the working classes to form expectations of millennial happiness which could never be realised. There was, at the present time, too much already of this spirit abroad; and it was owing, he believed, in a great degree, to the manner in which certain subjects were debated in that House. Protectionism, for instance, was a sort of socialism in disguise, founded on the doctrine that it was necessary to foster one trade because it was better than other trades—an idea analogous to that of socialist co-operation—as much so as the doctrines of Louis Blanc or Cabet. The House fostered socialist views too much, and then wondered at the fruits that they produced. The present strike of the engineers had arisen from the support given by the noble Lord at the head of the Government to the Factory Bill. He believed that those two cir-
 687
 MR. BROTHERTON  apprehended that the Motion was to abolish receipt stamps. [Mr. AGLIONBY: The present receipt stamps.] He could not give his consent to that; but it was evident that the revenue from this source under the present system of levying it was decreasing, and he thought a uniform penny stamp would be far more productive. The amount being so trifling, a regular system would prevail, and people would carry these stamps in their pockets. There was a growing feeling in the country in favour of that plan. The present duty fell hard upon those who, like the Society of Friends, had a conscientious feeling about the matter, and who contributed more than their fair proportion to this revenue.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, there was no question of more real importance to the community of this country than the subject of savings banks, and it was most desirable that they should be put upon a sound foundation. After the pledge given by the right hon. Gentleman, he trusted the Government would facilitate the measure, so that the House would not at the end of the Session have to complain of any breach of the promise now made.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he had been appointed on the Committee last year, but as he was also then a Member of two other Committees he was prevented from giving more than a partial attention to the subject; but as the whole question was to be referred to a Commission, and as the subject was one which had occupied considerable attention in the commercial world, he should like to say one or two words upon it. He did not intend to refer to the legal settlement of partnerships, for there was one branch of the question which was a total legal one. No doubt there was a great grievance in the want of some more summary mode of settling disputes between partners. That was a matter, however, which he left to the legal Gentlemen; but the question of limited liability was one upon which commercial men ought to be consulted. Now, the remarks of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. J. A. Smith), whose opinion was certainly entitled to great weight upon commercial subjects, were adverse to those entertained by the majority of commercial men, and the observations of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) seemed to go in the same direction; but neither he nor the commercial men whom he had been able to consult, could see any valid reason why this country should be an exception to the rest of the commercial world with regard to the question of limited or unlimited liability. The question divided itself into two propositions, namely, as it regarded joint-stock companies and private partnerships; but he could never see why any given number of gentlemen, because they had capital, power, and influence enough in that House to carry their Bill, should obtain a privilege which they denied to humbler individuals who had not more than 5,000 l. l. 680 681 gérants, l. l. 682 dicta 683
 MR. SLANEY , in reply, thanked the House for the kind notice which had been taken of his own humble exertions in the matter, and he wished to say that his Motion was not confined to the working classes, but had for its object the removal of obstacles to investment which pressed upon all classes. He was glad the Government had conceded an inquiry; and, although he knew that men of the greatest abilities entertained different opinions on the subject, he had great hopes of a satisfactory result. He should therefore depend upon the promise of the Government to issue a Commission for that purpose, and would beg leave to withdraw the Motion.
 MR. SLANEY  begged to move for a Standing Committee, or unpaid Commission, to suggest measures to remove the obstacles which impede the investments of the humbler classes. The object which he had in view was not to abolish any existing law, but the introduction of such measures as would remove the legal obstacles which impeded the investment of the savings and the capital of the middle and humbler classes of the people, leaving them to display their own care and forethought in the disposal of their money. The proper direction given to investments and labour was a subject of the utmost possible importance to the welfare of the country. It was second to no other, and he therefore
 669 l. l. 670 l. 671 l. l. 672 l., 673 l. l.
 MR. T. BARING  would not have trespassed upon the House, but for the observations of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden). The hon. Gentleman said, limited liability in the case of the poor would be, if not productive of injury, at least of very doubtful advantage; but then he urged that the House should at once decide in favour of limited liability for commercial purposes, and for trading concerns. Why, the very object of the Commission to be appointed was to make inquiry, and to take the opinion of the commercial classes upon the subject; but the hon. Gentleman prejudged the question, and contended that all the arguments were in favour of the scheme. He (Mr. T. Baring) admitted that it was a difficult question to decide—there was something to look at on both sides. But the hon. Member said, that on looking at the evidence taken before the Committee, he found that the gentlemen on the other side of Temple-bar urged their opinion without one word of argument; that there was nothing but the simple wish of men accustomed to the arbitrary dictation of the employment of capital. He should have thought the hon.
 685 686
 MR. SOTHERON  feared that the humbler classes, for whom the hon. Member for Shrewsbury (Mr. Slaney) had appealed to the House, would after the Commission be as far from their object as they were at the present moment. He quite agreed that unlimited liability deterred the risking capital in concerns; but in that question those parties were not at all interested. The real grievance with them was not the risk of their small capital, but the absence of some means of adjusting disputes among themselves, and to the laws for regulating friendly societies they must look for the means of affording a remedy. He believed that co-operative societies would do well in looking to the enactments contained in the Friendly Societies Acts for assistance in the settlement of disputes. With regard to the law of partnership, he must repeat the opinion which he had expressed before the Committee, that the best way of giving the go-by to partnerships in the nature of co-operative societies
 684
 MR. EWART  hoped that there was a mistake in supposing that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade intended to limit the inquiry to the law of partnership. He was anxious, however, to express his opinion that the question of limited or unlimited liability was not interesting merely to a particular class of society, but was a principle of general application. Capital was constantly struggling to break the bonds which beset it, and they said that railway companies and other undertaking were based upon the system of limited liability. Therefore, the law of limited liability in partnerships was not so alien to the practice of this country as had been represented. In America and other countries parties looked to the amount of capital subscribed, and not to the names of the proprietors. Why should not they do the same here? He rejoiced to see the probability of some practical result being now attained from the discussions which had taken place on this subject.
 MR. EWART  seconded the Motion.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, that the constituency which he represented had been large sufferers from the present state of the law, and he felt deeply the neglect of the Government in not providing better security. For the last four years the Ministry had been promising an improvement in the system; but their promises had been violated, and the conse-
 667
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer admitted that the present state of the law was unsatisfactory, and his only objection to the Motion was, that the revenue would suffer. Now, the coachmakers had issued a pamphlet to show that instead of suffering, the revenue would gain by this modification. Neither did his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir De L. Evans), as he (Mr. W. Williams) understood him) wish for a reduc-
 693
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that the return moved for by the hon. Member for Manchester was for a map setting forth the boundaries of the proposed new boroughs, and the existing boroughs; but what his noble Friend and Colleague asked for was a return of the population of the proposed new boroughs—that was, the number of 5 l. 704 l. l. l.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  explained that he proposed in this measure to continue the exemption of all  bonâ fide
 SIR DE LACY EVANS , in reply, said, he did not wish to impose any new tax, but to make that which at present existed fair and equal. As the only means of ob-
 695
 SIR DE LACY EVANS , in moving, pursuant to notice, for leave to bring in a Bill to modify the duty on Carriages, said that he proposed that there should be in future only three classes or rates of payment, instead of the thirteen or fourteen now enforced. His proposition was for a duty of 3 l. l. l. 688 l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 689 l. l. s. l., l., l.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, his hon. Friend was under a complete misapprehension as to the information about to be laid before the House by the Government. Not only would the information asked for by the hon. Member for Manchester be furnished, but the whole of the information which the noble Lord (Lord D. Stuart) wished to obtain would be afforded, so far as the Government could give it. But it was impossible to give the number of 5 l.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he was greatly disappointed with what had fallen from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had again advised hon. Members not to commit themselves till he brought in the Budget. So he used to tell them with regard to the window duties; but the House persevered, and they smashed the window duties, and he had no doubt that ere long they would do the same with the carriage duties. Let them look at the question in a moral and economical point of view. In the library of the House were numerous blue books, giving an account of the appeals against this tax that had been made from time to time; and it would be seen that all sorts of evasions were continually had recourse to in order to avoid the tax. And then let the House consider the expense of all the trials and appeals that were continually taking place. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exche-
 692
 SIR GEORGE STRICKLAND  said, he was glad to hear the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer admit that the claim of the coachmakers ought to be taken into consideration so soon as the state of the revenue would allow of it. He did not know whether his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir De L. Evans) ought to be satisfied with this declaration; but if he did proceed with the Bill, and get it into a Committee, he was afraid he would make very little progress in that way, because the Committee would feel themselves bound by the calculations of the Government, and the result would not be what he wished for. He certainly thought that this duty should be remitted, as it tended to deception and immorality. He wished that the right hon. Gentleman would agree in the maxim of his hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby), that all taxes that tended to immorality should be remitted, as he thought that in that case the country would get rid of that most odious of all taxes—the Income tax. But, as all taxes were liable to the same imputation, inasmuch as some of the public would endeavour to evade them, he was afraid the maxim of his hon. Friend could not in reality be acted upon. Therefore, seeing the difficulty there was of remitting any taxes, and that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer was as willing as any Member of the House to remit taxes whenever he could, he thought his hon. and gallant Friend would do best not to press his Motion for the present. He was satisfied that the proposition of the hon. Member for Cockermouth to lay a tax of 1 l. 694
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  hoped the Government would turn their attention to that which he considered to be one of the chief points requiring legislation—he alluded to the establishment of some real controlling body over these banks. He spoke with feelings of the greatest respect for the National Debt Commissioners; but they had not time to attend to the accounts of 600 banks, and the control ought to be placed under one head. He was glad to hear, from the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that Mr. Tidd Pratt was without authority, because he had heard that that Gentleman had declared he had a Bill ready cut and dried, and it was impossible to calculate the mischief done by an unauthorised meddler going from one bank to another with a statement of that description. He hoped Mr. Tidd Pratt would be prevented from putting forth observations as though he was an authorised officer, qualified to speak on this subject.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY : Sir, to make intelligible the question I am about to put to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, I must state the fact that a gentleman of great ability (Mr. Kay) has written a work on the war in Cabool, and in that work it is stated, in the strongest language, that the
 653
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  thought the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken a correct view of the present question: first, he had no surplus to dispose of; and, second, if he had there was no good reason for removing a tax on the fact that fraudulent evasions were made to avoid it. When there should be a surplus he thought the right hon. Gentleman would find it better to take off the taxes from those who walked than from those who rode.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that the present law required that the valuation for poor-rates should be equal as between different tenants in the same parish, and that the valuation for the county rates should be equal as between the different parishes in the county. For estimating the county rate the machinery
 710
 MR. BOUVERIE  would not, on the part of the Government, oppose the second reading of the Bill; but he confessed that he had strong misgivings as to the beneficial operation of it. The measure appeared to him to be liable to several objections. A preliminary one was this: while the Bill professed to consolidate the law, it only consolidated a portion of it, leaving many important points untouched. The Acts of Parliament relating to assessment were very complicated, and it was desirable that they should be carefully considered; but he did not think it desirable to consolidate some and leave others untouched, for that would create greater confusion than before. There were other details in the Bill to which he objected. Its main feature was to alter the phraseology of the law of assessment, which would make it unfamiliar to those who were in the habit of dealing with it as it at present stood. The Bill also proposed to make a great alteration in the principle upon which rating is at present based. In the measure brought in by an hon. Member, for assessing the poor-rate, an attempt was made to get at the net annual value, making deductions for repairs and insurances. He did not mean to say there were not difficulties in achieving this, but he did mean to say that the principle was the correct one. Unless the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Freshfield) was prepared to show that all property was subject to a fixed charge, his argument as to the variations of the de-
 709
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that not one of the hon. Gentlemen who had spoken in favour of the second reading, had adduced a single word of argument in support of the Bill. Several had said that they did not approve of the details of the measure, and yet they asked the House to affirm it by voting for the second reading.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, it appeared to him that the propositions on each side of the House did not differ very materially in their object. While his hon. Friend the Member for Peeblesshire (Mr. F. Mackenzie) asked to send his Bill to a Select Committee, his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) proposed to negative the second reading of the Bill, and to refer the whole question to a Committee upstairs, upon the report of which Committee a Bill might hereafter be introduced. But he thought, as the hon. Member for Peeblesshire had placed his Bill before them, whether the proposition it embodied were in all respects such as to meet the case, it was but fair that the House should send that proposition for consideration to a Committee. There were many points in the Bill from which he differed as much as his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose; but he felt assured that if the Bill were sent to a Committee upstairs, with power to call evidence, all that his hon. Friend wished would be obtained. He (Mr. F. Maule) wished that he could convince himself of the truth of the view taken of his countrymen by his hon. Friend behind him (Mr. A. Hastie), with reference to the prevalence of this sad vice. He was not one who would say anything derogatory to the character of his own country; but he could not conceal from himself that in Scotland, with a population not amounting to 3,000,000, there was a consumption of raw spirits of not less than 6,000,000 gallons a year. So that upon a calculation it appeared that for every individual, from the man who was upon the very verge of the grave, down to the infant who had just entered life, there was an average consumption of spirits of near two gallons and a half per annum. It had been stated by his hon. Friend (Mr. A. Hastie) that the number of licensed public-houses in Glasgow for the sale of spirits had decreased from the rate of one to every 74 inhabitants to one in every 164; but surely this was a most frightful state of things. The idea that in a city containing 350,000 inhabitants there should be houses capable of deriving a profit from the sale of ardent spirits in the ratio of one in every
 717 718
 MR. ELLIOT  objected to the principle of the Bill, as well as to the details by which that principle was to be carried out. It was proposed by it to change the whole system of licensing, and to place the power of giving licences in the hands of justices selected by the Court of Quarter Sessions, who were to fix the exact number of public-houses in the county. This was an entirely arbitrary power; in point of fact, a man
 724
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, he regretted as much as his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) that they had so much drinking in Scotland; but at the same time he probably had as much knowledge of Scotchmen as any Member in that House, and he was prepared to deny that the drinking habits of Scotland were at all on the increase. He believed that the consumption of spirits in Scotland had largely diminished, and that the habits of the Scotch people were very much improving in that respect. In 1816 the spirit licenses in Glasgow were as many as 1,651, being one out of every seventy-four in the population, which at that time amounted to 120,000; while in the present year, when the population was nearly treble, the number was 2,030, being in the ratio of one to 164. The object of the Bill was to throw the power of licensing into the hands of certain persons who
 716
 MR. OSWALD  admitted that the consumption of spirits in Scotland was very great, and ought to be diminished; but it was because he did not think that any legislative measure could effect the diminution desired, that he arose to support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose. They were told in the preamble of the Bill that the number of public-houses in Scotland was excessive, and ought to be diminished. Now, if ever there was a case of putting the horse behind the cart it was this. The preamble alleged that, because drunkenness existed in Scotland, the public-houses in that country necessarily caused that drunkenness. They could not extinguish the love of ardent spirits by any act of that House; and he took the liberty of saying that this Bill was a piece of the purest humbug that he had seen in all his existence. Now, what did they propose to do by this Bill? They proposed to appoint a committee of justices of the peace, who were to put an end to the consumption of whisky in Scotland. English Members did not exactly know what justices of the peace were in Scotland. He had a great respect for that learned body (of which he was a member), but he must confess that they had very little business to do, except looking after poachers; they very seldom attended to any other business but that. It was a thing next to impossible to get a respectable working assemblage of justices of the peace at the quarter-sessions in Scotland.
 719 720
 MR. COWAN  regretted that the vice of drunkenness prevailed so greatly in Scotland, and among his own constituents. He would be willing to support any measure calculated to remedy this state of things; but after the best consideration he had been able to give to the subject, and notwithstanding the good motives and intentions of the promoters of the Bill, he could not bring himself to the belief that it was one calculated in the least degree to effect the object in view. He admitted that the congregation of low public-houses in Scotland had been a great evil to Scotland; at the same time he did not conceive that by authorising the justices to delegate to a small committee a summary power to diminish the number of licences, was the mode of remedying the evil. He would submit that it was better to grant licences than to encourage low unlicensed houses, to form, as it were, secret nests of little clubs of drunkards, as would unquestionably be the case if the regular public-houses were put down. Paradoxical as it might seem, In held that, as the means of the poorer classes were diminished, so did their indulgence in intoxicating liquor increase; for he apprehended that the state of the dregs of the population in our towns produced a kind of despair which prompted them to sacrifice everything for the gratification of their depraved appetites. In Edinburgh, forty years ago, New Year's day was kept as a day of dissipation and drunkenness; and on one occasion, in 1812, a frightful riot was got up on the 1st of January in that year by a knot of young men under the influence of ardent spirits, and in consequence of which three of them suffered on the scaffold. There was, however, a great difference now in the habits of the people. For several years past, New Year's day had been made a universal holyday, and he was glad to bear out what his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had
 723
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, his countrymen appeared to him to be placed in a most unfortunate predicament. For while every one allowed that a great, serious, and crying evil existed in Scotland, and that the demoralising and brutalising vice of drunkenness was increasing there; it was now urged that legislation—amateur or volunteer legislation, as his hon. Friend (Mr. Oswald) termed it—would be produc-
 721 722
 MR. AGLIONBY  moved the Second Reading of this Bill.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, it would be clearly his interest, as an independent Member having charge of a Bill for which he desired the support of the House, to give ample time for its examination; but in this cast he did not think the appeal for delay by the hon. Member who had just spoken was well founded. If this were a new measure, he would at once have acceded to the request of the hon. Member; but he had brought in the Bill last Session, and the Select Committee to which it was referred, directed him to report the Bill to the House, who allowed it to be circulated during the recess. He had, too given public notice that he should bring in the Bill on the first opportunity during the present Session, and, with the exception of one technical portion, he had not altered one single part of the Bill, but had abided by the instructions of the Committee. The measure was therefore as well known now as it would be two months hence, and he would ask the House, under these circumstances, whether it was right to put off the second reading for a whole week?. To do so would be to inflict a great hardship upon those hon. Gentlemen who had thought it their duty to come down to discuss the measure.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he was perfectly ready to explain the provisions of the Bill
 726 Cries of 727
 MR. H. HOPE  tendered his thanks to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Freshfield) for the labour he had bestowed upon this Bill. The method of arriving at the net annual valuation of property was one which had an especial reference to the new Reform Bill. The elective franchise was to be based upon the net value. He know no means of obtaining a just estimate of that net value, unless by a very troublesome and expensive process, namely, appeals upon assessments. He did not know whether, when the proper time arrived, the Government would consider the question; but this he knew, that the Reform Bill could not be established on the present basis by which assessments were made. He trusted that his hon. Friend would give them some means not only of arriving at the gross annual valuation, but also the means of testing the proper reduction or; the net annual value.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, that the object of the measure of which he now moved the Second Reading was, to consolidate the existing laws relative to the County Rates, and to introduce some Amendments. Under this Bill not a single shilling could be raised which was not already imposed under the Acts of Parliament now in force; nor would any person be subjected to any liability to which he was not already subject. It was absolutely necessary that the law should be rendered consistent with itself. It might be known to many Members that the 55th  Geo. l. l. 706 Geo. Geo. Geo. Geo. l., 707 l., l. s. d. Vict. Will. 708
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, he felt no alarm or nervous affections in consequence of the hon. Member's caution. The Bill was one of the most simple in operation, and he anticipated no difficulty or serious obstruction to its passing through the House.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, the hon. Member for Preston (Sir G. Strickland) only dealt with the details of the Bill, and not the principle. In two counties for which he could speak, the greatest difficulty was found in uniting small farms, in consequence of the copyhold tenure. The House had already sanctioned the principle of the Bill; he hoped, therefore, it would be permitted to pass.
 MR. HEYWOOD  regretted that the Bill did not contain the same clauses of compromise that it did last year between the magistrates and those to be elected by the Boards of Guardians. He did not see how the ratepayers generally could be satisfied with the Bill as it came from the Committee. He thought the House ought to consider that the greater part of them were magistrates, and in possession of
 745
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, no one connected with Scotland could doubt that the Bill proposed to remedy, to a certain extent, a very great evil in that country. Whatever might have been the improvement in the morals of the Scotch people of late years—and it was great—it was, nevertheless, true that drunkenness was the crying and scandalous vice of the country. No man who was at all acquainted with the state of crime there, could fail to see that if the amount of drunkenness could be diminished even to a very small extent, the result would at once be apparent in the diminished amount of crime. And it was because he was unwilling to throw an obstacle in the way of any measure that was designed to effect a beneficial result, that he should vote for the second reading of the present Bill; though if he were asked to give his support the details, he must say that he would not undertake to do so. The subject was a very important one; and he preferred sending the Bill to a Committee upstairs, because he thought a more effectual measure would be thereby obtained than by referring the whole question to a general Committee of Inquiry. The Bill dealt only with the licensing system; and whilst he did not anticipate any benefit from a mere change of that system, he did hope much good from a thorough revision of it.
 MR. BRIGHT  had not heard anything to prove that a good Bill might not be made out of the Bill submitted by his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson); and he thought the differences between the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department and the promoters of the Bill, might be easily compromised. For instance, the right hon. Secretary of State might move clauses which he moved in Committee upstairs; and, assuming they were accepted, and no other objection existed, the Bill could pass into law. The right hon. the Secretary of State said he offered his assistance. No doubt he offered his assistance to overthrow the Bill. It was perfectly notorious that throughout the whole transaction the right hon. Gentleman had exerted his great influence in Committee for the purpose of making this Bill as little like that the promoters wished as possible. There were some changes to which they could not agree, and they had therefore induced his right hon. Friend to bring the Bill before the House in the shape in which they now found it. With the discussion that day, and the course taken by the right hon. the Secretary of State, the Bill would not be read a second time. It was no great consequence whether it was passed in this or in the next Session, but the Bill would be passed before long, for he was satisfied there was a growing requirement among the ratepayers to have some control of county expenditure. They were told the rates were diminishing; but they had increased up to the time when the agitation commenced, and had only diminished in consequence of public attention being called to the question. Probably the right hon. Gentleman (Sir G. Grey) was not aware that there were more than a hmndred parishes in which the county rate was far in excess of the poor-rate; and when the ratepayers paid those assessments they thought they had some power of control in the Boards of Guardians, whereas more than one-half was handed over to the magistrates to be expended,
 741 l. Cries of
 MR. BRIGHT  (in the absence of Mr. Mr. Gibson), moved the Second Reading of this Bill.
 MR. MACGREGOR  regretted that a single Member of the Government could be found to give his support to such a Bill as this, objectionable as it was in principle, and at variance with every sound commercial maxim. For his own part, he believed it would be utterly ineffectual as a remedy for the drunkenness which prevailed in Scotland, and that Parliament would never be able by legislation of that sort to make the people of Scotland less drunken or more moral than they now were. In his opinion, the only real mode of correcting the evil was to adopt a general system of education. Although a great deal had been said about the drunkenness which existed in Glasgow, he believed that by far the greater portion of it was to be found among the Irish in that town, or in-those other portions of Scotland where the operation of the poor-law had been carried out with the greatest oppression. Instead of this Bill, therefore, he would recommend the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry into the general moral condition of the Scottish people.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) that it was to be regretted that the ratepayers should be disappointed of a measure of this kind because there was a difference of opinion as to some parts of the Bill. He could state that the feeling of the county from which he came was very strong upon the question, and in deference to that feeling he would vote for the second reading. But in doing so he thought his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson) had incurred considerable responsibility in taking the course he had done. When he (Mr. W. Patten) first saw the present Bill, he was surprised beyond measure. The last time he saw his right hon. Friend at Manchester, it was understood that the same Bill as that of last year was to be introduced. He would vote for the second reading, in the hope that in Committee it might be restored to something like its former shape. It was his intention if the Bill should go into Committee to support the reintroduction of a clause that would combine the control of the magistrates with that of the ratepayers.
 MR. HENLEY  said, this question was so difficult, and, at the same time, so little understood by the right hon. Member who had brought it forward, that if he had sincerely desired its settlement he would have availed himself of the assistance given by two Committees to which the question had been referred. The right hon. Member for Manchester had accused Gentlemen sitting on that (the Opposition) side of the House of being influenced by party motives in dealing with this question, and the right hon. Gentleman's Colleague (Mr. Bright) had attacked the right hon. Home Secretary in a way that was not usual; but after what had passed it was not improbable people out of doors would think that the question had been brought forward rather with a view to getting up an agitation than procuring a settlement. A good deal had been said about representation; but after all what sort of representation did this Bill propose? Representation diluted through a Board of Guardians. If there must be an electoral body, let it be the ratepayers. Boards of Guardians were respectable bodies, well adapted to the purposes fur which they were formed; but he would not consent to convert them into electoral colleges. Under the present Bill, the magistrates would be saddled with all responsibility respecting gaols, while they would be deprived of all influence over the expenditure. They were to have no voice whatever in the question whether any improvement was to take place in a prison, or whether proper salaries were given to the men in whom they vested the duties of the prison. Could any Member of that House wish to see this question settled who brought in such a provision as this? It would be better to bring in a Bill at once to sweep away the magistrates altogether, and vest the duties in the ratepayers or the Boards of Guardians. It was the same with the lunatic asylums; and he was sure it was a principle which the House would not sanction. If it was really wished to settle this complicated question, the course taken last year should have been followed; but as it was, the only alternative that now presented itself was to vote against the second reading of the Bill. He wished it, to be understood that he had never expressed an opinion against the ratepayers having a control over the expenditure, if a right system could be
 743
 MR. HENLEY  thought the difficulties which had been raised in the course of the debate were of so formidable a nature that his hon. Friend (Mr. Freshfield) must be a courageous man if he should attempt to encounter them. It seemed to him that the Reformers of England had a very discouraging prospect held out to them by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), who said that no rateable value for the franchise could be had until all the property in the kingdom had been valued by the same persons. If that were so, it would be impossible to have an equal rate, even in one county, for by the time the party had gone through the whole county he would have to begin again, such would have been the variation in value of property by buildings and other improvements in the meanwhile. The only thing they could hope to reach was an approximation of value. They could not get anything like an equality, and therefore they must be content if now and then there were some apparent inequalities. He had had something to do with the making of county rates in his time, and he knew there were descriptions of property which required very large deductions; and he could not conceive any principle so unjust as to take cottages in towns let at high rents as the measure of value on which the assessment was to be made, and to put on the same footing with them land on which hardly any buildings were erected. All he could say was that he thought the time of the House was wasted in discussing such a measure.
 MR. HUME  explained that what he
 711
 MR. HUME  said, that this Bill was opposed generally by the people of Scotland. He was extremely unwilling to take up the time of the House, but he hoped they would excuse him whilst he stated shortly why he objected to the Bill. He objected to it on principle, because it was supposed by the promoters that by limiting public-house licences the tendency to excessive drinking, which he was sorry to say had been too common in Scotland of late years, would be discouraged. He was as anxious as any individual connected with that part of the Kingdom could be that a remedy should be found, if possible, for the excessive drinking habits which obtained there; but he believed this Bill would only add to the difficulties in the way of preventing the evil, because it would give to a few persons only the power of granting licences, which they might exercise with partiality or caprice; and that proceeding would only add to the evil. He might inform the House that the Scotch Members had a meeting yesterday to consider the provisions of the Bill. Twenty-eight members were in attendance, of whom not one approved of the measure. The hon. Member for Peeblesshire (Mr. F. Mackenzie) himself only approved of one clause. All agreed on one point, that it was the duty of Members connected with Scotland to ascertain, if possible, the extent of that demoralising vice of drunkenness, and to contrive the best means of removing
 712 713 714 715
 MR. HUME  was pleased that this discussion had taken place, not because this Bill could be made more valuable for the purposes for which it was intended, but because it had served to show a difficulty which would attend the working of the Reform Bill, if not attended to in time. In the assessments for the poor-rate, allowances were made for repairs, but in the income tax no such thing was done. He could point to parishes where the same valuable land was assessed at two widely different rates. The noble Lord at the head of the Government would find it impossible to have a fair representation on the rateable value unless there was a general valuation of the whole country by the same individual. It appeared to him that the Government ought to ask the hon. Gentleman to suspend his Bill, and then bring in a general Bill by which all the parishes would be rated equally.
 MR. HUME  said, it was to be regretted that the ratepayers of the country at large should suffer through any want of tact in the Mover of the Bill. The right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey), after twice supporting the principle of the Bill, now turned round on the ratepayers, and refused their just claims. Let the Bill go into a Committee, and let the right hon. Gentleman then propose such alterations as he thought desirable. When be (Mr. Hume) first introduced this measure, the law adviser of the Ministry bad declared to the noble Lord at the head of the Government that it was a measure which ought to be taken up by the Government.
 742
 MR. HUME  hoped the Bill would pass. It was a mere matter of detail whether compensation should be granted to the stewards. He agreed with the hon. Baronet (Sir G. Strickland) that they were not entitled to compensation; but this could be settled in Committee. The principle of the Bill was, that it simplified tenure and lessened expense, and to that principle he was favourable.
 MR. MULLINGS  wished to correct an erroneous impression of the hon. Baronet (Sir G. Strickland). The object of the Bill was really to make the whole of the copyhold property free, and the retention of the Courts was to make it apparent to the world that it was free. As to the compensation to stewards, the proposition merely was, that on the execution of a deed of enfranchisement they should have one set of copyhold fees only, including the deed of enfranchisement. As far as the Bill went, he believed it to be a very good Bill.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, he must confess that he did not entirely understand the Bill, and thought it undesirable that such important interests as were involved should be dealt with so rapidly. When the hon. Member (Mr. Aglionby) spoke, of this measure having been brought in at the end of last Session, he must be perfectly well aware that Bills introduced at that period were rarely sufficiently well-considered by the country. In his own county (Lincolnshire) a great many varied interests would he affected by the Bill, and he should probably receive petitions to present against it. He hoped, therefore, it would be a general understanding that the House would adopt no hurried legislation on the subject, but that sufficient time would be afforded for fully considering the measure.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, he must
 744
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, the Wantage Guardians thought that the Poor Law Guardians ought not to have the power of electing a person who was a magistrate.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, that having supported the second reading of the right hon. Gentleman's Bill of last Session, and having punctually attended the meetings of the Select Committee to which the Bill had been referred, he had been prepared to support the second reading of that measure. He had been prevented by circumstances from attending in his place since the first night of the Session, but came up to town in order to support the second reading to-day. But what was his surprise to find that the principle of the Bill was altogether altered, and was based upon another principle. He did not by any means object to the principle that those persons who contributed to the county rate should have a voice in the expenditure. Last year the Bill provided that the ratepayers, through the Boards of Guardians, should nominate one person from each Board to be a member of the county financial boards, and that the county magistrates in quarter-sessions should nominate an equal number of their body to sit at the Board. He was doubtful whether any particular advantages would be gained by the ratepayers by this arrangement; but he did not object to it. He now found a Bill of a totally different nature, by which it was left entirely to the Boards of Guardians to say whether a single magistrate, however large his property, or however great his influence in the county, should be a member of the board charged with the administration and expenditure of the county rates. To such a measure he (Mr. R. Palmer) could not agree, and he thought the right hon. Gentleman had not dealt fairly with the House, or with the Committee of last year, in thus altering the principle of his Bill. He (Mr. R. Palmer) had endeavoured to ascertain the opinion of the ratepayers of his county (Berkshire) relative to the Bill of last year; and last August he sent a copy of the Bill to the chairman of every Board of Guardians in the county, with a printed letter explanatory of the objects of the Bill, and requesting that it might be taken into consideration by the Board. Several months elapsed, and he received no reply to his communication, which did not look as if the Boards were very eager for such a measure. His letter was afterwards printed
 733 ex officio
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  thought the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down went a little too far when he assumed that, because certain of the Unions in his county were silent, they were opposed to the measure. He had quite as good a right to say that silence might imply consent. Anxious as he was to see the ratepayers exercising some control over the county expenditure, he could not go so far as the Board of Guardians of the Wantage Onion, who declared that the county magistrates ought not even to be eligible to sit as members of the financial boards.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , on the contrary, was in favour of allowing the guardians to elect magistrates if they thought proper. He (Mr. M. Gibson) proposed to constitute the county boards by what ap-
 734 735 736 "That he thought, with his noble Friend the Earl of Malmesbury, the great and rapid increase of county rates well deserved their Lordships' attention. In the county with which he was connected, the county rate had risen from 77,000 l. l. 737
 MR. BARROW  said, he held the principle of the Bill to be this—that the ratepayers should have the control of the taxation which they paid; and he could not concur in the view, that because the control and payment of the officers of a county were vested in the parties proposed by the Bill, therefore the whole business of that county would be brought to a dead lock. That House fixed the salaries of the Ministers of the Crown; but did the business of the country stand still on that account? The object of the Bill was very much to remove a singular anomaly, for there was no other public rate in this country in which the ratepayers had not the power of regulating the expenditure. The principle was carried out to its fullest extent in boroughs, and no difficulty whatever was experienced. Then, why should it not work well in the counties? He begged to remind hon. Members that the Commission under which they acted, as administrators of the criminal law, gave them no control whatever over the county expenditure. He had the greatest respect for the magistrates—a body with whom he was himself connected, and that respect was shared in, he was sure, by the country at large; but he did not think that ratepayers were willing to entrust the administration of their finances except to persons elected by themselves, and in some way responsible to them, and such responsibility should be secured by the principle of re-election at stated periods. When he heard the hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) admit the principle of the Bill, but object to some of the provisions, he confessed that he thought he should have been prepared at least with an outline of the measure he wished to sanction. It was said the large ratepayers would be excluded under this Bill; but, as in the election of Boards of Guardians, owners had a right to vote as well as occupiers, and as the guardian of a parish belonging to a single owner had a vote as powerful as that of the guardian who represented a large number of occupiers, there was no fear that property would not have sufficient influence in the selection of the proposed board. For these and other reasons he would vote for the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. DEEDES , as a Member of the Committee, was bound to state publicly that it was utterly impossible for a more impartial part to have been taken by any one than was taken by the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department, and the right hon. President of the Poor Law Commission. He maintained that there were material alterations in the Bill, in principle, and not merely in detail, since it was returned to the House by the Committee last year. He dislaimed being actuated by any party motive whatever. The promoters of the Bill had departed from the usual practice of the House; and if the labours of Committees were to receive such treatment, the sooner they gave up referring matters to Select Committees the better would it be for the conduct of public business.
 MR. HODGSON  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. HODGSON  urged, that persons interested in the measure should have an opportunity of being heard against it by petition or otherwise.
 MR. HODGSON  would suggest that the second reading should be postponed for a week. The provisions were of a complicated nature, and the Bill had been in the hands of Members only about twenty-four hours. He had been requested to send
 725
 Mr. FORBES MACKENZIE  moved that the Bill be read a Second Time, and that it should be afterwards referred to a Select Committee. He felt perfectly satisfied that if it were referred to a Select Committee, the result would be a Bill which would please all parties.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said, his intention was, if the Bill were read a second time, to move that it be then referred to a Select Committee, which should have power to send for persons, papers, and records. In that case the Bill would be kept before the House, might be altered in the Committee, and thus, when it came down to the House, they might hope to have legislation upon the subject in the course of the year. On the other hand, if they did not take that course, but appointed a Select Committee to institute a general inquiry, as had been recommended by some hon. Members, the only end would be the production of a fruitless report, and an indefinite postponement of legislation.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not coincide in the censure which had been cast on his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson) for presenting for consideration a Bill which embodied his own views and opinions; at the same time, looking at the important differences between this Bill and the Bill on the same subject last Session, he thought it would have been better if, in moving for leave to introduce the Bill, his right hon. Friend had stated the outline of his proposed measure. But while he gave full liberty to his right hon. Friend to propose what Bill he pleased—dissenting, as his right hon. Friend did, from the decision of a majority of the Committee appointed last year—those who on a former occasion advocated the principle of admitting representation in the control of county expenditure were not the least bound to support him, without previously considering what were the recommendations of the Committee, and the details as well as the principle of the Bill submitted to the House. While he (Sir G. Grey) stated last year that, although no great evils could be said to exist in the administration of the county rates, and although the amount of those rates was gradually diminishing, he was unable to deny that in principle there should be a representation in the constitution of financial boards, to whom should be entrusted the administration and control of county expenditure; he also felt the subject was a most complicated one, and he only consented to a second reading of the Bill introduced by the right hon. Gentleman on the understanding that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee, on which he volunteered to give what assistance he could in amending its provisions. The House agreed to the second reading, and the Bill went to a Select Committee. He was bound to say he never belonged to a Committee which gave more close atten-
 738 739 740
 SIR GEORGE STRICKLAND  said, he had had this Bill so short a time before him, that he could not say he perfectly comprehended it. He was most anxious to see a Bill that would carry on the enfranchisement in an equitable manner both to the lord of the manor and tenant. He had opposed the Bill which had been brought forward on former occasions, and he felt inclined to oppose this on the same ground, that this was a one-sided measure, and that it was a compulsory measure that would act unequally and be unjust to the lords of manors; and in many instances it would be exceedingly oppressive to the tenants, who would be called on to pay sums of money which it might be inconvenient for them to pay. He had great doubts whether they could have a compulsory measure; but they ought to give greater facilities to both parties to come in voluntarily. But there was another objection to the Bill. He wished to see the copyhold tenure—the antiquated feudal tenure—abolished, because the real object of that tenure in former times had now passed away. But this Bill did not abolish copyhold tenure, because the enfranchisement was to entered on the court roll which was to be kept in existence. [Mr. AGLIONBY: That is not so.] He understood that it was so. It was to be converted into an annual rent-charge, which would be attended with all the inconvenience of the copyhold tenure, and, after all, it would not be anything like the fee-simple. His opinion was that if they meddled with it they should give the freehold at once, and that, above all, they should not require any record in the Copyhold Court, as this Bill would do. [Mr. AGLIONBY: No!] The hon. Member said "No." The hon. Member declared before that that he wished to keep the Copyhold Court as a Court of Registration; that he had supported a measure for the registration of deeds; and, that, having failed in that, his object was to make the Copyhold Courts serve to register deeds. It was for this reason that he was opposed to this Bill. He thought it was an unjust Bill, giving preference to the tenant over the rights of the lord of the manor; and that it would be an unjust measure, as retaining the old Copyhold Courts, with all their objections
 728
 SIR JOHN HOPE  would support the second reading of the Bill, though he believed nothing would come of it unless the Lord Advocate took charge of it in Committee.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that when hon. Members remembered the great extent to which this Bill differed from its predecessor, they would not be surprised to hear that he felt it his duty to meet the Bill at this stage with the most decided opposition. Measures of this hind were, in his judgment, an attempt to introduce into the financial arrangements of counties principles that were not adapted to them. Without calling in question the connexion that ought to exist between taxation and representation, he was prepared to assort that that rule, although generally applicable to all countries with free institutions, did not apply at all to county affairs, or only in a degree which was very limited, and it would not be wise in Parliament, for the sake of adopting a theoretical advantage, to tamper with arrangements which had long worked beneficially to the country, and which had never worked more beneficially than at the present time. The financial affairs of the counties were now confessedly conducted with greater publicity, a closer economy, and a more scrupulous regard for the general interests of the public, than at any former period. In spite of these views and these facts, he should, however, have not opposed the second reading of the Bill had it been presented to them in the shape in which it came from the Committee last year, because the House had so far recognised the principle of the Bill as to send it to a Select Committee for further consideration. In that case he would have reserved his objections for discussion in Committee. But the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Gibson) bad not brought in his Bill in that shape, or even in the shape in which it was submitted to the House at the commencement of last Session. He must call attention to the extraordinary course taken by the right hon. Gentleman with regard to this Bill, Two Sessions ago, when the right hon. Gentleman first brought in this measure, it was referred to a Select Committee, which was empowered to take evidence. That Committee, of which he (Sir J. Pakington) was a member, devoted itself to a most laborious inquiry into the whole subject. That Committee was selected by the right hon. Gentleman himself. It was a Committee to the composition of which they who were unfavourable to the principle of the Bill
 730 731
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  said, the Bill at present was only a mere skeleton compared with what its promoters hoped it would be after receiving the consideration of the Select Committee to whom it was proposed to submit it. By the appointment of that Committee, moreover, he thought the very end which the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had in view would be attained. There was a much greater likelihood of some good result if they went into the Committee with a Bill prepared for their consideration, than if they went without one. He hoped that some English Member would be appointed to serve on the proposed Committee, for, after what had been said about the drunkenness of Scotchmen, he was afraid that the House might suppose that even the hon. representatives of Scotland were not free from the taint.
 VISCOUNT MELGUND  believed that this scheme of legislation was wholly vicious in principle; and, far from curing the evils complained of, would only increase those which at present existed.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, that in listening to what had proceeded from the opposite side of the House, he had been perpetually assailed with the apprehension that hon. Members had been suffering under that misfortune which sometimes happened to an advocate, of having the wrong brief put into their hands. It appeared to him that they had done nothing but try to blacken their client; for in this case of Birch  versus 817
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, there had never been a public man so singularjy attacked and so singularly defended as Lord Clarendon had been in this matter. The noble Earl was assailed for having had recourse to the press in the support of legitimate government. Why, what was this more than all public men before him had done? But then, it was said, Lord Clarendon had recourse to a convicted libeller: the gentleman who had made such a point of this vituperation of Mr. Birch, could hardly have been present when the noble Mover of the Resolution passed such an eulogium upon the great talent which the political articles in the  World 820 Dublin Evening Mail or Post. Satirist Morning Post, Times, Chronicle? Satirist. World. 821
 MR. FOX MAULE : I confess, Sir, I am somewhat surprised that a noble Lord, with the official experience of my noble
 764
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  could assure the House that ever since he had had the honour of having a seat in it, he had never known a step so painful to his own feelings as an imperative sense of public duty compelled him to take on this occasion. There was one point in which he fully agreed with the hon. and gallant Member who had last spoken, that the noble Earl at the head of the Irish Executive had been guilty of an indiscretion; that he had "fallen into a quagmire." That was a full description of what that noble and distinguished Personage had committed, and he deeply regretted that it was so. Again, he had to confess he never knew a case in which his own private feelings clashed so much with his sense of public duty as on the present occasion. It was not only that he had the privilege—and a high privilege he accounted it—to be acquainted with that nobleman in private life; but he considered that there was no man who by his talents and services had done more to adorn his high rank than the noble Earl. He considered that Ireland had seldom, if ever, seen a Viceroy who had brought to bear upon his difficult task more zeal and talent—not even excepting the illustrious Earl of Clarendon who had formerly held a similar situation in Ireland. In history the present Earl of Clarendon's career would be held in high honour; and he would say as an Irishman and as an Irish representative, that his country owed the Bar of Clarendon a deep debt of gratitude. There was no subject connected with the social prosperity, or with the development of the industrial resources of Ireland, which had not been advanced by his enlightened talents and ability, he, therefore, felt it a painful duty that he was compelled to condemn, not assuredly his whole career, but that one error into which his great talents, his high public services, and his noble bearing, had not prevented him from falling. He would gladly take refuge, if he could, from the necessity of recording his vote against one to whom Ireland was so much beholden, in the
 818 World. 819
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I agree, Sir, with the noble Lord who has brought forward this Resolution, that there is a most grave question for the consideration of the House; and let not the noble Lord at tempt to extenuate or diminish the gravity of that question. The noble Lord said that he wished to do nothing vexatiously; that he wished to avoid saying anything personal respecting Lord Clarendon. Now, the House must be aware that the attempt of the noble Lord by his Motion is to blast the character of the noble Lord at the head of the Government in Ireland—to affix a disgrace upon a man who has rendered great public services, who has been for many years engaged in political life
 782 "I then saw Mr. Birch, and in the state of
 783 "As far as I am concerned, my sole motive throughout was to aid a journalist who professed himself anxious to promote the cause of public order; nor can I charge myself with having done, or left undone, anything at all calculated to give you just cause of complaint." "If there is anything I can legitimately do to aid you in your efforts to promote the cause of order and good government, I shall be glad." "I can have no other view than the public good, and I say the same for the other parties named in your communication." World, World 784 "Sir—Believing that the recent prosecution instituted against the  World World, l. l., 785 l. l. 786 the United Irishman "To these missiles from windows and housetops revolutionary citizens always add boiling water or grease, or better cold vitriol, if available; molten lead is good, but too valuable." Nation "We demand a convention fit to treat with England for our freedom—a convention representing the people, and whom the people will obey." United Irishman "We must utter and maintain the godsent truth—the decree that is in the hearts of us all —Hate England to the death." 787 United Irishman. "And, as for the same warlike and treasonable articles in this newspaper, they will be steadily continued and improved upon, week after week, until they have produced their effect—the effect not of a street not to disturb a peaceful meeting, but of a deliberate and universal armament, to sweep this island clear of British butchers, and plant the green flag on Dublin Castle." "That a strong English reaping-hook is a capital weapon; and in case of street fighting let no powder be too explosive, or no instrument be too hot for fair hands to lift and hurl down upon the enemy." 788 789 "Those emblems Cecil did invest, And gleamed on wise Godolphin's breast"— 790 World. 791 World, l.
 LORD NAAS : Sir, I do not intend at this hour to trespass upon the attention of the House for any length of time; but I repel with indignation the assertion that this is a personal attack upon Lord Clarendon. I agree with the noble Lord who has just sat down that if I had made a personal attack upon Lord Clarendon, I should have been unworthy to hold a seat in this House. But I have brought under notice the public act of a public individual, the act of an officer of the Government, justified by himself upon public grounds; for the justification which he put forward at the trial was a justification upon public grounds. He said distinctly that the circumstances of the country were such as to justify him in making use of such an instrument. The act was not alone that of the Lord Lieutenant, but of his Government. It is an act which I believe the whole Executive Government have participated in; and of all that I have alluded to to-night, the noble Lord who has just sat down was cognisant. Therefore, it cannot be for a moment maintained that this is a personal attack. Such a thing was never intended. The speech of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) was a most dexterous one; but I appeal to the House and to hon. Gentlemen whether the noble Lord, in reply to me, touched a single fact of the case. I maintain that the act of the Irish Government, in this case, was reprehensible and disgraceful. And, notwithstanding all the ability and talent shown by the other side of the House, I have heard nothing to-night to disprove any one of my facts, nor do I think that hon. Gentlemen have vindicated by their speeches what they are going to vindicate by their votes. I leave the issue calmly, and with perfect fearlessness, in the hands of the House. At the same time, I say that the vote they are going to give, is one which may be
 824
 LORD NAAS  said: Mr. Speaker, in rising to propose the Resolution of which I have given notice, I feel that I may claim the indulgence of the House for standing in somewhat peculiar circumstances. It is a most invidious task to be obliged to impugn the actions of any public men, and particularly of the actions of men who hold high offices under the Crown. The House must therefore at once see in what a disagreeable position I am now placed; but I feel even more reluctant in bringing this subject before the House, because, in common with all who mix in the public affairs of this country, I must entertain great respect for the character of the individuals to whom I shall be obliged to allude. Sir, I have the utmost possible respect for the high personal qualities, the talent, and the private worth of the noble individual who fills the office of Lord Lieutenant in Ire-
 765 766 World, "To balance remaining due for work and labour and services rendered by the plaintiff to and for the defendant, and also for work, labour, and services rendered by the plaintiff, in support of the existing Administration, at the instance and request of the defendant, from the 16th July, 1818, to the 16th of January, 1851–6,700 l. "That the defendant having retained the plaintiff as a journalist, to devote his journal to the composing, printing and publishing of articles in support of the existing Administration, to which the defendant was and is attached as Chief Secretary of Ireland: 
 
 "Composing, printing, and publishing said articles from the 10th day of July, 1848, to the 16th day of January, 1851—balance £6,050 0 0 
 "Also I send you with this a specification of and reference to the dates and particulars of the said several articles. 767 
 
 "Attending the defendant and his secretary weekly during said period in reference to the composing, printing, and publishing of said articles, at 5 l. £650 0 0 
 "To 12,000 copies of the  World d. 300 0 0 l. World. "In 1846 its average circulation did not amount to 600 a week: the total number of stamps issued to it in that year were 30,913. In 1847 they had increased to 39,893; giving an average issue of not quite 800. In 1848 it appears to have nearly doubled its issue; the number of stamps issued to this journal in that year amounting to 60,970: an average issue of not quite 1,200 a week." Satirist, 768 Dublin University Magazine "In stating his case he should have indeed very little more to do than to state, by way of preliminary observation, the way in which the publication of the libels commenced, and then proceed to read a series of as outrageous libels as ever were printed by one man concerning another, published in that form and by that agency through which they could procure the greatest possible dissemination. He (counsel) did not think that within the code of criminal law, save the exception of crimes committed against the lives of Her Majesty's subjects, there could be a greater offence than that which the Act of Parliament in question had been passed to guard against." 769 "The indictment in the present case contains twenty counts; and they resolve themselves into three distinct charges. First, the professing to abstain from publishing defamatory matter against the prosecutor; secondly, the threatening to publish defamatory matter, with a similar intent; and, lastly, actually publishing libels on the prosecutor, with a similar intent—to extort money. Now, James Birch, you have been convicted upon all the counts of the indictment. It appears, upon the evidence, that you and the prosecutor were strangers to each other up to July, 1843; and you introduced yourself to his notice by writing a letter, in which you stated that certain parties had applied to you in your capacity of a journalist to notice certain transactions in which Gray was mixed up. Those transactions related to a compromise entered into in a certain suit between him and third parties. The matter was at an end. It did sleep until you raised it. And what was your motive? The indictment charges, and the jury have found, that your object was to extort money, through the instrumentality of the newspaper of which you are the proprietor. You threatened to expose him, and accuse him of fraud, usury, and perjury; and the prosecutor was weak enough to offer you money—400 l. l. l. l., 770 seriatim, "He knew Lord Clarendon since March, 1848.
 771 l. "This was money which witness had previously: got, 250 l. l. "To a Juror.—Lord Clarendon did not hand witness the 100 l. l. l. "Viceregal Lodge, March, 1848. "Dear Sir—The French news ought to turn to account. The triumph of the moderate party, the defeat and certain election of Ledru Rollin, the Irish fraternisers, and the vigorous proceedings of the Provisional Government in making arrests. "I presume that to-morrow's (Friday's) mail will bring us account of the capture of Blanqui and Cabet, the great Communist leader. The  morale CORRY CONNELLAN. "Mr. Birch." "My dear Sir—His Excellency was entirely ignorant, I need scarcely say, of anything connected with the pike affair. And Brown! "Brown asserts he never directed Kirwan to order pikes, but merely to procure them. "Information can only be obtained from  mauvais sujets, "His Excellency took not the slightest notice that Dr. M'Hale sailed for England until he saw it in the papers. "His Excellency's opinions, as you may suppose, were not in the smallest degree influenced by Dr. Yore's  crambe repetita. 772 World "NOTICES TO CORRESPONDENTS.—The Archbishop of Tuam.—'Paul Sarpi,' is acquainted that we are ignorant of the nature of the London mission undertaken by the Archbishop of Tuam and Dr. O'Higgins. As to the interview which it is said Dr. Gore had with Lord Clarendon, we have heard it rumoured—but with what truth it is not for us to say—that although the well-intentioned ecclesiastic, contrary to the Fransoni injunction, introduced politics and broached the question of repeal, the Viceroy gave him no encouragement." "My dear Sir—lam so pressed with business that I have only time to apprise you that H. E. will write to-day to Sir William Somerville to state his opinion that your journal has done good service to the cause of peace and order, and in the interest of the Government.—Yours, &c. "To J. Birch, Esq." "CORRY CONNELLAN. "Dear Sir—I have had a letter from Sir William Somerville, announcing the receipt of one for you, upon the receipt of which I shall have a conversation in London (For which I start on Wednesday morning) with the Lord Lieutenant. As to the phrase, 'lukewarm support,' in your last note, I have only to remark that no journal in England receives any subsidy; and that in one year you have had more than twice as much as was ever paid in the same period to the only news-paper in Ireland which is aided by public money. —Yours truly, "CORRY CONNELLAN." 773 "May 17, 1549. "Sir—Having, by desire of the Lord Lieutenant, communicated to Sir William Somerville your letter, in which you made use of the phrase, 'deliberate liars,' I am directed to inform vim that a retractation of these words is demanded, If, therefore, you write me a line to that effect and will send a confidential person here at three o'clock to-morrow, he shall receive the ruin of 100 l., "C. CONNELLAK." l., l. l. "Dublin, March 31, 1850. 7, Richmond-street, Mountjoy-square. "Sir William —As it is now quite evident that Lord Clarendon has determined to trample upon me, by leaving me no alternative but that of sup-
 774 "London, April 11, 1850. "Dear Sir—I received your last letter, which was forwarded to mo to the country, can only say now, as I believe I have said before, with reference to former communications, that I am utterly unable to draw an opinion from your remarks. Whatever you may think, I feel certain that no journalist was ever treated with greater generosity or consideration than you have been. I am equally certain that Lord Clarendon never; means to 'trample' upon anybody, and that he I would not desire the support of any man who does not conscientiously give it. For myself, I, tan only say that I am not aware of having given you any cause of offence.—I remain, dear Sir, yours faithfully, "W. M. SOMERVILLE. "James Birch, Esq." Sir William—I have just received Lord, Clarendon's letter—the letter I long anticipated. I shall now know the course to pursue, and he shall find he has no political prostitute. You have relieved me from all embarrassment by saying you don't caw; what was published.— I have the honour, &c. "JAMES BIRCH. "Sir Wm, Somerville, Bart., M.P." l.; "Lord C., Dr. Birch, Or. "For supporting law and order in the  World l. l. 775 "The release is in witness's own writing, under the direction of counsel, under Lord Clarendon's authority; had three interviews with Mr. Birch in arranging this settlement. Was not then acting for Sir William Somerville. Asked Mr. Birch for some letters at that time before witness gave the 2,000 l." "James Birch brought an action against the Earl of Clarendon, seeking to recover a large sum of money alleged to be due to him for services rendered by said James Birch, tending to the suppression of the rebellion in Ireland—for the insertion of divers paragraphs in the  World l., 776 1 "London, July 19, 1851, Peel's Coffee-house, Fleet-street. "My Lord—If you not apprised already of the fact, I beg to acquaint your Lordship that I have instituted proceedings against Sir William Somerville in the Queen's Bench, for the recovery of what I believe to be a legal—but what, at all events, I shall be greatly disappointed if the country do not consider a most equitable claim. "It was my desire to restrain as much as possible all personal feeling in the ease, and to endeavour to have it brought before a legal tribunal dispassionately, and, as far as I was concerned, without acrimony. I therefore wrote to your Lordship from Dublin, a considerable time since, and also to Sir William Somerville, requesting that an appearance might then be given to the attorney I should name, so that I might have no unnecessary trouble or expense in submitting my claim to a legal tribunal. All honourable men that I ever heard of before are willing to submit to make an arrangement, but your Lordship and Sir William Somerville tacitly declined to do so. I made a similar demand here, and it was only after my attorney bad twice written, that Mr. Coppock, the well-known political agent of the Reform Club, appeared to answer for Sir William Somerville. To-day my attorney has informed me that a notice has been served on him, as a preliminary, to compel me to give security for costs. "I have no objection—certainly not, to any step that might be deemed requisite to guard any person or party against a vexatious or pauper litigant; and your Lordship and Sir William Somerville may have some reason to apprehend that the man whose property you have destroyed, and whose reputation you have attempted also to blast, may be unable to bear a harassing legal contest with the British Government; but I do respectfully insist that Sir William Somerville could have informed Mr. Coppock of my occupation, profession, and residence, and that for the costs of such an action as I am bringing in a neighbouring assizes town, I have at least pro-
 777 "As I conceive the step taken is only preparatory to other proceedings of a vexatious character in which J will he committed with a powerful Government and its numerous retainers, I shall consider the next unfair aggressive measures is perfectly justifying me in accelerating the fatal consequences to Sir William Somerville, and all connected with the case, which I firmly believe ultimately to await them, by publishing and circulating a faithful and impartial version of my cruel treatment, and endeavouring, if I can, to obtain some Peer or Commoner to present a petition of my grievances and unprecedented case to the Legislature. "My wish is that the public should hear first, in a court of law, the narrative of my affairs— from Lord Clarendon, Lord Palmerston, and yourself; but circumstances may render my desire impracticable and impolitic. "If once my connection is explained, and the services I rendered, and my sacrifices to the Crown made known, I shall bow my head with resignation, and even if defeated upon some technical point, I shall not complain. "One thing, if the truth he told, cannot be denied—that you gave me, during a lengthened period, and in various sums, 3,700 l.; 778 World An Hon. Member here handed the noble Lord a document. "(Private.) Foreign Office, May9,1849. "Sir—I am directed by Viscount Palmerston to express to you his thanks for your communication of the 7th inst., and I am to say to you, that if, through your agent or correspondent in London, you should write at any time to ascertain the circumstances of any information which you may have received, and upon which you may propose to found any argument or opinion, I shall be ready to receive such correspondent or agent, and to afford him such information as I may be autho-
 779 "SPENCER PONSOXBY. "James Birch, Esq." l., l., l., "Counsel: Did your Excellency make any payment to Mr. Birch for the services which you accepted from him in defence of law and order? "His Excellency: Yes. "Mr. Meagher: What sum on that account? "His Excellency: He received sums at various times; I could not exactly say the amount paid him. The first time I saw him he asked me for money, for the purpose of rendering his paper, as he said, more efficient. I told him there was no fund applicable to it, but I offered him 100 l., l. "Mr. Meagher: Does your Excellency know that any further sum of money was paid to Mr. Birch in London? "His Excellency: Yes. "Mr. Meagher. From what fund? "His Excellency: From a sum placed at the disposal of Sir William Somerville, at my request. "Mr. Meagher: Out of the public funds? "His Excellency: I did not say that it was out of the public funds. "Mr. Meagher: I thought I understood that from your Excellency. 780 "His Excellency: I said they were funds placed at the disposal of Sir William Somerville at my request. "Mr. Meagher: May I take the liberty of asking your Excellency whether or not they were public funds? "His Excellency: Part was from a sum applicable to special services, part from my own private pocket; the money applicable to special services was at my request and on my responsibility, and has been paid by myself very long ago." 781 Laughter.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish, if no one else will address the House, to divest this important question of the veil of sophistry with which the noble Lord at the head of the Government has enveloped it. The argument of the noble Lord, in the first place, is—put down rebellion, and if you are successful, never mind the means: you may appeal to your country for a verdict in your favour. But is that reasoning which will be supported by the Members of a Liberal party? Is that the reasoning they will apply to other rebellions in Ireland, when they were quick to criticise the conduct of Government, which was successful, but which had recourse to means they could not approve? Only extend this proposition, and you will imperil all public morality. I will not say that the noble Lord's proposition is a specimen of political immorality, because it is unnecessary to use strong language here. It is a position, however, I am sure, that the House of Commons will never sanction. According to the noble Lord, there was a great crisis in Ireland in 1848. The existence of the empire was at stake; and so strong was the feeling of this House of Commons of the magnitude of the danger, that the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act was proposed and agreed to in one day. It was in consequence of his prudence and energy, along with other means, that Lord Clarendon saved Ireland and the empire. And what were the other means? Mr. Birch. Lord Clarendon wielded all the powers of the law, and had at his command the whole military force of the country, but all were insufficient until he obtained the potent aid of the editor of the  World. "That the transactions which have taken place between the Irish Government and the editor of a Dublin newspaper are of a nature to weaken the authority of the Executive, and to reflect discredit on the administration of public affairs." World 793 l. 794 Ministerial cheers. 795 Memoirs of Lord Cloncurry, 796 camarilla, 797 Times, Times, Satirist. 798
 MR. NEWDEGATE  could neither admire nor concur in the political morality of
 814 World 815 Times Times World "That, in the opinion of this House, the transactions which appear recently to have taken place between the Irish Government and the Editor of a Dublin newspaper, are of a nature to weaken the authority of the Executive, and to reflect discredit on the administration of public affairs." 816
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House, That the Serjeant at Arms attending this House had a communication to make to the House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that he must express the admiration which he felt for the noble Lord (Lord Naas) who had had the moral courage to bring forward so important a Motion. He (Colonel Sibthorp) did not blame the Earl of Clarendon any
 810
 MR. ROCHE  said, the noble Lord at the head of the Government had alluded, with great eloquence and success, to the general policy of Lord Clarendon. With that policy he was not prepared at present to find fault. He admitted that there was an incipient rebellion in Ireland in 1848, that it was put down, and that those engaged in it were punished with considerable
 808 809
 MR. MOORE  said, he had never since he had had a seat in that House felt more anxiety as to the decision the House was about to come to than on the present occasion. He believed there was not a man in Ireland capable of comprehending the bearings of a political question, who did not anxiously await their verdict with a consciousness that it would deeply affect, one way or other, questions that had been long mooted, feelings that had been long stifled, in the mind of every intelligent man in that country. The question which they had to decide by the Vote of that night was, whether any amount of misconduct was ever considered objectionable in England when committed in Ireland by authority and power. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had insinuated
 803 Satirist 804 Satirist, World, World 805 United Irishman, 806 denouement, World l. 1. 807 l.
 MR. POWER  said, in listening to the speech of the noble Lord who introduced this Motion, and the speeches of hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House, with a view to discover, if possible, how far the transaction to which the Resolution referred
 811 812 813
 MR. T. B. HOBHOUSE,  who rose amidst partial cries for a division, said, he had hoard nothing in the arguments adduced on the opposite side of the House, or in the statements made, that had at all tended to show him that this Motion was justified, or that it was not of a nature to east a stain on the character of the Lord Lieutenant, and to embarrass the conduct of public affairs in Ireland. The hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (who had not displayed his usual ability in the speech he had just made) had endeavoured to show that there was a distinction between the course taken during the period when Lord Stanley was Chief Secretary for Ire] nil, and that taken by the present Lord Lieutenant; but he (Mr. Hobhouse) did not perceive any distinction between the two proceedings. In the former instance the Government retained particular writers to advocate its cause, and this was all which had been done by the present Viceroy. If there were any difference between the two cases, he thought the difference was in favour of Lord Clarendon, for at the time the latter had engaged the services of the newspaper, law and good order wore very much at stake. He was informed that the  Dublin Times, 799 World, World World Dublin Times, 800 Standard Standard World, Standard, World World; 801
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  considered the question before the House to be, whether the Government was justified
 802
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN : I have a question to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, which affects the honour and credit of the Government of Bombay, and has reference to the removal of a public officer, Colonel Outram, which it appears from the public papers, as well as from private information, has lately taken place. It appears that Colonel Outram was lately appointed to the office of Resident at Baroda, and that an allegation having been made that corrupt practices were carried on between that Court and the Court of Bombay, an inquiry was entered into by Colonel Outram, who, with the zeal which he has always displayed, entered fully into the matter. It appears, also, that while the inquiry was going on, his zeal led him to make use of observations that did not suit exactly the opinions of the Government of Bombay, for which reason the gallant officer has been removed. What I wish to know is, whether Colonel Outram has been removed from the Residency of Baroda, and whether the right hon. Gentleman has received any information from India that can explain what took place? It is necessary for the credit of the Government and of the East India Company that a satisfactory explanation should be given.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, having for many years had the advantage and the honour of Lord Clarendon's private friendship, and having been closely and directly connected with him by official relations, I cannot reconcile it to my feelings to give a silent negative to the Motion of the noble Lord (Lord Naas). I feel bound to bear my testimony to the private worth, to the personal honour, of Lord Clarendon, and to his public value as a servant of the Crown, and to express my deep regret that he should upon this occasion have been selected as the object of a personal attack. Sir, the noble Lord who made this Motion disclaimed its being a personal question; but if this is not a personal question, I am utterly at a loss to understand what a personal question is. This is not an attack upon a measure of the Government or of the Administration. The noble Lord brings under the discussion of the House, and calls upon the House to censure, a strictly personal act of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. Now
 822 823
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  would he happy to state the facts as fully as possible for the information of the hon. and learned Gentleman and the House. With regard to the case of the  Megœra, Megœra, 832 Simoom, Megœra. Simoom, Simoom; Megœra Megœra. 833 Megœra, Meœwra Meœwra Meœwra, 834 Birkenhead, Birkenhead Meœwra 835
 MR. FITZROY  wished to know if any improvements had been effected, or were contemplated, with reference to the method of coaling the Royal steamers?
 SIR F. BARING : Some had been introduced, and others were under consideration, but as yet he could not state what were the results.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that he saw, by an advertisement in the  Gazette, l. s. d. s. d. s. d., d. l.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that it appeared to him that both the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roe-buck) and the hon. Member for Montrose
 838
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, with respect to the danger which was at the bottom of the present question, he was disposed to be of the opinion of the "Babe in the Wood" who says, "Kill him again Walter, such a villain can't be too dead." If he were to speak till midnight, he could not better explain the reasons for his vote. He must vote with the noble Lord below the gangway, because he went the furthest. It had been his chance to be off
 871
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he could not let the opportunity pass without making some allusion to the difference between the principles involved in the two proposals before the House. The object which the Government had in view was the introduction of a Bill for amending the laws with respect to the local militia, which should have the effect of providing for this country at the cheapest rate, and in a manner the least burdensome to the people of this country, a force which could most speedily be at the disposal of the Government to protect these shores in case of any threat-
 872 873
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, he intended to
 874
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had misunderstood the observations which he (Mr. S. Herbert) had made on a previous evening. He did not argue for the permanent embodiment of the militia. The question which alone they had now to decide, had nothing to do with that. The question was, whether, when a reform of the Militia Laws was contemplated, we should reform the whole substance of those laws, or only that which happened to be an excrescence and an addition. The noble Lord at the head of the Government said he was willing to accept amendments upon his proposition; but the moment an amendment was offered, the noble Lord repudiated it, and said, "If you choose to make alterations, you must take the whole responsibility of the measure upon yourselves." [Lord JOHN RUSSELL: No, no!] He (Mr. S. Herbert) would not willingly misrepresent the noble Lord; but he apprehended that the noble Lord was arguing upon a proposal, of which he was cognisant, and of which the House was ignorant, which had possibly been made in private by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton. Of that the House knew nothing. They merely saw what the noble Lord had proposed on the one hand, and on the other the Amendment of the noble Member for Tiverton. That Amendment did not propose to confine the Bill to the calling out of the general militia; it did not substitute "general" for "local;" it merely proposed to omit the word "local," which did confine the operations of the Bill. Now, in dealing with a subject like this, they should not take an exceptional but a general view of the whole question. The noble Lord said, there were many evils connected with the general militia; and he expatiated with great truth on the inconveniences resulting from the system of ballot and substitutes; but he said that, besides this local militia which I propose to give you, you may have a general militia too. Well, if this general militia is to be had in addition to the local, do let us clear away the evils and inconveniences which attach to such a system, which are now to be left as bad as ever,
 870
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the right hon. Gentleman must have completely misunderstood him. He (Lord J. Russell) had said that there was a Bill ready upon this subject, and if the principle of that Bill were adopted, it would be necessary to bring in another Bill afterwards with respect to the general militia. But with regard to the measure respecting the local militia, they had that measure ready, whereas the other Bill had never been considered in detail. It would take weeks, perhaps months, to consider it, and therefore he had asked leave to bring in this Bill, reserving to himself power to bring in the other one at a future period.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I can very well understand the course taken by my right hon. Friend who has just spoken. He and the hon. Member for Montrose
 857 858 s. l. l. 859 l. 860
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I consider that the Vote to which the House has just come, is tantamount to a refusal to allow the Government to bring in the Bill which they have prepared. It is a Bill for the internal defence of the country, and, as such, a Bill of the utmost importance to the country. I cannot, therefore, consent to assume the further responsibility of the Bill with an alteration in its title which I consider objectionable. I intend, therefore, to relieve myself of all further responsibility with regard to it, and shall leave it to the noble Lord, or any one else who wishes, to bring in the Bill.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, after what the noble Lord has said, it is incumbent on me to say a few words in explanation. The noble Lord says that the measure which I explained on a former occasion, and again this evening, was so nearly similar to the plan which he himself proposed for restoring and establishing the militia, that he wonders I should throw up the Bill, Now if that were the case, I own I should think it a most unprecedented course, that, because of some difference on minor points with regard to this Bill, therefore a majority of this House should alter the words of the title of this Bill, thereby implying that a very great change is intended. I am sure that if we were now to bring in the Bill on the principles of which the Government have decided, when that Bill was printed I should be told, that is not the Bill which the noble Lord intended, and other provisions must be introduced. Sir, is that a position for a Government to hold? I think I made a great admission when I said that, with regard to all the details of this Bill, when it was before the House, I should be ready to listen to any amendments; I should be ready even to submit it to a Select Committee for further consideration. But if I am to be stopped at the threshold—if I am to be told at the commencement that this House has no confidence in us—then, Sir, it is impossible for us to go on with this measure [ Cheers 878
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I merely
 879
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he believed there could be no question raised on this occasion as to what their course should be. The proceeding arose out of the statute of 11 & 12  Vict., "If any witness before such Select Committee give false evidence or prevaricate, or otherwise misbehave in giving or refusing to give evidence, the Chairman of such Select Committee, by their direction, may at any time during the course of their proceedings report the same to the House for the interposition of the authority or censure of the House, as the case requires, and may, by a warrant under his hand, directed to the Serjeant-at-Arms attending the House of Commons, or to his deputy or deputies, commit such person (not being a Peer of the realm or Lord of Parliament) to the custody of the said Serjeant, without bail or mainprize, for any time not exceeding twenty-four hours, if the House be then sitting, and if not, then for a time not exceeding twenty-four hours after the hour to which the House stands adjourned." 837
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I wish, Sir, before the Report of the Committee is received, as there appears to be some objection to allow me to bring in this Bill, I am anxious to be permitted to recapitulate the principal provisions of the measure. I stated the other evening that we did not propose to proceed on the basis of the
 839 840 841 842
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the noble Lord at the head of the Government has favoured us with a most extraordinary speech. The noble Lord proposes to introduce a measure, into the details of which he has amply entered, founded on a principle which another Member of the House thinks essentially vicious. If the principle is vicious, it follows of course that it will only be a loss of time for us to consider the details resulting from that vicious or erroneous principle with which the noble Lord has favoured us. The noble Lord seems to think that if the House of Commons considers the principle of the Bill so essentially vicious, and that it is totally impossible that its details can be beneficially changed, it is not open to us to question the propriety of the Governments introducing such a measure. The noble Lord adopts this tone—he says that it is unparliamentary and unconstitutional, if a Minister brings in a measure founded on a vicious principle, for us to oppose its introduction. I believe that I have not misrepresented the noble Lord. [Lord JOHN RUSSELL: You have quite misunderstood me.] The noble Lord says that I have quite misunderstood him, but I certainly think that I have not misrepresented him. Now, I ask the House just to consider exactly how we are placed with respect to the question before us. It is now four or five years since the Government of which the noble Lord is the chief, announced to the House that they were about to bring forward a measure on the subject of the militia. The noble Lord, however, neither brought forward the Bill, nor favoured the House with the details of the measure which he intended to bring forward. Now, I should like to have known from the noble Lord whether the project which he intended to bring forward on the present occasion was a project for the regular or for the local militia? We have not been favoured with information upon that point, which is really interesting. But it is quite clear from the circumstances under which that measure was announced—at a period, it will be remembered, when we had no anticipation of those revolutions on the Continent, or any of those alarming circum-
 861 862
 MR. SPEAKER : I have to inform the House that at present there is no question before it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that it was quite true that he was about to renew these Exchequer Bills at 1½ d. 836 s. s.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had distinctly stated that he did not concur with the decision. What he meant to say was, not that he was going to reverse the decision of the Court of Exchequer, but it was under consideration whether any steps should be taken on the question generally, on the authority of that decision.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the statement he made the other day on this subject appeared to have been misunderstood. What he meant was, that after the discussion in the case alluded to, the Government were not disposed to press the point further. He did not mean to say that he acquiesced in the interpretation of the law in that case, as generally applicable, nor that the Government had decided on what course they should take. It fact, it was now under consideration what steps it might be desirable to take, because the interpretation which the Government had put upon the law had prevailed for the last 200 years. There were not many cases in which penalties had been inflicted, or compromises made. The only one in which there had been any such compromise was in the case of the  Wakefield Examiner l.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he rose to more a Resolution, that a Bill be brought in to enable Her Majesty to abolish, under certain conditions, the differential duties on foreign ships. By the law as it at present stood, treaties of reciprocity with foreign countries, must be signed before terms of reciprocity could be granted. Now they had long been in communication with the Government of Spain upon this subject, with regard to which many just complaints had been made by our merchants, that English ships were not put on the same footing in their ports as Spanish ships in our ports. The Spanish Government had all along said they had nothing to do with English laws; that they were willing to agree to terms of reciprocity, but that they would not enter into any Treaty. Of late a diplomatic convention had been entered into on the subject, and the Government proposed to be allowed by this measure to make the agreement with them without a Treaty. He might, if it were necessary, state that this was not the first occasion when inconveniences had arisen out of the existing Act. A few years ago one of the South American States made the same difficulty, and he thought it would be obvious to the House that the meaning of the Act would be carried out if the advantages of reciprocity were allowed wherever Her Majesty received satisfactory evidence that our ships were treated in foreign ports on the same footing with the ships of other countries.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  begged to state, that the Bill was not to be confined to Spain, but extended to other countries in similar circumstances.
 MR. HERRIES  said, he understood this measure to be one of form, and not of substance; that it was to do for Spain,
 880
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that, seeing the First Lord of the Admiralty in his place, he begged to ask him a question relative to a steam vessel—the  Megœra, 831 Times Megœra Megœra
 Mr. ROEBUCK  said, he had been informed that the rifles of which the right hon. Gentleman spoke as having been sent in the  Megœra,
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to suggest this difficulty to the hon. and learned Attorney General. He (Mr. Roebuck) quite agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), that the House possessed the power of protecting itself. If the Committee had been merely a Court under an Act of Parliament, then, no doubt, all this would come naturally under the supervision of a superior Court. But then, the Statute showed that it was only a provisional power which was granted to the Chairman of a Committee to commit a refractory person into custody. What was the meaning of the words "until the House meets?" These words indicated that the Chairman was to act only provisionally, the matter being placed under the supervision and control of the House of Commons. The House could not be separated from the Committee. The Committee communicates to the House of Commons, and the House of Commons decided whether or not the Chairman of the Committee had acted properly. The Chairman had acted properly on this occasion; the House justified the conduct of the Chairman; and now one of these contumacious witnesses brought an action against the officer of the House for doing what he had done not only under the command, but with the approbation of, the House. To his (Mr. Roebuck's) mind, therefore, it appeared that the House was directly involved.
 MR. HUME  thought it very odd that the House of Commons—the first Court in the country—could not exercise the power and authority claimed by every Court in the Kingdom—to enforce its own orders. He could not admit that House was subordinate to any Court; and if this Motion was to lead to the same result as that to which he had, to his regret, consented on a former occasion, when opposing what he thought an undue extension of their powers, he would certainly enter his protest against the proceeding now, as being derogatory to the high character of the House.
 MR. HUME  did not recollect, long as as he had been in Parliament, an attempt being made before, when a majority of that House had clearly demonstrated their wish that Her Majesty's Ministers should bring in a Bill, to prevent them from doing so. He did not, however, speak in favour of the measure, for he was opposed to it; but he thought it was not fair to the Government to take the course which had been adopted. With respect to the measure itself, he had already stated his opinion, and he should at the proper time take the sense of the House upon it. Whether substitutes should be allowed or not, was a matter of trifling detail. The noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) had agreed to the propriety of having all the Militia Acts consolidated; and, where the principle was the same, it was most unusual for any Member to oppose the Government bringing in a Bill. He should vote with the Government, thinking it only fair play that they should have the opportunity of bringing in their measure. He would not stultify the Resolution of the Committee. Let the noble Lord wait till he saw the details of the Bill, and then propose his Amendment. The noble Lord admitted that danger, if not probable, was possible; therefore his principle did not at all justify his Motion. But had he given them any idea what the danger was, or shown that there was any? From the speeches of both noble Lords, it might be supposed that we had actually no defence, and might be overrun at any moment by a force of 20,000 foreign soldiers. For the last forty years 15,000,000 l. l. Laughter. 868 869
 MR. HUME  begged to ask if the noble Lord at the head of the Government acquiesced in the decision of the Court of Exchequer. As the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer said that he did not acquiesce in it, it was important to know if the Government did acquiesce in that which had been settled by a solemn decision.
 MR. HUME  thought it was right this Bill should pass, but he complained that this reciprocity convention would throw upon the Consolidated Fund a sum of from 30,000 l. l.,
 MR. HUME  said, he looked upon all these matters with great jealousy, for he was against interference with the religious matters in the Colonies at all: but if he understood the explanations of the right hon. Gentleman rightly, it would not preclude the Colonies from regulating their own affairs. With that understanding he had no difficulty in agreeing to the Motion.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would take the liberty of making a few remarks on this question, both on the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), and on the proposition of the Government. And he must say, that he did not feel the necessity, in discussing a matter of detail of this sort, that there should be those appeals to the valour, and the gallantry, and the contempt of danger, which was said to pervade all classes of Her Majesty's subjects. He had no doubt it was so, but he did not think it necessary to go over that everlasting ground. He did not wish to be offensive, but what had been said reminded him of the Dialogue of the Thieves in the  Beggars' Opera, 850 851 852 853 854 855 "But, really to see some of the letters which have been published, and to hear some of the language that has been used, it would seem that these two great nations, so wealthy, so civilised, so enlightened, were going to butcher one another merely to see what would be the effect of percussion shells and needle guns." 856 l., l. Hansard's Debates,
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, the hon. Gentleman's observation was strictly correct, or rather, he might have gone further, for the object of the Bill was to enable the Colonies to settle their own affairs—that the ecclesiastical affairs of the Colony should be locally managed in the same way as the civil affairs were locally managed.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he rose to move a preliminary resolution, in order to enable him to lay on the table a Bill, as to the principles of which he did not apprehend there would be any objections. Under the present circumstances he would not persevere even in taking this preliminary step, if he thought the Bill was likely to give rise to any objection. He did not see his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies in the House, but he had been careful to communicate with him, and the Bill had obtained his approbation. The object of the Bill was simply to relieve members of the Church in communion with the Church of England in the Colonies from certain supposed legal disabilities, which prevented them from taking those measures for the local management of their own affairs that other religious bodies in the Colonies were in the habit of exercising. He did not mean to give them any legislative power; he did not propose in any way to interfere with the colonial legislatures doing whatever they thought fit; he only proposed to relieve them from that which all must admit was most desirable—that was to relieve them from certain difficulties which arose from
 881
 MR. DEEDES  said, that might be so; but he wished, if the Government were not to originate anything anew, that they should at least improve what they found, and make it as efficient as possible. What he said was, that if it was necessary to place the country in a state of defence—for he wished to go no further than that—he was no advocate for aggression, it was madness in us in the present state of things to sit still till the enemy was at our doors. He had no wish to see a foreign general in his house, except upon his invitation. If any attempt at aggression was made, we ought to be in a state to offer the most efficient opposition; and he saw no reasonable hope that the local militia contemplated by the Government could within a moderate time be placed in anything like an efficient state, and, believing that by leaving out the word "local" the Government would get rid of
 867
 MR. DEEDES  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had told the House that the Government had thought it expedient, from certain circumstances, to place the country in a position to resist foreign aggression. He (Mr. Deedes) believed that that sentiment was generally participated in by the Members of that House, with the exception of a few, among whom he might rank the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson), although he very much doubted whether the right hon. Gentleman would much advance the contentment and the happiness of the lower orders of the people by not having ready, in the event of a foreign aggression, a sufficient force with which to preserve their contentment and happiness. The noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), in introducing his views on the subject, had said that his possessions in the county of Sligo might possibly be endangered in the event of a foreign aggression; and he (Mr. Deedes) thought it would be conceded to him that, representing as he did a frontier county
 866
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, that lie understood from the answer given on a former day by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester, that he was disposed to acquiesce in the decision of the Court of Exchequer, in the recent case of Dickens'  Household Narrative of Events. Wakefield Examiner. 830
 SIR B. HALL : I was one of those who gave my vote, and my cordial vote, in favour of the Motion of the noble Lord. I think the course that was pursued by the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) who sits below me was uncalled for and unprecedented; and I think it would have been more in accordance with the usages of the House, to have aliened my noble Friend to introduce this Bill. But, having supported my noble Friend on this occasion, I cannot go along with him further. I gave my vote in favour of my noble Friend; but I intended to give my vote in the future stages of the Bill in conjunction with my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. But I am not at all satisfied with the conclusion the noble Lord at the head of the Government has come to, and I do not think be ought to have called on the noble Lord below me to bring in this Bill. He has stated to the House that we require a militia—he has stated, as the head of the Government, that we require a further defence. I do not agree with him there; but I think, if the noble Lord states to this House that we do require defence, he ought cither to give up the situation he holds as a Minister of the Crown, or proceed with this measure, and I hope the conclusion my noble Friend will come to is this—that he will at once give up office; and when my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Bradford say she has the greatest horror of a foreign force landing in this country, but that he has a still greater horror of a Protectionist Government coming into power, I say that I have no such horror. We shall see them try their hand at government; and I hope my noble Friend, after the decision that has been come to, will not merely abandon the Bill, but, in consequence of the vote that has been carried against him, will take that constitutional course which lie has always taken, and at once intimate his desire no longer to preside over the councils of the Sovereign.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that it was proposed to make the law in that respect the same as it was in the Militia Act now.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was sure the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House had perfectly misunderstood the argument of his (Sir G. Grey's) noble Friend; for if he had not perfectly misunderstood it, it was impossible he could have put such a construction upon it as he appeared to have done. His noble Friend had never uttered an expression which intimated that the House were not perfectly competent at any stage of a Bill of expressing their opinion upon the policy of any measure submitted by Her Majesty's Government. His noble Friend did not say that the House was not perfectly entitled now to refuse their assent to the question which would be put from the Chair, that leave be given to bring in a Bill founded upon the principle and embodying the details which the noble Lord had submitted to the House on Monday night. The House had a perfect right, and the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) had a perfect right, to dissent from that question; and if a majority of the House should unite in refusing their assent to the Government being allowed to introduce their Bill, it would be open to any Member charged with the responsibility of that refusal to prepare such a measure as might be thought more suited to the circumstances of the country. But that was not the course
 863 864 865
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, it would be very undesirable to revive again the useless debates of  Hansard Stockdale;
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, it is far, very far, from my intention to prevent the Government from bringing in a Bill for the purpose of providing a force to be available in case of invasion. On the contrary, my wish is to assist them in doing so. But I think it is of great importance, both for the public service and for the convenience of the House, that a Bill brought in, consisting of considerable details, should be founded on a right principle, because, if a Bill be brought in on a wrong principle, it will take a great deal more time and labour to work it out to a right principle, than would have been required to make it complete if it had been, in the first instance, framed upon a principle applicable to the purposes for which it was intended. From what the noble Lord stated, it is obvious that there is an essential difference between the title which be intends to give the Bill, and its substance and provisions; and the object of one of the Amendments which I intend to move, is simply to place the title of the Bill and its provisions in harmony one with the other. The first Amendment refers to what the noble Lord has just stated, and applies equally whether the Bill shall relate to the local or to the regular militia. My first Amendment is, that the Bill shall not only amend, but shall also consolidate, the existing Acts. From the statement of the noble Lord, it would seem that it is intended to amend the existing laws: the addition which I propose, and which the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) suggested, is to add the word "consolidate," so that the whole of the existing law on this subject should be incorporated in one Act. But the main point for consideration is, whether the measure is to be founded on "the militia," or upon "a local militia." There is a very essential distinction between the two—but a distinction which was entirely lost sight of in the observations which fell from the noble Lord; for, in proposing to bring in a Bill which appears
 843 844 845 846 "Whereas a respectable military force, under the command of officers possessing landed property is essential to the constitution, and whereas the militia, as by law established, through its constant readiness on short notice for effectual service, has been found of the utmost importance to the internal defence of this realm—" 847 "Whereas it is expedient, in the present circumstances of Europe, that a local militia should be established, trained, and permanently maintained under certain restrictions in England, to be called forth and employed in case of invasion, in aid of His Majesty's regular militia force, for the defence of the Realm, may it please Your Majesty—" corps de reserve 848 849
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I cannot help expressing my extreme surprise at such an abdication by the Government of their proper functions in this House. I presume, it was not without full deliberation that the Government deemed it to be their duty to introduce a measure for the better defence of the realm. The only difference of opinion between the majority of the House and the Government has been, whether that measure shall be founded upon the Act of the 42nd  Geo. Geo. 877
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  rose and spoke as follows:—Mr. Speaker;—Sir, after the occurrences of last Friday night the House will be prepared for the announcement I have now to make. At a meeting of Her Majesty's servants on Saturday we considered what course it was incumbent on us to pursue. It appeared to us that it was impossible for us to carry on satisfactorily the business of the Government in this House after the event of the preceding night. We considered the alternative of advising Her Majesty to use Her prerogative to dissolve Parliament. But we conceived that there were such grave objections to such a course, that we declined to advise the Crown to take that step. We therefore determined, promptly and humbly, to lay our resignations before Her Majesty, which I accordingly did on the same afternoon. Her Majesty was graciously pleased to accept our resignations, and has since sent for the Earl of Derby, who, I understand, has undertaken the task of forming a Government. And, therefore, we now only hold office until our successors are appointed by Her Majesty. Sir, after this statement, I do not wish to recur to the various events which have taken place since the commencement of the Session, and which may form, perhaps, the subject of debate hereafter. But, Sir, I cannot conclude what I have to say on this occasion, without expressing my sincere thanks to those hon. Gentlemen who have supported Her Majesty's Government, and who, during upwards of five years, have enabled me to sustain a burden to which, I must confess, I was otherwise totally unequal. Having their confidence, and having had the advantage of their support, I have been enabled, during that period, so to conduct affairs, that we shall not leave them, now, in any great branch of our domestic or our foreign relations, in a situation of which we need be at all ashamed. I wish further to say, with respect to one of my Colleagues to whom I am particularly indebted, that it is to the temperate wisdom and to the respected character of the Marquess of Lansdowne that the Government have owed the facility of being enabled to carry measures of great impor-
 888
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in answer to the question of the hon. Member, begged to say that last year inquiry was made by the Government as to the possibility of removing Cleopatra's Needle, and also whether it was worth while to remove it to this country. The answer received to that question, from the parties best qualified to give it, was, that they did not think it was worth while incurring the expense and trouble of bring-
 887
 MR. HUME  said, that the expense of removal would not exceed 10,000 l.
 MR. HUME  said, it was only fit and proper that those who were entrusted with the formation of the Ministry should have time to make their arrangements. What he rose for was simply to express a hope that the House, when it met on Friday next, would have the opportunity of hearing from the new Ministry an explanation of the policy on which they proposed to carry on the Government. He said this because he had heard a rumour that it was intended that that House should not have the opportunity of meeting again. For himself, he was not wedded to party. If they brought in good measures he should support them, and if they brought in bad measures he should oppose them. He was not wedded to either party, but was the strenuous advocate of liberal measures, carrying out free trade further than it was now carried; and he could only say he should be sadly disappointed if he did not hear from Her Majesty's intended Ministers some explanation of what they meant to do. If they were hostile to free trade, let them have the candour to state it, but do not let them go to the country
 889
 MR. HUME  said, the House would remember that last year he asked whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring to England the obelisk known under the name of Cleopatra's Needle, which had been presented by the late Mehemet Ali, Pasha of Egypt, to George IV. A letter was addressed to the Pasha signifying the pleasure of George IV. to accept his present. A promise was made that inquiries should be instituted to ascertain the best means of transmitting the obelisk to England. At the request of several persons who were very anxious to have the obelisk brought to England, he wished to ask whether any steps had been taken for that purpose?
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  trusted the House would not consent to any postponement of the measure. No question of local or general interest was involved in this Bill, but the promoters, he should show, contemplated a direct fraud on the public. The prospectus put forth by them informed the public that they had already obtained 2,600 acres of land for the purposes of the Necropolis. Now, he could assure the House they had done no such thing. All they had done was to go to Lord Onslow and offer him 35,000 l. 926
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, that in the 11th clause of the Bill it was distinctly stated that it was proposed to devote the remainder of the ground purchased to purposes of building speculation.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, that if this was merely a question of making a cemetery, there would be no dispute or difficulty about the matter. When the hon. and learned Gentleman near him (Mr. Bethell) gave an opinion of law, it would ill become him (Mr. H. Drummond) to dissent from him; but when the hon. and learned Gentleman favoured the House with a fact, he should like to examine that fact a little. He should like him (Mr. Bethell) to quote a single instance amongst all the railways, where they took 2,600 acres, and only intended to use 400. He asserted it was not a cemetery company. They meant to make their money by their building leases, and it was in fact a building society under the mask of a Necropolis.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  defended the promoters of the Bill, who, he said, were guided by the most liberal principles. All the metropolitan Members were, he believed, favourable to the scheme, together with several of the parishes. He therefore hoped the measure would not be rejected.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  moved that the Bill be now read a Second Time.
 MR. GRENVILLE BERKELEY  said, he had sat on the previous Election Committee for Harwich, and it was his opinion, formed on the evidence given on that occasion, that the evil in that particular case was only to be cured by disfranchisement.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, his constituents were deeply interested in the question of providing fit and proper places for the interment of such persons as died in the metropolis; and he should be very sorry if he appeared to oppose a measure that promised to remedy, to a certain extent, the evils of the present system. At the same time he thought that on a measure of such importance they should wait until some responsible Minister was in the House. They ought surely to know what were the views of the Government, and therefore he trusted the hon. Gentleman would consent to postpone the second reading for a fortnight, when they would be able to learn if the Government were prepared to propose any measure dealing with the whole subject. At the same time he must inform the hon. Gentleman who had said that the whole of the copyholders were opposed to the Bill, that that was not the case. He (Lord R. Grosvenor) had had a correspondence with some of them, and they stated that their only objection was that they had not been
 930
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to state that the Government had nothing whatever to do with the notice of his hon. Friend (Mr. Spooner). His hon. Friend had never been offered office, and, therefore, the idea which seemed to be insinuated that there was some difference of opinion between the Government and him had no foundation whatever. He would bring the Motion forward entirely on his own responsibility.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was "in order" and usual for any hon. Member to address the House on a Motion for adjournment.
 MR. ROCHE  said, that if evil effects arose from discussing these questions in the House, the responsibility must rest with those who introduced them. Religious questions, above all others, should be dealt with in a straightforward and manly
 936 l. l.
 MR. MOWATT  said, the subject could not be disposed of in this offhand manner. Every one agreed that there was an absolute necessity for making provision for interments without this great city. The late Government had announced that their Bill was a failure; but yet the noble Lord who had just spoken seemed to think it a shocking idea to leave burials in the hands of private individuals. Were we, then, to leave the dead to bury the dead? It was all very well to condemn the present plan; but the noble Lord ought to have stated what better one he proposed. With regard
 928
 MR. AGLIONBY  objected to the continued suspension of writs without steps being taken for inquiry. The constitutional way of proceeding would have been to have had a Commission issued long ago. On this point he held himself to be as free
 922
 MR. GRATTAN  said, his object in rising was to entreat that this discussion might not go on; and he now hoped that it would be allowed to close. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Spooner) had given notice of his intention; he might be right or he might be wrong in doing so; but at all events, if they were to part, let them part in peace. He hoped that hon. Members would now be allowed to present petitions. The hon. Member (Mr. Spooner) must be a most courageous man to speak in the way he had done; he reminded him (Mr. Grattan) of a great personage described by Milton, who from
 "His horrid locks shook pestilence and war."
 MR. KER SEYMER  could state, as Chairman of the first Harwich Election Committee, that no evidence had been given to justify a report that bribery and corruption had been proved. If this Amendment was carried, the mover of it would be bound to call upon the House to issue a Commission; and in the event of a Commission for Harwich being appointed, he (Mr. K. Seymer) would feel it his duty to ask the House to appoint another Commission to inquire into the state of affairs at Leicester at some recent elections. He had sat on the Leicester Committee, and the report of that Committee had been that the bribery proved to have been practised at Leicester required the attention of the House.
 MR. J. BELL  said, when he saw the opportunity offered of removing the nuisance of intramural interment, he hoped the House would not hastily determine on discarding that opportunity. It was well known that the Metropolitan Interment Act had proved inoperative, and he trusted therefore that the House would not discourage private enterprise in this, as in other undertakings. He hoped that the second reading of the Bill would be affirmed, and that the company would be bound down by such clauses as would insure that public benefit which they declared would result from the scheme. The 11th clause of the Bill was one common to every railway or other Bill which had for its object the enclosure of land. He trusted that the House would lend its encouragement to a measure which had for its object the abatement of a great public nuisance.
 Ms. ELLIS  begged permission to refer to one point in the remarks of the hon. Gentlemau (Mr. K. Seymer) opposite. He
 925
 MR. FERGUS , as a Member of the last Harwich Election Committee, upon whose Report the present vacancy had occurred in the representation of the borough, said it was perfectly true that the decision of the Committee rested upon a technical point with regard to the time of closing the poll; but he could safely appeal to any man who had sat on that Committee to place his hand on his heart and say whether he was not convinced, from the facts which were elicited in the course of the inquiry, that the most fraudulent and iniquitous practices had been carried on in the borough; and that those prac-
 920
 MR. HUME  said, he could not refrain from expressing his surprise that his hon. Friend who had just addressed the House should have risen to be the advocate of corruption. He was sure his hon. Friend would be obliged by a correction of the statement, that if the Ministers who were lately in power had remained in office, no such proceeding as that proposed respecting Harwich would have taken place. Notice was given on the subject last Session, and notice was given this Session; and he had himself put a question whether steps would not be taken by the Government for the issue of a Commission? They who wished to see rotten boroughs disfranchised, and an end put to corruption, expected in the coming reform that the borough of Harwich would be one of the first to be dealt with. The late Ministers had sanctioned the course of not issuing the writ. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bramston) who had moved for the writ should have waited till the Ministers of the Crown were in their places. Ministers would have had a glorious opportunity of showing how far they were determined to support such practices as had prevailed in Harwich. The hon. Gentleman was, he (Mr. Hume) knew, as hostile to such practices as any one, and would, he hoped, yield to the opinions intimated by the House, and abstain from pressing the Motion.
 MR. HUME  would remind the House of the pressing necessity that existed for the measure, there being no fewer than 58,000 human beings who required interment in the metropolis every year. Last Session the Government, in opposition to the opinion entertained by him (Mr. Hume) and many other hon. Gentlemen, who would have preferred leaving the matter to private enterprise, had taken the subject into their own hands. They had failed, and now that a Bill was once more brought in, he would not consent to refer the matter again to the Government. As to the compensation due to the copyholders, that was a matter for the Committee.
 MR. HUME  said, he supposed this was to allow time for the returns, and therefore he should not object to the Motion, but he hoped that hon. Members would have an opportunity given them of present-
 931
 MR. B. OSBORNE  was quite ready to believe that on whatever side the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) sat, there was no measure of intolerance and bigotry that he would not advocate. He gave him, therefore, the most perfect credit for sincerity. Without, however, adverting to the subject of Maynooth, he should like to know whether the Secretary for the Treasury (Mr. G. A. Hamilton), who he observed had just left the House, intended to persevere in the Motion he had put on the paper for a modification of the national system of education in Ireland, so as to make it accord with the convictions of the members of the Irish Established Church? The House ought to know whether the hon. Member intended to act upon that notice, or whether, as was too often the case in that House, it was one of those notices which were given in opposition, and dropped when the Opposition came into office?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE , in seconding the Amendment, said, that regard being had to the changed circumstances of public affairs, he was sure that the House would give credit to the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury (Mr. Mackenzie), who had just moved for certain writs, for declining to move a new writ for the borough of Harwich. Although it might not be known to many Members on the Ministerial side of the House, it was not the less notorious out of doors, that the present Solicitor General (Sir F. Kelly) intended to present himself before the immaculate electors of that borough; and he held in his hand an address to that right hon. Gentleman from certain of the electors of that borough, inviting him to come down to that purest and most estimable of constituencies. He therefore was not surprised that the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury should not have moved for a new writ for that unhappy place; but he certainly was not a little amazed that the hon. Member for South Essex (Mr. Bramston), who knew so well what Harwich was, should
 918 l. l. l. l. l. l. 919
 MR. SPOONER  said, that the adjournment was often moved by hon. Members for the sake of addressing the House, and by no one had such a Motion been oftener taken advantage of than by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal. The original object with which Parliament had granted the endowment to Maynooth was, to provide ministers of religion better instructed and with more kindly feelings towards the State. He would ask whether they had had any proof whatever that the College of Maynooth had provided ministers of the Roman Catholic religion more nationalised in temper and views, and less hostile to the Established Church? He, therefore, thought that whatever understanding there might have been, that understanding had been completely annulled by the subsequent conduct of the Roman Catholics. He had the great authority of the late Sir Robert Peel for inquiry into this question. On the 23rd of June, 1840, that right hon. Baronet said, in the House of Commons—
 "I cannot agree that the system of education carried on at Maynooth is a matter of indifference to the Legislature. I think that the system pursued at Maynooth is a legitimate subject for the censideration of Parliament; and it would be an abandonment of duty for the House of Commons to avow the doctrine which would allow us to say to the Roman Catholic professors—here is the money, we are pledged to grant it—do with it as you please—inculcate doctrines subversive of order, and injurious to morality: we cannot interfere." [See 3  Hansard, 933 Cries of 934
 MR. SPOONER  was sure the hon. and learned Gentleman did not mean to misrepresent him, but he had distinctly stated that it was his intention to bring on the Motion after Easter.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he did not rise to oppose the Motion for adjournment, but he wished to make a few observations with reference to a matter which was somewhat personal. It would be in the recollection of the House that he had given notice, on Monday last, that he should postpone his Motion on the subject of the grant to Maynooth to an early day after Easter. That notice had been received by hon. Members who then sat on his side of the House with very unequivocal marks of a nature such as to lead to the inference that he had altered his plans, and was about to give up his Motion. He would, however, at once put hon. Members out of pain by assuring them that he had not altered his opinions, and had not changed his determination, neither did he see any reason why he should do so. He certainly did not expect that his Motion would receive any opposition from Her Majesty's present Government. He could not pretend to say what course the Government would take on the question, but it would be contrary to his expectations if they should oppose him, the more especially as in last Session of Parliament the then Lord Stanley, now Earl of Derby, made use of the following words in the House of Lords. [Mr. Hume: He was not in office then.] Lord Stanley said—
 "I do not hesitate to say, that you ought now to consider fully and deliberately, dispassionately, temperately, but at the same time firmly, the whole of the difficult question of the relation in which the Roman Catholic subjects of this country stand to the Crown." [3  Hansard, 932
 MR. MANGLES  said, he did not object, and the people of Woking did not object, to a moderate portion of the common land being taken for the purpose of this Necropolis; but this Bill proposed to take every acre of common land, and either convert it into a cemetery or to private purposes. He never saw such a clause in his life as the 11th clause of this Bill, which rendered it lawful for the company to dispose of either by public auction or private arrangement, in fee-simple or on lease, all or any part of this land not required for the purposes of the company; and, wanting only 400 acres of land for their cemetery they yet applied for power to purchase 2,600 acres, in order that they might speculate with the surplus. The opponents of this Bill were the small freeholders and copyholders of Woking living around the common; and it was futile to suppose that men in such humble circumstances could incur the cost of opposing this Bill in Committee. The fact was, the scheme was a great job, and he should move the postponement of the measure.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  believed that the practice of the House in the case of transferring the franchise from one borough to another, was to consider what had taken place in that borough, not at one election only, but at all preceding elections. That was the rule applied to the borough of St. Albans. At the same time, he considered it very unconstitutional to suspend the issuing of a writ for any borough, and to take no steps for purifying that borough. But, voting for suspending the issuing of the writ, as he should do in this instance, he should do so upon the understanding that Harwich would be dealt with in the same spirit in which St. Albans had been. He could not help agreeing with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) that this was a glorious opportunity for Her Majesty's present Ministers, which it appeared they had failed to take advantage of. They should have come forward at once and proposed an inquiry into the practices not only at Harwich, but at Staf-
 923
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  rose to order. He begged to ask if the hon. Member was in order in bringing forward the question of the grant to Maynooth, on the Motion that the House should adjourn till the 12th of March?
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY : The hon. Gentleman meant to go on in this or some other Parliament after Easter. If the hon. Gentleman would carry out his proposal to its legitimate consequences, and bring in a Bill to repeal the Maynooth Act, he (Mr. C. Anstey), and he believed many hon. Members, Protestants as well as Roman Catholics, might support him, on the ground that it was inexpedient to give support to religious establishments out of the resources of the State. The hon. Gentleman spoke from behind the Treasury bench. If not in office it was merely because he had refused office, and no doubt his sentiments on this subject might be considered those of the Government. Maynooth, as a public establishment, would, he was persuaded, court inquiry. He did not know whether the hon. Gentleman was in order in denouncing, in the way he had, judgment upon those who differed from him in religious opinions; but that he had erred in good taste in so doing, few, he believed, would deny. He did not interrupt the hon. Gentleman, for he thought the most prudent course was to give him rope enough. He had now had as much rope as the indulgence of the House would
 935
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that after the long discourse—and he used the term in an ecclesiastical sense—of the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, he thought that, in his joy at a change of the Ministry, he had intended to move as an Amendment to the Motion made by the Secretary for the Treasury, namely, that the House should adjourn for a fortnight, that the House should continue sitting  de die en diem,
 MR. BRAMSTON  said, he had entertained no intention whatever to take the House by surprise, and he should not have moved the issuing of the writ, if he had not understood from the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans) that he merely wished to make some remarks upon the question, without opposing the Motion. He (Mr. Bramston) admitted that he was a Member of what was called the "Roebuck Committee" of 1841, when the state of Harwich and other boroughs was inquired into; but the House had no right to concern itself now with what took place in 1841. Upon receiving a communication from some of the electors of Harwich, requesting him to move a new writ, he at once felt it to be his duty to look into the decisions of the two last Harwich Election Committees, and the result of his investigations was, that in the case of the inquiry which took place before the Committee of April, 1851, he found that Mr. Prinsep was deprived of his seat for want of the property qualification required by Act of Parliament; and that in the recent instance Mr. Crawford was unseated because a not took place in the town which brought the poll to a premature conclusion. No mention of bribery or corrupt practices was made by the Committee in their Report, or any recommendation for the issue of a Commission of Inquiry; but the Committee contented themselves with simply stating the facts to which he referred as grounds for a fresh election. In cases of bribery and corruption, he (Mr. Bramston) was as ready as any man could be to visit boroughs and even counties with the punishment such an offence deserved; still it was due to those boroughs that they should not be punished without evidence to convince the House of the guilt they had incurred. Having satisfied himself by consulting the Reports of the two last Committees that bribery was not proved or imputed against the borough of Harwich by those Reports, he felt that he was doing no more than his duty as one of the Members for the county of Essex when he acceded to the request which was made to him, and moved for the issue of a new writ. He would not, however, press his Motion further at this moment.
 MR. BRAMSTON  said, he rose to move that a new writ be issued for the borough of Harwich, that seat having been declared vacant by a decision of a Committee of the House. He was aware that the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans) had given notice of his intention to move that no new writ be issued for the borough in question without due notice having been previously given. He had heard that the hon. and gallant Member did not intend to persist in his Motion. If this report were correct, he (Mr. Bram-
 916
 MR. EWART  said, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Spooner) might fix a day for his Motion, as there was a ballot that night for notices. If the hon. Gentleman put his name on the balloting paper, he would have a chance of an early opportunity to do what he so much desiderated. The hon. Gentleman was in a glowing state on this important question, and it was better that his ardour should not cool.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  moved that the House, at its rising, adjourn until Friday, the 12th of March.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  considered that it would be better to postpone the Bill until some Minister was present, as it was much more of a public than a private measure.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  understood that sufficient evidence of corruption in the borough of Harwich had been adduced to prevent the present Judge Advocate from moving for a new writ. He (Sir De L.
 924
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that the hon. Member (Mr. Bramston) was in error in supposing that it was his (Sir De L. Evans') intention to withdraw the Motion of which he had given notice. He had no such intention. He believed the borough in question to be one of the most corrupt, if not the most corrupt, in the kingdom, and he did not think that a, new writ should be issued for the borough without the most deliberate consideration. However, he had no desire to take any course that might be considered as throwing obstacles in the way of the new Government, which would be in opposition to the general feeling of the House; and he would be guided altogether by the amount of support he might receive. It was his own opinion, and he was happy to think that it was an opinion in which many hon. Gentlemen around him were disposed to concur, that it was desirable that such an investigation should be instituted into the abuses and malpractices which had so long prevailed in Harwich as would effectually put an end to them. There was a very strong feeling on his side of the House upon the subject of that borough; and this being the case, however desirous he might be to avoid raising any obstructions in the way of the recently appointed Government, he was compelled to oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for South Essex. He (Sir De L. Evans) had given notice that he would, on an early day, call attention to the borough of Harwich, in the hope that an inquiry on the subject would illustrate the very objectionable practices resorted to at elections there, and in other boroughs. He had hoped to have been able to have made such an exposure of evil practices as would have induced the noble Lord, recently at the head of the Government, to introduce into his new Reform Bill some provision which might have the effect of removing one of the greatest stains upon our repre-
 917
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  hoped the House, when they recollected the dreadful evils which arose from intramural interment in the metropolis, would not prevent the Bill from going into Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought that as such different opinions had been expressed by different Members of the Harwich Election Committee, with regard to the character of the evidence produced in this case, it would be advisable for the House not to come to any conclusion without being well informed as to the precise facts. He believed that on a former occasion it was clearly understood, at the suggestion of the present hon. and learned Judge Advocate, that the writ for Harwich should not be moved for without forty-eight hours' previous notice being given. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Bramston), however, had moved that the writ be issued; and the hon. Gentleman was understood to say that he would not take the House by surprise, but that, if any opposition should be offered he would at once withdraw or postpone his Motion. At least, if the hon. Gentleman pressed his Motion, the best course would be to adjourn the debate for a fortnight. He (Sir G. Grey) had not understood from the observations of hon. Members who had sat on the Harwich Election Committee, that gross corruption had been proved to prevail at Harwich: if, however, that were so, the House should certainly be called on to issue a Commission. But under present circumstances he thought the discussion had better be postponed.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he had sat upon the Harwich Election Committee, and he could state that the evidence produced referred only to the premature close of the poll, in consequence of a riot, and not at all to bribery or corruption. Therefore there was no ground of proved malpractices to justify the refusal to reissue the writ. But he also objected to the Amendment before the House, on the ground that the practice of suspending writs was most unconstitutional. If the House allowed the principle, the result would be, on occasions, to place in the hands of a tyrannical majority a most unconstitutional power.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  was not answerable for the language of the writer of the prospectus to which the hon. Member for West Surrey had alluded; but he knew that the hon. Member himself frequently indulged in such tropes and figures. The real question, however, was, whether this was a scheme deserving of public support? It seemed difficult, in this great metropolis, to find necessary burial grounds; and if a number of gentlemen were associated together, and obtained the grant of a large tract of land, which they proposed to devote to the purpose he had mentioned, without any compulsory clause whatever, he did think it was a scheme which was well deserving the favourable consideration of that House. He could assure the House that he had no interest whatever in the scheme; he had only been called upon in his official position as Member for the City of London to accompany the deputation which had waited on the Prime Minister; but if the hon. Member for West Surrey, or any other Gentleman, entertained objections to any of the clauses in the Bill, the promoters, he believed, would be quite ready to submit to any regulation which the Committee might lay down to carry out that object. He believed, also, that the promoters had no intention whatever to devote the ground in question to purposes of speculation; at all events, he trusted the House would take care not to allow anything of that kind; and he would willingly
 927
 MR. BETHELL  said, the House had now ascertained the reason of the course which had been taken by the copyholders. They had readily assented to the principle of the measure, and had never commenced
 929
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, the vacancy in any borough ought of right be filled up the moment it occurred. The rule was, where a Committee of that House had not recommended disfranchisement, or any other ulterior proceedings, as in the case of Harwich, that the House would not interfere to deprive the electors of the right, given to them by the Constitution, of sending Members to that House. He was not for affording protection or encouragement to bribery: far from it; but he did not think that they would be justified in withholding the writ from any borough against which bribery and corruption had not been distinctly proved by the judgment of that House. He would ask hon. Members who now sought to disfranchise Harwich, what had become of all their virtue during the last Session of Parliament? He trusted he should be pardoned for saying it, but the
 921
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  would object to any Bill of this sort for making the burial of the inhabitants of this Christian country a purely commercial speculation. What had been stated of this Bill would not lead the House to draw a very favourable conclusion with regard to it; and he appealed to such Members of the new Government as were present whether, in the absence of the higher and more responsible Ministers, it was right that they should be committed to support so large and important a Bill as this, which, in fact, reversed the policy already deliberately adopted by Parliament with regard to this question.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, that he possessed a list of some of the most respectable manufacturers, merchants, and traders in the country, who were anxious that the Bill should be sent to a Select Committee, as it had an important bearing upon the best interests of the country.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he was prepared to assume his share of the responsibility of not having appointed Captain Penny to the Arctic Expedition. That conclusion had not been come to without due deliberation; it bad not been come to without, in the first place, the consultation of every officer who had visited those regions; and he was of opinion that if Captain Penny had been sent out with the present expedition, it would not have been for the interest of the object in view.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  apprehended there was nothing in the Bill which would interfere with the rights of persons who had such claims. In the 6th clause it was provided that any person who proved his claim should be paid the amount out of the Consolidated Fund. The Clause would not interfere in any way with his right to bring an action.
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  said, he was not able to congratulate hon. Members on the Opposition benches upon their unanimity, or upon "following their leader." The noble Lord was, in his opinion, quite right in abandoning his Parliamentary Reform Bill, because it did not satisfy any single soul of either party.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said: With respect to this Bill, Sir, I do not at all intend to make any observations which can have the effect of provoking a debate. I only wish to say that I brought in this Bill as the Minister of the Crown, and in pursuance of a recommendation contained in Her Majesty's most gracious Speech from the Throne. I do not think that I should be able, as an individual Member of Parliament, to carry a measure of such importance through the House with success. For this reason I do not propose proceeding with the Bill in the course of the present Session; but it is to be understood that, by this determination, I shall not preclude myself from any opportunity of moving (if I should think right to do so) any resolution on the subject of the extension of the suffrage, and the amendment of Parliamentary representation. I beg to move that the second reading of this Bill he postponed until this day three months. With regard to the Corrupt Practices at Elections Bill, I do not intend to withdraw that measure.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he could not tell whether the answer he had to give the hon. and learned Gentleman would be satisfactory. It was, however, decisive and final. With respect to the first question, he had to say that Captain Penny and the other mercantile officers of the expedition had not received any reward for their services in search of Sir Jon Franklin. With respect to the second question, he had to reply that Captain Austin and the naval officers of the expedition had received pro-
 968
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that strenuous exertions were being made to bring the new expedition into a state of readiness with all possible despatch.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he agreed with the hon. and learned Attorney General, that there was nothing in the Bill to affect the legal rights of parties.
 MR. MOWATT  said, he had not the slightest personal interest to serve in the matter; but he had listened with great alarm to the objections made against the Bill, lest the House, in ignorance of its object, should be induced to throw it out. The promoters of the Bill, besides their own private interests, which were always implied in commercial speculations, sought to confer an immense advantage on the public by asking to be allowed to avail themselves of the facilities which the railways afforded for establishing telegraph lines, by which a general communication might be carried out through all parts of the kingdom. Surely that could not be an objectionable principle. It was said that they sought for compulsory powers; of course they did. Unless they possessed such powers, they would be, as hitherto they had been, entirely at the mercy of the railway body, who, in a majority of cases, had refused to allow the establishing of telegraphic communication on their lines. It was said, again, that the powers now asked were such as would interfere with the private rights of railway companies. Surely that was an objection which came with a very bad grace from the directors of railways, whose very existence depended on the powers they possessed of interfering with private property. But all that he would at present urge was, that the Bill was one of too important a character to justify its being rejected on the second reading.
 MR. GLYN  said, that there already existed telegraphic communications on the principal lines of railway, and he had yet
 965
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that this was a Bill introduced by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Herefordshire (Mr. C. Lewis), and as it appeared to be a useful measure, Government did not oppose it.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  wished to call the attention of the Admiralty to the propriety of scattering the ships employed in the next expedition more than had been done in the previous one. Some six or eight vessels appeared to have been almost within hail of each other, so that they had not an opportunity of very extensive survey. Boat expeditions had, it was true, been made over the ice, but the results had been very far from satisfactory. As to Captain Penny, he had read with great minuteness every thing that had come before Parliament on the question, and he did think that the exertions—he might say successful exertions—of Captain Penny had been more prominent, or as prominent, as those of any one employed throughout the whole expedition. It was much to that gentleman's credit that lie did not go to seek promotion, but had joined the expedition, running the same risks as those who went out also from very noble motives, but who hoped thereby to advance themselves.
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, it was not to be expected that he should allow this Bill to pass its second reading without making an expiring effort to save the borough he represented. However strong might be the prejudice of the House, and however forlorn the hope of success, he should not flinch from his duty to his constituents. The subject of Parliamentary elections was one in which he had never taken any interest till the time when he found himself heralded forth to the public as if he had been the inventor of a system which had existed long before he was born, and would probably prevail long after he had ceased to exist. Though the defence of the system would be quite impossible—for no one in the House detested Parliamentary corruption more than he did, or had greater reason to detest it—yet it was quite a different question whether it was just and proper to execute the sentence of the law in the manner proposed on the borough of St. Albans. He thought he might advance some pleas which would have influence with the House. First, it was customary, when several parties were arraigned under the same charge, and one turned Queen's evidence, that that one should be acquitted, while the others were punished. In the present instance, the borough of St. Albans had turned Queen's evidence, and had placed in possession of the House some very valuable information, which would enable them to pursue corruption with success throughout the kingdom; yet the only borough to be punished was the one which had rendered this important service. Again, when a confession was extorted from any party under a promise of indemnity from punishment, it was unjust, and he believed illegal, to take advantage of that confession as a ground for inflicting punishment. Now the Commissioners had stated in their report that their reception in St. Albans, and the frank and candid manner in which they were furnished with information, contrasted very favourably with the reception which other Commissioners, having a similar
 976 l. l. 977 l. l. l., 978 979 denouement 980 l. l., l., l., l., l., l. 981 d. s. 982
 MR. FARRER  said, he was not astonished that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. J. L. Ricardo) should object to the Bill, which was opposed to the interests of his own; company; but he was astonished that he I should object to allowing their proposal to go before a Committee of the House. The objections which the hon. Gentleman (Mr.
 963
 MR. MACGREGOR  would not go into the merits of this Bill, because that was a subject for the Committee. But he would say that there was a strong desire in the great towns of the north of England for
 964
 MR. PARKER  regretted that his right hon. Friend the late First Lord of the Admiralty (Sir F. Baring) was not in his place that evening to take part in this discussion; and in his absence he (Mr. Parker) did not know that he could give any satisfactory explanation on the subject now under debate. This, however, he could assure the House, that his right hon. Friend had exercised his best discretion in the decision come to relative to the Arctic Expeditions; in order to attain that object which this House and the country at large had so much in view, namely, the recovery, if possible, of Sir John Franklin and his fellow-explorers, or, at any rate, the ascertaining what had been their fate. His (Mr. Parker's)
 970
 MR. J. L. RICARDO : I only have to say that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield has entirely misconceived me, if he understands me as having said that the London and North-Western Railway Company, and the Electric Telegraph Company, of which I am chairman, have ever entered into any understanding to cut off the telegraphic communication between London and any other place. I never said so.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, he rose to oppose the Motion. He did so because he believed the extraordinary powers sought by the company were such as ought not to be granted, and because they were perfectly unprecedented. It was matter for observation that the hon. Gentleman who had the charge of the Bill did not venture to say one word in its favour, although it had been intimated to him that it would be opposed. The principal allegation put forth in support of the Bill was, that the "Old Electric Telegraph Company" possessed a monopoly, and that it was desirable to destroy that monopoly; but he would venture to state that no company had ever encountered greater competition than that company had done for the last two years, and he could also state that no public company had ever given greater satisfaction. It should be remembered that the British Electric Telegraph Company was already in operation and had been competing with the old company, and they were now asking Parliament to assist them in that competition by conferring on them powers which no other company ever possessed. They asked to be invested with powers of entering compulsorily upon any railway or canal in the United Kingdom, in order to lay down telegraphs and apparatus for their own private benefit; and to
 962
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he understood the object of the Bill to be to do away with a monopoly. His hon. Friend (Mr. J. L. Ricardo) who moved the Amendment had said that the Bill was based upon a novel principle. He (Mr. Roebuck) admitted it. But the whole thing was itself a novelty. Railways were novelties. Railway companies, represented by his hon. Friend (Mr. Glyn), were creatures of the law. The Legislature had made them, and had given them special powers for certain public purposes. It was not dealing with them as private individuals, or with their property as private property. What was asked by this Bill was, to do away with a monopoly. The first telegraph company, having been incoporated by Act of Parliament, had made certain agreements with the railway companies. Now, if by virtue of those agreements a power was possessed, either by the railway companies, or by the Telegraph Company, at any point of a railway between Lon-
 966
 MR. ROEBUCK  had never said that the hon. Gentleman had made any such statement. He said that such things might occur; and he was disposed to find fault with the hon. Member rather for concelaing than divulging them. He (Mr. Roebuck) would be quite prepared, supposing this Bill should pass, to give his hon. Friend (Mr. J. L. Ricardo) exactly the same powers for the company of which he was chairman, as the Bill would confer on the British Electric Telegraph Company; but he certainly was not prepared to take the extraordinary step of preventing the second reading of a Private Bill upon such grounds as had now been urged. If the powers sought were considered improper to be given, a Select Committee was the best tribunal to determine that point. By rejecting the Bill on the second reading, they would at the same time perpetuate a monopoly and inflict injustice; but by referring the Bill to a Select Committee, they would act with safety towards the promoters of the measure, while the rights of the public would be protected. It was a well-known fact that the telegraphs in England were not employed to one-tenth the extent they might be; and why? Because they existed under a system of monopoly. He wished to see this country possess the same advantages from electric telegraphs as were enjoyed by their brethren in the United States of America.
 967
 MR. HUME  said, he could not but regret the course which the noble Lord had determined to take with respect to the Parliamentary Representation Bill. That measure he had introduced in his capacity of Minister of the Crown, and if the measure was indeed a valuable one, the change in the position of the noble Lord could be no argument in favour of its withdrawal. He (Mr. Hume) confessed that he regarded it as a very defective measure, but it nevertheless was a step in the right direction, and it might have been improved in Committee. He could not understand why the noble Lord should not, by persevering in the measure, have afforded that House an opportunity of recording its opinion on the subject of reform. The country had reason to complain that, after nineteen years' experience of the inadequacy of the Reform Bill, some measure had not been introduced by the noble Lord to remedy the defects of that law, and to enlarge the franchise of the people. The noble Lord ought certainly to have persevered in his Bill, if only to ascertain the true feeling of the House on the subject of reform.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to make a few observations on the original question.
 983
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that, with reference to the first of the Bills to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred, the Lord Chancellor intended to make a statement that evening, in the other House of Parliament, which he trusted would be satisfactory to the country, as showing that his noble and learned Friend, who was as competent as any person alive, was willing and anxious to undertake a reform in the Court of Chancery; and the noble and learned Lord would, he (Mr. Walpole) understood, intimate his willingness and anxiety to undertake those measures of law reform which the late Government had originated. With regard to the Bill for the abolition of the office of Secretary of Bankrupts, the Government were prepared to take up the Bill. With reference to the Suitors in Chancery Relief Bill, he concurred in the anxiety expressed by his hon. and learned Friend that the Bill should be passed into law; but there was one portion of it—namely, whether suitors in the Court of Chancery should be charged a per centage of fees—to which he had objected when the Bill was before a Select Committee, and with reference to which he should propose an amendment. With this view he would propose that the Committee be postponed for a few days.
 MR. WALPOLE  moved the Second Reading of the St. Albans Disfranchisement Bill.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, if the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey) would move a proviso on the bringing up the Report he would give it his consideration.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, this Clause, in conjunction with the one that followed, gave power to the Commissioners of the Treasury to make regulations and pay money out of the Consolidated Fund to parties who had established claims in certain cases against the Crown. He thought, however, that these Clauses would
 984
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  begged to ask the hon. Secretary to the Admiralty whether Captain Penny and the other mercantile officers of the late expedition in search of Sir John Franklin received any and what rewards for their acknowledged services in such expedition? Whether Captain Austin and the officers of that expedition received any and what rewards for their acknowledged services on the same occasion? If it was true that Queen Victoria Channel and the Northern and Northwestern Passages, for the exploration of which Captain Austin's vessels are now fitting out under Sir Edward Belcher, were discovered by Captain Penny and the mercantile marine under his command, when employed on the late expedition? If there is any intention to accept Captain Penny's offers of service, and to employ him and his two vessels again for the purpose of such exploration, or in any other way connected with the new expedition? And if not, why Captain Penny's offers had been declined? He also begged to move for all correspondence on the above subjects not already before Parliament.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he also regretted that the Bill had been withdrawn by the noble Lord, though he thoroughly acquiesced in the opinion that it was a most defective and unsatisfactory measure. The Bill, bad as it was, was not perhaps so hopelessly worthless that it might not, perhaps, have been susceptible of amendment in Committee. It was no new practice to put one Bill in Committee, and to bring out a totally different one. The Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, of which the noble Lord and his Colleagues were now, perhaps, thoroughly ashamed—at least he hoped so—had come out of Committee with scarcely a vestige of the original Bill being left in it. Why should not the same thing occur in the case of the Parliamentary Representation Bill. It was the noble Lord's own Bill, and he, of course, had a right to do what he liked with it. Why did he not either proceed with it, or withdraw it at once? Why did he propose to postpone it only for three months? The fact was, that the noble Lord had no faith in the measure. He knew that it was utterly valueless, and that, like his own Cabinet, it would fall without awakening a single regret, and without a single hand being stretched out to save it. He (Mr. Duncombe) did not mean to say one word to disturb the repose which, by general understanding, was to be accorded to those hon. and right hon. Gentlemen who delighted in the designation of the "country party." The members of that party were to be left in perfect tranquillity until Monday, on which day it was to be hoped that they would come down to the House well prepared to receive the compliments of the Session, which no doubt would be bountifully prepared for them, and gracefully tendered. But he would take leave to ask those Members who were not connected with the country party, whether this question of Parliamentary Reform was to stop where it now was The House would recollect what happened last year when the
 973
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  was quite sure that the course proposed by the noble Lord would give universal satisfaction, for never was there a measure proposed which gave such universal dissatisfaction. He was glad to hear, however, that the noble Lord had not abandoned the cause of reform, though he had abandoned the Bill, and he hoped that, when he next brought forward a measure of reform, it would be a better one than the last.
 SIR W. P. WOOD  said, that, with reference to this Bill, which now stood for Committee, he was quite willing to leave it in the hands of the Government. The Bill had been founded upon the Report of the Commission, who had given great attention to the subject, and he trusted that there would not be any unnecessary delay in the passing of the Bill. There was also another Bill, which had come down from the other House, the object of which was to abolish the office of Secretary to Bankrupt Commissioners, which he hoped would also be passed. Both of those measures he looked upon as highly necessary, and he trusted that the Government would take them up, as also a Bill for abolishing the office of Masters in Chancery.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  thought it was somewhat hard that St. Albans alone should be plucked, when there were other boroughs equally guilty. He hoped the Government would not rest satisfied with the present Bill, but would deal with other corrupt boroughs in a similar way. He had given notice of a Motion for the disfranchisement of Harwich, and he hoped the Government would support his suggestion.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, the House seemed to assume that the opponents of the Bill were desirous of retaining a monopoly; now this was not the case; the British Electric Telegraph Company had already got their Bill, they were already established, and the present Bill was only one to amend the former; it, however, sought such arbitrary and enormous powers, that he considered it his duty to oppose it. The principle of this Bill went further than that of any other similar measure. They desire compulsory powers to construct their particular machinery upon any railway they please. Unless, therefore, it was to be understood that all other telegraph companies were to have like powers, he should certainly oppose the Motion for reading the Bill a second time.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  seconded the Motion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the
 975
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  feared that the late Admiralty, and he almost feared the present Board, had forgotten that once upon a time there existed such a man as Mr. James Cook, for they really seemed to fancy that Her Majesty's Royal Navy had a right to monopolise all the discoveries which might be made by skill and enterprise. Eighty or ninety years ago that was not the doctrine of the then Board of Admiralty; and the consequence was, that they found such individuals as "Mr." James Cook—as some of the officers of the Royal Navy now-a-days would have presumed to call him—the master of a collier, who rendered the name of England dignified by the discoveries he had made. He did say that the treatment which Captain Penny had received from different individuals had not been such as would tend to encourage in any, except in officers of Her Majesty's Navy, that zeal for national discovery which was so manifested in the middle of the last century. But this was not only a question of national
 969
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  said, the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat had spoken of the majority in that House. Would the noble Lord tell him where that majority was to be found? It certainly did not exist under the Ministry of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), for he had just vacated the Government for want of a majority; and assuredly not with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham). Neither did it exist with the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Mr. Cobden). It was only to be found, therefore, in some combination of men of very extraordinary and conflicting opinions upon other political questions. Of these undoubtedly a majority might be found, which, by a factious course of proceeding, might be able to upset any proposal. He denied, as he always had done, that under free trade the employment of labour had increased. In his own county (Gloucester) the increase of machinery had, on the contrary, diminished the number of hands employed; and, so far from there being a larger demand for farms, as had been alleged by an hon. Member opposite, he could take upon himself to assert that property was greatly deteriorated in every part of the United Kingdom, and particularly in Ireland. The same hon. Member had alluded to the West Indian proprietors, and said that all they wanted was a restoration of slavery; but he (Mr. G. Berkeley)
 1114
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I know that; but I do not think the right hon. Gentleman quoted that part of Mr. M'Culloch's book in which he said that the time was
 1069 d., d., d. 1070 1071 l.; l. l. l. l.; l., l. l. l., 1072 1073 1074 1075
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, when, some three weeks ago, I quitted office, I stated the fact of our resignation to this House in very few words; but at the same time indicating the reasons why we had resigned, and indicating, I think very clearly, the course which in future I meant to pursue; but, Sir, that course has been so misrepresented in the speeches that have been made, and in the addresses that have been printed to electors, that I feel myself bound on this occasion to enter somewhat more fully into a statement of the reasons for which we resigned, and of the course we had pursued in the Government; nor will I refuse to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if it is not already explicit enough, a statement of the course which I mean to pursue as an independent Member of Par-
 1065 1066 1067 1068
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Well, then, the report of the hon. Gentleman's speech is erroneous. Does he now say he did not recommend it?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  had not said that he should oppose all measures that were brought forward which would waste time, but that he would agree to Votes of Supply, but not to other measures which might be brought forward, and which would lengthen the Session, and, although useful were not necessary.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he would agree to the vote being taken. He had never concurred in the opinion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume), that no vote should be taken after midnight. If there was any objection to the number of 39,000 men, the House would no doubt be ready to hear it. Another reason for agreeing to the vote, was, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had that night heard the opinions of many Members, with respect to the expediency of the Government advising a dissolution of Parliament, after the necessary business had been gone through, without the House being called on to take into consideration any of the other measures which the Government had stated they were about to bring forward. Perhaps, before Friday, the next day for going into Committee of Supply, the Government would reconsider their course, and concur in the wish which had been expressed in the debate of that night. He should be sorry to give a vote adverse to the Government in Committee of Supply, if they merely went on with Supply, without entering on measures with a view to a protracted Session.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that formerly it was the practice periodically to call the attention of the House to the state of the nation; but he thought that they might with advantage reverse that practice, and call the attention of the nation to the state of the House. And if the attention of the nation were directed to the state of parties in that House, he must confess that it would have no great cause for confidence. There were at least no fewer than four parties, no two of which could be induced to combine for the sake of good government, yet three of which were capable of combining when the object was to impede the march of all government. Let them first consider the conduct of the Liberal party, and he would ask them whether, when the noble Lord
 1109 "Such as Marvel was of old, When he scorned the placeman's gold." History of the Whigs History of the Whigs, 1110 "'T was thine own friend who gave the final blow, And helped to plant the wound that laid thee low."
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, that he did not think it necessary at that late hour to follow the hon. Member into all the various topics to which he had referred in connexion with protection and free trade. The whole of the present debate, as he understood it, was to elicit from Her Majesty's Government the policy as regarded the trade and commerce of the country upon which they intended to conduct the business of the country. It had been said that there was no occasion for any question to be put to them with respect to that policy, inasmuch as that policy was evident from what had fallen from the noble Earl at the head of the Government in another place. The difficulty he admitted did not rest upon the language of the noble Earl; but from the fact of the
 1123 Laughter. 1124
 MR. OSWALD  said, he was much disappointed by the speech of the lion. Member for North Essex. From a plain English country Gentleman he should have expected to hear something that they could understand. But it was now quite evident that he was a Disraelite indeed. He was astonished that no Member of the Government had got up after the addresses of the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), and of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston)—both of whom strongly put before the House the necessity for a dissolution at the speediest possible period—to state that they would at once go to the country. They should not attempt to palter with the country as they did with their own followers, and leave England for an indefinite time in a state of suspense upon this all-important matter. Some Member of the Government should have arisen and told the House whether the Government dared to appeal to the people upon this one question—for there was but one question before the country, namely, whether we should tax bread for the purpose of putting money in the landlord's pocket. ["Oh, oh!"] That was the only question to be decided. They might try to lead the country away by other cries, and some of them would do it; but that was really the only question which the country demanded should be decided at the present time; and if experience, wisdom, and eloquence could do it, the House must now be impressed with the great necessity that existed for a speedy solution of the question. That was the truth. There was hesitation as yet in proposing this; and in the meantime let the occupants of the Treasury benches prepare themselves for the murmurs of their supporters. Those right hon. Gentlemen would richly deserve the punishment in store for them. They had themselves made use of every epithet of contumely against one who was now no more, and against all who had acted with that great man. The word "traitor" had been frequently heard; and he (Mr. Oswald) had
 1118 Laughter.
 MR. ADDERLEY  begged to ask the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies whether any instructions would be sent by the mail going out to the Cape of Good Hope on Tuesday, the 16th, to General Cathcart, to suspend or alter the instructions given him by Earl Grey to lay down a scheme of future policy for this country to undertake as to the defence of the frontier of that colony? As the  Bosphorus
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that as an individual member of the party with which the present Government were connected, he was tired of this talking of forbearance, and of the ostentatious but hollow display of forbearance, made by hon. and right hon. Gentlemen opposite. Heaven defend them from the Christian forbearance of the hon. Member for Ayrshire, who had risen the picture of suppressed wrath, and made a speech, the venom of which was only mitigated by his awkwardness of expression! He (Mr. Newdegate) would ask why, if Gentlemen opposite were in such haste for a dissolution, they did not, being
 1119 1120 1121 s. Gazette 1122 l.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that it could not be questioned that the Bill was, according to the Standing Orders, a Private Bill, inasmuch as it was brought forward by a corporate body; but the House did not lose its authority over it on that account. The Bill would be referred to a Select Committee, and when that Committee had sent down their Report, it would be competent for any Member to propose that the Report be referred to the consideration of a Committee of the whole House.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said: Sir, before you leave the chair, I wish, in accordance with an intimation I have given to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and for reasons which I will shortly state, to make some inquiry with the view of obtaining some information from Her Majesty's Ministers upon a subject on which I am sure I do not exaggerate when I say that it is of vital concern to every subject of Her Majesty. I refer, Sir, to the principle or the policy on which the Government propose to regulate the foreign commerce of this country, and more especially that branch of it which is engaged in the supply of food for the people. Sir, this is no abstract question or matter of idle speculation merely, but it is a subject so intimately connected with all the realities of English life, that it affects the whole social and domestic policy of this country. It affects the finance, the trade, the labour, the capital, and the general condition of the people. I hope, therefore, that this question will be treated by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer with all the earnestness that it deserves. I think that the public want information on this subject. It would be incorrect to say that they have received none; but it would be more true to say that they would have been less perplexed if they had not received any. What has been said by the Government themselves, or by their friends for the Government, has created doubts where hone might have existed otherwise. For some years past there has been a free-trade policy in force; during the last few weeks a Protectionist party has been in possession of the Go-
 1040 Ironical cheers. 1041 1042 1043 "If in any part of the country, if there be but one district in which a suspicion is entertained that I am flinching from or hesitating in my advocacy of those principles on which I stood, in conjunction with my lamented friend Lord George Bentinck, I authorise you, one and all, to assure those whom you represent, that in me they will find no hesitation, no flinching, no change of opin-
 1044 l. 1045 l. "The main difficulty of farming has always been in its uncertainty; but it may now be said that machinery has given to fanning what is most
 1046 s. s. s. s. 1047 1048 1049 s. s. s. 1050 1051 1052
 MR. VILLIERS  said, that what he wished to know was, whether the Government intended to introduce any scheme of commercial or fiscal legislation before the dissolution of Parliament, in order that the principle of protection and the imposition of a duty on corn might be submitted to the deliberate judgment of the electors?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am extremely obliged to the hon. and learned Gentleman for a Parliamentary paraphrase of what I had more simply and rudely stated. I must now tell the hon. and learned Gentleman that it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to do anything of that kind. I believe—and I am sure that it is also the belief of my Colleagues—that a very great injustice was done to the agricultural and other interests by the changes which took place in 1846, and subsequently in 1847, 1848, and 1849; and we are extremely desirous for the benefit of all classes of the community that that injustice should be redressed. We think that it would be our duty to consider the condition of the agricultural interest. I take that interest because it is the one which has been the most prominent in the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and not merely because I wish to confine my observations to it alone. We think it would be our duty to consider the condition of that interest, and to propose those measures which in our opinion are the best calculated to redress the grievances under which it suffers. But we are not pledged to any specific measure. I think it would be the height of arrogance to say, that in a new Parliament we are bound as a specific means of redress to propose the measure indicated by the hon. and learned Gentleman—namely, a 5 s. 1059 1060 misericordiam 1061 1062 1063 1064
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just addressed you, has noticed the extraordinary contrast in this country between its condition and the feelings of the people in the month of January last, and in the present month of March. The hon. and learned Gentleman has described the condition of England at this moment. It is one, says the hon. and learned Gentleman, of distrust, of apprehension, of anxiety, and of uncertainty. Warming with his statement, the hon. and learned
 1053 s. s. 1054 s. 1055 1056 1057 1058 s. Cries of and
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I said that a fixed duty was recommended by Mr. M'Culloch and other political economists.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : No, no!
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the hon. Gentleman would allow one vote to be taken. He feared the hon. Gentleman had misunderstood the character of the debate of that evening, for he thought there was great anxiety expressed to advance all necessary measures. They would never reach the Mutiny Act unless they got on; and he hoped at least one vote would be taken.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the noble Lord only did him justice in believing that it was his duty and his pleasure to listen to the sentiments of the House, and to defer to its predominant feeling; but he was sure the noble Lord would not ask to come on the sudden to a decision on this point. He had watched with much attention the proceedings of the evening; but when the noble Lord said that all the Government was required to do was to pass the proper measures necessary for the service of the country, he must remind him that on that evening there was a very important difference between two of the most eminent supporters of the noble Lord with regard to what measures were necessary. The noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), who had given a very guarded encouragement to the Government, had most unequivocally declared the imminent necessity of a measure for the establishment of the Militia. Immediately after one of the most distin-
 1128
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would not press a vote against any rule that had been made; but this was an exception which proved the rule, and the circumstances under which it was proposed were peculiar.
 MR. J. WILSON , in pursuance of a notice, begged to ask the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies what course he intended to pursue in relation to his notice upon the subject of the Sugar Duties, now standing on the paper as a dropped notice? Great anxiety had been occasioned out of doors on this subject, and it would be very desirable to have a full explanation as to the course which the Government intended taking.
 MR. J. WILSON  might then understand that it was the intention of the Government not to interfere in any way with the
 1038
 MR. HERRIES  said, after having listened to the speech of the noble Lord, who had just resumed his seat, he was somewhat at a loss to know what was its object. For what purpose had that debate been got up? For what purpose, he repeated? Why, it could not be forgotten that immediately after the dissolution of the Whig Administration, a somewhat pompous and sententious announcement was made that it was intended to submit a Motion which would bind that House to an adherence to that system of policy which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Villiers) who gave the notice had been mainly instrumental in establishing. Now he asked why did not the hon. Gentleman then make that Motion? Why had he not tried the temper of the House of Commons on the question which he had so boldly announced? Why, he had shrunk
 1076 1077 1078 1079 l. l.  1080 s. s. 1081 s. s. s.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he approved of the Bill, judging of it by the statement of the hon. Baronet who had last spoke; but he concurred in the opinion that it ought to have been introduced as a public measure, If such a Bill were to be treated as "private," he should beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman in the chair, how a public Bill was to be distinguished from a private one?
 MR. HUME  said, he could not but express his surprise that a measure of such importance to the public should have been introduced as a Private Bill. He did not mean to say one word in disparagement of the measure, for, if he were correctly informed, its operation would be to greatly enlarge the municipal franchise in the City of London, and to relieve the inhabitants of taxation, to which they were now annually subject to the amount of 6,000 l.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to have an opportunity of remarking on the distribution of this very force, and to show that if it was properly distributed there would be no necessity for any additional force—but he had no objection to go on.
 MR. HUME  objected to going on with any other vote after midnight.
 MR. HUME  said, that it had been agreed that no vote should be taken after twelve o'clock if it was objected to. He should be sorry if the right hon. Gentleman the
 1127
 MR. WALPOLE : I rise to call the attention of the House to the peculiar position in which it is placed on this occasion. There is no question, in fact, before us. There is no subject of debate really under discussion. And yet, as is usual upon all occasions of the kind, every possible subject on which hon. Gentlemen are desirous of expressing an opinion, has been brought under the notice of the House. The real facts are these: Certain questions have been put to the Government by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers) in the early part of the evening. Those questions have been answered by my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, at least three hours ago. The only topic of discussion, consequently, before the House since that time is, whether
 1098 1099 1100 1101 "He declared there were active duties, not the less indispensable because they were disagreeable—that in a critical situation it was incumbent on a Minister, who found he was not approved of in this House, to look to the probable consequences of his immediately resigning—that it behoved him to consider who were likely to be his successors, and whether the country might not receive more detriment than derive advantage from his leaving it without any Executive Government, and in making room for an Administration in whom the Crown, the Parliament, and the people would not equally repose confidence." 1102
 MR. BOOKER  said, he could not understand why the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir A. Cockburn), had, at that late and tranquil hour of the night, and in his learned leisure, wasted such an amount of virtuous indignation on hon. Gentlemen seated at the Ministerial side of the House. He seemed to mistake his position, and to think that he had a Chancellor of the Exchequer under cross-examination. Formerly it used to be said that the opposition offered to free trade was factious, inasmuch as free trade was a great experiment, and should have a patient trial. It was said only a few weeks ago that protection was dead, and would never rise again; but it was quite clear, from the fearful agitation of hon. Gentlemen opposite, and from the combination of the most heterogeneous parties, that it had not only risen again, but was in full vigour. He had heard with astonishment the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon dilate upon the measures of free trade, and the results of those measures. If the effects of free trade were so apparent, how was it that while the industry and labour of the people had been stimulated to an excess unparalleled—that while our exports and imports had nearly doubled, yet that the test of the
 1125 s. "Tinnehinch, Feb. 28, 1852. "Gentlemen—On my return from your assizes, it occurred to me that it might be useful to address a few lines to you, and I take this liberty, having been so long one of your representatives. "I need not tell you how important is the present crisis, and how it becomes us all who have an interest in land, in our farmers, in our country, now to make a struggle, and to insist from a Protectionist Ministry for duties on foreign productions and foreign competition. We should not ask this were we fighting a fair fight, but it is not so. Protection, as it is called, has not been removed, or done away; it has been transferred from us who fight the battles and pay the taxes for the support of our free institutions, to those who do neither; who have little taxes and no freedom; or, I should rather say, to those who fight the battle against us and our free institutions, and against whom we are at this moment engaged in arming rifle corps and militia. We have enriched our enemy, we have impoverished our country, and we are now being taxed for our own defence. Ireland has been depopulated, her houses levelled, her farmers bankrupt, her estates in Incumbered Courts, her exports reduced to little as well as her circulation. The Celt will soon be known only by name; sheep and cattle now take the place of the people, and the stranger with capital and large farms. To such a system has the law of free trade driven the landed proprietor of Ireland, he cannot keep the people and get rent. I do believe that in the last few years, such desolation as has occurred in Ireland is unparalleled in history, and yet the rents of land are lower than in any country between this and
 1126 'Lives there a man with soul so dead, Who never to himself hath said— This is my own, my native land?' "Gentlemen, in this state, and with such prospects, should you not find Members to act for you, I, for one, if called on, am ready again to come forward, and to aid in averting, so far as in me lies, the provincial degradation into which my country is fast sinking.—I have the honour to be, yours, "J. GRATTAN."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the question before the House was evidently that of urging on the Government the propriety of a speedy dissolution of Parliament, and the impressing on them the necessity of an immediate appeal to the constituencies for the verdict which they desired to obtain on the commercial policy of the country. But if he understood the right hon. Gentlemen on the Treasury bench who had spoken that evening, they chalked out enough of business to keep the House together till July or August. That was not a speedy dissolution. What he called a speedy dissolution was a dissolution in two or three weeks after the Government had obtained some necessary votes, and passed the Mutiny Bill. If they were to enter upon the Militia Bill, he was afraid it would lead to a protracted opposition; and as they now had done thirty-seven years without it, he did not think they would undertake a very great risk by going six weeks longer without one. If they waited to get through the private business, they would have to wait till July. But that would not be necessary, for resolutions might be passed in the new Parliament, authorising parties to take up Bills at the stages at which they were left when the dissolution took place. The expense that would arise to individuals from a dissolution would be thus obviated. There was a precedent for this in the course followed when the Parliament was dissolved in 1831. If they were to be charged with faction for asking questions of the new Government as to their future intentions, it was the most extraordinary definition of faction he ever heard. In fact, he never clearly understood what the word "faction" meant. It never could mean Members of Parliament putting questions to a new Government as to their policy previous to granting them a supply of money. Could there be a duty more imperative upon that House, a more legitimate duty, than, when the Crown had exercised its prerogative in selecting new servants, that the House should step in and ascertain whether they
 1115 1116
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, when the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down adverted to the length to which this discussion extended, I felt confident he
 1103 1104 1105 1106 1107 Laughter. 1108
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that if this vote were allowed, the whole of the Naval Estimates would be taken.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  did not object to the number of men, but he objected to taking a vote after twelve o'clock.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he took the same view. The Bill was, no doubt, a salutary measure, and not undeserving the support of the House; but it was to be wished that it had been introduced as a public, rather than as a private Bill.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  thought it was of importance that a sound discrimination should be exercised in the selection of the Members to serve on the Committee which was to take such an important Bill into consideration.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that the recent intelligence from the Cape led to a hope that the war was at an end. If so, would the Government give an opportunity to the House to discuss the future territorial boundary of the colony?
 SIR JAMES DUKE  said, that the Bill had been introduced on petition, and by the Corporation itself; the Standing Orders of the House required that it should be treated as a Private Bill. The Corporation of London had come forward spontaneously to reform itself, and it ill became any one in that House who called himself a Reformer to impede or discourage such a proceeding. The Bill proposed to increase the number of municipal voters from 6,000 or 7,000 to something like 20,000, conceding to every man who had any thing resembling a rating in the City of London the right of voting for all ward officers, as well as for the chief magistrate, the sheriffs, and the chamberlain. It also proposed to curtail the period for polling at municipal elections from fourteen days to one day, and to abolish the obligation on a man proposing
 1036 l.
 SIR JAMES DUKE  moved the Second Reading of this Bill.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, I have not risen, following the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, with the intention to go at large into the statistics of the question he has raised with respect to the Navigation Laws; but I rise, Sir, in consequence of the challenge thrown out by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with respect to that opposition which he anticipated I am about to offer to Her Majesty's Government; and before I answer that challenge I must be permitted to congratulate the House and the country on certain admissions which the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control has just made. He says that, on the whole, the country is in a state of great prosperity. He admits the working classes are satisfied, contented, and well employed; and though he does not trace that contentment and employment to the financial policy which has been adopted for the
 1082 s. s. 1083 1084 "It would be impossible for me, even if my convictions were less strong than they are—it would be impossible for me, as an honest man, to take office without a full determination to deal with that distress, and endeavour to apply to it, as a Minister, effective measures of relief." [3  Hansard, Ministerial cheers. "At the proper time I shall not shrink from stating the specific measure which I would recommend, but I did state that I would not take office on any other condition than that of endeavouring,  bonâ fide, l., l., Hansard, l. l. s. l. "I do not hesitate, therefore, to say that, if it were found impracticable, as I think it would be, to effect such a commutation of the system of
 1085 —"it is not adverse to the principles of free trade to impose, in favour of the class which is subjected to an undue share of burdens, countervailing duties to an amount sufficient to meet those burdens; and I believe that by the imposition of a moderate duty upon the import of corn and provisions you might raise such an amount of taxation as, at the end of the year after this—" "would enable the country altogether, and, I trust, for ever, to abolish the income tax." … "I express my frank opinion, that the question of protection, or, if you please, the question of the unrestricted import of provisions, is one which must be settled by the country, once and for ever, whenever an appeal is made to the country for its decision." [3  Hansard, "But until I see the expression of the feeling of the country, when I find that the present system is working an amount of evil far greater than was anticipated either by its friends or by its opponents—certainly greater than I anticipated myself—I cannot, as an honest man, abandon the attempt to relieve the existing distress, by retracing the false step which has been taken, and to remedy the wrong done, by the imposition of a moderate import duty upon corn." "I feel that an apology is due to your Lordships, particularly upon such an occasion as this, for venturing to state incidentally, but I hope frankly, the views I entertain, and the policy which undoubtedly I should pursue." [3  Hansard, 1086 "However little authority (he continues) I may pretend to, I was anxious that my views should not be misinterpreted and I trust your Lordships will not think that I have unduly trespassed upon your time in making a full and frank declaration of the course of policy which, if I had been called to office, I should have ventured to recommend." [3  Hansard, "For the last three or four years the price of wheat has been falling in this country; and my belief now is, as it was some two or three years ago, that the production of wheat in this country, unless some alteration of the law shall take place, must diminish to an extent alarming, if not dangerous, to this country. My Lords. I do not look upon it as a matter of indifference that a large and increasing portion of our supplies should be imported from other countries, because, unless we are misinformed, a prohibition of exportation from these countries may not be distant or improbable. I am not convinced that the repeal of the corn laws may not lead to frequent fluctuations in price; but I am confident that the effect of the repeal of these laws must be to render this country more than ever dependent on foreign countries for its main supply of food. That, my Lords, is a state of things dangerous to this or to any country; and I have not at all altered my opinion, that for the purpose of revenue, as well as the protection of native industry, it is desirable that agricultural produce should be included in the articles of import on which a revenue should be raised." [3  Hansard, 1087 1088 1089 "I will state to you, in his own words, what Lord Derby said his future policy would be. From them you may gather, what every man must know, that this question does not rest with him or with the Administration. We can do nothing unless backed by the constituencies of the empire." 1090 ad misericordiam 1091 Hansard, 1092 "The noble Lord (Lord John Russell) said, 'I admit that we do not sufficiently possess the confidence of the House to enable us to carry our measures.' Was there ever such an admission made by a Government before? Suppose that in any other time this proposition, and this alone, had been brought forward—that the Government do not sufficiently possess the confidence of the House of Commons to enable them to carry their measures through the House—just pause for a moment, and
 1093 Hansard, Absit omen, l. 1094 l, l., 1095 toto cœlo Social Statistics of Glasgow: "It is found that there has been a gradual substitution of wheaten bread for oatmeal among our population. In six years, from 1840 to 1845 inclusive, the average imports were—wheat, 132,151 quarters; flour, 107,033 sacks. From 1846 to 1850, annual average import—wheat, 199,633 quarters; flour, 211,265 sacks. 1851—single year, wheat, 388,022 quarters; flour, 333,139 sacks. In 1819,102,268 quartern loaves were baked weekly, showing about 3 lb. of bread for each individual, the population of the city then being 140,000. Assuming a population of 600,000 now dependent on the Glasgow market, it seems that the use of bread has doubled in Glasgow since 1846, and we arrive at an average weekly consumption of bread amounting to 8 lb. for every inhabitant. N.B.—The necessary luxuries of tea, sugar, and molasses have increased in consumption since 1849—tea, 325,351 lb.; sugar, 5,610 tons; molasses, 933 tons." —"show an increase, since 1841, of the number of depositors of 16,110, and of funds of 344,416 l. s. d.; l. s. d. s. d. l. s. d. 1096 1097
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, there
 1039
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I have not thought it my duty so immediately to send instructions to General Cathcart either to suspend or to alter the instructions sent by Earl Grey, to which my hon. Friend has adverted. But I can assure him that the present condition of the colony of the Cape of Good Hope, and the future government of the colony, will be the subject of the earliest and most anxious consideration on the part of the Government. In answer to the latter part of my hon. Friend's question, I have to state that a petition has arrived by the last mail from the municipality of Cape Town, complaining of delay on the part of the Legislative Council of the Cape in passing the constitutional ordinances, and of their devoting their time to passing ordinances of another and less pressing nature. And I have thought it my duty to send out despatches to the Legislative Council advising the necessity of considering the constitutional ordinances as soon as possible, and suggesting that they should reserve questions of legislation of a less urgent nature for the consideration of a future Parliament.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said it was not.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I will in a very few words answer the question which has been put to me by the hon. Gentleman relating to the Motion now standing on the paper in my name as a dropped notice. Sir, I felt it to be my duty, as, a
 1037
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, he must congratulate the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) on the great unanimity which prevailed amongst those Gentlemen who sat behind him. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon had delivered himself of a lecture to the agricultural Members of that House as to the course they should pursue; but he would ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he would take the sense of the county of Cumberland upon the principles he had advocated? When he recollected that it was only a short time ago that the noble Lord committed the mistake of dismissing the ablest of his Colleagues in the Government, and that the House and her Majesty's Ministers were placed in their present position by reason of the noble Lord having dissolved his own Cabinet for want of the necessary amount of support in that House, he owned that the combination which he witnessed that night struck him as one of the most extraordinary that had ever occurred in the history of parties. It was too evident that there were combinations amongst them for the purpose of securing to one party the power of governing the affairs of the country. But it was not to be supposed that old hacks in office were the only men fit to carry on the Government. He charged the noble Lord and the Members of the late Government with having availed themselves of the influence of the resuscitated League for this purpose, and with having used every mode
 1117
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am
 1111 1112 1113
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, the hon. Secretary for the Treasury had not agreed to the first Motion, and the essential facts of the case were never touched by him. He had reason to believe that the practice complained of was by no means uncommon.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, it was plain from the blue books on this subject, that the people of the Western Highlands and Islands of Scotland were suffering under great distress, and that it was impossible for unaided private enterprise to afford them effectual relief. The proprietors of the district had already made the most laudable efforts to support the population, and, therefore, without inquiring whether the particular scheme of railway now proposed was the best that could be devised for the district, he was ready to advocate the advance of money suggested by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Stuart) from the public funds.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he had also hoped that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer would have afforded more countenance than he had done to this scheme, because he thought the case brought forward by the hon. and learned Member for Newark a very peculiar one, not only with regard to the extent of the distress Which prevailed among the Highland population, but also with regard to the extent of the
 1171
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that under the existing arrangements, the contractors were bound to remove the building by the 1st of June next. The House were aware that last year an Address was presented to Her Majesty, praying that an inquiry might be instituted into the expediency of retaining the building in its present position, or removing it to some other site, as a monument of the Exhibition. Commissioners were subsequently appointed, and they sat some time, and received a considerable amount of evidence on the subject of their inquiry. They had since presented their Report, and both the Report and the evidence were now being printed for the use of the House. That Report recommended that the existing ar-
 1151
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  was sure his noble Friend (Lord Grosvenor) need not have given any reason for his question, since every hon. Member must have felt equally with himself the necessity of a speedy remedy, if one were possible, to the present bad ventilation of the House. Immediately before the adjournment of the House it would be remembered that a Resolution was passed calling on Dr. Reid to report on the subject. That report, he understood, was completed, and he bad expected to have received it that afternoon, but it had not yet been placed in his hands. His first official act had been to carry into effect the resolution of the House to which he had referred, and to give every facility to Dr. Reid for the prosecution of his inquiries, and for carrying out the remedies which he proposed. He (Lord J. Manners) feared, however, that what had been done could not be said to be in the least degree satisfactory. The hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans) had moved that another professional gentleman, Mr. Goldsworthy Gurney, should be ap-
 1150
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  begged to ask the First Commissioner of Works whether he was able to hold out any hopes of relief to the sufferings of the Members from the present state of the ventilation of the House. He did not think that he was
 1148 Laughter. 1149
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he had no doubt the inquiry, if instituted, might result in proving, not only that the meters connected with the Admiralty were wholly blameless, but that they were highly efficient. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. G. Thompson) had misled the House by the terms of his Motion. It embraced all the twenty dockyards and stations where coals were received, and was not limited as to time. But the hon. Gentleman in his speech had principally referred to the dockyard at Plymouth; and probably the evidence he had to lay before the Committee was restricted in like manner. It was easy to show that the machinery for the inspection of the delivery of coals at the dockyards was most effective. The hon. Gentleman had given no names, alleging that he would reserve them for the Committee; but this was not the way to make out a case for inquiry. Let the hon. Gentleman make a specific charge, and then it could be met by a specific answer. It was impossible to answer charges so vaguely made as those referring to a certain ship; and they were not entitled to any consideration from the House. The hon. Gentleman said he had had much in-
 1156
 MR. GEACH  hoped the hon. Gentleman (Mr. G. A. Hamilton) would allow the Committee to be granted in the wider terms. If persons were to be treated as Mr. Archer was treated in the present case by a public board, men would have no fair play in introducing improvements for the public benefit. It was not often that they could get so good a case, for public boards did not usually leave themselves so exposed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I can assure the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Newark that he has not mistaken the feeling of the House and of the country, when he says there is considerable sympathy with the people of the Western Highlands of Scotland; and, if I saw that there was any means by which advantages could be secured to that part of Her Majesty's dominions, I would be the last to throw any obstacle in the way of such a proposition. But when we consider the question upon which my hon. and learned Friend has spoken—a question raised by a gentleman connected with that part of the United Kingdom, and who, from that circumstance, as well as from the position
 1166 1167
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : When the proprietary have laid out two-fifths of the capital, they will be in a position to come to this House and state their case. I cannot say that I can recommend the grant sought for upon an hypothetical investment of money by certain persons in certain parts of the kingdom. If there had been a considerable outlay of capital—if the work had been one of great magnitude—and if a fair prospect of remuneration offered—these are circumstances under which it is possible the Government would be justified in coming forward; but in this case no money has been expended. It is avowed that nothing has been done, and I believe that even a survey has not been made. The hon. Member for Glasgow said that there were no maps or plans—
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I always listen with pleasure to the statements of the hon. Member for Glagow, and it is possible it may have been his intention so to represent himself, but, at all events, it is usual in these cases that there should he a complete survey of the whole line along which the railway was to pass before any advance of public money is made by Parliament. I must repeat, that if I saw any proposition which I could fairly believe would advance the interests of the suffering community, I would receive it with the greatest consideration; but I cannot look upon the present proposal as having any such tendency. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Macgregor), from his official experience, must be aware of the fact that there is an
 1168
 MR. HALLEWELL  said, he must express his satisfaction that this inquiry had at last been determined upon. No question demanded more consideration than the case of Ireland, affecting as it did not only the moral and material improvement of that unfortunate country, but its character as a civilised community. No other country in the world presented such a state of society, nor was there any in which such lamentable occurrences took place. He would not go into the details of these crimes, or make any comment upon the causes that led to them, but would content himself with observing, that without the supremacy of the law no solid fabric of social order could be erected, and that unless the law became a terror to evil-doers they would become a terror to society.
 Mr. MOWATT  said, the grievance had not originated since the present Ministers came into office, and, probably, they had not had time to inquire into the case. The patentee had offered to print and deliver postage stamps, of a different description to those now in use, whereby a saving would be effected to the country to the amount of 2,000 l. d. d.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  had agreed to the proposal of his hon. Friend (Mr. Grogan), which was more extensive than that of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz), and his desire was, that the fullest inquiry should take place.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, it was quite true that in the year 1847, the patentee, Mr. Archer, did submit a plan for perforating stamps, which was likely to be attended with considerable advantage to the public; but he expressly stated that with respect to compensation, he should be perfectly satisfied that that should be contingent upon the complete success of the plan, or when it should have received the unqualified approbation of the public, the Postmaster General, and the Commissioners of Inland Revenue. Government could not assent to the terms of the Motion of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz), because it assumed the existence of an agreement, which the Government
 1158
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he rose to move for a Committee to inquire into the agreement entered into between the Commissioners of Inland Revenue and the patentee of the machine for perforating the sheets of postage labels. In the year 1847 a Mr. Archer discovered and patented an invention for perforating the interstices of postage stamps, which did away with the use of a knife or scissors in separating them, and offered his invention to the Post Office, the Commissioners of Stamps, and the Board of Inland Revenue, asking no remuneration except that which might be contingent upon the admitted utility of his invention. The Commissioners of Stamps and of Inland Revenue agreed to remunerate him accordingly; and, after he had succeeded to his most sanguine expectations, they offered him a mere bagatelle for the invention. This, of course, he declined, and ultimately 1,000 l. l. l. 1157 l. l.
 MR. MUNTZ  said that, on the understanding that the Committee would go fully into the whole question, he was quite willing to withdraw his own Motion, and allow of the adoption of the Amendment of the hon. Member for the city of Dublin.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to certain alleged frauds in the supply of coals by contract to the various Government departments. He disclaimed any desire to prejudge the question, or prematurely to fix a stigma, or even a suspicion, upon any particular parties connected with the supply, or the superintendence of the supply, of coals for the use of the various Dockyards and Government establishments. There was a general impression upon the minds of individuals connected with the coal trade, namely, the coalowners of the north, the coalfactors in the metropolis, and the coalmeters of the city of London, that frauds were committed upon the Government, and he asked for an opportunity of making those inquiries which would show the manner in which the coal contracts were fulfilled. The article of coals constituted an item of vast magnitude in the catalogue of articles supplied by contract for the public service. The expense of this article to the country was very considerable, perhaps not less than 1,000,000 l. 1152 1153 1154 1155
 MR. ELLIS  said, he was not connected with any railroad in that part of the United Kingdom to which this proposition referred, but he conceived it was the duty of the Government to assist such a district as he believed that to be through which this railroad would run, in order to develop the resources of the country, and he thought that in no way could those resources be so effectually developed as by the construction of railways.
 MR. HATCHELL  said, he did not rise with the intention of offering the slightest objection to the Motion which his right lion, and learned Friend had made in such a fair and dispassionate manner; but it occurred to him that whatever remedy might be suggested to meet the crime that had prevailed in these districts of Ireland, might equally be extended to the other parts of the country where similar offences should be committed. The crimes and outrages to which his right hon. and learned Friend referred were not of late growth, but the secret society which had been alluded to had, unfortunately, existed for the last thirty years; and the history of Ireland told them that in the Liverpool and Grey Administrations, efforts had been made to quell those disturbances, sometimes by extraordinary powers under temporary statutes, and more frequently in latter times by keeping within the limits of the existing laws, and by the issue of Special Commissions. Every Crown prosecutor had considerable difficulty in making the law available to repress crime; and a variety of influences and much misrepresentation rendered it most difficult at the present day to obtain convictions. With respect to the Special Commission for the county of Monaghan, recently issued, he could only state that the result of that proceeding rested on his
 1191 venue, certiorari, 1192
 MR. MACGREGOR  begged to say that he had not stated any such thing, for an actual survey had been made, and what he wished the Government to do was to complete the survey of that part of the line of railway not contemplated at the time of the former survey.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, that in principle he was certainly opposed to granting public money for the purpose of constructing any public works whatever; but he thought there were circumstances connected with the Western Islands of Scotland which, if fairly and impartially considered, ought to attract a large share of the attention of that House and of the country. They found, that whenever money was required for Ireland, weighty interests were brought to bear in order to procure the grant that was asked for. Ireland had not only Her Majesty's representative, the Lord Lieutenant, but also a Secretary of State, to represent the real or alleged grievances and wants of that country. He did not complain of that country being unduly favoured, because it had been for along time unduly oppressed. But Scotland, on the other hand, was never properly represented in the Government, and rarely obtained any assistance from the public purse. There is a Lord Advocate, it is true, who is supposed to attend to Scottish affairs; but while he is an advocate at the bar of Scotland, he passes a great part of the time in the Courts of the Parliament House at Edinburgh, which, in justice to Scotland, he should pass in the House of Commons. And yet three-fourths of the whole revenue collected in Scotland went into the Treasury of Great Britain, and one-fourth was found to be sufficient to pay for the whole military and civil expenditure of that portion of the Kingdom, including the expense of collecting the revenue. With respect to the particular case pointed out by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Newark, he (Mr. Macgregor) believed that Government might with great safety make an advance upon that undertaking. It was one to which the landlords in the west of Scotland would all contribute as far as possible; and he believed that the passenger traffic of the railway, if once completed, would, especially in the summer and autumn seasons, be as great as that of the London and Brighton Railroad. The industry of the Western Highlands would be greatly increased by the opening of such a line, communicating with Glasgow, and consequently with all the other large towns in the Kingdom. He, therefore, begged to support the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend, as he thought that the subject was one well worthy of the consideration of the Government. At the same time he would not give his un-
 1165
 MR. JOHN STUART : The proposition made as to this railway was, that there should be an outlay of two-fifths before one farthing was asked from the Government.
 MR. JOHN STUART  rose to move a resolution as to the expediency of assistance being afforded by Parliament and the Government to facilitate the intercourse and traffic between the Western Highlands and the southern parts of the Kingdom. He would remind the House that last year the late Chancellor of the Exchequer had consented to a grant of public money to be employed in the relief of an extensive and populous district of the Highlands and Islands of Scotland by facilitating emigration. The benevolent intentions of the late Government had, however, from peculiar circumstances, failed, and hence the application he now made. His object was, by a judicious application of public money—not in the shape of an eleemosynary grant, but an advance to complete a public work, which would amply repay the expenditure—to develop the resources of a district the inhabitants of which, from their remote situation, were unable to apply their industry with due advantage to themselves and the rest of the empire. The nature of the work proposed was the construction of a railway to communicate between Glasgow
 1160 "It would be difficult to conceive a more legitimate application of public money than towards the completion of this desirable undertaking, namely, a railway from Glasgow to Oban; and from the memorialists' local knowledge they feel satisfied that the formation of the intended railway would have a most beneficial and permanent effect on the well-being of the Highlands of Scotland, the resources of which are now lying dormant from want of frequent and speedy access to the southern markets." 1161 l. l. 1162 l., l., l. l. l.; l., 1163 l.
 MR. TRELAWNY  was totally opposed to all grants of this nature from the public funds; and he could not understand how any free-trader could support them, for they involved the worst features of a system of protection, which consisted in affording artificial encouragement to enterprises that ought to be left to depend on self-support. If, however, the principle was not objectionable, and the Government had plenty of loose cash at its disposal, he thought there were many public works more deserving of the assistance of the State than any railway scheme for the Highlands of Scotland. He did not recommend the outlay of public money in such undertakings, but he might cite as an example that a railway along the south coast of England, from Portsmouth to Plymouth, had a stronger claim on the attention of the House than the present proposition, from its connection with the now
 1170
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  wished also to put a question to the First Commissioner of Works upon the same subject. Hon. Members were at the present moment suffering most dreadfully from the state of the Committee rooms in regard to ventilation. He himself sat four days in every week in one Committee room, and the Members of that Committee felt it totally impossible to protect themselves. They had tried all sorts of experiments; they had removed the chairs and tables; they had sat by turns in every part of the room, but still were exposed to the same annoyances. He therefore begged to ask the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) whether the Committee rooms were included in any directions given to Dr. Reid as to the ventilation of the House?
 MR. HUME  said, that this was one of those cases which were so often brought before Parliament, but which were extremely difficult for a Government to deal with. It was easy to ask for public money, and difficult to resist the application when a case of distress was made out. Some years ago there was a very great amount
 1169
 MR. HUME , in seconding the Motion, said it had come to his knowledge that there was an intolerable nuisance in the management of the department alluded to. He had pressed the inquiry on the late Government, but they had not acceded to it. He hoped it would take place without delay.
 MR. NAPIER  begged to move the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the state of those parts of the counties of Armagh, Monaghan, and Louth, which were referred to in Her Majesty's Speech; into the immediate cause of crime and outrage in those districts; and into the efficiency of the laws, and of their administration, for the suppression of such crime and outrage. The Motion he was about to submit to the House was substantially the same as that he had attempted to move before the recent change in the Government of the country. On the first night of the Session he had drawn attention to the state of a portion of the north of Ireland as referred to in Her Majesty's Speech; but the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) intimated to him that inasmuch as the Special Commission was then proceeding, and had not concluded its labours, it was premature to bring forward any Motion on the subject. The noble Lord was quite right, and he did not, therefore, press any Motion. After the Special Commission had terminated its
 1172 1173 certiorari 1174 "It is but too true that a large portion of this, and of the adjoining counties of Louth and Armagh, are prevaded by a mischievous, most mischievous association; that Ribbandism, which is the name under which this association exists, prevails in all its horror and all its terror within that fated district.' He then referred, in connexion with Mr. Bateson's murder, to the assurance of protection and connivance which is secured for the murderer by the power of the Ribband confederacy, 'the severest scourge of the land.' Firstly, the sacrifice of life and injury to property; secondly, obstructing all improvement, repelling capital, and cutting of the sources of employment and industry. He then referred to the responsibility of those who extenuate the crime by speeches and publications." "TO THE RIGHT HON. SIR GEORGE GRET, ETC. "The Memorial of the undersigned Magistrates of the Counties of Armagh, Louth, and Monaghan, "Showeth—That a district containing portions of the abovementioned counties has for some time past been in a disturbed and lawless state. "That a succession of murders, attempts to murder, assaults, burning of houses, acts of intimidation, &c., have taken place within it, all marked with the same agrarian character, and evidently proceeding from the same secret conspiracy. "That this secret association possesses the sympathy of many, and has overawed the whole of the population to such an extent that evidence of the most atrocious murders perpetrated in open day can hardly be obtained, and that jurors, from whatever class empanelled, are too often either disaffected or intimidated. That the audacity of the conspirators has fearfully increased with their impunity, and that the conspiracy is rapidly extending into the neighbouring districts. "That the sympathy, and, yet more, the terror of the population is proved by facts which come under our notice daily, and are well known to the
 1175 "That while we give credit to the Executive for their wishes and endeavours to enforce the law as it stands, we declare our strong conviction of its total inadequacy to meet a state of society never contemplated by British law. "That we are persuaded we express the feelings of all respectable and well-affected persons of all classes in calling upon Parliament to enact such laws as may protect our lives and properties, deliver our population from an intolerable state of intimidation, and crush that secret conspiracy which is ruinous both to those who suffer from it, and to the interests of all ranks and classes of the country at large." 1176 l., l. sub judice. Geo. Geo. Geo. "It refers to the administering of oaths or engagements, binding the persons, amongst other matters, to obey the orders, rules, and commands of any committee, or of any captain, leader, or commander, and not to reveal the taking of any illegal oath on discovery that such had been taken. No one can read the Act (says the Chief Justice) without seeing that it reflects the very crimes which are at the bottom of these disturbances, which led to the very state and condition
 1177 Geo. Vict., Vict. 1178 Vict., Vict., Vict., 1179 Vict., "You have been found guilty of belonging to an organised body of persons of the working classes of the community, having its president and other officers, and holding its sittings from time to time in the city of Dublin. That association appears to have affiliated with it others of the same character in Great Britain and many counties in Ireland. It manifests, it is true, no defined objects; but it is possessed of an organisation capable of being applied to any purpose, however dangerous, requiring combined movements and unity of action. Such an association, so constituted and directed, no Government, deserving of the name, could suffer to exist in this country, if by legal means its destruction could be accomplished." "You have been convicted of acting as members of a Ribband Association—an association which sets itself up against the law of the land—a secret, inquisitorial system, which acts unseen and unknown, and whose decrees are followed with the blindest obedience; which involves in danger both the lives and property of Her Majesty's subjects; asserting a supremacy in direct opposition to the laws of the land, tending to involve the public peace in the greatest danger, and threatening mischief of the most lamentable description, especially to the poor man. I find from the evidence that it exists, not merely in this county, or in another county, but in all counties—nay, that it exists in England and Scotland; and how far it is extended, or how old it may be, I know not." 1180 "This mysterious engine of secret combination, shifted from place to place, continues to be wielded and worked by some invisible hand from time to time—now against one part of the island, and now against another. Yet those who have had the experience of many years of official and judicial life can assure you that it has never been able to stand against the venerable authority of the laws, vigorously and calmly brought to bear upon it." "Tam magnæ quæstionis pondus excipere, vix Hercule, auderem, si mihi mea sententia proferendum, ac non disertissimorum hominum sermo repetendus esset, quos eandem hanc quæstionem pertractantes juvenis admodum audivi." v. Geo. 1181 1182 1183 Vict, 1184 1185 "Mr. Mauleverer was an agent for several properties in this country, and in order to recover the just and legitimate rights of his employers, he was obliged to bring parties into courts of law, and in some cases to sue out ejectments. But he (the Attorney General) believed that this murder was the result of a foul and base conspiracy, and that the parties implicated in it had no connection with Mr. Mauleverer as an agent." 1186 l. 1187 l. 1188 l. l. "You know what a constant resident I have ever been, and how I devoted my time and means to the improvement of my tenantry and to their comfort. To meet the times, I, more than two years ago, reduced all my rents in both this county and Monaghan. By a valuation the rent was so arranged that, according to the, corn
 1189 1190 venue.
 MR. P. HOWARD  regarded the establishment of lines of communication between the extreme points of a country as of great importance, both in a military and commercial point of view. Every one must feel anxious that this interesting population should not be compelled to fly their native shores; but he suggested whether the hon. and learned Gentlemen (Mr. J. Stuart) would not best advance his case by laying a more matured plan before the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer. He believed that it would be quite impossible to raise local subscriptions without there was a promise of ulterior assistance from the Government; but with that he thought that an advance of public money might prove of national as well as local benefit.
 MR. SPOONER  did not see that there was any question for discussion before the House, seeing his hon. Friend (Mr. Hamilton) had consented to a Committee in the
 1159
 MR. BOOKER  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. BOOKER  said, it appeared to him that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had overlooked one very important consideration—namely, that there was extreme distress existing in the Western Highlands and Islands of Scotland. He did think that it was an object of the first consideration with a parental Government to afford profitable industrial employment to the people, without the necessity of their transporting themselves from the shores of their native country. He thought the hon. and learned Member for Newark was entitled to the best thanks of the House for the able and lucid statement he had put before them. As to the want of traffic on the contemplated line, experience showed that a railway, once constructed, created traffic. He himself knew an instance of a line which had been formed in a mountainous district, where previously the passenger traffic had scarcely employed a single coach, yet, since the formation of the railway, the passenger traffic had risen in amount to 15,000 l.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he had a question to put to the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Works, which related to the rational enjoyment and pleasures of the people. He wished to ask whether it was intended to remove or to retain the building of the Great National Exhibition? He (Mr. T. Duncombe) was to have put this question to the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) about a fortnight since, but in the meantime a little mishap had occurred to the then Government.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, he sympathised with a great deal that the right hon. and learned Gentleman had said about the lamentable effects of the Ribband society in Ireland, and the prevalence there of horrible outrages. All must feel that their discontinuance was not only essential to the welfare of the people, but to their progress as a community. But the House was bound to bear in mind that equality of character and of order in the eye of the law never yet had been obtained by nations gathered together as those three Kingdoms were under one state of law, unless the spirit of the laws affecting those Kingdoms were really and substantially the same, unless rich and poor were protected in the enjoyment of the same rights, and placed on the same footing. T/he neglect of this question had tended very much—not to originate or wholly account for, but—to aggravate the state of things which his right hon. Friend had described. Last Session there had been several discussions about the modification of the tenant laws; and certain restrictions upon what were considered the rights and liberties of the tenant, as against the
 1193 1194 1195
 SIR ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL  thought the grant asked for was not to benefit private proprietors. Some proprietors would undoubtedly benefit by it, if made; but the greatest benefit would accrue, not only to the particular district through which the railway was to pass, but to all the contiguous districts. He thought the objections, therefore, fell to the ground.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he had listened with considerable pain to the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken, as he could not have thought that any Gentleman in that House would have justified the outrages that had been committed. He did not think that anything could justify those outrages. The Committee was intended to investigate the question, but he did not think that anything could justify murder and perjury, and the other crimes that had been committed.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he had also given notice of a Motion on the same subject, and as it would extend the inquiry somewhat further than the Motion of the hon. Member for Birmingham, he should move it as an Amendment to that Motion.
 SIR GEORGE STRICKLAND  said, the resolution of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. J. Stuart) appeared to him to mean this—that a railroad to the extent of eighty miles was to be made from Oban to Glasgow, but that it would cost so much money that it would not pay any private undertakers to do it, therefore it ought to be paid for out of the public purse. It was to protest against that pinciple that he rose. They might tell him that private property in the Highlands of Scotland would be greatly improved by the expenditure, but they must show him how it was justifiable so to apply the public money. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated that in a short time not less than 10,000,000 l.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, the hon. Member who spoke last, would probably be surprised to find anybody going farther than himself. But, for his own part, he could not acquiesce in the hon. Member's statement on the rights of a majority. He apprehended there were, cases when a majority ought not to have its way. Judges and juries were assembled for no other purpose, than to prevent the strong from oppressing the weak; in, other words, to prevent majorities in power from unjustly ruling. Every man who had attended to cases where education, was to be extended to different religions, as for instance in India, knew there were but two ways to take. One was, to limit the education to matters involving no religions differences; and the other was, to allow each religion its proportion of the
 1217 Laughter.
 MR. BOUVERIE  agreed with what had fallen from the right hon. the Home Secretary. Very grave objections could be stated to the Bill as it now stood. In fact it would give a trading monopoly to a chartered body, of which that House knew very little indeed. So far as he could understand the object of the Bill, it was intended to turn chemists and druggists into apothecaries, and to derive a revenue for the society by levying large contributions from chemists already in business. The business now pursued by the chemists was formerly carried on by the Apothecaries, also a trading body, to whom an Act of Parliament had given great powers; and unless great care were taken they would find a fresh crop of medical practitioners springing up among the chemists.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The House has heard, Sir, I am sure with great pleasure, the temperate and able statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary. I cannot agree with him in all that he has said, nor precisely in the conclusion to which he has arrived, but I do agree in many of the principles the right hon. Gentleman has laid down, and I think it most desirable that on this occasion there should lie, if possible, no division; that we should hot discountenance the endeavour which has been made by a great many persons interested in the welfare of Manchester and Salford; and I further think, with the right hon. Gentleman, that the promoters of the Bill are entitled to the highest credit for the efforts they have made, believing, as I do, that they have been animated by the most benevolent motives. In anything which I shall say or vote, I will endeavour, without entering into the question of proceeding by Private Bill, not to discourage this praiseworthy effort for obtaining better education for the poor in Manchester and Salford. I concur entirely in the answer which the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) has given to my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck), respecting the definition of a Private Bill, for it has frequently happened, according to the system of our legislation, that questions of the greatest
 1208 1209 1210 1211
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he should be very jealous of, and oppose to the utmost of his power, any attempt to do away with such qualifications as he considered were constitutionally necessary.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Amendment, as drawn up by the right hon. Member for Manchester, entirely confined the consideration of the Committee to the system of establishing local rates. The modification proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State would give them a wider field; and certainty he did not understand it to pre-
 1218
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he rose to answer the appeal which had been made to him by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson). He (Mr. Cardwell) had not the conduct of the Bill, but it was true that he had taken the greatest interest in it, and he thought that if the promoters of the Bill were to reap no other reward than the discussion which had taken place that day, their meritorious efforts would not pass unrequited. He thought they were very much indebted to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, and the noble Lord who had spoken last, for the great light which they had thrown on the important subject of education; and he begged to express his great satisfaction that the House was now approaching so near to an agreement. In the discussion as to whether this should be a Public or a Private Bill, there had been a misunder-understanding as to the distinction between the two. In a Private Bill there was every security for public debate. Every stage was taken that could be taken in a Public Bill, and there were also additional stages imposed by the Standing Orders of the House for the protection of private interests. The promoters of this Bill could not have done otherwise than bring it forward as a Private Bill. If there were any blame upon the subject, it did not rest with those who had honestly and faithfully complied with those Standing Orders, which for the protection of property it had been thought necessary to impose. He (Mr. Cardwell) thought it quite proper that the Bill should pass this stage of the proceedings. There was no proposal to reject it, or pass the remotest censure upon it. In the present stage of business, he did not think the House ought to admit the principle of the Bill; and nothing could be mare foreign to the wishes of the promoters than to seize any unfair advantage by
 1212
 MR. TUFNELL  begged to move for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish the Property Qualification for Members of Parliament. The House would perhaps remember that, in the course of last Session, he took occasion to give notice of his intention to bring the subject under the notice of that House. His noble Friend the Member for the City of London (Lord John Russell) bad, however, subsequently made it the subject of one of the Clauses of the Bill for the reform of the representation, which he had introduced; but as that measure had been withdrawn, he now took the earliest opportunity of again bringing the question before the notice of the House; and if there was no objection to the introduction of the Bill, he would waive all discussion of the subject till the second reading.
 MR. BELL  said, that the object of the Bill was diametrically opposed to that stated by the hon. Member, and was about to explain further, but being called to order, he resumed his seat.
 MR. JACOB BELL  presented petitions in favour of the Bill, from the President and Censors of the Royal College of Physicians, London; the President, Vice-Presidents, and Council of the Royal College of Surgeons; one signed by 150 eminent medical practitioners residing in London; and numerous petitions from medical practitioners, chemists, and others, in various parts of the country. He hoped the House would consider the above petitions, especially those from the two colleges and the members of the medical profession, a sufficient answer to the allegation that there was no necessity for a Bill of this nature. It might be laid down as an axiom, that education in any branch connected with the profession of medicine was necessary; and repeated attempts had been made to supply the deficiency in the present law relating to Pharmaceutical Chemists. No doubt could exist as to the propriety of establishing an Examining Board, and ensuring the proper qualification of the members of that body, by means of an examination. Some difference of opinion had existed as to the jurisdiction under which such board should be constituted; and about the years 1839 and 1840, communications took place between the chemists and the several medical bodies on this subject. It was proposed at one time to form a joint board of examiners with the College of Physicians; but after much discussion and consideration this was found to be impracticable, and was abandoned. The College of Surgeons declined to entertain the question; and there were insuperable obstacles to an amalgamation with the Society of Apothecaries. The result of these deliberations, was the establishment of the Pharmaceutical Society, consisting entirely of chemists, as the institution which should
 1219 1220 1221
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he seconded the Amendment on much narrower grounds than those taken by the right hon. Member who had just sat down, but which he thought it was quite impossible that they could overlook. He had objected the other day for the same reasons to the Bill proposed by the corporation of the city of London; and he was really anxious to know what line they were to draw between Public and Private Bills if this was a Private Bill? They had in this Bill questions involving principles of the widest importance, and in which the whole country was deeply interested. For his own part, he had no very great objection to the measure, for he had a great desire to see the cause of education forwarded, and he was quite prepared to support a rate for educational purposes; but he did object to the form in which the Bill now appeared before the House. He thought that there was such a strong technical objection to it that it ought to be stopped  in limine 1203
 MR. WILSON PATTEN,  as a supporter of the Bill, suggested that his hon. Friend who had charge of it should at once accede to the proposal which had been made. He did not make that recommendation without some regret. He was authorised by the promoters, however, to say that they not only did not reject, but courted the fullest inquiry in public Committee. Perhaps the greatest justice would be done to them by acceding to the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department. As to the question whether this was a public or a private measure, he desired to state, on behalf of the promoters, that it was only after having taken great pains to receive the most competent advice upon the subject, that they came to the conclusion that the only mode of having the question properly discussed before that House and the public was by introducing it as a Private Bill. Although he acceded to the course which had been pursued, he considered that it was objectionable on the score of expense, as the expenses both of
 1213
 MR. BROTHERTON  had great pleasure in acceding to the proposal, as by doing so he believed he should be consulting the wishes of all parties. It was promised that a full inquiry should be made into the subject, and that was all the promoters of the Bill could have expected to accomplish in the present Session. He bad only to request that after the Amendment was disposed of, the House would allow him to postpone the second reading of the Bill for a month.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, in asking the leave of the House to read this Bill a second time, he would not occupy its time by expatiating upon the importance or on the necessity of a scheme of education. It was admitted on all hands that it was most important and necessary that education should be extended in this country. But he would frankly state the circumstances in which he was placed, and the origin of the Bill. It was a measure originating with the inhabitants of the boroughs of Manchester and Salford, among
 1196 l. l. 1197 "Inasmuch as two schemes are now before the public, and are about to be discussed in Parliament, having for their object the better education of the children of the working classes, and both based on the principle of a public rate, the council, admitting that there is great need of increased means of education for the working classes, consider it desirable that those means should be supplied by a public rate, to be limited in amount, and to be under local management." 1198
 MR. SLANEY  would ask the Committee calmly to consider a suggestion which had been made upon a previous discussion of this subject by the late Solicitor General (Sir W. P. Wood), namely, that if any rate were raised for educational purposes, any party who conscientiously objected to it upon religious grounds, and who could at the same time show that he contributed a fair quota towards the education of the humble people of his own denomination, should be exempt from payment of this rate. This would remove a serious objection that had been made to the scheme.
 MR. WALPOLE , considering the great powers given by the Bill to the Pharmaceutical Society, was not prepared to give his assent to the second reading before the Bill had been referred to a Select Committee. The second clause gave very great and irresponsible powers to the Pharmaceutical Society in making bylaws and regulations; and the fifteenth clause subjected persons to serious penalties for assuming the business of a chemist and druggist, contrary to the regulations so laid down. Very difficult cases might arise on that question, unless the clauses were worded with exceeding care; and he hoped therefore, that the Committee be-
 1222
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would not offer any opposition to the introduction of the measure of the right hon. Gentleman, inasmuch as it had constituted a portion of the Bill of the noble Lord the Member for London, to the introduction of which no
 1223
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was anxious to state very early in the discussion the individual opinions that he entertained on the subject before the House, and also, in answer to the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr Roebuck), to explain the views which he thought should be taken as to the distinction existing between Public and Private Bills. In his opinion great credit was due to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Brotherton) and to the promoters of this Bill, for endeavouring to provide for the education of the humbler classes in two such populous and important towns as
 1204 1205 1206 1207
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he should not press the latter words of the Amendment if it were understood that the Committee was not thereby precluded from inquiring into the proposal for supporting education by local rates.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  regretted to say he must take a somewhat unusual, though not, he apprehended, an irregular course, with regard to this Bill. He proposed to move, as an Amendment to the second reading, a resolution to the effect that a Committee be appointed to inquire into the state of education in the municipal boroughs of Manchester and Salford, and certain adjacent townships; and whether it is advisable to make any further provision for the education of the inhabitants of such boroughs and townships by means of local rates. In the first place, it appeared extraordinary that this subject should be dealt with by a Private Bill. He admitted that the measure, being confined in its application to a particular locality, did possess the distinctive character of a Private Bill; but though that was so, he thought he could show that the object of this measure was of that nature that it ought to be provided for by some general laws applicable to all localities, as was done in the case of Enclosure and other Bills of a private nature, for which Parliament had to prevent the undue accumulation of its private business, and, to secure uniformity, framed a code of regulations applicable to all cases. For consider what a serious impediment it would be to the ordinary business if every town in England came to Parliament with its particular Education Bill, calling upon them to enter into the consideration in each particular case of a question involving religious controversy and differences, which it would be impossible to dispose of satisfactorily without great difficulty and prolonged discussion. The reasonable and the prudent way to deal with this question of education was for Parliament to decide on the general principles which should be applicable to the whole community; each particular locality could avail itself of the general law, by confirming to the particular conditions therein contained. On this ground he thought he had a
 1199 1200 1201 1202 bonâ fide pro formâ pro formâ
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he agreed with the hon. Baronet who had last spoken, to this extent—that if money raised by general or local taxation was to be applied to religious teaching, that religious teaching should be the religion of the majority. But the Bill went on the principle of taxing all denominations and churches, with a view to the teaching of the religion of all, or almost all, denominations and churches. His objection to this was, that it introduced a new principle into legislation; it was in fact an extension of the Church Establishment in this country. It sanctioned other doctrines, applied money raised by taxation to the inculcation of those doctrines, and thus in effect made a species of establishment on a different principle, and in a totally different spirit. If there was to be such an extension of the Church Establishment, it should not be made in the form of an Education Bill; it should be made directly and distinctly, by legalising opinions which could not now be legally held in the Church of England. It should sanction modes of faith and worship which now were not recognised; and it was a serious objection to any Bill that it thus introduced a principle hitherto unknown to legislation. There had been grants of public money given to religious bodies; but there was always a distinction taken between the object for which they were made, and direct support of that religious denomination. The grant to the Protestant Dissenters was made as a charity to the aged, not as a payment for the inculcation of their religion. That to the Presbyterians of Ireland was originally also for a charitable purpose. In no instance had there been a direct payment for the inculcation of various systems of religion. And, considering how much mischievous as well as useful instruction might be communicated under the form of reli-
 1215 1216
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he trusted that the House would have an opportunity of discussing the Bill after it should have come from the Committee.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he must beg the indulgence of the House for a few minutes. Whatever might be said of the principle of the Bill, he thought it was clear that the application of; that principle to the particular case of Manchester and Salford was quite legitimately brought before the House in the shape of a Private Bill; and he agreed with the hon. Member for North Lancashire (Mr. W. Patten) that the parties could only bring the subject before the House in such a manner. He, however, deprecated the adoption of the principle of the Bill, and was unwilling that the House should recognise it as applicable to any one town in this kingdom. If applicable to one, it was applicable to all towns. His doctrine now, as it had ever been, was, that the education of the people was a national concern, to be conducted by that Church which the nation had recognised and established. That doctrine he had ever held—he had heard nothing to induce him to doubt its justice—and he was quite satisfied that by means of no other organisation could the education of the people be successfully conducted. He did not deny to any human being, of whatever religion he might be, the fullest right to teach whatever he pleased; but as a member of the Church recognised by the State, he (Sir R. Inglis) objected to being compelled to pay for that teaching. The Established Church was not a mere sect, one of perhaps twenty, to all of which the State was equally indifferent. It was the body which the
 1214
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, the lion. Gentleman a few nights ago had given notice of a Motion similar to the present, but that Motion contained a statement that was not the fact. The same operation was performed by the hon. Gentleman several times last year. He kept continual Motions on the paper relating to the conduct of Sir James Brooke; and, upon the same principle, he (Mr. H. Drummond) supposed, that calumny, like flattery, should be laid on thick enough, so that some of it at last might stick, the hon. Member had contrived to keep that gentleman's name before the House until the end of the Session. The hon. Gentleman had had the kindness and urbanity to write him a private letter to bog him to take the earliest opportunity, when this subject came before the House, to make some  amende 1259 "Western Australia, Perth, Oct. 10, 1851. "I, Henry Adams, late of Adelaide, in the province of South Australia, but now of the colony of Western Australia, master mariner, master and owner of the schooner  Unknown, s., Buffalo, (Signed) "H. E. ADAMS." 1260 "Subscribed by the abovenamed H. E. Adams in my presence, at Perth, Western Australia, this 10th day of October, 1851. (Signed) "W. H. MACKIE, J.P., Commissioner of the Civil Court of Western Australia, and Chairman of the Court f Quarter Sessions."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he wished to know whether the inquiry into this transaction that had been promised on the part of the Tuscan Government had taken place; and if so, what had been the result?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I must repeat my regret that due notice has not been given me of these questions. I will, however, be prepared to give all possible information on the subject to-morrow.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : As the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton has not given me notice of his intention to ask me any question on this subject, I must be pardoned if I cannot immediately give him an answer upon this particular point. But, Sir, although the noble Lord has not given notice of the
 1246
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I believe it to be quite incorrect that a British officer, in the uniform of
 1245 Firebrand,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, this was one of those distressing cases with which every Member of the House must sympathise. No doubt a large number of poor persons, in Ireland, had suffered severely by the failure of this Cuffe-street Bank; and he was rather surprised that the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this Motion, while he was so indignant against certain branches of the Administration for their assumed negligence, had not bestowed some of his indignation on the managers of the bank, whose conduct had certainly been as profligate and iniquitous as could well be imagined. The House must not allow itself to be wholly carried away by sympathy for the sufferers, without inquiring into all the circumstances. There were many cases where Savings Banks had been conducted with a great want of ability and honesty, and a very considerable loss had necessarily occurred to the depositors; but no one could contend that it was the duty of Government to come forward and offer compensation for the want of ability and want of faith with which these institutions had been managed. The only ground on which an appeal had been made to the House in respect to this Cuffe-street Bank was, that there were some peculiar circum-
 1250 l. l. 1251 l. 1252 l.
 MR. SCULLY  did not think the Motion could with justice be resisted, for the Report of 1850 showed the Cuffe-street Bank to be wholly distinct from every other Savings Bank in the United Kingdom. The fact of the House of Commons having sanctioned the vote of 30,000 l. per se,
 MR. H. HERBERT  could have wished the subject not to be again discussed on the present occasion. Considering the impossibility of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer having yet devoted his attention to it, it was to be regretted that the hon. Member for the city of Dublin had now brought it forward. He (Mr. H. Herbert) had been the original mover of this question, for the appointment of a Committee, and not the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, as he had stated. He (Mr. H. Herbert) contended that this was not merely an Irish question. It was one equally affecting England, as there had been as many failures of Savings Banks in this country as in Ireland. He admitted that if the trustees had done their duty, no loss would have been incurred; but it should be remembered that in 1844, up to which time they were legally responsible to the depositors, the Legislature had stepped in and relieved them from that responsibility. The consequent was, when the failures occurred, the depositors had neither the responsibility of the trustees nor the
 1253
 COLONEL RAWDON  wished to call the attention of the Government to a matter of ssme importance. He had seen a letter, dated from Florence, on the 11th of this month, in which it was stated that a British officer, in the full uniform of the Royal Marines, had been cut down in the streets of Leghorn by the Austrian authorities. He wished to know whether Her Majesty's Government had received any information on the subject of this transaction, and, if so, whether any measures had been taken to obtain redress?
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he rose to move that the House resolve itself into a Committee, to consider the losses sustained by the sufferers in the late Cuffe-street Savings Bank, Dublin; and to make some arrangement for granting them a compensation. He had had the honour of placing Her Majesty's late Government in a minority twice in the same night on this subject; but, unlike other Members who had done the same, he had not received Her Majesty's commands to form a new Ministry. A Select Committee had been appointed to consider the losses sustained by the depositors in the late Cuffe-street Savings Bank in Dublin. That Committee sat in 1848, 1849, and 1850, and in the month of August, 1850, they made a Report favourable to the claims he advocated. His object in bringing forward his present Motion was to obtain the balance of 34,000 l. l., 1247 l. s. d. s. l. s. l. l., 1248 l. s. d. l. s. d. l., l. s. d., l. s. d. l., l., l., l., l., l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. Geo. l., l. l. l. l. l., 1249 l.
 MR. REYNOLDS,  in reply, said, he must decline to respond to the appeal made to him to withdraw the Motion, after the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that these depositors were fortunate in getting so much as they did, and had made a most capital bargain. Were the right hon. Gentleman to promise, without pledging himself to any particular decision, that when the whole question of Savings Banks was investigated, the particular case of the Cuffe-street Savings Bank would also be considered, he would, in that case, withdraw the Motion for the present. He had been asked privately why he did not bring forward this subject last year. His answer was, the Ecclesiastical Titles Assumption Bill stood in the way. Until the dogdays almost there was hardly a single night in which he had not some quarrel with Her Majesty's Ministers about that Bill, and from the cat-and-dog life he then led with them, they were, of course, anything but disposed to go out of their way to accommodate him with reference to this or any other subject. But now the case was altered, because he found upon the Ministerial benches opposite no fewer than seven hon. Gentlemen who voted with him in 1850, including the noble Lord the Mem-
 1256
 MR. HUME  said, the evil arose in consequence of the fault of the public officers, whose duty it was to ascertain the solvency of the bank. The depositors in the Cuffe-street Savings' Bank had lodged their money with as much confidence in its safety
 1254
 MR. HUME  hoped the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken would tell the House where he had got the document from which he had just read. For himself, he would say that he did not believe a word of the allegations contained in it. He had stated to the hon. Gentleman, that as he had in his place calumniated Mr. Miles, he thought it was an act of justice to explain it, and he asked the hon. Gentleman whether he had seen the proceedings that had taken place in the Court of Singapore against the  Singapore Free Press 1261 l.
 MR. HUME  moved—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, that She will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, a Copy of Letter from Mr. Robert Burns to Viscount Palmerston, dated Singapore, 28th day of June, 1851, with its Inclosures, complain-
 1258
 MR. NAPIER,  would also strongly recommend the hon. Member for the city of Dublin to withdraw the Motion, at the same time he was bound to say a few words in explanation of the opinions he had formerly expressed on the question. He still retained those opinions, and had formed them in consequence of the admissions in the Report that the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt had greatly neglected their duty in not exercising the powers with which they were entrusted. No question was of more importance to the community than that of Savings Banks, and he rejoiced to know that his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer was about to direct his attention to the subject. He hoped—indeed he had reason to believe—that arrangements were in contemplation for putting those institutions on a basis which would give that security to depositors to which they were entitled. Under these circumstances he recommended the hon. Gentleman not to press his Motion to a division.
 MR. SLANEY , after presenting two petitions in favour of Industrial and Provident Partnerships, proceeded to move for leave to bring in a Bill to legalise the formation of such partnerships. He said that the discussion which had just taken place was not a bad introduction to the Motion of which he had given notice, showing, as it did, how difficult it was for the humbler classes of society in this country to find a safe mode of investing their scanty savings. His attention had been devoted to the subject for many years. So far back as 1830 he obtained a Committee of the House to consider the means of lessening the evils arising from the fluctuation of employment in manufacturing districts. On that Committee he had the able assistance of the late Lord Spencer, and the Report which the Committee afterwards presented to the House stated the difficulties under which the working classes laboured with respect to their investments, and pointed out certain remedies for the purpose of removing those difficulties. In 1840 it was his good fortune to obtain another Committee on the evils affecting the humble classes in large towns; and it was his lot, in connexion with that inquiry, to meet with many intelligent operatives in different parts of
 1257 Vict.,
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that on the part of the Government he should not offer any objection to the introduction of the Bill, the details of which could be discussed on a future occasion.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, in this case the public had been placed in a most unfortunate and anomalous position, for if the principle were laid down that these losses should be paid out of the public taxes, every other Savings Bank would have an equal claim. He trusted the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer would take into consideration the propriety of making an alteration in the existing law so as to afford protection to the public as well as to the depositors.
 MR. GROGAN  had heard with great pleasure the announcement made by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer that the whole question of Savings Banks was to be fully considered; but the right hon. Gentleman's statement, to the effect that he considered this question finally settled by the grant of 30,000 l., 1255 l. s.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt permitted the Cuffe-street Savings Bank to go in long after its affaire had become insolvent. In his opinion, the House was bound to find the remaining 34,000 l.,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I should wish to put to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question on a subject which may be said to be in some respects similar to the matter that has just been mentioned. It may be in the recollection of the House that some time ago an outrage of a very aggravated character—an outrage which would have been unmanly under any circumstances, but which, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, might be said to be cowardly—was committed on an unarmed British subject at Florence, by an armed officer of the Austrian service, who was marching at the head of his regiment, That outrage was made the subject of an inquiry in this House; and the noble Lord who was then at the head of Her Majesty's Government stated that communications having reference to the officer were going on at the time, and he did not hesitate to express it as his opinion, that reparation was unquestionably due on the part of the Austrian Government to Mr. Mather, the English gentleman who had been so shamefully outraged. Now, I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman if he is aware whether the Austrian Government have inflicted any punishment on the officer who so grossly misconducted himself, and whether any kind of reparation has been made by the Austrian Government to Mr. Mather?
 The EARL of MARCH  said, that the speech of the hon. Member who opened the present discussion, reminded him of the lawyer, who, having a bad cause to defend, was told to abuse the plaintiff's attorney. He had heard every word that fell from the hon. Member, and he appealed to the Committee to say if there could be found a particle of argument in the whole of his discourse? So the hon. Member, being manifestly unprovided with arguments of any sort in favour of his views, had resorted to a series of abuse of every member of the Government, with the sole exception of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, whose brilliant talents neither the hon. Gentleman nor any one else could call in question. It appeared to him (the Earl of March) that the tone of hon. Members on the other side of the House was by no means so candid as they would have it supposed. They were evidently not a little disappointed at the unanimity of feeling which united all the Members on the Ministerial side of the House, and they consequently took every opportunity of throwing a firebrand into their ranks; but he would inform the Opposition that it would require more exertion and talents than they possessed to produce any effect on the strength, stability, and firmness of the Ministerial ranks. With reference to the hon. Member for Marylebone, who had just spoken, he had a piece of advice to offer him—which was, not to talk of the matters and properties of individuals without having first made himself perfectly acquainted with the facts which he stated. The hon. Baronet stated that the Duke of Richmond had suffered no diminution of his rents in consequence of the policy of the late Sir Robert Peel. He would not be dragged into a Corn Law debate on this altogether inopportune occasion; but he begged to inform the hon. Baronet that his noble relative's rent-roll had diminished, not only in the south of England, but in the north of Scotland. In answer to the question which the hon. Member had put in the earlier part of his speech, he (the Earl of March), as being neither a member of the Government, nor
 1337
 The EARL of MARCH : I beg the hon. Gentleman's pardon. I answered the statement made by the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall), and which statement was not correct.
 The EARL of MARCH : I must apologise to the Committee for having again to interrupt the hon. Gentleman, feeling that this is a matter of a somewhat personal nature. The hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall) distinctly named the Duke of Richmond's estates; and I distinctly state, of my own knowledge, that the property of my noble relative in Sussex has been revalued, and that a dimiuution has occurred on the whole rental.
 MR. MILES  said, he regretted the tone which had been assumed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden). Never had he heard such contradictions from one Gentleman to
 1345 l, 1346
 The CHAIRMAN : The Motion before the Committee is, the number of land forces, and that the grant of a certain amount of money for their support should be acceded to. [ Great cheering from the Opposition.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, that he had been so pointedly referred to by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), that he hoped the Committee would allow him to offer a brief reply to that hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member had said that he looked upon him (the Marquess of Granby) as a consistent man. Now he hoped he had a right to be so considered, and he was certainly prepared to state that he still retained the opinions he had formerly uttered on the great question then under consideration. It was
 1396 "I express my opinion that if relief is to be given to the farmer, without any serious difficulty or increase of expenditure being thrown upon the other classes of the community, a moderate duty upon corn, producing a large revenue, and thereby enabling other taxes to be diminished, would be most advantageous to the country, and a most just mode of affording relief." 1397 s.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : It was not my intention to have taken any part
 1398 1399
 COLONEL THOMPSON  expressed his satisfaction at the certain increase which must in the end arise out of these proceedings, to what he would denominate the just popular influence. The party meant by that term, and their friends, could not fail to be aware of the species of decision to which they were to be referred. They did not think of refusing the reference; because they knew that though "bad is the best," it was the only thing they were likely to have at present. But they were wide awake to the fact, that they were referred to a decision in which the chances were to be ten to one against them;—a decision where every 100 of the opposite side were to have a vote, and every 1,000 of their own. If they took for a specimen the case of the hon. Gentlemen who had just succeeded to the Government, they would find the ten county Members sent by a population altogether less than that of the county of Lancaster. Those ten counties sent twenty-three Members to the House of Commons, while the county of Lancaster sent four. That was six to one against Lancashire. Then the eleven borough Members were sent by two-thirds of the voters in Manchester. Those eleven boroughs sent seventeen Members, while Manchester only sent two; which a little arithmetic would show was in round numbers thirteen to one against Manchester. Putting these numbers together, the aggregate would be found close upon ten to one, as he had said; besides which, the data were three or four years old, and there could not be much doubt which way the alterations would lie. One thing more, he would take this opportunity to impress. He had heard something like a statement that this decision, such as it was, was to be "final." He believed hon. Gentlemen
 1401
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  was anxious to see the name of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon on the Committee. The right hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Baines) also, had given valuable evidence on the subject to be investigated; and the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had paid much attention to the condition of
 1404
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  would also suggest the propriety of reporting progress. It was unusual, without any explanation, and at so advanced a period of the evening, to propose such a Vote. He hoped, as the Committee had voted the number of men, there would be no objection to withdraw the Motion.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : There is no such Motion before us.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said: The hon. Member who has just sat down has taken a course which was certainly unexpected by me; not that I think it was inconsistent with his former conduct in this House, for from him I cannot expect any-course but that which is honourable. At the same time, while he had some consolation from the existence of the present Ministry with regard to the burdens on land and with regard to protection, I am afraid that he must not indulge much hope from that influx of paper money which he thinks is so desirable: because the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer said the other day at the hustings that "if the Gentleman expects a great; influx of paper money, I am afraid that he will be disappointed." Therefore, my hon. Friend must not expect his theories: to be carried into effect by the present Ministers. I think we have upon this occasion very great and important questions to consider. We have especially two questions: one the question of the Constitutions and another the question of the commercial policy which has been pursued from 1842 to the present time. Now, Sir, with respect to the constitutional question, upon which I think that much misapprehension has existed, and certainly much accusation, has been brought against me, which I think totally undeserved, I will state what occurs to me upon that subject. It appeared to me that the course of the present Ministers was one that was perfectly clear, and one which I own that I am surprised that they did not adopt. The late Ministers haring resigned their situations into the hands of Her Majesty, it appeared to me, when Her Majesty asked me to whom she should, have recourse (though I was not positively hound to name my successor), that the Earl, of Derby was at the head of the greatest party in the House of Commons, and that he was the most likely person to be able to find support in this House, and that it was but consonant with my duty to recommend? Her Majesty to send for the Earl of Derby. The Earl of Derby, as I expected accepted and executed the commission which Her Majesty gave him. The position, of the new Ministers was one perfectly regular Parliamentary, and constitutional. They had nothing to do but to take their seats in this House and to appear in this House as invested with the confidence the Crown? But what was their next step?
 1361 from the Ministerial benches. 1362 1363 1364 1365 1366 1367 Si ipsum audivissetis, 1368 1369 1370 1371 s. s. s. s. 1372 l. l.; d. d. s. s. s 1373 Cries of "We are asked to imitate the example of England, but already we have gone tar beyond the example of England. In France we raise about 18,000,000 l. l. l. 1374 l. 1375 1376 1377
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I beg to say that no such Motion would have my support.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : With regard to two words used by the right hon. Gentleman, do those two words "good government," include the measures referred to the other night with respect to reform in the Court of Chancery?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I rise to put a question of great importance to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The House will recollect
 1300 1301
 MR. STAFFORD  said, the hon. Member for Lambeth had correctly stated that since the important question was addressed to the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite (Admiral Berkeley), his attention had been very strongly called to the circumstances of the case, and with the permission of the House he would state them as shortly as he could—at the same time fairness to all parties demanded that he should trespass some little time on the attention of the House. In October, 1849, the  Inconstant, Inconstant Inconstant Asia 1303 Inconstant
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that an inquiry was made last night respecting the case of Mr. Mather. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) inquired whether the result of the judicial inquiry conducted at Florence had been transmitted to this country. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) found that the evidence taken before that tribunal had been sent to this country; and he was bound to say
 1304
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: The noble Lord has addressed to Her Majesty's Government an unprecedented question. The noble Lord has referred to a precedent in the year 1841, when he sat on the Treasury bench, and was the Leader of this House; but the noble Lord will allow me to remind him of a considerable difference between those who now sit on the Treasury bench and the noble Lord in 1841, because the Government then had been condemned by a vote of this House, and both the precedents to which Sir Robert Peel referred—1787 and 1831—were in a similar category; all had a reference to a Ministry that had been condemned by a vote of the House of Commons. The noble Lord ought to have described the question not only as an important, but also as an unprecedented, one. I shall, however, reply to the noble Lord. I think it is highly unconstitutional and most impolitic that Her Majesty's Government should pledge themselves to advise Her Majesty to dissolve Parliament at a stated and specific period. The noble Lord must feel that circumstances might suddenly arise which would render the fulfilment of such a pledge not only injurious, but perhaps even impracticable. At the same time I have no hesitation in saying that it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to advise Her Majesty to dissolve this Parliament so soon as those necessary measures have been passed—I should rather say, so soon as those measures have been passed which are necessary for the service of Her Majesty and the security and good government of Her realm. I need only say further, that it is our wish and our intention to meet the new Parliament that will be elected, so that the decision of the new Parliament may be taken upon the question of confidence in the present Administration, and upon the measures which they will feel it their duty, under those circumstances, to propose, in the course of the present year.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I do not feel called on to give any
 1302
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have to beg the noble Lord's pardon. I listened attentively to the speed of the noble Lord, expecting that after he had concluded the interesting narrative and amusing arguments with which he had favoured us, he would at last have condescended to announce that he did not sanction the proposal of the hon. Member for Middlesex to negative these Estimates. [ Cries of
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the noble Lord who has just sat down Said there were two questions before the House, or rather that the question before us might be viewed in two aspects, the one constitutional and the other economical; but I must recall the attention of the House to this fact, that the question before the House is one of a much simpler nature—it is the first Motion of the newly-constructed Opposition, and that Motion is one to stop the Supplies. That Motion, gaily proposed by the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Osborne), and respectfully recommended by the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Cardwell), was enforced in a speech of great length and careful preparation by the noble Lord recently First Minister of the Crown. Sir, we will meet the noble Lord, and the newly-constructed Opposition, on the issue they have themselves selected, and on that issue we intend to divide. The noble Lord professes to be much astonished that any imputation of faction should for a moment be raised against him. We were told, indeed, the
 1378 dicta 1379 1380 1381
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Well, then, the negative to the vote which the hon. Member for Middlesex said he would move. [ Cries of
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That cheer is premature. That is the Motion before the House; but the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex not only announced that he opposed the Motion, but that he intended to divide upon it. Of course, I can have no wish to misrepresent the noble Lord; and it has given me the greatest pleasure to observe the noble Lord recede from his perilous position. I am glad that, on second thoughts, the noble Lord will not go on. I will now make one observation on the second part of the question, according to the noble Lord's division of it. I do not exactly understand what the noble Lord wishes the Government to do in this matter. The noble Lord said to-night that, to a certain degree, there had been, on the part of the Government, an absence of reserve; but that, on the other hand, there had not been that explicit declaration of principles which would have been agreeable to him. The noble Lord is not the most disinterested judge in the world; and if the noble Lord admits that there has been an absence of reserve, although there has not been such an explicit declaration as he requires, an impartial judge might decide that, on the whole, the Ministerial de-
 1382
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the Committee would consent to grant this Vote only, and he should
 1402
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : This is another proof of "the advantages of free discussion." I am glad to find there is another seceder; I am curious to ascertain what is the force that the hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex will carry with him into the lobby, and whether it will comprise any part of the public friends who met at the private residence of the noble Lord. I can tell the noble Lord that, when we go to I the country, the issue will be as distinct as, under such circumstances, it ever has been. It is clearly an issue whether the people have confidence in the present Administration, or whether they have not? It is clearly an issue whether the agricultural interest (on whose fortunes the noble Lord has so considerably dwelt to-night) have confidence in the present Administration, or whether they have not? It is clearly an issue whether they believe, or do not believe, that if we remain in power we shall do our utmost to redress the grievances of which they so justly complain? I believe that issue is distinctly understood by them. And, notwithstanding the speeches of the noble Lord, and those of his new ally, the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), they are perfectly satisfied that that issue should be arrived at as speedily as is consistent with the service of the country. I was reminding the hon. Gentleman the Member for Liverpool, when he made that pleasing intimation of his exact situation, which was received by this side of the House with such satisfaction, that he had given us a lecture, founded upon the conduct of Sir Robert Peel in 1841. But I must warn the hon. Gentleman and the House against putting more value upon that instance than it deserves. The hon. Member was one of the most ardent followers of that eminent personage, and he will remember that, in 1835, Sir Robert Peel professed a different opinion, and pursued a very different course. I do not think an interval of five years could make so much difference, that Sir
 1383 1384 1385 l.
 MR. CARDWELL : I beg to inform the right hon. Gentleman, that the idea of re fusing the number of men necessary for the Army, or giving a negative to the proposal before the House, never entered my head.
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, if I am so fortunate as to obtain for a brief period the attention of the Committee, I promise them that I will not willingly let fall a single word which can have the remotest tendency to perpetuate that heat which appeared, a few minutes ago, likely to disturb this debate. Sir, I believe there never was an occasion when calmness and deliberate reflection were more urgently demanded from those who take part in this discussion. I believe that we are called upon now to settle two of the most important questions on which the liberties and the happiness of a free people can depend. For, Sir, why is it that this favoured country has during the last few years enjoyed unexampled peace and prosperity? Is it not from that balance of our free constitution which, by the observance
 1347 from the Treasury bench. 1348 "If the Government say, 'We are independent of the legislative measures and decisions of this House, that which is your peculiar function we will disregard, our fate shall not depend upon your decisions, nothing but your interference with our executive administration shall influence our retention of power;' what an inducement do you not hold out to the House of Commons to interfere with the prerogative of the Crown! It is inconsistent with all usage, and inconsistent with the spirit of the constitution, that a Government should be enabled to select the measures which it thinks proper to submit to the consideration of a condemned Parliament, that it should withdraw some and submit others, that it should tell the Parliament, 'An immediate dissolution is in contemplation, but before we dissolve we Will just bring forward those measures the rejection of
 1349 Hansard, 1350 "The result of a trade carried on between a country which permits free imports and one which maintains hostile tariffs is, that the exports of the former are diminished in proportion to the amount of those tariffs." l., l. l.; 1351 1352 l., l. l., l. Laughter. 1353 l., l. l. 1354 "The debt would be diminished, and in the meantime the people might be relieved from some of the most burdensome taxes—from those which are imposed upon the necessaries of life or upon the materials of manufacture. The labouring poor would thus be enabled to live better, to work cheaper, and to send their goods cheaper to market. The cheapness of their goods would increase the demand for them, and, consequently, for the labour of those who produced them. This increase in the demand for labour would both increase the numbers and improve the circumstances of the labouring poor. Their consumption would increase, and, together with it, the revenue arising from all those articles of their consumption on which the taxes might be allowed to remain." l., l., l. 1355
 MR. CAYLEY : Sir, my wish will be to avoid raising a tone of exasperation on either side, I will be no party to the causing a war of classes in this country; and I cannot but think that one grievance of the Opposition, especially of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), is, that the Ministerial side of the House does not respond to the invitation he has thrown out to excite such a contest. Sir, as to the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Cardwell), I always observe that he speaks with great exultation of the effects of the policy of the late Sir Robert Peel on the finances of the country, as if on no previous occasion there had been a "spring" in the revenue after recovery from stagnation. Why, under similar circumstances, there never was an occasion when such a "spring" did not take place. In every instance since the war the same effects have been produced. It was so in 1817–18, it was so in 1824–25, it was so in 1835–36, and so again after the commercial stagnation of 1840–41. There came a "spring" after 1842, and the same increase of the revenue. But what I remark is, that there is not now so general a "spring" as took place in previous years. The export trade, it is said, has increased; but the increase of exports is not necessarily accompanied by an increase of prosperity. Will you affirm
 1356 and loud cries of Loud cries of and 1357 from the Opposition. pari passu 1358 s. 1359 1360
 MR. SCULLY  recommended the postponement of the Committee for the present. The question with which this Committee had to deal was essentially an Irish one, and ought to be thoroughly sifted.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that his hon. Friend who had just sat down, had adverted to the law appointments of the Government in Ireland in terms which he (Mr. Whiteside) felt compelled to notice. He was not sure whether his hon. Friend imagined that he excelled in irony; but he should say that he doubted whether the speech of the hon. Gentleman was constructed in that severe taste of polished sarcasm which he should have thought most suitable to that House. He reverenced genius when he met it; he admired eloquence when he heard it; but he thought he could distinguish between the divine original and the miserable imposture. The hon. Gentleman had criticised severely the Ministers who had made the recent appointments in Ireland, which he said did not deserve, and had not obtained, the confidence of the Roman Catholic people, or, as he (Mr. Whiteside) understood, of the Roman Catholic priesthood. [Mr. OSBORNE: No!] Now he was certainly open to that objection; and although he had never in his life, to his knowledge, uttered a sentiment offensive to Roman Ca-
 1320 1321 1322
 MR. BRIGHT : There have been one or two questions discussed to-night which I do not mean to enter upon. I will not enter upon any discussion as to the policy pursued by the noble Lord at the head of the late Government, or as to how far he is to be blamed for the present posture of affairs. The noble Lord will no doubt be able to defend the course he took in this House. Neither will I discuss whether the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down is precisely such a champion of the aristocracy as they may much admire, or such a one as the democracy ought to fear. Neither will I discuss the question of free trade, because the question now is not whether the principle of free trade is sound or not. The question now before us, and that which the country is anxious to know something about is, whether a Government that, notwithstanding the high flight of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, has acknowledged itself to be in a minority in this House, and which, as an Opposition, maintained a policy, and scrambled into office on a policy, which a majority of the House has repeatedly declared to be pestiferous and dangerous—ought to be permitted to carry on the Government without being summoned before that tribunal to which, in this country, I am happy to say, all Administrations must submit. It is not because the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer and his Friends sit on the benches opposite, and that I wish to see those on this side of the House take their places, that I press this view of the question. The right hon. Gentleman proposes to carry on the Government with an avowed and acknowledged minority, and he claims credit for his willingness to carry certain measures which have been proposed by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell). If the right hon. Gentleman can do that—if the right hon. Gentleman can claim credit for taking such a course, supported by 220 Members, but still a minority of the House, why may not a minority of thirty or forty Members—why may not, in fact, a mere Executive adopt the same course, and claim the support and forbearance of the House? It appears to me that the only question which can delay a dissolution of Parliament, is the question of what is called the internal defence of the country. Now, seeing that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) declared, that he did not propose this measure, the establishment of a militia force, to meet a special emergency—seeing that
 1387 1388 Morning Post, Morning Herald, Standard 1389 1390 1391 1392 1393 Derisive cheers. l. l. "They had now a solemn duty to perform in electing a Member for this great comity. They had one of two courses to pursue. In returning a Member to the House of Commons, they should support one or other of two great parties in that House. It was perfectly absurd to imagine that any Member of that House could stand neutral in the approaching contest. And what was the issue to be decided in that contest? The sole question was, whether they should have protection to agriculture or not." Cries of 1394 1395
 MR. BRIGHT : The Committee will bear in mind, that when I spoke of the borough which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Thesiger) represents, I did not make any allusion to any part he had personally taken. None knew better than many hon. Gentlemen opposite that these things are often managed when the candidate has nothing to do with them openly, and often when he is totally ignorant of what is being done. What I stated was, that a petition had been presented against the return of the hon. and learned Gentleman; that the hon. Gentleman's Friends proposed, as he has said, to enter into the case of his opponents; and that parties to the petition in the borough—[ Loud and continued cries of prevented the hon. Member from concluding the sentence. 1400 l.
 MR. HATCHELL  regretted that the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, in replying to the hon. Member for Middlesex on the subject of the recent legal appointments in Ireland, had not confined himself to a panegyric on those appointments; but be had with his usual indiscretion charged the late Government with making unfair appointments; those ap-
 1323
 MR. REYNOLDS  hoped the request of the hon. Member for the county of Limerick (Mr. Monsell) would be acceded to. The Committee was objectionable, because seven out of fifteen of the members of the Committee were Englishmen. He wanted to know why the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. H. Drummond) was upon the Committee, and why the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. S. Crawford) should be omitted? The provinces of Munster and Connaught were not at all represented on the Committee, nor were the tenantry of Ireland at all represented there. He objected to proceeding with the nomination of the Committee to-night. It was, if not a packed jury, at least a selected one. The jury ought to be recast.
 MR. HUME  did not wish to cast any reproach upon the right hon. Gentleman, but he thought at that late hour it was not advisable to proceed any further.
 MR. HUME  hoped they would not proceed further at that hour of the night.
 MR. NAPIER  moved that the Select Committee on Outrages (Ireland) should consist of fifteen Members.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he had selected those Gentlemen whom he thought most qualified to sit on the Committee, and only six of them were at all connected with the Government. It was somewhat difficult to make a selection, but he believed he had made the best choice open to him.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he
 1309 1310 1311 and cries of from the Ministerial benches. "If you are to have a popular Government; if you are to have a Parliamentary Administration, the conditions antecedent are, that you should have a Government which declares the principles
 1312 Hansard, 1313 Cunctando restituit rem. incog., 1314 1315 Dod, Dod? l. 1316 Hansard, 1317 ——"in his utmost need, By those his former bounty fed." 1318 1319
 MR. BERNAL : Does the hon. Member for Middlesex divide?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that the few remarks by which he had brought on this discussion had been intended to extort some avowal of their policy from Her Majesty's Ministers. He had failed in this object. He should not divide the Committee on the present occasion. He had been met on the part of one Member of the Government, the hon. and learned Solicitor General for Ireland, with an imputation on his skill as a debater, which, of course, the hon. and learned Gentleman was quite at liberty to suggest; but the hon. and learned Gentleman had also thought proper to impugn his convictions on a more sacred subject. As to his skill as a debater, he would only say that, at all events, he never indulged in pompous periods of vapid declamations. As to the other matter, he never made professions of pharisaical sanctity—ebullitions of Orange piety engrafted on the zeal and fanaticism of a Latter-day Saint.
 MR. COBDEN : Well, I will state exactly what I have heard in the course of my—[ Loud cries of 1343 Cries of Cries of 1344
 MR. COBDEN : Just so; it is the assertion of the incorrectness of the hon. Baronet's statement that I mean to deal with. The noble Lord, in speaking for his noble relative, states that he has suffered a loss of income in consequence of our free-trade policy. Now, I was not aware of, and I did not catch the passage in the hon. Baronet's speech in which the Duke of Richmond's case was referred to. However, don't let hon. Gentleman suppose, if this question is to be raised, that it will be possible to avoid individual cases. I have had the opportunity of knowing, from being an occasional resident in his neighbourhood, and yet I have not heard that there has been a reduction in his rents; but I have heard the contrary.
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, the definition of a Protectionist which we have just heard from the noble Lord the Member for West Sussex is something new; and I think whatever may be the opinion in this House, there will be no difference of opinion in the country as to what has been the interpretation and what has hitherto been the meaning put upon the term "protection." At all events the noble Lord will allow the House to make use of the definition that he has given us, and to convert the name of the Earl of Derby into that of a Protectionist. Now, we are bound to consider that we are dealing with a Protectionist Government, and that saves me, a great deal of argument, because we have it avowed by one who is so eminent, and who is so nearly connected with a nobleman who is a distinguished lender and champion of protection—we have it, I say, avowed by the noble Lord who has just sat down, that we are dealing with a Protectionist Government. Now, that is my case. We have a proposition from a Protectionist Government in the House of Commons that we should show a mark of our confidence in them by voting the supplies of the year for the Army. Now, it is an old constitutional rule, and, in fact, it is an indisputable rule in all representative countries, that the majority of the House of Commons, or the representative body, should govern the country. I ask the noble Lord then, who comes hero in the name of a Protectionist Government to ask a Free-trade Parliament to grant a mark of their confidence by voting the Supplies, whether he will
 1338 1339 1340 1341 1342
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was willing to substitute other names in order to meet the views of the objectors to the present list. If it was thought that the interests of the south of Ireland were at all neglected, he was perfectly willing to add such names as would inspire a greater amount of confidence.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  trusted that the Committee in its present shape might be agreed to, and that other names might be added to meet the views of the hon. Member for the county of Limerick. For his own part, he regarded the presence of the names of English Members as a guarantee of the fairness with which the inquiry would be conducted.
 MR. BOOKER  said, he thought they might then very well drop the subject of the law appointments of the Government. Neither did he mean to enter into any discussion of the extent to which Government possessed the confidence of that House; and he certainly would not attempt to pronounce any opinion on the confidence which the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne), who had opened that debate, had manifested in himself. But as a Member of that country party which the hon. Member had attacked in such unmeasured terms, he was desirous of recording the entire confidence which he, as a member of that party, reposed in the Government which had just been formed. He was desirous also of taking that opportunity of expressing his entire reliance and confidence in the judgment, the discretion, the eloquence, and the ability of the right hon. Gentleman who led them in that House. He readily joined in the tribute of respect which had been paid to that right hon. Gentleman's genius and ability; and assuredly no taunt from the other side of the House would wean the country party from the confidence they reposed in him. He (Mr. Booker) apprehended that it was unnecessary for him to dilate on the ability, the manliness, and the integrity of the noble Lord the present First Minister of the Crown. That noble Lord had led them on
 1324 1325
 MR. GLADSTONE  did not understand if the Government had agreed to report progress. The proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), and the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), was perfectly fair. he thought the votes given the other night on the Navy Estimates, showed an indication that there was no disposition but to deal fairly with the Government; but he must say, with reference to their duties to the public, it was not desirable, as a general rule, at such an hour of the night to ask for these Votes.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, he roust take that opportunity of protesting against the misrepresentation of what he had said at Braintree, by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon, and the hon. Member for Middlesex. They had put into his mouth language which he had never made use of. He now begged to move, "That a sum of 3,602,067 l.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, it had fallen to his duty to move the Army Estimates, and in so doing, he had a claim to the forbearance of the Committee, for it was his duty to bring forward Estimates, not of his own preparing, for they were those of the late Government. He had not yet had time to give to each Vote that examination and inquiry which would enable him to give satisfactory answers to some of the objections that might be made, and he was sorry to have further to state, that he was suffering under severe indisposition. The Committee were aware that the effective and non-effective Votes were divided into seventeen branches. It was his intention to go over them briefly, and to show the increase and decrease as compared with last year, in the number of men, and the charges necessary
 1305 l. l., l. l., l., l. l., l. l. l., l. l. l., l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1306 l., l., l. l., l.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that though the right hon. and learned Gentleman had stated that the inquiry was to be confined to only three counties in Ireland, yet from the whole tenor of the speech he made to the House, it was perfectly evident that he contemplated some changes in the law which extended not only to those three counties, but to the whole of the rest of Ireland. Under those circumstances he had read the list of the Committee with great surprise, because, though the south of Ireland was deeply affected by the inquiry, it had not a single representative in the Committee. Taking into account the very grave changes the right hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to introduce—grave in any country, but particularly so in a country so divided as Ireland was into different classes, unfortunately too often hostile to each other, he thought it would be much better to postpone the appointment of the Committee until the House had an opportunity of considering the names of those who composed it.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, it was not his wish to be put upon the Committee, but thought it ought to be so constituted as would entitle its report to the confidence of the Irish people.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that after the slight attention which had been given to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War, he could expect but little attention for
 1307 1308
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was blamed by the hon. and gallant Member for Gloucester (Admiral Berkeley) for putting a question to him the other night, with reference to the shooting a sailor by the peremptory command of Captain Shepherd, of Her Majesty's ship  Inconstant,
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, the hon. and learned Solicitor General for Ireland had, in the course of his speech, put one very pointed question—he had asked whether it was necessary to be a Minister for a man to be a hypocrite? He (Sir B. Hall) would ask—Is it not advisable that he who is a Minister should be an honest man? and, if such were the case, and if the hon. and learned Gentleman thought that the Ministry, as it stood at present, was composed of men who were determined to support a policy they had formerly pronounced for—if they were determined to stand by those professions which had enabled them to acquire the high position they now occupied, he thought they ought, having attained that position, to come forward and declare, as honest men, to the country whether they intended to abide by those professions, or whether they merely put them forward for the purpose of acquiring office. He was very much surprised at the speech which had been delivered by the hon. Gentleman who had
 1326 1327 1328 s. "If the general body of the community, from their prejudice, their passion, and their shortsighted views, have a prejudice against this policy, I will not pledge the existence of a Government upon such a measure." "Unfortunate will be the position of this country when a Minister pursues a line of policy adverse to the convictions which he himself entertains." "It is our belief that the best way, so far as the agricultural interest is concerned, would be to adopt that mode which science has recommended, and which we think only prejudice and passion oppose; but if the country will not have recourse to that mode of compromise, we bow to their decision." "They shall have measures forced upon them by which they will suffer infinitely more." 1329 s. s. s. s. 1330 s. s.: "Deeply should I regret should any large proportion of those Members who have been sent to Parliament to represent the landed tenantry of England in this House, prove to be the men to bring lasting dishonour upon themselves, their constituencies, and this House, by an act of tergiversation so gross as to be altogether unprecedented in the annals of a reformed or unreformed House of Commons." [3  Hansard, "We are a 'proud aristocracy;' but, if we are proud, it is that we are proud in the chastity of our honour. If we assisted in 1841 in turning the Whigs out of office, because we did not consider a fixed duty of 8 s. Hansard, ibid. 1331 s. s. A laugh. 1332 "That all friends of protection are hereby earnestly called on to support the Association, and to co-operate to the utmost of their power in obtaining a reversal of the present system of free importation, which is fast sapping the sources of national wealth, and threatens to consummate, ere long, the ruin of the country." "I cannot, as an honest man, abandon the attempt to relieve the existing distress by retracing the false step which has been taken, and to remedy the wrong done by the imposition of a moderate import duty on corn." "By the imposition of a moderate duty upon the import of corn and provisions, to get rid, in a year or two, of the income tax." l. l. s. exposé, 1333 l. l.; l. l.; l., l. l., l., l., l., l. 1334 "In 1846 we all admitted that there would necessarily be a great expansion of the foreign trade, and we said that expansion would be accompanied by considerable suffering, which would overweigh our great and important interests at home. No doubt much that was predicted did not occur; but allow me to say that much that was predicted has occurred. Distress on the farmers has occurred; but I admit, and it is with unfeigned pleasure I admit it, that the labouring population of England has not suffered, but, on the contrary, their condition has improved." "We must ask ourselves, as subjects of a popular Government, what were the means, what the
 1335 Hansard, 1336
 COLONEL FREE STUN  begged to ask the hon. and gallant Member for Portar-lington (Colonel Dunne) whether he intended to bring forward his annual Motion about the Guards in the course of the present Session?
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that, although he did not regret that there was no discussion on the Naval Estimates the other night, he felt that it would be becoming in him, as the Board to which he had belonged prepared these Estimates, to say something in favour of the late Board, after the enormous quantity of abuse which had been heaped upon them, both by certain Gentlemen on the other side of the House, and by the public press in general. And here he begged to say, that after all the abuse that had been heaped upon the late Board, he was astonished that the present Board of Admiralty had taken upon themselves to adopt the Estimates of their predecessors. He would begin with the case of the  Megœra. 1437 Apollo, Apollo, "During the whole period of my service (and my first trip with troops was in 1816, with my own county militia to Ireland), I have never seen anything to equal the cleanliness, comfort, and regularity I have observed in the  Apollo, Belleisle, 1438 1439
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  was sure that his hon. and gallant Friend who had just sat down would not give a contradiction to that to which he (Admiral Berkeley) had pledged his professional character. He pledged himself that, within twenty-four hours after a requisition had been made to the late Board of Admiralty, the steamers would have been found, and armed, in all respects ready for sea, and would, in fact, have been at sea covering the Channel from the North Foreland to the Channel Islands. He repeated that statement. The same means were in the hands of the present Board of Admiralty; and they could do it when they pleased. He took no credit to himself or those who acted with him for this scheme, which was originally formed during the Administration, he believed, of the late Sir Robert Peel.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, this only showed that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. W. Williams) was speaking upon a subject of which he knew nothing. The hon. Member merely looked at the last edition of the  Navy List, 1445 l.
 MR. CORRY  said, he agreed with the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Baring) that our Navy was never in a better condition than at the present moment, whether it regarded our ships or stores; but he must remind the Committee that it was through the effort of Sir Robert Peel's Government to build a steam fleet that they now possessed a reserve of steamers in a state of efficiency for sea at a moment's warning. The right hon. Baronet had taken credit for having reduced the Estimates by 1,500,000 l. 1450 1451 l.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  had on former Sessions called attention to the manning of the Navy. He had had interviews with Lord Auckland and other Lords of the Admiralty on the subject, and had put the case to them whether it would be possible to resort to impressment in the event of war. To many old officers with whom he had been
 1453 d. 1454
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he wished to say a few words on the important subject of the manning of the Royal Navy, which was one of the most difficult questions they could have to consider in endeavouring to provide for the efficiency of our naval force. They might have ships in abundance; and yet if they wanted men the country would not be safe. The late Board of Admiralty had, after much deliberation, devised a plan which they thought would, to a certain extent, meet the difficulty, and which would at any rate serve as an experiment. He could not himself feel very sanguine as to the efficiency of that plan until it should have been fairly tried. He had heard it stated that it was difficult to understand the scheme; but he should, say that the present Board of Admiralty ought either to take it up fairly or to abandon it altogether. There was no conceivable scheme with respect to which differences of opinion would not prevail among naval officers; and any scheme which was not known to have the support of influential parties at the Admiralty could not succeed. It was most important that the first step in any plan should be taken efficiently if it were to be taken at all; and He repeated that be hoped the new Board of Admiralty would either abandon the scheme of the naval reserve, or would seriously endeavour to carry it into successful operation. There was another point upon which he wished to offer a few words of explanation. Formerly, if at the outbreak of a war a bounty had been given for the entry of any one seaman, a similar bounty had been given to every man in the service; and that had been found to be a very onerous and inconvenient arrangement. It was at present proposed, therefore, that, without affecting the rights of existing seamen, those who might enter the service for the future should not have the power of claiming the bounty in question. With re-
 1455
 COLONEL PEEL  said, he was surprised that not one word had been said in the course of the discussion upon the Navy Estimates in reference to the circumstance of a foreign yacht having recently come to this country, and, in the presence of the Queen herself, beat some of our crack sailing vessels. That appeared to him a humiliating event. He remembered a leader in a morning newspaper characterising the American yacht as "the racehorse of the Ocean." Though He (Colonel Peel) was wholly ignorant of nautical matters, and knew as little how to manage a boat as any of the class of officers referred to by the hon. and gallant Member for Bath (Captain Scobell), yet he admitted he was to some extent conversant with the pastime of horse-racing, and flattered himself that he could appreciate such an expression as "the blue ribbon of the turf," with which the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had recently made them familiar; but, whatever might be the sailing qualities of the American yacht, this he knew, that if such a defeat had been sustained on the English turf as had happened to our sailing vessels in the instance to which he had referred, there was not a true sportsman in this country who would not have gone to almost any expense to have recovered back our lost laurels. It was part of his creed that "Britannia rules the waves;" but what became of the goddess on the day to which he had alluded he was not prepared to say; if she ruled the waves at all, on that occasion she must surely have done so with a downcast look. He would suggest that some part of the surplus funds from the Exhibition might be appropriated towards large prizes to be given with a view to encourage competition in the building of sailing vessels. It was of little or no use for us to go on constructing sailing squadrons merely to run against one another. If we would really improve the sailing qualities of our ships,
 1458
 ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, the hon. and gallant Member need be under no alarm as to our ships being surpassed by the American merchantmen. There was an American vessel called the  Oriental, Oriental.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, he did not wish to underrate the efforts made by foreign countries in the building of ships; but we must take care, if we had to compete with them, that our shipbuilders and shipowners were not overweighted in the race.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  thought the amount of the stores in our dockyards had rather been too much trenched upon of late. He saw, with regard to timber, masts, and deals, the expenditure had been reduced by some thousands. He wanted to know
 1459 l.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, the Estimates were carefully gone through, and at the close he asked Mr. Dundas, the storekeeper-general, whether it was wise to increase the stores in any particular; when that gentleman replied that, notwithstanding there was a diminution in the Estimates of 84,000 l.,
 MR. COWPER  thought it was preposterous to suppose that two different steamers should run across the Atlantic—one to Halifax, and another to St. John's.
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, the Admiralty had made a contract with the Dublin Steam Packet Company for 25,000 l. 1462
 The CHAIRMAN  said, the latter Amendment was also irregular.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  said, that he was far from wishing to doubt one word of what his hon. and gallant Friend had said. He quite believed that this might be done, if he said so.
 ADMIRAL BOWLES  said, that the  Canopus 1443 l. l. l.,
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  wished to call the attention of his hon. Friend the Secretary for the Admiralty to a Resolution which had been passed by that House, declaring its opinion that better accommodation should be provided for assistant surgeons throughout the Navy. He might assert without fear of contradiction that the Resolution had not been carried out in that spirit of justice in which it was the intention of the House that it should be carried out. He readily admitted that the position of assistant surgeons had been very much improved since the passing of that Resolution. But an order had been promulgated which had acted most injuriously on assistant surgeons, and which was an insult to the whole medical profession. It was declared in that order that no young man entering the Navy as an assistant surgeon should receive cabin accommodation till he had passed through a professional service of three years. At the age which those gentlemen who were of superior and scientific education had attained when they entered the service, they were compelled to associate in the cockpit with boys for for three years before they were thought fit to be placed in the society of lieutenants of the Navy and lieutenants of marines. It was possible a lieutenant of marines seventeen years of age, might be embarked in a line-of-battle ship; and if he were fit to receive a cabin, an assistant surgeon should be so. Another defect in that order was, that it was not sufficiently peremptory in requiring captains to give the accommodation required. He did not say they wilfully evaded it. He had received letters from all parts where our ships were sta-
 1452 "Penelope, off Lagos, Jan. 2. "Nothing could exceed the devotion of the officers of the medical staff to the exigencies of the day—one surgeon, five assistant surgeons. Whenever a man was struck in the boats a medical man was immediately at his side, setting their own lives at nought when compared with the wants of their brave companions in arms." l.
 MR. CLEMENTS  thought the postal communication between Holyhead and Kingstown ought to be expedited. The vessels were quite capable of going the distance in three hours and a half, instead of four hours and a half and five hours.
 MR. FOX MAULE  wished to say a few words for the honour of his own country. There had been a regular competition between the American and the Aberdeen builders as to ships for China and Newfoundland; and the Aberdeen builders had beaten their opponents altogether.
 MR. FOX MAULE  was glad to hear that the right hon. Gentleman intended to adopt the recommendation of the House upon this subject. The question had been discussed more than once, and it had been fully inquired into by a Committee that had sat more than two years. They
 1431
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, that he had been unable until that moment to find an opportunity of asking a question of the right hon. Gentleman opposite the Secretary at War. A Committee which sat last year and the year before on the subject of Army expenditure, had recommended it as a matter well worthy of the attention of the late Government whether it might not
 1429
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he must deprecate a debate upon such a question as that raised by the Amendment, and without pledging himself to any particular scheme of any kind, was anxious that the Government should be permitted to lay their Militia Bill upon the table on as early a day as possible. He had his own opinions on the subject of volunteer companies. He thought that such a force might be very serviceable as a secondary corps to support a regular army, or to support any force regularly combined; but he should be very sorry to entrust the entire defence of any country to such an armament as volunteer companies.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he could not congratulate the hon. and learned Gentleman on the fairness of his answer to his
 1470
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he merely wished to have the assurance from the right hon. Gentleman that no alteration would be made in the application of the grant for the present year.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said: Sir, I am desirous of recalling to the House what has taken place since last Monday on the Committee of Supply. On Monday last I was anxious to obtain an explanation with respect to the intentions of the Government, and their course of policy as to their measures in the present Session. We were told then that as they were in a minority in this House, as there was a large majority against them, they could not bring forward measures with regard to their
 1408 1409 1410 1411
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that there was no charge for steam communication with the Canadas and Newfoundland, although there was a charge for the communication with New York, and although the commerce and intercourse between the two first countries and England had of late very much increased. It was a most curious fact, that though there was a grant of 14,700 l. l.,
 MR. COCHRANE  said, the preposterous part of the proceeding was, that passengers, as he had pointed out, should, when within fifty or sixty miles of their place of destination, be carried 600 miles past the port, and have to travel 600 miles back again.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, he begged to point out to the Committee the deficiency of postal communication with the Orkney and Shetland isles. His constituents there had great cause to complain as to the inadequacy of the present arrangements. The group of islands with which he would deal more especially now was the Orkneys, which were divided from the mainland by the Pentland Firth. Arrangements had been made by the Post Office which gave them a daily mail; but the provisions for carrying the mail acsoss the strait consisted merely of some small boats, which, whenever there was so much as a cat's paw of wind did not cross over. This state of things was not very easily remediable till within a few years, because there was no harbour on the Caithness coast; but there had now been formed an harbour near Thurso, capable of affording shelter in all weather for vessels of considerable size. A small steam vessel to run across this strait would give the inhabitants something like a regular post; and from an Admiralty survey which He had obtained, the additional expense would not exceed 500 l.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that the matter should be inquired into, and that the Admiralty would compel the performance of the contract to the very letter.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that the answer to both the hon. Gentlemen who had just spoken was the fact, that the Admiralty in this matter was merely subordinate to the Post Office, and both were subordinate to the Treasury. If the hon. Gentleman would apply to the Post Office, then the Post Office might apply to the Treasury, and both would then send their wishes to the Admiralty, which would be sure to attend to them.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, the subject had already attracted the attention of the Board of Admiralty, and would continue to do so. The difficulty was one of expense. The hon. Gentleman seemed to think the Admiralty might be reimbursed the expenditure of carrying out his suggestions, but that appeared to' him (Mr. Stafford) somewhat problematical.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he could undertake to say that the new Board of Admiralty would give to the suggestions of the right hon. Baronet (Sir F. Baring) the attention which they deserved from their importance and from the kind manner in which they had been offered. With respect to the naval reserve, he had to state that the present Board of Admiralty accepted the principles of that plan as a really valuable one, and that they were disposed to carry it fairly' into operation. But they did not regard the scheme as one peculiarly adapted to a sudden crisis, if such a crisis should arise. He believed that the good effects of it would not be perceptible all at once. It was supposed that it would ensure for Her Majesty's service a better character among merchant seamen than that which that service had hitherto enjoyed. At present the greater portion of those who left the Royal Navy for the merchant service were persons of bad character, who represented Her Majesty's service in much worse colours than it deserved; and it was hoped that under the system of the naval reserve, men of good character when they loft the Royal Navy would speak favourably of it to their companions among whom they would afterwards mix. We had at present in the merchant seamen's service about 230,000 men, besides about 50,000 men who disappeared in distant parts of the world, and were not seen again until after the lapse of three or four years. If the plan should succeed, it must still be obvious that so small a body among so large a mass must work but slowly. The question with regard to naval assistant surgeons was at this moment occupying the attention of the Admiralty, who were not unmindful of the necessity which existed for carrying out the order of the House upon the subject. They felt that that order ought to be carried out; but at the same time that some discretion should be left to the officer in command, and allowance made for the amount of accommodation on board ship. It was impossible to apply an abstract rule in this
 1456
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he was far from complaining of the questions put by the hon, and gallant Member, and hoped that any imperfections in his replies would not he attributed to unwillingness to answer, but to inexperience. Before commencing his attempt to reply, he would
 1435 1436
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, as the whole discussion, with respect to the Navigation Laws, had originated in some returns for which he had moved with respect to British tonnage, he hoped he might be allowed to submit some facts on this question to the consideration of the House. The returns which had been granted upon his Motion spoke for themselves, and needed no corroboration; still they did not comprehend the whole facts necessary to illustrate the diminution in the employment of British shipping since the repeal of the navigation laws. He would, therefore, simply lay before the House an account of the total number of vessels that passed the Sound in the years 1848, 1849, and 1850. The whole number of vessels that passed the Sound in 1848, was 16,853; in 1849, the number was 18,955; and in 1850, 19,064, showing an enormous increase in the total navigation through the Sound. And now, as to the number of British vessels that passed the Sound in those years—in 1848, the number was 6,714; in 1849, the number was 6,885; and in 1850, when the repeal of the Navigation Laws was beginning to be felt in this country, the number was only 5,448. Now, he had simply stated these simple figures, and they supplied the answer which he had to make to hon. Gentlemen who would get up and boast of the beneficial effects of the repeal of the Navigation Laws. If the present laws were not altered, and competition should prevail as it did at present, the result inevitably would be a decline of our naval strength.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped before they came to a division—if such was intended—that he might be allowed to congratulate the House and the country on the announcement of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), that, to use his own language, there ought not to be any further opposition to granting the supplies. He had been pleased also to hear from the highest authority on that side of the House, namely, the noble Lord the leader of the Opposition, that there was to be no further obstruction to the progress of public business. He could assure the noble Lord that he only did the Government justice in assuming and believing that they had an anxious desire for the proper discharge of the public business. They were not less anxious than the noble Lord that that recurrence to the sense of the people so often spoken of should take place; and they were prepared that it should take place—as he had stated the other night—as soon as those Votes were passed that were necessary for the service of Her Majesty, and those measures carried that they believed to be necessary for the security and good government of Her Majesty's Empire.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could assure the hon. Member for the city of Dublin that he quite sympathised with him in the view which he took of this subject. It was, however, considered desirable, under present circumstances, that no alteration should be made in the Estimates of their predecessors; but he did not wish the hon. Member to understand that the Government were opposed to a reconsideration of the question. The question wonld be reconsidered in a fair and candid spirit, whether the Government could, consistently with their views, take such a course as would have the effect of continuing Kilmainham Hospital for the purposes for which it was originally established.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Acts relating to the repayment of advances made to districts in Ireland. The object of the Bill was merely to recognise the Treasury Minute passed at the end of last autumn. It had been prepared by the late Government, and ought to be passed without delay. If hon. Gentlemen wished to have a discussion on the subject of Irish annuities, which was a subject of great importance, he should
 1476 l.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said that the hon. Baronet appeared to labour under some misapprehension with regard to the Bill, which had been introduced for the purpose of remitting a portion of the payments due from the people of Ireland on account of advances. In the year 1847, 8,000,000 l. l. l. l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was certain that the people of Dublin would be most happy at hearing the Chancellor of the
 1432
 COLONEL DUNNE  could not give the hon. and gallant Member any promise upon the subject.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he must request the hon. Secretary for the Treasury (Mr. G. A. Hamilton), as representing the Post Office in that House, to give some explanation on this subject.
 MR. HUDSON  begged to call particular attention to a petition which he had presented to that House from the shipbuilders of Sunderland, complaining that although they were fully occupied, yet they were pursuing their trade at a considerable loss, that they were in fact suffering considerable distress. They were pursuing their trade with that honourable determination which characterised British merchants, who, in times of commercial depression, ceased not to labour perseveringly, in the hope that better times might reward their industry. He hoped that the Government would devise some means whereby relief might be given to his distressed constituents. They were thankful for a repeal of half of the timber duties, and they looked forward to the day when the remaining half would be repealed, so that every facility might be given to them for pursuing their occupations. He had always thought it was a great hardship to permit foreign manufactured goods to be admitted duty free, whilst raw materials were not allowed to be imported free from duty. He begged to assure the noble Lord lately at the head of the Government, that the whole commercial world would feel exceedingly indebted to him for the forbearance which he had displayed on that occasion, in permitting the supplies necessary for the public service to be granted without delay.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  wished to draw the attention of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Admiralty to the immense number of half-pay officers at present on the list, which was very little reduced from what it was at the end of the war. The late Board of Admiralty did reduce the list somewhat, but it was still so large as to be an injustice to the officers themselves, most of whom had no chance of active employment, and an injustice to the service. Another subject to which he wished to call attention was the gallant action at Lagos. The Committee ought not to pass the Naval Votes without some allusion to one of the most gallant, and, at the same time, the most bloody actions by boats, ships, steamers, and other vessels, which he had ever known. If the despatches were closely scrutinised, it would be seen that nothing could be more energetic, more skilful, more persevering, on the part of those employed; and that the action was a most hotly-contested one would be judged of from the fact, that out of 400 men and officers engaged, 100 were killed and wounded. The late Board of Admiralty, he had no doubt, made their arrangements in a hurry; but he hoped the present Board would look through the list of officers who had got no reward but many a wound, with a view to some further promotions.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, it appeared to him that some of the observations which had been made as to the late Board of Admiralty were not very true, though he believed there had been some abuses in the management of the dockyards, and considerable want of judgment in building ships. It was not his intention, however, to enter into those matters then. His object was to make a few practical observations to the Committee. The Estimates before the Committee were made up by the late Board of Admiralty, and accepted by the present Board of Admiralty. There could be no dispute about that. The question, then, to be considered was, how they were to spend their money in future. They had been congratulated upon having a naval officer at the head of the Admiralty. While giving every credit for good intentions to the present head of the Admiralty, he must say that he would agree much more in those congratulations if the head of the Admiralty were not a Parliamentary or political man, and if the appointments and promotions in the Navy were not dispensed—not by the fault of the head of the Admiralty, but by the fault of the system—among those who have interest in preference, in many cases at least, to those who possess merit. The next subject he wished to call the attention of the Committee to was, how the list of officers stands as to efficiency; and for that purpose he would first call the attention of the Committee as to how the Navy List stood in 1795. We had then 91 admirals, 420 captains, 197 commanders, and 1,395 lieutenants, making 2,103 offi-
 1446 1447 Ganges Portland Champion Gorgon, Rodney. 1448 1449 d.
 MR. G. P. YOUNG  felt that he would be abandoning the position he had ever held on this question if he were not to meet the statements of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Labouchere) with a direct and positive contradiction. He affirmed that the shipbuilding trade in this country, and in the port of London in particular, was in a most disastrous condition. The only exception was the foreign orders now executing for ships of war, and not for the merchant service; and the same depression existed in all the ports of the kingdom. A return, giving an account of the British and foreign tonnage employed in the foreign trade of this country, had been laid on the table of the House a few days ago; and he must say he did not understand how the hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent (Mr. J. L. Ricardo) could make light of the reliance to be placed upon percentage calculations with such a document as this staring him in the face. The hon. Gentleman,
 1422
 SIR HENRY BARRON  also begged to express his satisfaction at the announcement of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer. The hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) said that the Committee had been unanimous in their opinion that Kilmainham Hospital should be abolished. He (Sir H. Barron) had always remarked that there was perfect unanimity amongst English and Scotch Members on every subject connected with Ireland. If it was proposed to do away with any Scotch establishment, they should have the hon. Member for Montrose, and other Scotch Members, urging most excellent reasons for its preservation.
 SIR HENRY BARRON  said, this was a question of the greatest interest to the people of Ireland. It was most desirable to come to some definite arrangement, but not such an arrangement as was proposed by the late Government or by the present Bill. It was a cruel infliction to force this tax upon the people under the distresses which had been brought upon them by the Government and the Legislature. These were not loans in the proper sense of the term, but advances made at a season of distress, and were never placed under the control of the ratepayers. He thought that the Government was bound to state, at an early day, what were their intentions with regard to the collection of these debts; but certainly they ought not to adopt the plan contained in this Bill of the late Government.
 MR. H. HERBERT  begged to call the attention of the Committee to the state of the Irish mails between Kingstown and Holyhead. A return which he had moved for that Session would show that there had been of late years a material decrease in the speed of these vessels, and that the mail packets lost at least half an hour on each trip. It was a curious anomaly that the only service that had not improved was the Irish mail service; but surely hon. Gentlemen who came such a distance to perform their Parliamentary duties ought to be provided with the best and quickest mode of transit.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he had not made a complaint against the Dublin Steam Packet Company breaking its contract, but what he wanted to show was, that, owing to a miserable skin-flint policy on the part of the late Government a sum was now paid for the service much less than that which it had cost the Government two years ago. The sum now paid per annum (25,000 l.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he considered the speech of the right hon. Gentleman to his constituents a sort of funeral oration over the Navigation Laws. The right hon. Gentleman said, and said truly, that no Government could materially alter the great measure by which that House had repealed the restrictions upon foreign and also upon British commerce. British commerce having once enjoyed all the new fields of enterprise which the removal of these restrictions had thrown open, that Government must be mad indeed which would attempt to reimpose them. If he had not entered into any discussion on the subject, it was not because he was afraid of entering into a controversy with the right hon. Gentleman with regard to the
 1421
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, as the Amendment was out of order, he thought his best course would be to move that the Bill be read this day six months, for the purpose of introducing another.
 MR. JACOB BELL  had little more to say. They must be convinced, from the facts which had come out during the inquiry, that they had all done that which they ought not to have done, and left undone that which they ought to have done. He considered the Bill unfair and unjust, and had felt it to be his duty to oppose it in every stage. No hon. Member knew how soon it might be his turn to be placed in a similar position.
 MR. JACOB BELL  hoped the House would not go into Committee at so late an hour of the evening, but, in justice to the borough of St. Albans, afford its representative an opportunity of explaining some of the peculiar circumstances in this case. Of course he had no wish to avoid explanation, having pledged himself to defend the interests of the borough, and if the House would give him a hearing, he should consider it his duty to proceed with the Amendments of which he had given I notice. He thought, however, it was then too late, being past twelve o'clock, to enter into the question, and he begged to move that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, he held in his hand a petition from the borough of St. Albans, the substance of which he hoped the Committee would allow him to state. The petitioners asserted they were in a condition to prove that there were upwards
 1473 1474 1475
 MR. WYLD  said, he was compelled to complain of the very inefficient way in which the charts were published, and 'begged to call attention to the mode in which the charts were published by the Navy of the United States and by the French Marine. The system adopted by the American Admiralty Board was much superior to that in operation in this country, inasmuch as the Americans adopted a uniform scale and plan by which they accomplished much greater results than was done here, and at much smaller expenditure of money. They had year after year expended nearly 60,000 l. l. l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had understood the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) to give the Government to understand that upon certain conditions no further discussions likely to protract their proceedings would take place from that side of the House—that the Votes which were necessary, and which any Government would require, should be agreed to with as little delay as possible, the Mutiny Bill passed, and, he presumed, the Bill for the disfranchisement of St. Albans, to which there appeared to be no opposition. On other questions there was no difference of opinion, except
 1417
 MR. HERRIES  said, that he must have expressed himself very imperfectly indeed, if the language he used conveyed anything like the impression which it seemed to have made on the mind of the hon. Gentleman. He (Mr. Herries) had said very nearly the reverse of what the hon. Gentleman had stated as his sentiments. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Labouchere) would do him the justice of bearing witness that when the question of the repeal of the Navigation Laws was before that House, he expressed an opinion, and he did so with great regret, that it would be difficult, if not altogether impossible, to reverse that measure if passed. He had even used with regard to it the hacknied quotation,  Vestigia nulla retrorsum.
 MR. MACGREGOR  would suggest that a reduction might safely be made in the strength of the garrisons in the North American Colonies. He had no hesitation in saying that the present peace and loyalty of those Colonies were owing to the responsible constitutions which had been given to them by the noble Lord the Member for London when he was Secretary of State for the Colonies. As the Estimates had been all carefully prepared by the late Government, he (Mr. Macgregor) would suggest that they should be allowed to pass as they were without opposition.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, that there was one subject upon which the public felt great interest upon which he wished to ask a question, more particularly as there seemed to be some ambiguity thrown upon it by the discrepancy in the statements of the noble Earl at the head of the Government in the House of Lords, and the hustings speech of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control. He alluded to the Repeal of the Navigation Laws. The noble Earl said that the repeal of the measure of 1848 would be wrong and unwise; but the right hon. Gentleman seemed to hold a very different opinion. He stated that the percentage of foreign tonnage had increased in a much larger ratio than the percentage of English tonnage. But that was an unfair way to put the subject, because, if from a certain country only one ship entered this country this year, and two ships entered next year, the increase of tonnage would be 100 per cent, while, if our British were to increase to a far larger extent, the percentage might not be so great. The hon. Gentleman, also, seemed to think that they could have no prosperity in this country without a corresponding degree of adversity in other countries. It was explicitly declared by the Earl of Derby in another place, that he utterly and completely abandoned all intention of falling back on the system that prevailed before the repeal of the Navigation Laws. He now wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman—and it was a matter in which the public, on the eve of an election, were entitled to have explicit information—whe
 1420
 MR. JOHN STUART  said, he had given notice for a Committee of Instruction, which involved a most important principle. After he had given notice of that Motion, however, he understood that Government had determined to bring in a Bill upon the very subject involved, namely, the disposition of four seats—the two for St. Albans and the two for Sudbury. If, therefore, he found the Government intended to bring forward such a measure, he should not ask the House to discuss that Amendment.
 MR. JOHN STUART  would say a word on the very remarkable statement just made by the late Solicitor General. Nobody could for a moment doubt the accuracy of the matter-of-faet details delivered to the House by his hon. and learned Friend; but his object in rising was to correct a misapprehension into which his hon. and learned Friend seemed to have fallen. It was quite clear, from what the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated, that the late Government had in truth prepared no Bill with reference to Chancery reform, which their successors could have taken up; for the statement of his hon. Friend in substance was, that the Government had had no time to prepare a Bill—that they had no measure which they were prepared to bring in as a Government measure. According to his statement, the Report of the Commission was signed on the 27th of January, and that between that date and the opening of the Session, there was no time to prepare a great measure for remodelling the Court of Chancery; and accordingly, his hon. and learned Friend owned that no measure was prepared. But in the Queen's Speech the Government proclaimed that they had prepared a measure for the reform of the Court of Chancery. The preparation appeared to have been this: that the Government had not had time to prepare, for there was only a sketch of the report; that was the only measure of Chancery reform they left—the sketch of the Report. [Sir W. P. WOOD: No, that is not so.] Yes; but that is so. The hon. and learned Gentleman and the Secretary of the Commission went
 1469
 MR. TRELAWNY  had no objection to the number of men proposed to be voted for the Navy, but he contended that that force ought not to cost the country more than 2,000,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. Canopus, l. l. l. 1442 l. l. l. l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he should have been very unwilling to take any part in the discussion, if the hon. and learned Gentleman who commenced it had confined himself to an explanation of what he conceived to be a misapprehension. But the hon. and learned Gentleman took, or as it appeared to him (Mr. Henley), made, the opportunity of casting some doubts on what the present Lord Chancellor was about to do in this matter. Surely, that was altogether foreign to the subject of his explanation. Nobody mistrusted or doubted the sincerity of the late Government in reference to the recommendations of the Commission—the Commission was their own, and it was most natural that they should wish to carry out its views. The House would, however, recollect the remarkable words in Her Majesty's Speech. The announcement contained there was followed up by a notice from the Prime Minister, that He would bring in a Bill in so short a space of time, that every one who knew anything at all about the matter was taken by surprise. He believed no one was more surprised than the hon. and learned Gentleman himself at hearing that a Bill was to be brought in within ten days. Every one felt that unless it were to be done by magic, it was impossible. Such, however, was the fact. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated, no doubt correctly, what instructions were given by the Lord Chancellor. Of course that was a matter which he (Mr. Henley) knew nothing about. He had stated also that some change of mind came over the Lord Chancellor, and that a communication was made through the Secretary to the Commissioners. Being a Member of the Commission, that, of course, came to his notice; and, as the
 1471
 MR. HUME , in seconding the Amendment, said that though he had, on two nights, objected to any Votes in Supply being taken after midnight, he had heard with satisfaction the statement of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), that he did not intend any further to interrupt and stop the supplies. He (Mr. Hume) thought every facility ought to be afforded the Government for obtaining the supplies, which would have been given to the late Government, in order that they might proceed with the measures they thought to be absolutely necessary before the dissolution. The proceedings in that and the other House must have satisfied every one that it would be impossible for the Government to refuse the appeal to the country, so soon as what were considered measures of necessity were passed. It was probably the first time in his life that he had refrained from opposing Votes in Supply. But he thought that the best policy was that which had been adopted by the
 1415
 MR. HUME  was sorry to hear such a statement from the right hon. Gentleman; for if any question met with general unanimity, it was that regarding the propriety of abolishing this Hospital. It was quite unnecessary for the right hon. Gentleman to make such an observation as had just fallen from him. He hoped that before the Government would reconsider the recommendation that they had come to on the subject, they would first inquire whether there was any evidence that could set aside the strong facts that had already been laid before them.
 MR. HUME  challenged the hon. Baronet the Member for Waterford to mention a single instance in which he (Mr. Hume) had objected to any proposal tending to the real benefit of Ireland.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he entirely coincided in the view that had been expressed by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) as to the proceedings in reference to the supplies. If the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had been as explicit in his place on Friday night as the Earl of Derby was in another place, he should have made no attempt to delay the supplies. But the right hon. Gentleman, in professing to be most frank, had mystified the subject more than he had done before. He (Mr. B. Osborne) should not further oppose the proceeding with the supplies; but in reference to the course about to be pursued by the Government, as to National Education in Ireland, he must say the explanation of the right hon. Home Secretary had been most unsatisfactory and evasive. It appeared to him the Government were going to play the same game with Protestantism in Ireland and in this country as they had played with Protection. It was said they did not intend to alter that system. The term now for all these measures was "modification;" but the right hon. Gentleman said they would endeavour to give satisfaction to the clergy of the Established Church in Ireland. What did that mean? The long and the short of it was that they meant to upset the system of National Education in Ireland; for he would defy him, or any other Member of the Government, to give satisfaction to that portion of the Church Establishment in Ireland, without completely, not modifying, but destroying, the system of National Education there. With respect to the appointments of the Lord Lieutenant, it might appear from what the right hon. Gentleman said that the present Lord Lieutenant was the only person who had selected chaplains for the purity of their lives. Why, of course, they all did that. Of course, all chaplains were selected for the purity of their conduct. But he maintained that the two first selected, the Rev. Mr. Goulde and the Rev. Dr. Singer, were two men distinguished for their opposition to the system of National Education. He hoped this question would be brought on early in the ensuing Parliament, and that the financial Secretary of the Treasury (Mr. G. A. Hamilton) would not go and tell one story to his constituents
 1413
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could answer that distinctly—that no such alteration was contemplated. They did not wish to do anything which would disturb the rule. He wished to make one remark on something that had fallen from the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne) on Friday night. He had understood the hon. Member to say that the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland had selected his chaplains from that branch of the clergy who were distinguished by their hostility to the National System of Education. He (Mr. Walpole) had authority from the Lord Lieutenant to state that the selection was not made with that view, and that the first seven were ministers of the Church of Ireland who were in favour of that grant, and that the
 1412
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had stated, on a former occasion, that it was not proposed or intended by the Government to make any alteration in the mode in which the grant was distributed, until a Select Committee was appointed to inquire into the system. He had said that if they did move for an immediate inquiry, it was not their intention to supersede the essential principle of that combined education which had been established in Ireland, but that their object would be to see that the grants made for education in Ireland should be so distributed as to give satisfaction to other parties in Ireland, and amongst others, he had no hesitation in saying, to the members of the Established Church, who certainly did not participate in due proportion in the grants at present. He agreed with the noble Lord that combined education should be not the exception but the rule; but the Government thought that, consistently with the maintenance of that principle, some alteration might be made that would give satisfaction to all parties.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, it almost appeared as if the House had lost sight of the Motion brought forward by the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans). The hon. and gallant Officer was aware that the late Govern-
 1426
 MR. WALPOLE  said, this was simply a Bill for the disfranchisement of the Borough of St. Albans; and the proposition for filling up the two seats thereby rendered vacant, as well as the two other seats left vacant since the disfranchisement of Sudbury, ought to be embodied in a separate and distinct Bill. The Government certainly intended to propose to the House a Bill giving those four Members to some place or places which they, in their judgment, should think best, so that the next Parliament should meet with the full complement of Members.
 MR. WALPOLE  rose to order. The Amendment did not come within the title or scope of the Bill.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, that though the noble Lord the Member for the city of London had said that he did not mean to throw any impediment in the way of granting the supplies, yet he (Mr. Alcock) did not see what prospect there was of bringing the great commercial question which so much interested the country to an issue, unless some more specific declaration were made on the part of the Government than that House had hitherto been favoured with. He was sorry to have to express his want of confidence in the Government, because many of the individuals composing it were his personal friends, and gentlemen for whom he had the greatest respect. If any hon. Member would like to limit the supplies to a period of three or six months, he (Mr. Alcock) would be perfectly willing to join with him; for he was not satisfied with the statement of Her Majesty's Government, and he saw no more prospect now than there was on Friday last that this question would be settled before next year. If the Committee granted the supplies for a whole year, the question of free-trade might remain in abeyance for that time. He had no confidence in the declaration that bad been made to that House by the Government, because they had now been crying out for six years past that nothing but a return to protection could satisfy the wants of the country; whereas now that they had the power and the opportunity to propose some measure upon the subject, they left the question totally in a state of suspense. Her Majesty's present Government had formerly
 1428 s. s. s. d. l. l. l. l. s. s. s. s.
 MR. MITCHELL  was very glad that the present Government had expressed their anxiety to relieve the shipping interest from some of the burdens under which
 1424
 MR. BERESFORD  said, the first Vote which he would submit was that of 3,602,067 l., l. l., l., l. l.; l.: l., 1427 l., l. l., l.; l.; l. l., l., l., l. l.
 MR. BERESFORD  said, that be had made inquiries respecting this recommendation of the Committee on Army expenditure, and the answer which he had received was, that a Committee was at that moment sitting upon the subject. He had not yet received the Report of that Committee, but should give his best attention to the subject when the Committee should have made their Report.
 MR. BERESFORD  said, that this subject had engaged his attention before he had the honour of being connected with the Government. He acknowledged that his nationality had greatly influenced his vote on former occasions in opposing the efforts made by the late Government to abolish Kilmainham Hospital. But now that he was Secretary at War he did not think that he would be quite justified in going against the recommendation of that House in declining to adopt the Estimate as he found it. He only wished he had the power now of recalling the letter which had been written by the former Secretary at War upon this subject. He did not think he could give any further explanation upon the subject.
 MR. W. BROWN : I would ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, if he thought it a misfortune to this country that since 1844 British ships had increased 50 percent.; and also, whether he thought it a misfortune that last year the British registered tonnage was the largest on record, exceeding that of any previous year? I take the official return of British vessels with cargoes both inwards and outwards: in 1844 it was 5,691,680 tons, in 1851 8,535,252 tons, making a gain in 1851 over 1844 of 2,843,572 tons. There were launched last year in the port of Sunderland alone 146 vessels, 51,923 tons; and there were on the stocks, on the 1st of this year, 73 vessels, 27,955 tons. Then let us take the incceased tonnage of all nations trading to our ports: for three years before 1848 it was 1,131,000 tons, and for the three years after 1848 it was 2,841,000 tons, being of British 936,000 tons, and of foreign 774,000 tons; but the most remarkable feature in the case is, that in comparing the month of February 1850 with the month of February 1851, British tonnage had increased 37,000 tons, and foreign decreased 10,000 tons: these facts are well known and too patent to every one to be set aside. I therefore cannot believe that shipowners, who are men of common sense, would go on increasing their tonnage as they are doing, if their
 1423
 MR. EWART  said, this question ought not to be decided by the effects which the repeal of the Navigation Laws had produced upon the port of Sunderland; it ought to be decided by the effects which had been produced in all the great ports of the Kingdom. Now, with regard to Liverpool, he could assert that the tonnage
 1425
 MR. FORBES  must disclaim, on the part of the Scotch Members, the feeling attributed to them by the hon. Baronet the Member for Waterford.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought that no one who looked over the immense expenditure which had taken place last year, and had noticed the manner in which it had been applied, could coincide with the eulogium which the gallant Admiral who had just sat down had passed upon the late Board of Admiralty. He could not conceive how the Channel could be covered with ships of war within twenty-four hours, when he saw by the last Navy List, published on the 1st of January, that there were only twenty-two vessels in commission in all the ports in or near the United Kingdom; that of these only six were line-of-battle ships—four of the line-of-battle ships which carried the flags of the Port Admirals being only partially manned; and that there were beside three screw steamers of large dimensions. The people of England had been accustomed to look to the Navy as their bulwark against foreign invasion from the time of Alfred; but they had now ceased to take it into consideration, and were seeking for a military force equal to meet the largest force that France could bring against us. That was not a state in which we should be after the sums of money which we had expended on this force. Since the termination of the war no less a sum than 220,000,000 l. l. l. l. 1440 l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 1441 Inconstant, Inconstant,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought that if half of the sum now proposed were divided among the pensioners, and they were allowed to live with their relations, they would be far more comfortable than they were at present.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, there were several items in the Vote on which he had intended to offer some observations, but, as it appeared to be the wish of the Committee to allow the present Government to take the Estimates as they had received them from the late Government, he should let them pass without any comment.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  wished to know where these steamers were to be found? There was not a sufficient number in commission, according to the last  Navy List.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, he wished, with permission of the House, to make some observations with reference to the Bill then before the House, and also to another Bill which was about to be introduced by the late Government with respect to improvements in the Court of Chancery. He trusted that the House would indulge him whilst he made such observations, because there certainly had been a most extraordinary misunderstanding, occasioned partly, he must say, by statements that had been made in that House, with reference to the proceedings that had been taken by the late Government in preparing a Bill that was to be founded upon the recommendations of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the proceedings of the Court of Chancery. He had lately seen a report of a speech made by the noble Lord now at the head of the Court of Chancery, in which that noble Lord very fairly stated that he did not take any credit to himself with regard to the measure about to be introduced, founded upon the report of that Commission, because it had been the intention of Her Majesty's late Government to bring in in a Bill of a precisely similar description. The noble Lord stated that he was prepared to bring in a Bill for the purpose of carrying fully into effect the recommendations of that Commission. But in the course of that statement, as he (Sir W. P. Wood) read it, the noble Lord stated that he did not find the Bill so advanced as he had expected—that he had, in fact, only found certain clauses prepared with reference to the abolition of the Masters in Chancery. Now, of that statement he (Sir W. P. Wood) had certainly no great-reason to complain, and he should be very sorry to do so, because it gave him most unfeigned pleasure to find that the recommendations of that Commission had met with the noble Lord's sanction. But it had been stated in that House that when the present Government came into office, not a trace of that Bill for the improvement of the Court of Chancery according to the report of the Commission was discovered. Now that statement, no doubt made in error, certainly was a most incor-
 1464 1465 1466 1467 1468
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  begged to move in the way of amendment on the Motion for going into Committee of Supply, the Resolution of which he had given notice. He could not help thinking that, in rejecting the services of the Metropolitan Volunteer Rifles, the Government had pursued a course equally inconsistent and injudicious. It was, indeed, most inexpedient to have done so, for it ought not to have escaped the recollection of the Government, that at periods of our history when there was well-founded apprehension of a foreign invasion, it was owing in a great degree to the patriotic activity of volunteer corps that the horrors of such a calamity were averted, He hoped that the Government would reconsider what they had done in this matter, and give such an explanation of their views as would tend rather to encourage than depress the readiness which the people of this country had, in many places, manifested to form themselves into volunteer companies. The letter addressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department to the Lord Lieutenant of the County of Middlesex was certainly of a very depressing character, and was regarded by the members of the Metropolitan Rifle Corps as tantamount to a refusal of their services. The right hon. Gentleman stated in that letter that the Government did not intend to sanction such clubs until their plans on the subject of the militia had boon fully matured and discussed in that House—unless, perhaps, in some few instances of absolute necessity, and that they did not regard the county of Middlesex as furnishing such an instance; but in this, in his (Sir De L. Evans's) opinion, they were greatly mistaken—for if there was one point in all England which, in case of a foreign invasion, would be more valuable than another, that place was the centre of the county of Middlesex. Some declaration of the present in-
 1414
 MR. GROGAN  wished to call the attention of Her Majesty's Government to the discussions that took place last year upon this subject. He perceived that a considerable reduction had been made in the number of pensioners in Kilmainham Hospital. That, he believed, resulted in consequence of a letter written by the late Secretary at War (Mr. F. Maule). The subject was one of great interest and importance to the citizens of Dublin, and to the army serving in Ireland. The late Government were, he believed, most anxious that this institution should be abolished, and if the letter to which he had referred was not recalled, the hospital would soon be put an end to. His object now was to obtain a promise, if he could, from the present Government that that establishment would be kept up. In saying so much he believed that he was but speaking the sentiments of every Irish Member in that House, who concurred in deprecating the system of centralisation which characterised the policy of the late Government.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, that in all his experience, during seventeen or eighteen years of the votes on the Navy Estimates, he had never known such large Estimates voted by that House without any explanation being offered by the Government, respecting the administrative affairs of the Admiralty. He must, however, congratulate the officers and the Navy generally on the appointment of an officer in their own service to the head of the Admiralty Board; and he had no doubt the appointment of the noble Duke (the Duke of Northumberland) would be highly satisfactory to the country. He also rejoiced at the selection of another officer as a member of the Board, whose conduct and gallantry during the late war had been greatly distinguished—he alluded to Admiral Sir Hyde Parker. He wished, however, at the same time, to put a few questions as to the intentions of the Government. First, what did the Board intend to do with regard to the iron steamers and the patronage of the dockyards? Next, as to the African squadron—he knew that the Admiralty Board were not responsible for the policy of maintaining that squadron on the African coast; but what he wanted to know was, whether the Board meant to keep the vessels of that squadron in its present efficient state? Next, with regard to the system of retirement which had been so strongly denounced last May and last August by the Earl of Hardwicke, the Duke of Northumberland, Lord Talbot, and Lord Colchester, in another place, who complained of the grievous hardship of placing on the retired list those gallant officers who had commanded sloops of war for many years, and also for some time rated ships, and who were told at last that they were not eligible for a flag. because they had not commanded the latter class of ships for a certain period. Now, that these noble Lords had attained office, he wished to know whether these grievances were to be redressed by them? He also wished to know whether the new Government intended to imitate the policy of their predecessors in restricting the entry of cadets, and in resisting the applications of duchesses and marchionesses who so eagerly importuned the Admiralty to obtain appointments in the service for their protegees? Another point in which he sought for information was with respect to the disgraceful system of smuggling specie from the coast of Mexico. This system was at once a scandal to the character
 1434 l. l. Frolic, Carysfort, Cormorant, l. l. l. l. l.,
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  hoped the Admiralty would also take the case of the junior class of surgeons, who acted as clerks to captains, into their consideration, with a view to putting them on a different and an improved footing; and he would recommend that officers in the coast-guard service should be rewarded by promotion, the rewards they at present received at the end of the year not being, in his opinion, adequate to the great and valuable services they performed, in so often saving life and property, and protecting the revenue.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, the First Lord of the Admiralty's house ought to be given up for the map department. As it was, the business was very much in
 1457
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, it was quite true that the American yacht, which had been built expressly for racing purposes, had beaten our swiftest yachts; but with merchant ships and ships of war the case was very different. There were no ships of war in the world that could excel our own in speed and other qualities. The American Government had certainly not succeeded in building ships to beat our men of war. Look at the trials in the Pacific, at Rio Janeiro, and the West Indies. There we had completely surpassed them. Then with respect to French ships, let them only look at Prince de Joinville's squadrons, the three-deckers of which could neither tack nor wear.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, he did not rise to prolong the discussion, but to express to the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) his opinion that he had been guilty of a great error in the proceedings of Fri-
 1418 laughter 1419
 SIR LUCIUS O'BRIEN  considered the measure one of great importance, and hoped that an early day would be fixed for its discussion.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he had
 1416
 MR. PETO , being the Chairman of the Chester and Holyhead Railway, begged to say, that the whole system of the postal communication with Ireland required the most careful consideration. The whole of the mails were upon one occasion detained for two hours at Chester, without the least occasion for the delay. The Irish mails were now delivered in London at eleven o'clock in the morning; but if the Government would investigate the question fully, they would find that there was no reason why the Irish letters should not be delivered in London with the others every morning. He hoped it would be sufficient
 1463
 MR. T. L. HODGES  had on former occasions brought this subject under the consideration of the House, and he more particularly urged one portion of it on its attention. It would be recollected that Sir Robert Peel removed the whole of the duty on foreign hops; and when that was done, one would have thought that it would have been but an act of common justice to give some mitigation to the British planter. But that he refused to do. The increased hop duty was imposed by Mr. Pitt, in 1804, and the British hop grower should be relieved at least to the extent of the increase of duty then imposed.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, that year after year, upon this Motion being brought forward, whilst the hon. Member for Montrose, and those with whom he generally voted, occupied seats on the other (the Ministerial) side of the House, he (Mr. Hume) was in the habit of deprecating the pressing of such a Motion through the House. [Mr. HUME: I beg your pardon. I always voted for the repeal of the Malt Tax.] He was ready to admit that the hon. Member for Montrose was an exception, but he claimed attention to the promise on this subject of Sir James Graham. ["Order, order!"] He was speaking of an historical fact. He was not alluding to ft Member of that House, but he was speaking of a Gentleman who had made a speech before the Corn Laws were repealed. In order to induce the farmers to consent to their repeal, Sir James Graham said, "Of course, the very year after the Corn Laws are repealed, the Malt Tax must go." But never on any single occasion since the repeal of the Corn Laws was Sir James Graham to be found recording his vote in favour of that Motion. In like manner, the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had said to the farmers that the Malt Tax must go immediately after Corn Law Repeal; nevertheless, whenever this Motion was brought forward, that hon. Gentleman in variably voted against it. The fact was this: those hon. Gentlemen who were advocates of free trade had but one idea in their heads, and there was no room
 24 post hoc, ergo propter hoc,
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, he rose to call the attention of Her Majesty's Ministers to the subject matter of a petition presented from the town commissioners of Ennis. The petition was one of no ordinary importance, both from the repectability of the parties who had signed it, and the motives which had induced them to come forward. The town commissioners of Ennis were comparatively uninterested in the question, and their motive in addressing the House of Commons was to obtain protection from the deep wrong which had been inflicted upon the poor of the town which he had the honour to represent. The river Fergus took its source eight or nine miles above the town of Ennis. A loan had been obtained by the proprietors of the land between the source of the river and the town from the Commissioners of the Board of Works, for the purpose of effecting the drainage of the land. But in place of commencing the outlet for the purpose of facilitating the exit of the water below the town of Ennis, the Commissioners of Works had made an outlet in the river near its source, whereby the water was drawn from the surrounding lands, and the town in consequence was made liable to inundations. The petitioners prayed that the Commissioners should be called upon to complete the works which they had undertaken. It was a part of the. agreement that the proprietors were not to repay the money that was advanced for effecting this drainage until the works had, been completed, and it was alleged that a great portion of the money was already expended. The resident gentry refused
 41 entrepôt, l. l. l.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON , in reply, said, the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer was under a misconception as to the conduct of the local proprietors. The real cause for their refusal to contribute was, that the Board of Works were legally bound by the  litera scripta
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, he must complain that the hon. Member for Montrose should, as last Session, put repeated notices upon the paper which were not literally true, and which implied censures of which the House had no means of forming an accurate judgment. For instance, this notice stated that Mr. Burns was prosecuting, his lawful commercial proceedings. Now, the fact was that these proceedings were, pandering to slander at the instigation of the society who instructed the hon. Member for Montrose. The unfortunate gentleman (Mr. Burns) had given evidence (though he thought he could not have been such a goose as to have thought so) that there were no such things as pirates; but having gone amongst them, he lost his head, and the consequence was that his boat and papers fell into the hands of the Government authorities, and amongst these papers was his journal, which would show what were the commercial proceedings in which he was engaged in Mallaheu Bay. [The hon. Member then read extracts from this journal, to show that the unfortunate gentleman in question, and Mr. Motley, the agent of the Eastern Archipelago Company, had been engaged in endeavouring to persuade the Sultan of Borneo to write to Her Majesty, complaining of the conduct and proceedings of Sir James Brooke.] He had not the smallest objection to meet the hon. Member for Montrose whenever he might bring forward the Borneo question; but he objected to charges being insinuated in these resolutions, instead of being made in a  bonâ fide 45
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I entirely agree with the right hon. Gentleman that this is a subject of the greatest importance and delicacy. I think the right hon. Gentleman is perfectly right in refusing to accede to the Motion. I think the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Anderson) is not correct in his construction of the guarantee respecting the mutual relations of Egypt and Turkey; nor do I think he is correct in his inference of the relations which the guarantee implies between the Sultan and the Pacha of Egypt. I am of opinion that our interference between the Sultan and
 36
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  hoped, after the statement of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, that his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. ANDERSON  begged to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice. He felt that the questions now pending between the Ottoman Porte and the Pacha of Egypt were questions in which this country had a deep interest; and in illustration of the nature of that interest he might refer to the saying of the celebrated Mehemet Ali—that Egypt had become the bridge between Europe and Asia. What country, he (Mr. Anderson) inquired, had the greatest interest in that bridge? He would ask hon. Members to accompany him in imagination to a spot
 31 l. l. employés 32 l. 33 "The weak administration of the Turkish Government, as to affording protection to life or property is Made manifest by facts out of number. Evan in this capital we are scarcely more secure from murder and theft than persons residing in the provinces, the only difference being that here toe acts are perpetrated during the night, and by gangs of organised thieves; whereas those in the country take place during the day, and in sight and call of the houses of the victims, and frequently within gunshot of men who are called guards. At Smyrna two cases occurred not long since of a particularly glaring description, namely, first, that of the Dutch Consul, who was taken out of his own vineyard at 3 p.m., and within call of his house, and kept by the banditti who infest the neighbourhood of that city until his friends ransomed him for a sum equal to about 500 l. 34 protegé,
 MR. ANDERSON , in reply, said, that with reference to the vagueness alleged to be in the terms of the firman of investiture of the Pacha, which was the same as that granted to Mehemet Ali in the year 1841, and under which the administration of Egypt had been carried on ever since; if it was vague on one side, it must be vague on the other; and where was the best interpretation of it to be found? Why, surely, in that which one party had done, and the other had permitted, during the ten years in which it had been in operation. During that time the barrage of the Nile, certainly as great an undertaking as the railway, had been undertaken by the late Mehemet Ali, without permission from or question by the Sultan; and in like manner he had undertaken and completed the extensive fortifications of Alexandria—works that might even be turned against the Sultan. And with regard to the Fanzimat, or new code of laws, it was expressly stipulated by Mehemet Ali, in accepting the firman of investiture, they should only be applied to Egypt so far as the circumstances of that country might render them practicable. The noble Lord lately at the head of Her Majesty's Government had dwelt much on the extreme delicacy of our interference in a question which was one between the Sultan and his vassal. But he (Mr. Anderson) would ask, where was all this delicacy in the years 1839 and 1840? What was the question then but between the Sultan of Turkey and his vassal the Viceroy of Egypt? What right had we then to interfere in that domestic quarrel, when the superior intelligence and energy of the Pacha of Egypt had placed the capital and power of the Sultan at his feet? Yet we did interfere: we expended millions of British treasure, and employed British ships of war and men to prop up the prostrate power of the Sultan, a power which he is now employing to damage important British interests. To talk of the Porte as an independent Power, was indeed a complete farce. Let any one look into the published correspondence on the Eastern question, and he will there see a most ludicrous picture: a Government assuming the most magnificent attributes of power and dominion, yet humbled to the dust before an intelligent vassal; unable to adopt the most trifling measure either of defence
 39 régimes, adscripti glebœ 40
 MR. FULLER  seconded the Motion.
 MR. FREWEN  said, he understood the hon. Member (Mr. Cobden) to have said that he (Mr. Frewen) yesterday attended with the deputation that waited on the Earl of Derby. He was not present, and did not know of what had taken place until seven o'clock in the evening. The Committee sent a report to him, stating that they had urged the matter on the consideration of the Earl of Derby—that they were so satisfied with his answer that they hoped he would not press the House on the question. He said he thought it was only due to his constituents to bring the question under the consideration of the House, in order that he might have an opportunity of urging the amount of the tax, and the unjust way in which it pressed upon his constituents. Feeling quite satisfied with the answer of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, it was not his intention to divide the House on the present occasion.
 MR. FREWEN , after presenting a large number of petitions from Sussex and the Weald of Kent, praying for a repeal of the Excise Duty on Hops, which the petitioners stated amounted in many cases to more than 50 per cent on the price, said, he begged to call the attention of the House to the Motion of which he had given notice. In bringing forward this Motion, he wished to impress on his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that though the Hop Duty was of comparatively small amount, yet that it pressed with great severity on his unfortunate constituents. He believed if his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer referred to accounts on this subject, he would find that the average amount of duty of the last three years was only 269,000 l., l. l. l. 
 
 In 1847 the amount was … 35 acres. 
 In 1848 the amount was … 30acres. 
 In 1849 the amount was … 25 acres. 
 In 1850 the amount was … 22 acres. 
 In 1851 the amount was … 20 acres. 20 l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. s. d., 21
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, my hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract appears to entertain the notion that the essense of diplomacy is mystery. He thinks it quite impossible, whenever our diplomatic interests are concerned, for any Member or Members of Her Majesty's Government to give a straightforward answer. My hon. Friend wishes to bring a subject of great interest under the consideration of the House; but before he makes his Motion, he wishes to
 30
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, my hon. Friend the Member for East Sussex has made a very proper statement, and has moved a very temperate Resolution. He has placed before the House very fairly the position of his constituents, and has expressed an opinion, from which I do not by any means desire to dissent, that in any revision of taxation the repeal of the Excise Duty on Hops ought not to be omitted from the serious consideration of this House. Nothing, I think, can be more reasonable than that sentiment. Her Majesty's Government are (they regret to say it) quite aware of the sufferings which unfortunately exist in that part of the country which the hon. Member represents, and I can declare, in all sincerity on their behalf, that if it were in their power, by any proportion, to remedy the sufferings of the hon. Member's constituents, or of any class of Her Majesty's subjects, they would be only too happy to do so. With regard to the present case, I hope that my hon. Friend will himself perceive that, regard being had to the present state of public business, and to the peculiar position of the Government, it would not be in any degree proper or expedient to press the Government to the expression of any definite opinion on the subject. All that the hon. Member seems to be anxious for is, that in the event of the House undertaking a revision of taxation, the duty on hops shall not be omitted from our consideration; and I can assure my hon. Friend that in that anxiety I participate
 22
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the Motion of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Anderson) has reference to one of the most delicate questions in the whole range of our foreign policy, namely, the relations between Turkey and Egypt. I can assure the hon. Gentleman, that not only the present, but, I believe, also the late Government, feel the full importance of the question, and that we are not influenced by the information to which he referred, nor the authority to which he alluded. If he thinks that the contending claims between Turkey and Egypt (as he seems to think) have their foundation only in the discords of workmen and the little plots of Constantinople, I can easily understand from what source he derives his information. The claims to which he alludes are founded upon existing treaties—upon the interpretation of those treaties, and upon traditional interests of the utmost importance. It is, however, quite impossible for the Government to accede to the Motion. If it were acceded to, the House would have a variety of information thrown before it referring to the negotiations which are now pending. The whole question is involved in those negotiations. The mutual relations between Turkey and Egypt are no doubt of the greatest importance to the interests of this country, and also to the interests of the world; the Government feel the full importance of those relations being established on a proper and legitimate basis. I feel it to be my duty to oppose the Motion of the hon. Gentleman; and I do so on the simple intelligible ground that the transactions to which he refers are at this moment in an imperfect state, that they are the subject of negotiation at this present moment in Constantinople, and that it would most injuriously affect the public service if those papers were laid upon the table of the House.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he could bear testimony to the persevering manner in which the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this Motion had pressed the subject upon the attention of the late Government. With regard to the drainage of the river Fergus, and the improvement of the navigation to the town of Ennis, he (Sir C. Wood) did not consider it was an object for which a grant of public money should be made, but he thought it one for which a loan might be advanced. At the same time, if a loan was to be advanced, it would be necessary that it should be made in the name of commissioners for the improvement of the river Fergus, in order to secure its repayment. But at present there were no such commissioners in existence, and therefore before the loan could be granted it would be necessary to pro-
 42
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could assure the hon. Member for Ennis that he was not at all influenced in the reply about to be given, by the consideration that it might affect the return of the hon. Gentleman at the next election. He had read the petition of the Commissioners of the town of Ennis, but he had arrived at an impression different from that of the hon. Member. It did not appear by the petition that the fault lay with the Commissioners of Works, but, on the contrary, with the landowners of the district, with whom the hon. Member must be most intimately acquainted. The petition stated that the loan by which the works were to be carried out, was obtained by the Board of Works on the understanding that it was to be repaid by the gentry. The proprietors, notwithstanding the great benefit they have undoubtedly derived from the operations that had been effected, refused to sanction any further expenditure. The House would recollect that under the Arterial Drainage Act, Clause 50, a certain expenditure might be incurred by the Board of Works; but the payment of a certain amount was also required from proprietors in order to complete such works. In this case it was the proprietors who had declined to permit any further outlay. They ought to come to some decision among themselves before asking assistance from the Chancellor of the Exchequer; at the same time if an application were made to the Government of the nature suggested by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax (Sir C. Wood), he should be happy to give it every consideration.
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, that he did not rise for the purpose of opposing any further obstacles to the progress of the Bill. He thought that he had done as much as could be expected under such circumstances for the defence of his constituents. He merely wished to express a hope that the crusade against corruption at elections would not terminate with the disfranchisement at St. Albans, for if that were so, he thought this measure would be a source, not of satisfaction, but of dissatisfaction to the public. If Her Majesty's Government, taking advantage of the information that they had received through the St. Albans Commission, would, before the dissolution of Parliament bring in a Bill that should more effectually check this corruption, than was done by any present Act of Parliament, he felt certain that such a course would give great satisfaction to the country, and that it would receive the support of every honest man in the Kingdom.
 MR. HUME  hoped that the Government were sincere in the declaration that they would adopt the most effectual measures for the suppression of corruption. He did not believe that corruption could be wholly put an end to, but he believed that the best means to diminish it would be to adopt Vote by Ballot. He would press that both on the right hon. Gentleman and the noble Lord as a test of their sincerity.
 MR. HUME  said, that in 1839 this country despatched to Egypt some fifty vessels of war to conquer the Pacha, and to place Egypt under the Sultan, with a guarantee that certain powers should be continued in the hands of the Pacha. He did not know what his hon. Friend (Mr. Anderson) referred to when he spoke of a conspiracy, but it appeared from documents laid before Parliament that the Sultan, whilst speaking in the fairest and most flattering terms to the Pacha, was concocting plans to overthrow him. When England stepped in, one of her objects was to secure certain rights to the Pacha and his descendants for ever; and, though he was sorry at the time to see the arms of England so employed, he knew no tribunal to which an appeal could now be made with so much justice as the country which had supplied the forces that fought against Mehemet Ali. He could have hoped that on such an occasion the noble Lord the late head of the Foreign Office
 37
 MR. HUME  said, that the transactions alluded to by the hon. Member took place many months after those with respect to which he (Mr. Hume) wished for an explanation. The hon. Gentleman was mistaken in supposing that he (Mr. Hume) had anything to do with the company to which he had referred. The letter, for a copy of which he was now moving, was direct from, and was signed by, Mr. Burns himself, and he (Mr. Hume) knew nothing of any other party. He denied that the present Motion contained one word of censure, and therefore the remarks of the hon. Member upon that point were not well founded.
 MR. HUME  said, he rose to move for copies of corespondence between Mr. Robert Burns and Viscount Palmerston, relative to the obstructions and discouragements he had received to his commercial affairs in Borneo. He (Mr. Hume) should content himself on the present occasion with simply moving for the production of these papers, which were necessary to complete the narrative of the transactions in Borneo which had already engaged the
 44 "Copy of Letter from Mr. Robert Burns to Viscount Palmerston, dated Singapore, 28th day of June, 1851, with its Inclosures, complaining of the obstructions and discouragements he had received to his commercial affairs in Borneo at the hands of Her Majesty's Commissioner and Consul General to the Sultan and independent Chiefs of Borneo, whilst prosecuting his lawful commercial proceedings in that country; together with Copy of any Answers thereto."
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HUME  said, though this was brought forward as an agricultural question, he considered the duty on hops pressed most unequally upon all classes, and therefore ought to be removed. They had freed the food of the poor man from tax, and why should they not relieve his beverage from taxation? The food of the people had been freed from duty, and it was consistent as well as just to let them have untaxed drink. The working people of this country should be placed in a similar position to that of the working people of Belgium and other countries, in which, in consequence of there being no tax upon beer, it was drank in considerable quantities, but not so as to produce drunkenness. A plentiful use of beer would prevent the consumption of ardent spirits, which worked
 23
 MR. NAPIER  said, that the work had been done for relief purposes during the late famine, and no doubt the outlay was not so advantageously made as it would have been under other circumstances. He had instructed the solicitor to the Board of Works to make a return of the Public Works begun but still unfinished in Ire-
 43
 MR. BASS  said, when the House knew that during the last year and the present the price of hops had more than doubled, it would be of opinion that that was a sufficient inducement to increase the cultivation, for the foreigner had still the inducement of a high price to import. Instead of the cultivation of hops being ruinous to the farmer, he believed that it was much more profitable to grow hops at 9 l. l. l. s. 28
 MR. COBDEN  said, that he was one of those free-trade Members to whom the hon. Member for West Surrey had alluded; but he (Mr. Cobden) voted last year with the hon. Gentleman for East Sussex (Mr. Frewen) and would vote with him again that night if he pressed his Motion to a division. He did not consider the hop duty most obnoxious on account of the burden it imposed on the consumers of beer. But be thought that the pressure of the hop duty fell more severely on the producer than other kinds of taxes. Indeed the hop duty was exceptional in that respect. The tax was so irregular in its amount that the cultivator could not calculate the amount he might have to pay. The amount of duty was therefore a subject of constant gambling, and the hop market in the Borough was like another Tattersall's. It was so precarious in amount, that no Chancellor of the Exchequer could ever tell the sum it would produce, and it was also exceedingly oppressive on the producer. But besides this, the tax bore most unequally on the producer. A person growing hops in Kent sold them for double the price at which the Sussex grower sold them, but the latter paid the same amount of duty. He paid the same duty per cwt. that the Kent grower paid. His hon. Friend, therefore (Mr. T. L. Hodges), who represented the Kent growers, did not want a repeal of the whole duty, but only of that part of it which was known as the war duty. This would leave the duty as much a protective duty in favour of his constituents as he could well obtain. This tax was therefore a most oppressive tax on the unfortunate farmers who grew hops on the heavy soil of Sussex, and it appeared to
 25 in formâ pauperis, l. l. 26 27
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  rose to move an Address for copies of the Correspondence between Her Majesty's Government and foreign States, respecting the protection afforded to Refugees. He wished to confine himself strictly within the words of his Motion; and in so doing he wished to state, that at the commencement of the Session he applied to the noble Lord then at the head of the Government for information as to whether he intended to lay upon the table of the House the correspondence between the British Government and foreign States with respect to foreign refugees. The noble Lord informed him, that it was his intention to lay those papers before the House, and they accordingly were so laid upon the table of the House. Those papers concluded with a despatch of Earl Granville, in reference to communications received from foreign Powers upon that subject, with the addition of certain answers from foreign Ministers after the issue of that despatch. The Earl of Westmoreland stated that Prince Schwartzenberg at the time of receiving that despatch was so occupied that he was unable to give an immediate reply. A short time after the date of that letter we were informed by the public press that a despatch was sent by Prince Schwartzen-berg to the Austrian Minister in this country, and also to the Foreign Office in this country. That despatch was received during the Administration of Earl Granville at the Foreign Office. He (Mr. M. Milnes) thought it was very important to this country that that despatch should be formally laid upon the table of the House. The tone of it, as far as he could judge from what appeared in the public prints, was of a very peculiar and painful character. He would content himself with describing it in such language for the present. He thought it was most important that the correct text of that despatch should be laid upon the table of the House. He thought it also important, for the character of the late Government, that the House should be informed whether Earl Granville answered that despatch—whether he answered it directly and implicitly, or whether it remained for the present Government to answer it. He
 29
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  still thought the remarks of his right hon. Friend were characterised by diplomatic mystery.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  did not believe that the noble Lord the late Secretary for Foreign Affairs had ever consented to such an interpretation of the Treaty by which England guaranteed the independence of Egypt, as that this country would be justified in interfering by force of arms in the affairs of Egypt. But he believed the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) and the public sense of diplomacy in Europe, agreed that the parties to that engagement were morally bound, by every means in their power, to support the Pacha of Egypt in a just and independent authority. At the same time he (Mr. M. Milnes) must say that it was hardly fair to look upon this question of capital punishment without taking into consideration that it was one intimately connected with the advance of civilisation in the dominions of the Porto. If it could be shown that the right of inflicting capital punishment would only be exercised in a fair and reasonable manner by the Pacha, he (Mr. M. Milnes) did not think that the Porte would deny to the Pacha that power which was granted by Her Majesty to the governors of our own colonies. It would be found that it was mainly owing to the efforts of the English Government, that there was now every hope of the successful establishment of an important railroad in Egypt. That great question might now be said to be settled; and he did not think that there could have ever been any serious intention on the part of the Sultan of preventing the formation of so valuable a work in what might still be considered a portion of his own dominions. He had heard with great satisfaction of the prospect there now was of the improvement and better government of Egypt. He believed that the present Pacha had the real welfare of the country very much at heart, and that he would endeavour to advance the cause of civilisation by the introduction of practical reforms, not more ostentatious perhaps, but not less useful, than those of his predecessor. The present question was one that did not concern this or that Government; and he (Mr. M. Milnes) did
 38
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the noble Lord who was lately at the head of the Government would on the following evening move the Second Reading of the Corruption and Bribery at Elections Bill, and that Her Majesty's Government intended to give him their support. They had every desire to adopt effectual measures
 46
 MR. GROGAN  was glad to hear the announcement just made by the hon. and learned Gentleman; but he thought the Irish proprietors had been much ground down by taxation in every shape, and they had substantial reasons for refusing their assent to the completion of these works, as alleged by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer. They complained of mismanagement in the execution of them, the original estimates having been doubled and tripled in many instances by the actual sums expended; and they were, therefore, reluctant to make themselves further responsible for the payment of consolidated annuities and other similar charges. That was the reason why so many of these works remained in an unfinished state. He hoped that the Government would yet entertain the present application favourably.
 SIR LUCIUS O'BRIEN  said, the complaint was that the Commissioners had spent the money in the most useless way, doing only a portion of the work here, and another there; and if it were to be completed in the same manner as it had been begun, the cost would be very enormous. A sum of 195,000 l. l.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  begged to express his great gratitude to the hon. Member for having taken the public under his protection; but he must be permitted to doubt whether the provisions of the Bill just introduced would be the best adapted for securing the object in view. His hon. Friend was probably aware that the owner of a rabid animal might, without the intervention of the law at all, either confine it or destroy it. The owner, therefore, did not require the aid of the law to deal with a dangerous animal as he pleased; and what was now proposed, was to give to other persons than the owner the means of disposing of animals of this description. Now, of course, the owner would take care not to insinuate any thing to cause suspicion to be thrown upon his animals, and, therefore, it was only in case a dog had exhibited his madness in public that this law could be brought into operation. According to the Bill, if the animal took his measures so cautiously and prudently as only to bite one credible witness—if he exhibited his vagaries only when one credible witness was by—then nothing could be done; but when another credible witness was at hand, or had been bitten, the two could go arm in arm together and request the intervention of some neighbouring magistrate, while in the meantime, of course, the animal was ranging the country at large. Perhaps the magistrate' was not at home, but, when found, these credible witnesses, who might be very credible, but very timid, might make Oath, as to what they had seen or experienced, and then the magistrate was to
 48 49
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) had requested him to move the second reading of this Bill. He (Mr. V. Smith) understood that there was no opposition to the principle of the Bill; and any objections to details would, he hoped, be reserved until the Bill was in Committee, when his noble Friend would be present.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had no objection to the Bill being read a second time on the understanding that the Government should be at liberty, in Committee, to propose such amendments as it might think advisable.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  apprehended danger to the public liberties in the matter of dog-carts. He doubted whether the owners of dog-carts were properly repre-
 51
 MR. FREWEN  said, in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, he would call the attention of the House to a case which occurred last summer in his own immediate neighbourhood, where a farmer's dog in a rabid state had bitten a labouring man, together with several sheep and cattle, and had done a great deal of mischief. He had been applied to, as the nearest magistrate, to interfere, as the owner refused to have the animal destroyed; and it was only then, when examining the law on the subject, that he found that, though magistrates in the Metropolitan districts and in Corporate towns had power to act in a case of this sort, there was no such power in the Rural districts. This was an anomaly which he thought ought not to exist, for there was no apparent reason why there should be one law for the town, and another for the country. The third clause in the Bill related to a matter upon which a large body of his constituents had petitioned the House for the last two Sessions. It provided for the better regulation of carts and tracks drawn by dogs; and here, too, it was worthy of remark, that the practice of harnessing dogs under carts and trucks was permitted in the country, although it was expressly prohibited in London, and within a circuit of fifteen miles thereof. The effect of the prayer was, that carts drawn by dogs should not be allowed to be used
 47
 MR. FREWEN  said, he would with-
 52
 MR. PACKE  had never known an instance in which a horse did not start at the approach of a dog-cart; and thus these vehicles were daily and hourly placing the lives of persons who travelled upon the turnpike roads in jeopardy. He quite agreed that they ought to be placed under a more strict police surveillance; and that also, on the score of humanity to the dogs, for he could assure the House that he had seen cases in which the feet of these poor animals were quite raw from drawing, not a few light goods merely, but heavy hulking fellows who were too idle to walk.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had to complain of the hypocrisy of the Liberals in respect to this measure. The fact was, conscience had been known, from the days of Shakespeare downwards, as a notable coward maker; and the most corrupt party invariably was that which cried out loudest against corruption. He thought the measure was utterly indefensible as to its mode of operation. The pure paid Commissioners it appointed were to go down into the boroughs and cities from time to time to seek for corruption. He conceived the Bill was meant to encourage a class of men going about as spies in every city and borough in the kingdom. It was a cowardly dastardly measure, and full of meanness. Nobody, of course, would call that influence corruption which was used by Government in certain seaports and other places where there was a great expenditure of public money; but if an independent Member happened to go into a miserable cottage in the place he represented, and finding a man lying in sickness and want, and performed toward him those Christian duties of charity and kindness which, he thanked God, had
 53
 MR. ELLIS  said, he considered dogcarts to be a very great nuisance. They should either be done away with altogether, or put under very stringent regulations. They had been excluded from the borough which he had the honour to represent (Leicester), by the by-laws of the town, sanctioned by the Secretary of State. He did not see why such a law should not be extended to other places.
 MR. SPOONER  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General had amused the House with a speech, but had not touched the main principles of the Bill. The hon. and learned Gentleman had only touched imperfections of detail, which might be remedied in Committee. He contended that the matters which the Bill proposed to deal with were a constant and a crying evil, and called for immediate legislative interference. He saw dangers in the country almost daily, which arose from allowing fierce dogs to go at large. He considered the practice of employing dogs to draw carts, as was now carried on,
 50
 MR. DEEDES  said, that in places where mad dogs were discovered, the magistrates sometimes issued public notice that all dogs found abroad without muzzles should be destroyed. Doubts were sometimes expressed whether they had the power to act upon such a notice; and this ought to have been set at rest by a legislative enactment in a Bill like the present. He saw no reason why a distinction should be made between the district of fifteen miles round the Metropolis, and the rest of the country. It would be desirable if in Bills relative to Turnpike Trusts a moderate toll were allowed to be taken from these dog-carts. In any new Highway Bill they ought to be placed under the control of the police. The result of his inquiries proved that in very many parts of the country these dogcarts were made use of to carry on a traffic in stolen goods. The carts were fitted up with false bottoms; the owners of them pretended to be marine store dealers, and by this means the stolen goods were conveyed away without the surveillance of the police. He did not think the Bill met the difficulties that surrounded the question, and he hoped the hon. Member would not press it to a division.
 MR. EWART  said, he considered there were too many objections to some of the provisions of the Bill to allow of its passing in its present shape. Unless the Bill was suitably amended he should himself move at the proper time that the third clause be referred to a Select Committee to inquire into the condition and usage of dogs used for drawing carts or trucks by poor people in the country.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he very much agreed with the hon. and gallant Member, although he believed there were objections to the use of dog-carts upon public roads. The dogs were apt to bark, and horses were often much frightened at them. Some police regulations were wanted with regard to them, and he also feared they were often maltreated and neglected. Still they gave the means to some persons to earn an honest livelihood. It had been suggested that a charge should be made for them at the turnpike gates; but the practice was for the man to set his dogs loose just before he got to the gate, and to draw his cart through himself, thereby evading the toll.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he believed that this Bill, which had originated with the late, and been taken up by the present Government, would not remedy any one of the evils under which the metropolis was suffering from the present bad supply of water, both as to quantity and quality. It did not even go so far as to compel the companies to provide a supply to every house. The 17,400 houses which were now without any supply of water would remain so under this Bill, which merely required that a supply of water should be afforded in any locality, on the requisition of a majority of the ratepayers. Again the source of the supply was still to be the Thames, which all competent authorities had joined in condemning, and no provision was made for the supply being continuous instead of intermittent. The average rate charged for water by the present companies was 7½ d. d. d. d.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  begged to explain that the step he now proposed was necessary in order that all the Water Bills should go before the Committee to be judged of on their respective merits, in the hope that some check might be placed on the evils of which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. B.
 78
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he might have complained that this great public measure—for it could not be called a private one, affecting as it did the health and comfort of nearly 2,500,000 people—had been dealt with, in regard to its principle (it had been read a second time on the previous day without a word), as though it were a mere Turnpike Road or Marsh Drainage Bill, without notice or discussion. He protested against this Bill being sent to the Committee upstairs without a previous discussion on its principle, which was opposed to the recommendation of all the various bodies who had inquired into the subject, from 1828 to the present time, and also to the Bill of the Government of last year. At all events, he hoped that a full discussion would take place when the Bill came back to the House. He had no objection to the present proposal, that all the Water Bills should be referred to the same Committee.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he considered it of great importance that the question of the water supply to the metropolis should be settled; and there was no prospect of their coming to an early and satisfactory settlement in the way they were now going on, for it was not likely that the inquiry by the Committee would terminate in sufficient time for any measure to pass in the present Session. Last year a Committee sat for six weeks, and collected much valuable information on the subject, and it was to be regretted that the Chairman of that Committee, the right hon. Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham) did not preside over the Committee of this year. There was evidence enough already of the evil, and the only question now was as to the remedy. The subject was one for the Government to deal with, and he regretted that the Government Bill had not been the only one referred to the Committee. What right had the old water companies to have their Bill sent to the Committee? It would have been as reasonable, if, because a Bill for the protection of life from railway accident were referred to a Select Committee, every Rail-
 79
 SIR JOHN JOHNSTONE  did not think a discussion on the subject of Water Bills could be satisfactorily conducted in that House. He considered the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) had been somewhat hasty in placing before the House and the public a scale of charges which, if enforced as against the water companies, would amount to confiscation of their property. He could hardly understand how it could he said that those companies had not a  locus standi
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the Amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury was irregular; it must be put as a substantive Motion, and notice given.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he would give notice, then, for To-morrow.
 MR. HUME  said, that when he brought forward his Motion for Parliamentary Reform last Session, he was met by an objection on the part of several Members who pretended to be friends of reform, that there was nothing definite in his proposition, and that they could not vote on an abstract question. Some declared that they were in favour of the ballot, but that they were opposed to an extension of the suffrage, whilst others said they would support an extension of the suffrage without the ballot, but they could not vote for the ballot together with an extension of the suffrage. In order that he might not be met with similar objections this year, he had embodied his Motion on a definite plan. That plan contemplated in particular an extension of the suffrage, combined with the protection of the ballot. He thought the latter was absolutely necessary to protect the voter from undue influence in the exercise of the franchise. If the fear of such undue influence was merely visionary, it would not be necessary to ask for the ballot; but he had seen over and over again the painful consequences which had arisen in consequence of an open and independent exercise of the franchise on the part of the poor voter. He did not believe, indeed, that it was possible to have anything like a fair representation of the people in that House without the protection of the ballot. The proposal he had to make with regard to the right to vote was twofold. He proposed to extend the right of voting—for he maintained it was a right, and not a privilege—to every man of full age, and not mentally or legally disabled, who had occupied a house for twelve months, and was rated to the poor. It was also important that it should not be left with the voter himself to register his vote, because there were many persons who, although they were willing and anxious to register,
 87 88 Johnson. 89 "Will you support a Government which is exerting itself to protect the country against any hostile attack, to maintain the peace of the world, to maintain and uphold the Protestant institutions of the country, to give, to the utmost of its power, religious and moral education throughout the land; and which will exert itself, moreover, I don't hesitate to say, to stem with some opposition, to supply some barrier, against the current of that continually increasing and encroaching democratic influence in this nation, which is bent on throwing the whole power and authority of the Government nominally into the hands of the masses, but practically and really into those of demagogues and republicans, who exercise an influence over those unthinking masses—will you, I say, support a Government which is determined to resist that noxious and dangerous influence, and to preserve inviolate the prerogatives of the Crown, the rights of your Lordships' House, and the liberties of a freely elected and freely represented House of Commons?"—[3  Hansard, "These, my Lords, are the questions on which, when I go to the country, I make my appeal, on behalf of myself and of my Colleagues; and in the words which are placed in the mouths of the meanest felons that stand in the prisoners' dock, but which are not unworthy of the mouth of the First Minister of the first country in the world, I say, 'I elect that we shall be tried by God and our country.'"—[ Ibid. 90 l. l. 91 "Security and happiness are to be looked for in the introduction of a third estate, distinct from, and a check upon, the other two branches of the Legislature, created by representing, and responsible to the people themselves. That at the present day the House of Commons does not fully and fairly represent the people of England, which, consistently with what your petitioners conceive to be the principles of the constitution, they consider as a grievance, and therefore, with all becoming respect, lay their complaints before your honourable House. Tour petitioners complain that the elective franchise is so partially and unequally distributed, and is in so many instances committed to bodies of men of such very limited numbers, that the majority of your honourable House is elected by less than 15,000 electors, which, even if the male adults in the kingdom be estimated at so low a number as 3,000,000, is not more than the hundredth part of the people to be represented. Your petitioners complain that the exercise of the elective franchise is only renewed once in seven years. The second complaint of your petitioners is founded on the unequal proportions in which the elective franchise is distributed." 92 "It is from the people at large that I expect any good; and I am convinced that the only way to make them feel that they are really concerned in the business is to contend for their full, clear, and indisputable rights of representation. The subject of a Parliamentary reform is that which of all others, in my opinion, most deserves the attention of the public, as I conceive it would include every other advantage which a nation can wish." "The example and situation of another kingdom are held out to deter us from innovations of any kind. We say that the reforms we have in view are not innovations. Our intention is not to change, but to restore; not to displace but to reinstate the constitution upon its true principles and original ground." 93 Black stone, 94 95 "That we believe that the municipal system properly carried out would confer incalculable benefit on the community by training the people to self-government, and affording opportunities to the citizens of uniting and co-operating in the local assembly for the promotion of the general good; but, whilst we admire the theory, we can but grieve over the actual results of that system shown in the corruption and demoralisation arising out of the municipal contests. It is notorious that in this city the relative position of political parties in the town council entirely depends on the suffrages of some hundreds of corrupt burgesses, who, without any attempt at concealment, will vote for those candidates (regardless of their personal fitness or political opinions) who will give them the most money. These reckless, profligate men, decide who shall be the guardians of the peace and morality of the city; and the most virtuous and talented of the citizens has not the slightest chance of their support if opposed by a corrupt partisan, however depraved or ignorant he may be, who will dole out bribes amongst them. That the prevalence of this evil is an admitted fact, and that in the last municipal elections which took place for this city on the 1st of November, the system of bribery was carried on in the most open and unblushing manner; and in one ward, comprising 400 burgesses, it is said that the votes of more than 120 electors were directly purchased by money bribes; and in many of the wards it is beyond doubt that the only way to succeed is by corruption. The effect of all this on the morality of the city we believe to be disastrous in the extreme; but we do not charge this offence upon any one party exclusively. We fear there
 96
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said: I second the Motion of my hon. Friend, and would tender to him my warm acknowledgments for the zeal and perseverance he has displayed in the advancement of this important question. It cannot be otherwise than a source of satisfaction and encouragement to know that not only out of doors, but in this House, the question has, been making steady and continuous progress; and notwithstanding all the obstacles and difficulties which have been thrown, in the way, it has already received the support of 120 Members of this House. I feel assured that number will this night, be augmented by other converts. I look upon success as a mere question of time. Indeed, Sir, the unequal and corrupt, state of our representation has been so frequently the subject of discussion in this House, and so little urged in its palliation, that it ought to be unnecessary to utter a word in support of a measure calculated to
 97 98 99 Dod's Parliamentary Companion 100 101 102 103 l. l., l. l. l. 104 105
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND , who, from the low tone in which he spoke, and the continual coughing in the House, was very imperfectly heard in the gallery, was understood to commence by observing that the excuse which had been made by hon. Gentlemen who were so anxious for a dissolution of Parliament for bringing on this Motion at this particular time, that it was a time of comparative tranquillity, would justify a vast number of other Motions on all sorts of subjects. Still, there were some circumstances which placed the question before them in a peculiar light. For instance, there were not less than six Gentlemen who had had the kindness to give notice of no less than eight measures now on the notice paper of the House for the improvement of the representative system, and this certainly forced the question upon the consideration of the Government in a way in which it had probably never been pressed before. He trusted, however, that under these circumstances the present Government would avoid the errors of former Governments, and would not, by refusing to entertain the measure, give occasion to others, as they had done on a former occasion, to take advantage of the impatience of the country, and bring forward a measure really revolutionary for the purpose of advancing the interests of their own faction. Now, before entering into the principle of the Bill, he would refer to something which appeared to him to have an adventitious importance attached to it—he meant the ballot. That appeared to him to be a question in which they, the representatives, had no concern; for what could it signify to them how the electors voted for them, whether secretly or openly—whether standing upon one leg or upon two? It seemed to him to be a question fairly left to the electors themselves. He had certain reasons for preferring the ballot, but he was not going into that question now, as there was to be a distinct discussion with reference to it. The main objec-
 107 l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. s. d. s. s., s. l. 108 l. l., 109 110 s. l. 111
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, that the hon. Member for West Surrey had commenced by stating that he thought the hon. Member for Montrose had pursued a somewhat singular course in wasting, as he had been pleased to call it, the time of the House in a discussion upon this subject, while, on the, other hand, he was impressing on the Government the extreme necessity of a dissolution, of Parliament. If the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer bad indeed adopted the suggestion which had been thrown out by the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) of availing himself of the Thursday nights for carry-
 112 113 "Nunquam libertas gratior extat Quam sub rege pio." 114 115 116 d., d., 117 118 119 Blackstone 120 121 l. l. 122 s. 123 124 125
 MR. NAPIER  said, that in much that had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, he entirely concurred; but he was afraid that if some of the principles he had advanced were strictly followed out, they must, in the end, lead to universal suffrage. Since he had had the honour of a seat in that House, he had had many opportunities of hearing this question discussed, and he had had the pleasure and advantage of hearing from the noble Lord the Member for London those sound constitutional expositions which induced him to vote against the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, and others who brought forward similar Motions. The hon. and learned Member had drawn a picture of certain despotic Governments on the Continent; and he (Mr. Napier) abhorred despotism, and the licentiousness and anarchy which had taken root in other countries, as much as the hon. and learned Member did. But while the hon. and learned Member pointed to one class of despotic Governments, and to another class of unrestrained democracy, he pointed also to the peculiarity of the constitution of England, which, not dealing with any supposed perfection, either in the monarchy or in the people, dealt with human nature as it found it, and gave us a constitution, which had not grown up in a moment, but gradually and slowly, and thus possessed all the elements of stability; and he (Mr. Napier) fully acquiesced in the praise he bestowed on the British constitution for the admirable manner in which it adapts itself to the imperfection of mankind. But, if
 126 l., 127 l.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I am anxious to express, as briefly as I can, my opinion on the proposition of the hon. Member for Montrose; and all the more because I am not pleased with the conclusion of the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman the late Solicitor General (Sir W. P. Wood). I agree with my hon. and learned Friend in all his premises—in almost every thing he said as to the proposition of my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. I agree with him as to the conclusions he has drawn, but not as to the result to which he has come. He
 128 129
 An HON. MEMBER : Probably they have quite as much intellect as any other class.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I am sure that interruption must have come from a person representing land. I go further, and say that it is not by the possessors of land that the interests of this country are represented. Is it by the persons who possess wealth? Not at all. There is a large mass of intelligence in the country which is represented neither by the possessors of land nor by the possessors of wealth in any shape. Therefore, if you want this intelligence represented, you must get other means of doing it than by the interests of land and wealth. If that is the case with respect to intelligence merely, assuredly the same holds true with respect to what I will call the good feeling of the country. I shall take the one particular class, and I ask the House to listen to me while I describe it. I take the class who are the mere producers of wealth by what is called manual as compared with intellectual labour; I take that class who are called instructed artisans. Here I have a body of men, numerous in this country, who are neither the possessors of land nor of accumulated wealth; but they are intelligent, well trained, possessing instructed minds and instructed hands: they are men who, from day to day, by the produce of their instructed labour, obtain the means of honourable subsistence for themselves and their families. They are men who, in their lives, set an example to all the other classes of society. They possess everything which a good citizen ought to possess. Those men, instructed, intelligent, and moral—those men are by law excluded from all voice in the government of this country. And why? I will take the case of a lodger in the city of London. A man by his daily intelligent labour earns for himself an honest subsistence; but he lives in lodgings. By the Reform Bill of the noble Lord—I do not impute it to him as an intention, but  per incuriam 130 l. 131 populus plebs, plebs, populus 132 l. l. l. s. l. 133 134 135 136
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, although the subject does not appear to be so interesting to the House as one might have supposed, I cannot allow the present opportunity to pass without trespassing for a few moments upon its attention. And, Sir, I shall endeavour to do that which, so far as I have been able to observe, has not yet been done by any Gentleman who has preceded me—not even by the hon. Member himself who brought forward this Motion—for I will address myself to the Motion before the House. We have had from the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just addressed you (Mr. Roebuck) one of those dissertations which no one can make more interesting on subjects of an abstract character; and we have had several speeches from other Gentlemen, certainly, on the subject of Parliamentary Reform. But it appeared to me that those speeches were mainly addressed, not to the Motion upon the paper, but rather to that more celebrated, though evanescent, proposition, which for a moment excited so much interest, but to which, with a due regard to the feelings of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord J. Russell), I think hon. Members opposite should have had the delicacy not to allude. Sir, among those who have addressed the House is the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the city of Oxford (Sir W. P. Wood), who delivered himself of a very elaborate speech, which was evidently prepared to support a Ministerial proposition; and one consequence of the train of his argument, was, with somewhat of inconsistency, a determination to vote against a proposition which for three successive years he had always sup-
 137 138 139 140 141 142 143 144 Cries of from an Opposition Member. 145 146 "Individuals were not merely beaten from the polls, but they were knocked down, beaten, and stabbed when proceeding about their ordinary occupations in open day in distant parts of the city. The police appeared to have been utterly inefficient, and the 100,000 citizen soldiers, of whom the New York papers boasted so much, were content to remain at home while a few gangs of ruffians commanded all the approaches to the polling-booths, and in one instance—destroyed the ballot-box." "This last outrage upon the freedom of election has very naturally caused extreme irritation, and the  Courier and Enquirer Tribune 147 "We understand that the Whig Committee of the 8th Ward and other Wards have offered 100 dollars to every man who can secure 20 democratic votes for the Whig tickets on election day. This money has been partially raised by the most shameful extortions from the office-holders of the Whig party. It is said that every policeman in the Whig districts has been taxed 15 dollars towards defraying the expenses of the election. By this means the Whigs seek to crash every independent feeling in the voter, and to make him the mere tool of party. With the money procured in this manner, political hacks are sent to buy up the votes of the poorer and yet more dependent classes in those wards." "Whereas the use of money at elections, for the purpose of influencing and corrupting electors, is an increasing and dangerous evil, and the bestowment or offer, promise or reception of money, or compensation in any form, should be made good and sufficient grounds for the challenge and rejection of a vote; but, whereas doubts exist as to the constitutionality of a law disfranchising an elector, therefore, resolved, 'That the Committee on the Judiciary Acts be and are hereby requested to examine and report whether, in their opinion, a law conformable to the foregoing preamble would be a violation of any provision of the constitution at law of this State.'"
 MR. HUME : What law? What proposition?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : A proposition made to the Legislature of New York to take the increase of bribery in the elections for that State into consideration, in order to repress it by
 148 149 150 151 152 153
 MR. F. H. BERKELEY  wished to reply to the question put by the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer)—would they give to the constituencies as they are at present the advantage of the ballot? He undoubtedly said he would, and he would confine his reasons simply to
 154
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  congratulated the House, and, through them, the country, on this, that whatever evasions or mystifications might have gone forth during the last week, upon one point the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been sufficiently explicit. Treading in the footsteps of the most illustrious Warrior of the age, the right hon. Gentleman, after much circumlocution, had formally declared the intention of the Government to abide by the Reform Act of 1831. He had announced that Her Majesty's Government did not intend to move on with the spirit of the age; that they looked upon the Reform Bill as a final measure—that the old "finality" dodge was to be renewed—and that come what might the Government would give no reform in Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman said he would certainly give the country no reform in this Parliament nor in the Parliament to come.
 155 Cries of and a laugh 156 157
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I have so often addressed you on the subject of the Motion now before the House, that I shall not think it necessary, neither would it be agreeable to the House, to go at any length into the several propositions which my hon. Friend has introduced. It appears to me, Sir, the simple question is, whether the adoption of a Bill founded on the principles contained in my hon. Friend's propositions would conduce to the good
 158 159 l. 160 161 162 Cries of 163
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, it is entirely unnecessary for me to enter at any length into the subject of the debate which has arisen on the Motion of the hon. Gentleman opposite. I think so for two reasons: first of all, because every thing that can be said upon the specific proposition which he has brought forward, has been, to my mind, completely answered by the observations of my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and, secondly, because the observations made by my right hon. Friend have been amply supported by the able remarks and arguments of the noble Lord in the first part of his speech. My only object in rising now is to correct an expression made use of by the noble Lord, that it may not go forth to the country that my right hon. Friend adverted to the case of "clear necessity," in which Reform might reasonably be conceded, as synonymous with the case of "clear discontent." The observations of the noble Lord, illustrated as they were by allusions to the Reform Act, and the Roman Catholic Relief Bill, could not be mistaken. When my right hon. Friend made use of the expression "clear necessity," as justifying an additional extension of the franchise, or further improvement in the constitution of this House, he coupled it with the observation that any alteration which might be made should give permanent and general satisfaction to the country. What I understood my right hon. Friend to say was this: "You passed a Reform Bill in 1832, which you intended to be a permanent and final adjustment of a very great question, and it is not desirable to disturb that question, because the advantages to be gained by that disturbance
 164
 MR. HOBHOUSE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HUME  said, he should be very sorry to be the means of unnecessarily taking up the time of the House by having the debate adjourned.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  regretted that he should feel it his duty to oppose the wishes of his hon. Friend; but, representing as he (Mr. W. Williams) did one of the largest constituencies in the country, he was anxious to have an opportunity of expressing his opinion upon a question which he considered to be one of the greatest importance. Whenever any proposition was made to adjourn a debate from mere party purposes, he felt no disposition to aid such a course; but this was a question in which the people of England took a great interest. [ Cries of Cries of
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought the course taken by the hon. Gentleman was hardly fair towards the hon. Member for Middlesex. Whatever difference of opinion might exist between him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) and the hon. Gentleman, he had always entertained towards him the greatest respect. That hon. Gentleman had brought forward the present question several times, and he had done so on this occasion, no doubt, without the slightest idea of a pending election. He would have brought it forward under any other circumstances, for the purpose of eliciting a  bonâ fide
 MR. BRIGHT  did not often agree with
 166
 MR. F. PIGOTT  said, he should have had no hesitation in voting for the introduction of the Bill of the hon. Member for Montrose, but he wished to guard himself against being considered as pledged to the details of the measure. He thought, however, that the hon. Gentleman had not selected the most opportune time for bringing it forward. The House was in a different position from that in which it was placed at the commencement of the Session, when the noble Lord the Member for London proposed his measure of Parliamentary Reform; but he hoped that if the noble Lord should again be in a situation to propose such a measure, those who now sat on the Opposition side of the House would support him without being divided among themselves. With respect to the present Motion, he thought that after the discussion that had taken place, it was of little consequence whether there was a division or not. He should support the Motion for the adjournment.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the reason for an adjournment was less now than on former occasions; as it might be taken that the Motion of his hon. Friend was rather for discussion than to tend to any practical result. He trusted, therefore, that the public business would not be delayed for the sake of Gentlemen making election speeches.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  expressed his hope that the hon. Member for Lambeth would not press the adjournment of the debate. He stood in the same situation as the hon. Member as to representing a very large constituency. He had endeavoured five or six times to address the House; but as he had not been fortunate
 167
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  then said, he would not persevere with his Motion, especially after the reasons given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. HUME  replied. The House would feel that he had been placed in no very favourable position. With his opponents he was prepared to deal; but what could he say to his friends around him? One hon. Member told him that the present was not an opportune moment for bringing it forward; but the hon. Gentleman must have forgotten that he (Mr. Hume) gave notice last Session of this Motion; and if, after the change that had taken place, he had not brought it forward, it would have appeared that he was afraid to face hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial side of the House. Another hon. Gentleman said the discussion would lead to no practical result; but he (Mr. Hume) was perfectly satisfied, for it was only by discussion that the question could be fairly and properly understood, and therefore every man who wished to see a great question carried, should again and again urge it on the House until it was settled. The speech of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) was in favour of one part of his proposition—and he considered it of vast importance—that Members of the learned professions and men of intelligence should he entitled to the franchise; and with the Chancellor of the Exchequer he had very little difficulty, for he could show that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman had not been directed to anything he (Mr. Hume) had said, and that as to everything he did say the right hon. Gentleman was entirely wrong. The right hon. Gentleman had talked of a territorial representation; but he (Mr. Hume) had never made use of the term; so that the observations of the right hon. Gentleman were quite superfluous—he had raised a lion merely for the purpose of killing him. In order to set the right hon. Gentleman right in his view, he (Mr. Hume) would mention one of the anomalies that existed under the present system.
 168
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  thought that if the House threw out this Bill they would refuse a possible remedy for one of those crying evils which the populous districts of the metropolis had suffered from so long.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in answer to the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Ath-
 86
 MR. BAILLIE  said, the question was, whether a company in this metropolis had the right to sink a well where they pleased, and to rob all the surrounding country of its water, against the wishes of the inhabitants. The House had already decided, on a former occasion, not to entertain this Bill, and to that decision he trusted they would now adhere.
 MR. H. T. HOPE  said, he understood that it was proposed to sink a well, but the depth he was not prepared to state, though he believed it was not so deep as had been suggested by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford. As to the second question, he could only speak to that which he had been advised, and he was told that the experiment had been attended with perfect success. The third question was, whether a similar Bill to the present had not been thrown out on a former occasion by the House; but it was so thrown out in consequence of the Government having a Bill of their own for the supply of the metropolis, not upon its own merits. Having answered the questions of the hon. Member, he hoped he Sad established a claim to his vote.
 MR. H. T. HOPE , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, the promoters proposed to draw a very large supply from the neighbourhood of Watford from an extensive range of chalk hills surrounding that place. Besides the districts of London which it was intended to supply, the plan embraced no less than ten or twelve places, containing upwards of 50,000 persons, either ill supplied with water, or not supplied at all. They had the best authority to prove that the water could he obtained from the district and in the manner
 80 "1. That the chalk is the 'great water-bearing stratum' underlying the London clay, and from which all the Artesian Wells, directly or indirectly, draw their supplies. 2. That below the level of its natural drainage of the country, it is charged with an enormous quantity of water, which may be obtained with extraordinary facility by pumping. 3. That the quantity obtainable from shafts is amply sufficient to meet the object contemplated by the company."
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, the people in the Kensington district were not half supplied with water. If this project was carried out, as he trusted it would be, the Bayswater and Kensington districts would be amply supplied with water, as would a great number of people who were not sufficiently provided with that necessary element at present. He trusted the House would, in common justice, allow the Bill to go to a Committee.
 MR. HUME  thought that the matter to which the hon. Member for Finsbury had alluded, was one which was of the greatest possible importance to the dignity and honour of the House. If it were true that there were in the House eighty-six Members who had a pecuniary interest in the old companies, it was equally certain that those Members were bound in honour and common decency to abstain from voting; It was a constitutional doctrine of that House that no Member should vote on a question in which he was personally interested; and he (Mr. Hume) would chal-
 85
 MR. STEPHENSON  said, he had devoted a great deal of time to the examination of this project, and had given it his most serious consideration. He would not pledge himself to the allegations of the promoters of the Bill; he merely rose to
 82
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  would support the Bill. It was a strong argument in its favour, that it was strenuously opposed by the old companies, who had been at all times the fosterers of monopoly and the champions of peculation, and who deluged the Members of that House with a flood of documents hostile to the Bill. He was credibly informed that no fewer than eighty-six Members of that House had a direct pecuniary interest in the old companies; and if the fact were so, the hon. Gentlemen in question would best consult their own dignity and the character of the House, by abstaining altogether from voting.
 MR. HALSEY  said, he must oppose the Bill, and should move that it be read a second time that day six months. The measure was opposed by every single landowner and millowner residing on the banks of the rivers and streams touched by the
 81
 MR. KEOGH : Sir, I rise to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer with respect to the grant to the College of Maynooth, of which I have given notice. It will be in the recollection of the right hon. Gentleman, that in the year 1845, a Bill was introduced in this House by the late Sir Robert Peel, conferring upon the Royal College of Maynooth a grant of 30,00 l. Cries of Renewed cries of
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  wished to ask three questions of the hon. Member who had moved the second reading: first, whether the supply of water was to be procured by digging a well 600 feet deep; secondly, whether an experiment lately made by the company did not result in drying up some wells in the neighbourhood; and, thirdly, whether a similar Bill had not been rejected by this House on a former occasion? Unless these three questions could be answered in a satisfactory manner, he could not support the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PRICE  thought it impossible to get a better supply of water than would be given under this Bill. He should support the second reading.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  thought the House could have no better proof than this discussion afforded of the unsatisfactory state of the whole question. The House had adopted no intelligible line in dealing with this question. It was said by some hon. Gentleman, in proof of the necessity for this Bill, that the water supplied to the metropolis was not only deficient in quantity but bad in quality. But it was proved that an enormous proportion, say two-fifths, of all the water supplied to the metropolis, was not consumed for manufacturing or domestic purposes, but either ran into the sewers, or saturated all the land. This process was going on upon the south side of the Thames, so that you had in the districts most densely inhabited a super-
 83 84
 MR. J. A. SMITH  would suggest that the comforts of the soldiers should be attended to, by providing them with more comfortable barrack accommodation.
 GENERAL ANSON  said, he was glad to hear the hon. and gallant Colonel opposite express himself satisfied with the general efficiency of the Ordnance Department, and he was quite prepared to take upon himself the whole responsibility of the Estimates now before the House. They had heard the old story, which was repeated year after year, of the difficult and complicated nature of these Estimates; but he was quite sure that, if separately considered, they would be as easily understood as any of the other Estimates. It was said that the amount proposed had doubled since 1835; but that was a very exaggerated statement. The present Estimates amounted to 2,437,000 l l 181
 GENERAL ANSON  said, that so many misrepresentations had been put forth upon the subject mentioned by the hon. Member for Montrose, that it was necessary some explanation should be given. In the year 1838 we had changed our arms from flint to percussion locks; and the muskets which had been deemed most efficient by the highest authorities upon such a subject had then been adopted, and were still in use in this country. We had a simple percussion musket, and every hon. Member must be aware that for military service a peculiar description of arm was required.
 183 184
 GENERAL ANSON  observed that the works at Portsmouth to which the hon. Member for Montrose had referred, were commenced on the express recommendation of the Committee on Ordnance Estimates, and every item contained in the Estimate was in strict accordance with the suggestions of that Committee. All questions respecting the defence of the country must of necessity be decided upon by the Government, who were the responsible parties. The Government had thought it expedient that there should be certain fortifications erected in the Channel Islands, and he felt sure that the Committee would unanimously agree in the adoption of a measure which had received due consideration.
 GENERAL ANSON  explained that if necessity for any work was shown to exist, it was usual to lay a plan before the Government, and if the Government approved of the work, the sanction of the Secretary of State was given simply as an official matter. The plan was then put in the Estimates, and submitted to the consideration of the House of Commons, which, if it thought fit, might refuse a grant for the work.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  trusted that the one-inch Ordnance map for Ireland would be shortly published.
 GENERAL ANSON  said, this discussion only showed the difficulty of pleasing all parties with respect to the Ordnance surreys. He had had an opportunity, from his late official position, of forming a judgment on this question, and he must on that occasion enter his protest against the principle of changing the original scales as proposed by the Committee which sat on the survey for Scotland last Session, because he felt perfectly certain that in ten years hence, after the whole survey had been completed on the one-inch scale, they would have the people of Scotland coming forward to ask for a six-inch survey; and it would be much easier to reduce a six-inch map to a one-inch scale, than it would be to raise a one-inch map to a six-inch scale.
 GENERAL ANSON  said, he had every respect for the opinion of the scientific names quoted by the hon. Gentleman; but the evidence of Mr. Griffiths, who had perhaps had more practical experience of this subject than any other man, was in favour of the six-inch scale. This only showed the danger of altering the system that had hitherto been followed.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  was willing to admit that the facility of reducing a six-inch scale to one-inch was greater than in extending a one-inch scale to a six-inch.
 MR. HUME  said, that he wished to know at what rate of interest the Exchequer bills were to be issued. He believed that these securities at present bore too high a rate of interest, considering the value of money in the market, and indeed that the interest should have been reduced on the occasion of the last issue, by the late Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that the rate proposed was 1½ d
 MR. HUME  said, that money was never known to be procurable at so low a rate as at present; and he was sure that if these bills were issued at 1 d l s d
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, that he quite agreed in the opinion that Government should obtain money at as low a rate as they could; but at the same time he did not think that the rate of interest on Exchequer bills should vary according to the variations of the value of money in the market, because the greatest possible inconvenience would arise from these fluctuations. Nothing could be more inconvenient than to have Exchequer bills at a discount, or even at par. He thought the late Chancellor of the Exchequer was perfectly right in not reducing the rate of interest on Exchequer bills at the time referred to by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), because, although the money market had certainly been easier since, and it had turned out that he would have been right in lowering the rate of interest, still the operation would at the time have been attended with considerable risk, which
 193
 MR. HUME  wished to know that if money was so low, why should not the nation benefit by the circumstance? Exchequer bills were now at a premium of 70 s
 MR. SLANEY  said, that such was the abundance of money that it was with the greatest difficulty that large capitalists could get 2 per cent for it, and the smaller capitalists had hardly a chance of getting any investment at all, in consequence of the existence of laws which prevented capital seeking investment in our own country.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  would suggest that, considering the importance of the subject, the discussion upon it should be postponed to a subsequent stage.
 MR. HUME  said, he would allow the Resolution to pass, but he should again call attention to the subject upon the bringing up of the Report.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  could not agree with the last speaker that this Bill would be harmless if confined to merchant seamen. He believed there was not so unprotected an animal as a merchant seamen on the face of the earth, or of the waters under the earth. He might be cut in pieces by the captain, and have his remedy afterwards; and if the captain was not in the way, he might be cut in pieces by the mate. Hon. Members knew he was referring to distinct cases, proved before the courts. A merchant seaman did not desert in a foreign port, except under the pressure of ill treament; because he left his wages. The pith of the objection to the measure lay in the fact that it related to merchant seamen. He had great doubts whether the third clause of the Bill, imposing penalties on those who harboured deserters from foreign ships of war, would be obeyed in England. Suppose the occurrence of any of the cases which had been put by the noble seconder. He was sure he would not obey it himself; he would pay the 10 l
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  would give no opinion as to whether or not it was expedient to apply this Bill to ships of War; but he could positively assure the House that some such measure was absolutely necessary to the mercantile marine of this country. We had gone on long enough, certainly, without this Bill; and it might be said that we could get on still
 206
 MR. RICE  would vote for the second reading, and suggest that an endeavour should be made in Committee to assimilate the provisions of the Bill to the Portuguese treaty.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought that a Bill of this importance should not go into Committee without an explanation being given to the House of its scope and object. Circumstances had occurred which prevented the statement being made in the usual stage or stages of the Bill. His hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General of the late Government, on the night upon which the division took place upon the Local Militia Bill, had introduced the present measure; but feeling that after what had occurred there would be a natural impatience on the part of the House if it were then called, upon to listen to any statement, however clear and interesting, and however important the subject, he merely introduced the Bill, and it was read a first time without any observation being made. The Bill stood for a second reading on that day fortnight; but he (the Attorney General) did not feel that, as it was a Bill introduced by the late Government, it would be becoming in him to take it out of the hands of those who had introduced it, without an invita-
 209 pro formâ l l l 210 l l 211 212 213 Will "Your Committee are inclined to recommend that the superintendence, and in certain cases the administration, of all property devoted to charitable uses, should be entrusted to a permanent Board of three Commissioners, or some other independent authority, on whom should be imposed the duty of superintendence and control over the administration of all property devoted to
 214 l l l l 215 l l d 216 d d d l l l 217 218 219 l l l l ex officio 220 l d l l 221 l l l 222 223
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  felt the disadvantageous position in which he stood in opposing this Bill, which had the advantages of the support of Her Majesty's Attorney General and of the late Attorney General, and who had preceded him in this debate. He was aware of
 226 l l in extenso l 227 l l l
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, he could not allow one observation made by the hon. Member (Mr. Alderman Sidney) to pass without explanation—namely, that it had been the practice to admit the sons of noblemen on the books of Christ's Hospital. He (Mr. Alderman Thompson) was aware of only one instance of such an occurrence, in the case of a grandson of the great Lord Rodney, who was an orphan, and had been admitted on special grounds.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  rose to put a question either to the late Attorney General
 236
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, that being anxious that no delay should take place, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he was glad to find that the rumour which had been so very generally circulated as to the inefficient condition of our troops, was by degrees being abandoned; but he saw that his hon. Friend (Sir W. Clay) believed that the British soldier carried in his hand a weapon which he was scarcely able to carry, or to use properly when its use was required. He (Mr. F. Maule) would say, as far as he was acquainted with the Army, and the weapons in the use of our
 186
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, that the Committee which sat on the Ordnance survey of Scotland last Session went carefully into the whole subject, and examined a number of scientific men, among whom were the names of Mr. Brunel, Mr. Stephenson, and Mr. Locke, who all gave it as their opinion that a six-inch scale would be practically worthless, and that if the country wished to have a map that would be useful, the scale must be reduced to one-inch. A six-inch map would be too large for general purposes, and too small
 190 l
 MR. CHARTERIS  wished to know if it was intended to abandon the six-inch scale for the Scotch survey, as recommended in the report of the Committee of last year?
 MR. CHARTERIS  was sure the people of Scotland would be perfectly satisfied with the announcement of the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Dunne) as to the future prosecution of the survey. He should like to know what was the reason that the six-inch scale had ever been adopted? Mr. Griffiths originally proposed that the six-inch scale should be adopted for Ireland, because he thought the one-inch scale would not answer for that country; and the consequence was that the six-inch scale was not only introduced into Ireland, but the one-inch scale, which previously existed for the other parts of the United Kingdom, was changed, in order to assimilate it to the scale adopted in Ireland. But it should be remembered that the design of the survey in Ireland was to facilitate Mr. Griffiths' town-land valuation; whereas in Scotland these maps were not wanted for valuation purposes, but for general purposes. Besides, a very large proportion of the surface of Scotland was mountainous, and it was obvious that in such a country a map on a six-inch scale was totally unnecessary.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART,  in seconding the Amendment, said, that the Bill appeared to him open to very grave objections, although, he confessed, it was plausible enough, and might recommend itself on the first blush to many hon. Members; because this being a nation which depended in a great degree on commerce, and whose ships went to all parts of the world, it was desirable that the sailors belonging to them should not he allowed to violate their contracts, and desert from the service of their employers, and it was convenient that there should be ready means of forcing them to return to their engagements, or to be punished if they did not. If the Bill simply referred to sailors in the merchant service, he did not know that there would be any objection to it. But he concurred with his hon. and learned Friend (M. C. Anstey), that we ought to look with jealousy at all treaties which were in the nature of treaties for the purpose of extradition. This Bill sanctioned a proceeding similar to extradition. Nor thing could be more proper than that criminals should be given up by different countries in whose territories they took refuge, provided that their laws were all the same, and as just as the laws of this country, and if there was no greater danger of injustice and abuse than here. But inasmuch as this was not the case,
 197 198 199 200
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  was understood to say that his hon. Friend the Member for Southampton (Sir A. Cockburn) had several Amendments to propose to the Bill, and that it would be advantageous, therefore, to have the Bill reprinted.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that considering the length of time which had elapsed during which Parliament had given its attention to this subject, he should be very sorry if any farther delay should take place. He, therefore, could not give his support to the Amendment of the hon. Alderman, to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, fearing that that would furnish an occasion for fresh delay, and put it out of their power to pass the Bill in the present Session. He did think, however, that the circumstances which had been stated with regard to several of the Royal Hospitals were deserving of the attention of the Attorney General. If, as was said, 200,000 l
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  did not exactly see how words could be framed to meet the views of the right hon. Gentleman; but if the right hon. Gentleman proposed any restriction or limitation on the power of the House of Commons in this respect, he hoped he would suggest such words as he thought would answer his purpose, and print them with the notices. With regard to not making the Bill retrospective, he entirely agreed with the right hon. Gentleman.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  considered that the Bill ought to be read a second time, but he thought there was a good ground of objection to the form of the Bill as stated by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume). The preamble ought to have set forth the nature of the arrangements on which the Bill was founded. He would have first stated the treaty with Portugal on which that Bill was founded, then he would have inserted an enactment to enable Her Majesty to carry that treaty into effect, and then another enactment giving power to enter into treaties of a similar nature with other Powers. He thought that ought to have been the form of the Bill, and then they would have seen how it was to be carried out. The measure, he admitted, was of great importance to our mercantile marine, and he hoped it would be read a second time, reserving the details for the Committee.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he should certainly give the hon. and learned Attorney General every assistance in his power towards passing the Bill. When it was recollected that the annual revenue of the charities of this country was a million and a half, which, at twenty-six years' purchase, gave a gross value of forty millions, everybody must be impressed with the importance of legislating on proper principles for interests so large. Considering the nature of the property, and the mode of its administration, no one could wonder at the fact, which was beyond contradiction, that the grossest abuses had prevailed in the disposition of the funds of these charities. For the most part, it had been bestowed by donors about to quit the world, for the benefit of poor persons, who had no means of asserting or enforcing
 224 l l 225 l l
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  would,
 208
 MR. COWAN  said, that having been a Member of the Committee which sat on the survey for Scotland, he could corroborate the statement of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Charteris). The overwhelming preponderance of the evidence taken by the Committee was in favour of the one-inch scale; and the hon. and gallant Member (General Anson) stood alone in his support of the six-inch scale. The reduced scale was not only recommended by the consideration of its economy, but it afforded the prospect of a completion of the survey in ten years, instead of which, if the six-inch scale were adhered to, they could not hope to see it finished in less than half a century hence. The survey had hitherto been proceeded with in a very desultory manner, Wigtonshire, Kirkcudbrightshire, Edinburghshire, and the island of Lewis, having been taken after each other, instead of the counties being taken in their regular order. The people of Scotland were anxious to see the survey conducted in the different districts in proper succession, and to have the whole rapidly completed.
 MR. TENNYSON D'EYNCOURT  would have had no difficulty in voting for the second reading, if it had not been for the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had thrown some doubt on what was the real intention of the Government. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would tell them that he meant to withdraw the clause relating to ships of war.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had an insuperable objection to the Bill altogether. It was a dirty, mean Bill, full of trickery, and intended to throw a veil over those who did not deserve to be veiled; nor would it in the least check the faults which it pretended to aim at. Why did not the noble Lord bring in such a Bill as soon as he was
 238
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he should be sorry if the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose should labour under any mistake on the subject of this Bill. The present stage was the second reading, and the point which had been pressed could not be considered till another stage of the Bill. He feared the hon. Gentleman had misconceived what
 203
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had his own opinion—and that a very strong one—as to the scale which ought to be adopted; but he would not state that opinion on the present occasion. It had been said that the six-inch scale was found very conve-
 191 l
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that Ireland had been completed on the six-inch scale, which was now in progress of reduction to one-inch for geological purposes. In the British service it was only a particular corps of the Army which had to perform these surveys; but with regard to any measures for improving the scientific education of the officers of the Army generally, he should be happy to give them his support. With respect to the Ordnance survey in Scotland, the four counties had been surveyed on the six-inch scale, but the remainder of Scotland would be finished on a reduced scale. The sum of 15,000 l l
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the Master General of the Ordnance was prepared to adopt any improvement that might be
 187
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that since he entered upon the office he had the honour to hold he had discovered that there was no foundation whatever for the statements to which the hon. Gentleman had referred. For many years past the Commander-in-Chief had directed his attention to the new arms. The present Master General of the Ordnance was devoting his attention to the same subject; and he had no doubt that the British soldier would be found to be armed, not only as well as, but even better than, foreign soldiers.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would make inquiry into the subject.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that as a soldier, he was of course anxious about the comforts of his fellow-soldiers; but the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman would necessitate an increased expenditure; and it depended upon that House whether it gave the money for this purpose.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it was his duty to move the Ordnance Estimates for the year, and in doing so on the present occasion he would make a few observations. They were so plainly set out in the Votes, that, in fact, they required very little explanation. They had been framed by his predecessor in office, and appeared to have been framed with that attention which was necessary and consistent with a due regard to the service. He was confirmed in this, for he might safely state that no
 179 l
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that in no department had greater reductions been effected than in the Commissariat, the Vote for which last year amounted to 514,442 l l l l l
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he should vote for the second reading, believing that the Government would not object to that por-
 207
 MR. GOULBURN  thought the rational mode to take was to read the Bill a second time, and consider the objections in Committee. He considered it was unreasonable to oppose the second reading because Government would not pledge themselves to make certain alterations.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, the Bill as it stood was in a very different form from that with which he formerly objected to legislation on the subject; and so far as the tribunal was concerned, he had nothing to say against it. He had before admitted the necessity of legislation, and he was prepared to support the principle of the present Bill, without pledging himself to the details. Neither could he see why the Committee on a question of public importance should be a select one. The exemption or non-exemption of particular bodies was a question well worthy of consideration. On the one hand, it might be made so general as to defeat the object of the Bill; and, on the other, narrowed so far as to make the Bill oppressive and tyrannical. The question was one, he thought, which could better be discussed by a Committee of the whole House, than by five or six gentlemen only. The objection to the Bill was in some of its details. He had presented a petition from an hospital which well deserved attention, namely, the Foundling Hospital; and the governors of that institution objected to constant liability to interference, on the ground that it would check the course of charity. He certainly thought it no more than right that there should be periodical visitations to all charities, to ascertain whether they were properly administered; but, on the other hand, they ought to be exempted at least from the daily and hourly interference which under this Bill would take place, and he thought some clause to provide for this ought to be introduced into the Bill. To secure a proper administration of these charities without offending the feelings of the persons concerned, was a most desirable object, and one which, he conceived, it would not be impossible to attain.
 MR. JACOB BELL  thought that there was a distinction. A slave, being a slave, could make no agreement, and was, therefore, not a "seaman" in the sense of being a party to a bargain—the only case to which the Bill applied.
 MR. FRESHFIELD,  who was almost inaudible, spoke in defence of the management of the Royal Hospitals, and said that the trustees of those charities were most desirous of being exempted from the operation of the present Bill. If they were liable to any charge, let them he proceeded against, and let them take the consequences; but do not call upon them year after year to send their accounts into the County Courts, to be copied by the registrar, and require them to contribute, however commendable their conduct, 50 l
 MR. WYLD  said, he must express a hope that the scientific branch of the Ordnance Department would receive the special attention of the Government during the present year. He begged particularly to point out to them the large expenses attendant on the British surveys, and the small results hitherto obtained. Nearly 1,500,000 l 189
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had no intention of following the example set by the noble Lord and the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. C. Anstey) in deprecating delay, and charging Gentlemen on his side of the House with delaying the public business, and yet making speeches which brought in every subject, from Kamschatka to Poland, and which had nothing whatever to do with the question before the House. It was his duty to tell the noble Lord, and the hon. and learned Gentleman, that this Bill was prepared by the late Government. There had been a general complaint from the owners of merchant ships of the inconvenience attendant on the desertion of seamen in foreign ports. There had been constant communications made by the shipping office of the Board of Trade on the subject. There was no power or means by which seamen in foreign ports could be got back to their ships, and this country could not ask foreign countries to give their assistance in the matter unless similar aid was afforded to them in this country. All that had been said by the noble Lord of the inconvenience and injustice of compelling men, who had once set their foot on the shores of this country, to go back to their own ships, seemed to apply as much to merchant seamen as to those on board of men of war. If the House, however, thought it advisable, the Bill might be made applicable to merchant seamen only, although he thought that the ships in Her Majesty's service would thereby lose a great advantage. [Lord D. STUART: In the one case there is no bargain.] There was no bargain, but still it was desirable to assimilate the two cases. If hon. Gentlemen opposite thought it desirable to deprive Her Majesty of the advantage of getting back seamen who had deserted from Queen's ships, let them pursue their object. The Board over which he had the honour to preside, had only to take care of the merchant seamen; but the officers of Her Majesty's service had made great complaints of the difficulties of reclaiming those men who had deserted in foreign
 201
 MR. HUME  thought that very much of what had been said might have been avoided, if the course had been followed in this instance which was usual in all cases where a Bill was founded upon arrangements made with foreign Governments. The preamble of the Bill distinctly set forth certain arrangements concluded with foreign Powers and this country; and the proper course was to have laid these arrangements on the table of the House. He understood that neither the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. C. Anstey), nor the noble Lord (Lord D. Stuart), objected to powers compelling seamen to go back and fulfil the contract which they had entered into, and therefore the Bill was very properly made applicable to the mercantile marine. But if words were put into it which would apply to Russian ships of war, for instance, on board of which the men were put by compulsion, he did not see how, in case a vessel from Martinique were to put into a British port with a cargo of slaves on board, if these should escape, the British Government could avoid sending them back again into slavery. He warned them against the effect this measure might produce upon the character of this country, upon which Earl Granville when in office had so ably taken his stand, and of which the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) boasted as affording security and protection and
 202
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the state of the public works in the Channel Islands, and he would recommend the Government to send some competent person there who would make a survey of the fortifications which were now in progress in Jersey and Alderney. Two hundred thousand pounds had been already expended there, and he believed without any use whatever. They had been commenced in a panic, and ralshly and hastily decided upon. He believed these works would give no security whatever to the Channel. In his opinion they were only throwing thousands into the sea. He had also to complain that a sum of 45,000 l
 MR. HUME  said, that the objection which he took was on a point of principle. The Committee on Ordnance Estimates had recommended that whenever any expense should be incurred, the authority of the Secretary of State should be given; but he objected to any Secretary of State
 188
 MR. HUME  hoped that, if practicable, the price of the Ordnance maps would be still further reduced at once for the convenience of the public, and for the benefit of the revenue. The reduction which had already taken place in their price had been attended with a considerable increase in the sale. It seemed quite clear that the remainder of the survey ought to be executed on the one-inch scale.
 MR. HUME  said, there was no doubt a great difference of opinion amongst the Members of the Committee on the Estimates; but several changes had been suggested, which he thought could be carried out with great benefit and economy: and he hoped the present Government would simplify the extraordinary anomalies which existed in this department. He would not say that they were kept up for patronage. He believed it was rather owing to the fact that when once persons entered into a bad system it was very difficult to get out of it. He believed no man was more anxious to promote the public advantage than the late Master General of the Ordnance; and that no man was more desirous of doing his duty both to the soldier and the public. He wished to blame no one; but the present system was bad, expensive, and complex. His decided opinion was that there should be a Minister of War, having the control of the whole War and Ordnance Departments—one master mind to direct all their movements, as was the case in every country of Europe except Great Britain. As the Estimates before the House were those of the late Government, and the present Admintration could not have had time to look closely into them, he would not oppose any difficulty to their being passed, but would simply throw out the points he had noticed, as worthy of the best attention.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought the Committee ought now to have some explanation with respect to the arms supplied to the Army. On a former occasion it was stated in that House that during the last four or five years, while other countries had been improving the arms of their soldiers, we had been remaining quite idle; and it had been asserted in the public press by some who ought to know better, that our soldiers were actually incapable of doing their duty when required. Having been on the Committee, and knowing what a large expense was incurred annually for the renewal of arms, he begged to state that he believed none of the old arms were now used by any of the corps, with the exception of the retired veterans at home. This was a subject on which the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Dunne) should afford some explanation. They ought not to appear before the world with a character for remissness in placing in the hands of the Army the best weapons that could be obtained.
 MR. FORSTER  did not think the Government were agreed amongst themselves on the question. As they had not declared their opinion, he considered it was only fair to postpone the second reading.
 MR. P. HOWARD  thought the discussion ought to have been conducted without launching those harsh and severe invectives against foreign and friendly Powers which had characterised some speeches that night. Such language did not strengthen us with Foreign Powers; and the silence with which it had been received showed that it obtained no approbation in that House. He should be ready to support the real interests of liberty as stanchly as any one else; but it was derogatory to Parliament to suffer such unnecessary invectives against rulers in amity with this country. With regard to the Bill, if the Government had gone beyond the point required, it was probably from the instructions not having been sufficiently defined; he trusted that with the assistance of the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston), the commercial interests of the country, and the cause of freedom, and the maritime police of the country, would be sufficiently guarded.
 MR. P. HOWARD  said, that in the case of charitable institutions under private management, the greatest delicacy ought to be exercised in any question of legislative interference, and he thought it desirable to submit the Bill not to the desultory conversation of an open Committee, but to a Select Committee, which would enter deliberately into every necessary detail.
 MR. SLANEY  said, he should take that occasion to call the attention of the House to the burdens upon land, and the mode of alleviating them. He hoped that the House would hear with him for a few moments. He did not frequently trespass on their patience, and he could assure them that he had no intention of now abusing their indulgence. He was anxious to be permitted to state his views with respect to the grievances which appeared to him to press with unreasonable severity on the landed interests of this country, and he hoped to be enabled to submit certain suggestions which would tend most materially to the relief of those interests. The Government proposed to appeal to the country before long, upon a topic of great importance, in respect to which there existed great diversity of opinion—namely, protection. Now, it could not be denied
 176 177 l l l 178
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the Vote was framed in strict accordance with a recommendation of a Committee of that House, to the effect that before any new work or fortification should be inserted in the Estimates, a written order of the Secretary of State should be obtained. All that had been done in the present case was this—before the Estimate was submitted to Parliament, the sanction of the Secretary of State had been given to the proposal of that Estimate, but not to its adoption. It remained for the Committee to pass the Estimate if it thought proper.
 MR. WALPOLE  approved of the course suggested by the noble Lord. There were two points in which the Bill required amendment. He alluded to the provision by which an inquiry was to take place on the presentation of an address, alleging that corruption had taken place in any particular borough. Some ground should be required for the issuing of a Commission, other than a mere address. Unless they did, a majority in the borough might always procure a Commission; and he also thought a clause should be inserted for the purpose of preventing an inquiry taking place without good and sufficient foundation for such inquiry. He objected also to the retrospective action proposed to be given to the Commission. Inquiry ought not to be allowed into proceedings that had occurred ten or twenty years ago. These subjects required amendment; but in consenting to the reprinting of the Bill, he did not pledge himself to sanction the Amendments proposed.
 MR. WALPOLE  was understood to say, that the object of the Bill was simply to carry out certain arrangements made with foreign Powers, in reference to deserting seamen. Whatever those arrangements were, it was desirable that they should be fully understood. There was the treaty with Portugal; and there were other arrangements made with Sweden—both being nearly alike. The documents detailing those arrangements might be laid on the table of the House; the treaty being known, need not be produced; and the House would then be in a situation to go into Committee, and to see how far those arrangements could be carried out. The hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Thornely) appeared to think that in the case of Brazilian slaves deserting from Brazilian ships, and taking refuge on English soil, such persons, under this Bill, would have to be delivered up by the English authorities. But there really was nothing in the Bill applying to such a case. The Bill applied solely to "seamen."
 MR. WALPOLE  was understood to say, that Her Majesty's Government did not wish to do more than carry out the principles of the treaty with Portugal.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that, having received that intimation, he would not press the Amendment.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  had heard the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) very indistinctly. Had he said that the Bill, in Committee, would be made consonant as with the Portugal treaty; and that the distinction would be made between ships of war and mercantile ships?
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that he rose for the purpose of moving that this Bill be read a second time that day six
 194 195 "Whenever it is made to appear to Her Majesty that due facilities are or will be given for recovering and apprehending seamen who desert from British ships in the territories of any foreign Power, Her Majesty may, by Order in Council stating that such facilities are or will he given, declare that seamen who desert from ships belonging to such Power, or to a subject of such Power, when within Her Majesty's dominions or the territories of the East India Company, shall be liable to be apprehended and carried on board their respective ships, and may limit the operations of such order, and may render the operation thereof subject to such conditions and qualifications, if any, as may be deemed expedient." per se 196
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  regretted he could not concur in the Amendment. His hon. Friend said that Christ's Hospital was managed with great assiduity. He admitted that such was the case now, but was it always the case? [Mr. Alderman THOMPSON: Yes.] He would show that it was not always the case. Not many years since an order was passed by the hoard of governors not to admit any boy whose friends had property exceeding a fixed amount, namely, 300 l pari passu 231 l l l l 232 l l l l l l s d l l l
 MR. THORNELY  did not see that that was an answer. Slaves sometimes were used to man Brazilian vessels, and such slaves would be "seamen." Now, he wanted this, that when a slave touched British ground he should be free for ever.
 MR. THORNELY  would like to know whether, if this Bill passed in its present shape, and a Brazilian vessel came here with slaves on board, some of whom got on shore, we should not, in accordance with this Bill, be bound to put them on board again?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he looked in vain at the Ordnance Estimates for any evidence of economy. It was true that there was a decrease upon the Votes of late years, but this arose from the diminution in the number of barracks. The present Estimates, however, were double what they were in 1835, when the present Master General formed part of the Government of the late Sir Robert Peel. The amount of the present Estimates was 2,437,000 l l l 180
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, at that late hour he would not have risen to take any part in the discussion, wore it not that he was anxious to allay those apprehensions which appeared to be entertained by the hon. Alderman with respect
 234 l l l l
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY,  considered that this Bill, unless certain clauses were introduced, would encourage the practices it meant to punish. Their object should be prevention rather than punishment. Every person was sufficiently acquainted with electioneering to know that money would be spent, in order to make up a case for disfranchising a borough.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  had no right again to address the House; but, as his name had been introduced by the worthy Alderman (Mr. Alderman Sidney) who had lately risen, he threw himself on their indulgence while he explained the case so far as he knew it. It was said that no respectability of names in the apparent government of a Charity constituted any real security for the faithful discharge of the original trust; and, as an instance, Ashton's Charity was quoted; and the names of the Governor of the Bank, of Sir Edward Ryan, and of himself, were
 233 l l l l
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  seconded
 228 l 229 l l l l in toto
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he was to hear the statement of the hon. and gallant Member, and was quite ready to admit that it would be most inexpedient to put weapons into the hands of our soldiery which we might be afterwards obliged to lay aside. He hoped, however, that attention would be paid not only to the quality of the arms, but to the question as to whether they were sufficiently practised in the use of them. He apprehended that many persons were not aware of the allowance of ball cartridges to our regiments. For the purposes of practice, they only received thirty rounds per annum, allowing them the opportunity of firing a shot at a mark little more than once a fortnight. That seemed to him to be so unutterably ridiculous, that at first he could not credit it, but upon inquiry had reason to believe it was perfectly true. That surely was not the way to prepare a workman to handle his tool with dexterity, and that tool the clumsiest that could be supplied to him. He was afraid that this statement could not be contradicted; and he hoped that now, as public attention had been called to the subject, a more efficient system would be adopted and pursued. He felt certain that there existed a very strong feeling of disapprobation and dissatisfaction at the present arrangements. Every one acknowledged the gallantry of our troops; but the Committee and the Government would be greatly to blame if they neglected to adopt that machinery by which the gallantry of our troops might be made most efficient. He should not like to see our soldiers with inefficient weapons. It was not fair or just to trust entirely to the gallantry and endurance of those brave men; but it was the bounden duty of that House and of the Government to take care that the very best weapons of defence and attack were put into their hands, so that, if the occasion arose, they might compete at least upon equal terms with the armies of other nations.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, not unnaturally, as he was newly in office, had misconceived the circumstances out of which the Bill had arisen. The right hon. Gentleman inferred that the Bill only carried out the intentions of the late Government, and which were entertained when he (Lord Palmerston) was in office. The circumstances were these: The late Government received an application in November from the Swedish Government, asking them to conclude a treaty containing several provisions with regard to the surrender of seamen, and with the same stipulations as those of the treaty with Portugal of 1842. The treaty with Portugal provided that each of the two contracting parties should agree not to retain in the service of the State deserters from the ships of war of the other party, but that they should be discharged. There was, however, no engagement to surrender them. The treaty further stipulated that the magistrates and
 204 205
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said, that, speaking as an independent Member who last year sat upon the Committee, he was not altogether opposed to the object of the Bill; but nevertheless he thought it defective both in principle and detail. It was said dissent was on the increase in Edinburgh, and that was one of the reasons for reducing the number of ministers of the Established Church, which the promoters of the Bill urged in its favour. He, however, could not recognise the force of that reason, nor could he say that he had much
 265
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, he should support the Bill. He examined its provisions while in office, and he highly approved of it. There could not be a greater error than to suppose that its operations could possibly injure the ministers of the Established Church in Scotland; and if the House could be made sensible of the heart-burnings that it was calculated to put a stop to in Scotland, it would ultimately pass the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE CLERK  said, he was in favour of the measure, though he was opposed to many of its details; and he trusted, when the Bill came down from the Committee, the defects would have been expunged. He should resist any attempt to reduce the number of clergymen attached to the Established Church, and he called upon Her Majesty's Ministers to second his exertions in that respect.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he only regretted that instead of proposing to reduce the number of clergy from eighteen to fifteen, the Bill did not propose to reduce them to six. It was a great hardship on the inhabitants of Edinburgh to be compelled to contribute to the support of a Church Establishment of which they did not approve. He confessed he could not view the Bill with much favour, for it fell short of the object for the attainment of which it professed to be designed.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, that such a Bill as the one now under discussion ought to have been introduced rather by the Government than by a private Member. He would not divide the House on the second reading, but would reserve the privilege of opposing the measure on a future stage, in the event of its not being materially amended in Committee.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  thought the debate should be adjourned till Government could come forward and say whether they could conscientiously support the principle of the Bill. He should be extremely sorry if they did approve of the principle, but if they did the fate of the Bill might then be very different.
 MR. TUFNELL  approved of the Bill, and trusted Government would give its principle their serious consideration and approval, although they might not be able to coincide with all its details.
 MR. COWAN  said, if the Government had any regard for the peace of the city of Edinburgh, and the prosperity of the Church of Scotland, they would be anxious for a settlement of this question, and would not oppose the measure. He should like to have an assurance from the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary—an assurance that the sanction of the Crown would be given to the Bill, otherwise the promoters, who were actuated by the worthiest motives, would not care about proceeding any further with the measure.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that a few nights since he declared, in answer to a question, that the Annuity Tax as well as Ministers' Money in Ireland would be taken into consideration by the Government, with a view to arriving at a satisfactory settlement of the questions. He had repeated that declaration to a deputation which did him the honour to wait on him the other day; and he repeated it now. The question of the Annuity Tax, however, was a grave and difficult one, involving very important principles. He had looked into the subject as carefully as he could, considering the pressure of other engagements, and he was not yet prepared to state, on the part of Government, in what particular mode it could be settled. However, if hon. Gentlemen would allow him to look into the question, and obtain as much information upon it as he could, and as he was endeavouring to do with regard to the Ministers' Money, he would endeavour to arrive at a settlement of this measure at the same time. But if he were asked now to give his assent to this proposition, he must say at once that it involved rights which ought not to be given up hastily and without consideration; and the Queen's consent ought not to be given to a measure which abstracted a great portion of the Crown patronage in reference to the deans of the Royal Chapel, until Government could be satisfied that such a settlement of the question would not only satisfy one particular party, but would give something like satisfaction to all concerned. He would also appeal to the House whether, in the present state of business, and considering the difficulties of the question, which had occupied the attention of Government after Government for twenty years, it was reasonable to ask of him (Mr. Walpole) all of a sudden to decide at once what Government would do with this measure.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he had advised the late Government to give the consent of the Crown to this Bill as it now stood, and
 267
 COLONEL THOMPSON  had two remarks to make on the opening speech of the Home Secretary. One was, that it had been there laid down, that we ought to be ruled in the scale of our defences, by the state of defence in which other countries were found. He would submit that this was inaccurate. If the Continental countries should choose to cover themselves with a network of fortresses, there would be nothing in this to imply that we ought to do the same. The measure of what we ought to do, was the probability of attack from other countries, and not the state of their preparations against attacks we never meant to make. The other was, that the speech of the Home Secretary had stated, that the Ministers saw no danger from the existing Governments upon the Continent, but they saw great danger from the consequences of some of them being overturned a few months hence, as they distinctly intimated they expected to be the case. Here, then, was a remarkable shift of purpose. The country had hitherto regarded the first as their enemy, and the others as their friends. It had supposed the Militia was to be called out to guard against what might be attempted by an existing ruler in France; but it now appeared it was to guard against those who might put him down. The representatives from the manufacturing districts were under a strong pressure from without, on this question of the Militia, and it was necessary they should be able to give precise answers to their constituents, as to what the danger was, and where it was from. For his own part, using such judgment as he had, he had thought that at one time the danger was considerable; but in the exercise of the same judgment, however feeble, he believed such danger to a great extent to have passed by. The ruler of France was manifestly not getting
 296 demoiselles de la Halle, l.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  begged to tell the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) that he had always maintained with regard to the Navy the same conduct upon that (the Opposition) as upon the other side of the House. He was glad to find that the hon. Member for the West Riding had recovered his courage, because only a few months ago he was the first among those who were panic-stricken, and who execrated the Admiralty
 315 "The bullets and the gout Had so knock'd his hull about, That he'd never more be fit for sea." 316
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, that without going into the details of the proposed measure, he desired to express his extreme regret at the speech delivered by the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden); and, on the part of his countrymen, he begged to tender to the right hon. Secretary at War his thanks for the manner in which he bore testimony to their fidelity and loyalty, whenever they were called to the defence of their country, and to the maintenance of the honour and dignity of the Crown.
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have the power of fixing the rate of interest at the end of the year, but it was not competent for the House now to deal with that question.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, it was the duty of the Government to put the country in as perfect a state of defence and security as possible. That it was not so at present was evident from the vast forces which foreign countries could direct against us. The French Government was friendly disposed towards England; but as that Government was based entirely on an army of 400,000 men, and as no one could tell what future events might produce, it would only be wise to place this country in a position to meet all eventualities. Though he believed that the present Prince President of France had no disposition to attack this country, where he had so long resided, yet who could foretell what might take place during the next twelve months? Another dictator might then be placed at the head of the French army with less amicable feelings. During the late war the militia had on various occasions done good military service, and he had no doubt would do so again. It was a proper force to raise for the defence of the country. The noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell), and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Perth (Mr. F. Maule), had declared it would be better to increase the regular Army. Why did not those right hon. Members make such a proposition when they were in office, and prepare the Estimates in accordance with it? It appeared that they changed their opinions as rapidly as they changed their seats in that House. For his part, he should be perfectly content if the Army were placed on the footing on which it stood in 1848, and a large additional force in the shape of a regular militia provided. He trusted, however, that he should never live to see the day when a foreign army should land in England; but he was convinced that if the case did occur, every arm in the country would be instantly raised to crush the invader.
 MR. FOX MAULE  said, he was disposed to concur very much, if not entirely, with the observations of the right hon. Gentleman who had brought forward the Motion now before the House, because he (Mr. F. Maule) was one of those who thought it was the duty of the citizens of England to contribute to the internal defence of the country; and he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman also in thinking this was the time—when there were no particular impressions of danger from foreign parts, when the idea seemed to have passed away of any intention to invade this country by a foreign Power—calmly and deliberately to consider the manner in which the citizens of this country were called pa to defend their native shores. The Government of which his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) was at the head only about a month ago proposed to introduce into this House
 317 318 l. l.; s. d. s. d. d. 319
 MR. FOX MAULE : The right hon. Gentleman quite misunderstood me. I maintained that there could be no efficient militia system without the ballot.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I am one of those who think that the means of defence of this country ought to be increased. I confess it has never appeared to me a satisfactory reason against increasing the efficiency of our defensive force to say that we are now at peace with all the world, and that there is no immediate prospect of hostilities; because we know perfectly well, from former experience, that though there may be no cause of hostilities existing in the course of one month, two mouths, three months, or even in the course of any year, yet that cause of hostility might arise which it would be very difficult for the Government and the Parliament so to arrange as to prevent the calamity of war from taking place. I certainly would not rest the necessity of increasing our defences upon the existing Government of France, or the Government of any other country. I think, on the contrary, we ought to consider that the present ruler of France is as well disposed to peace as any other person who might govern that country; but he—like the
 297 298 l l. l. s. d. d. 299 300
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : What is the period of service?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  was of opinion that no sufficient reason had been alleged against the measure of the Government.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he feared that the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Hobhouse) must feel disappointed at the decision of the right hon. Gentleman in the chair, since he would not find his name entered upon the Journals of the House, for he (Mr. Newdegate) really believed that could have been his only motive in bringing forward the Amendment. He was convinced that the House would not be so inconsistent as some of the hon. Members opposite, in regard to their support of the principles of this Bill. One of the arguments used against the Government was, that they proposed at once to resort to the ballot; but he understood the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department to say, that it was only to be resorted to in the case of those districts which failed to afford their quota of volunteers to the required force. He could not understand how Gentlemen, who were in favour of a volunteer force, should object to a volunteer militia. There appeared a great discrepancy between the statements made by hon. Gentlemen opposite, with respect to the necessity for defensive measures and the best form of them if required, for the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) advised us to send Commissioners to France, and ask that Power to burn their fleet, promising at the same time to get rid of our own Navy;
 324 325
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Motion before the House was, that the Bill for calling out the Militia be introduced by certain Members; and the only Amendment which could be moved was, either the direct negative to this, or that some other Members be ordered to bring in the Bill.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had the honour of holding an important commission in that most valuable force, the old
 328
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he merely rose to express his hope that hon. Gentlemen opposite would not call on the House to divide. The Government were, in fact, only obeying the order of the House, and all they asked for was, permission to lay on the table of the House that Bill which the majority of the House had decided should be prepared; and this was his answer to the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln (Colonel Sibthorp); he assured that hon. and gallant Member that by his vote that night he was pledged to nothing, but to permit the Government to comply with the order of the House. It was for these reasons that he should, only for a few moments, trespass on the attention of the House. He should not be induced to attempt to answer the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), who had made one of those agreeable speeches which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) always listened to with pleasure, though he entirely disagreed with them. The hon. Member was not merely against the militia, but against all defence. His argument was an argument against the line, against the household troops, the artillery, and the cavalry; and it proceeded on the assumption that, in the present state of the world, no country need defend itself. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could not give his adhesion to those opinions. He could not agree with the hon. Gentleman that the events of the last few years, to which he had appealed, had in
 329
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : He was glad to perceive that the elements of opposition were already diminishing. ["No, no!"] At all events he would remind the right hon. Gentleman, that in this case the necessity of the ballot was a matter of opinion. It was impossible for the right hon. Gentleman or for the Government to refer to any conclusive data
 330
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that they had no power to alter the price of Exchequer bills until June next.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the present object was
 340
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could assure the hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House, that he entirely agreed with the principles which he had laid down respecting Exchequer bills. He was perfectly aware that any rate which had been paid in former times did not apply to the time in which we lived. But he only rose to correct the hon. Gentleman in saying that the rate of interest oft Exchequer bills had not rested with the present Government, since they had been in office, but that the arrangement was made by their predecessors.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he felt strongly the responsibility resting on the Government on this question; and he was certain they were fully sensible of it themselves, or they would not have brought forward this proposition. There were certain difficulties in agreeing to the Motion. He was not aware of any precedent for a Government asking for so large an increase in the military establishment of the country, without an immediate and pressing necessity. Secondly, they proposed to raise that force by a means which failed during the last war, and which, after nearly forty years of peace, had become so unsuited to the habits and feelings of the people of this country, that it would in all likelihood fail again. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, casting aside official reserve, had stated that he based his proposition solely on the ground of necessity for improving the national defences; and he had anticipated three classes of objectors to his measure. First, those who said that the present armed force was sufficient: the statement of our existing means of defence was a sufficient answer to that. If there really were danger—and the statement of the Government was confirmed by inquiries he had made on the subject—if it were really a fact that we were liable to an invasion, there was certainly a necessity for increased means of defence. Then it was said that there was no immediate or pressing necessity; and the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) had said that if such necessity existed, we were now too late in providing against it. It was true we were at peace just now, and our relations were amicable with all the States of Europe; it was further said that the people of France were amicably disposed towards us. These were not assurances on which we ought wholly to rely. They might be true; or it might be that an invasion was improbable; still, our security against it ought not to rest on the forbearance of our enemies, but entirely on our own strength. Though great reliance was undoubtedly to be placed on our Navy, still, since the invention of steam, if there were a greater facility of invasion, we could not feel perfectly safe. We ought in his (Mr. Horsman's) opinion to be as well prepared internally, as if there were not a single ship to be seen on our coasts. If we required a defence against invasion, that defence ought to be by some other force, and not by a Militia. Every
 326 327
 MR. G. DUFF  begged to ask the indulgence of the House while he expressed in a few words his decided opinion against the principle of the measure proposed to be introduced by Her Majesty's Government. After all that had been said, both by the late Government and the present one, he did not intend to make any remarks upon how far an increase of the permanent defences of the country was necessary; for he could not for a moment imagine that any Government would needlessly alarm the public mind, and he must take it for granted, that, with the means of information at their command, they had come to a right conclusion as to the expediency of some addition being made to the land forces to be maintained in the United Kingdom during time of peace. He did consider that it was the duty of every Government, in providing for the security of the country, to adopt those means of defence which, while they protected in the most efficient manner the property of the rich, would press least heavily upon the poorer classes; and he rejoiced to see that the present Government were sensible of the evils of the old militia system, and were desirous, if possible, to avoid them. Of course, he could venture no opinion as to whether volunteers would be always forthcoming, as expected by the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department; but he thought he might tell him that if the ballot were obliged to be resorted to, it would be found that after a peace of thirty-seven years, the blessings of which it at this moment enjoyed, this country would endure with impatience a compulsory service to which it objected even in time of war. He must say, too, that he had no confidence in the efficiency of the force to be provided according to the plan of the right hon. Home Secretary. According to Mr. M'Culloch (an authority for whom, it seemed, the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had great respect), any militia system was at variance with the well-recognised principle of the division of labour; for to be a good soldier a man moot be nothing else, and a force composed of half citizens would be dearly purchased at the cost of withdrawing individuals for a time from their ordinary avocations, and subjecting them to a species of military service which, even if not compulsory, in most cases would tend to unsettle their habits in after life. Such a force, too,
 302
 MR. GLYN  thought that the right hon. Gentleman was under some mistake, as the bills of January had to be renewed in March. What they were now voting would apply to June. He believed there was no instance within the last century in which the interest on Exchequer bills had been lower than at present, but there never was a time when there was so much money lying unemployed in the Bank of England as at the present time. He thought it was the bounden duty of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to go into the money market and make the best arrangement he could, always taking care that the rate he fixed on was not so low as to bring the bills into disrepute.
 MR. KERSHAW  then moved, that the Select Committee on the Manchester and Salford Education Bill should consist of sixteen Members, and that the name of Mr. Pilkington should be added to it. He did it on the ground that the friends of voluntary education were not represented on the Committee in the manner to which they had a right, considering their importance as a body, and their exertions in the cause of education.
 MR. KERSHAW  should have no objection that the Committee should consist of seventeen Members. He had not objected to a single name on the Committee; all he wanted was, that the important body to which he had referred should be fairly represented there.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he had had no intention of addressing the House on the present occasion, but some opinions which had been expressed by the bon. Gentleman who had just sat down, induced him to trespass for a few moments on the attention of the House. The hon. Gentleman had talked of the gravity with which the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had asked the hon. Member and those who thought with him to permit the Bill to be introduced to the House; and perhaps the right hon. Gentleman had erred in expecting that the hon. Gentleman, who was so sensitive with respect to a "pugnacious admirals, and belligerent major-generals," would exercise so much forbearance as to permit a measure the principle of which had been approved by the House, to be
 336 337 338
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to know whether the ballot was intended to apply to persons between the ages of 18 and 35?
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer commenced his observations by making the not unreasonable request, that the House should not oppose the introduction of this Bill; but it does strike me that the request is a somewhat singular one to come from the right hon. Gentleman. I presume that if any Gentleman has been upon those benches opposite for about a fortnight, he acquires a gravity of face with which he can ask anything whatever from this side of the House. The right hon. Gentleman sits on that side of the House by a violation of the rule which he now wishes to lay down. The Order of the House, to which he so pathetically referred, had passed before without a division, when the right hon. Gentleman enlisted under a vindictive noble Lord, who now sits below the gangway. I hope that the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), having now played at tit for tat with the noble Lord the Member for the city of London (Lord J. Russell), we shall
 331 l. 332 l. 333 l. l. s., s. d., s. d. s. d. s. 334 s. s. 335
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, that a great mistake seemed to have arisen with regard to this question, which had nothing whatever to do with fixing the rate of interest, which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had only power to do when bills became due. The Chancellor of Exchequer had no power in this respect until next June.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he admitted that the ordinary course, when a measure had been prepared by the Government, was, that the House allowed it to be brought in; and he was anxious that that should be done. But he was anxious that that step should be taken for the very reason stated by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), for he (Mr. Roebuck) wished the country to decide upon this Bill in precisely the same way as was proposed with regard to another great measure. All he desired was, that, without dividing against the Bill, it should be laid on the table of the House, with the understanding that the sense of the country was to be taken upon it, as well as upon other measures. He understood, from the statements made in the other House, that it was the wish of the present Government not to go to the country upon one isolated measure, but; upon the general tone of their policy. Assuredly this was the most important question of their Administration. To show that he did not concur in the principle of the hon. Member for Manchester, he believed there ought to be some defence, of this country. But before they assented to extraordinary means of defence, they ought, as on many previous occasions, thoroughly to sift the mode in which they employed their present resources. Having determined that, if those resources were not sufficient, he should he prepared to support hon. Gentlemen opposite in a distinct appropriation for increasing our regular military force; for he was of opinion that the division of labour entered into the business of fighting as well as everything else; and he would rather see 10,000 efficient regulars, if they were needed, added to the Army, than 80,000 good artisans converted into militiamen, making very bad soldiers. If the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not now, without going to the country, with regard to a matter on which the country had been thoroughly tried, upon a point of opinion which had been sifted for many years past, on which he had taken a determinate line of conduct—if he would not now come and ask Parliament to decide on that, but said they were about to go to the country upon that point, which was well understood, he would ask the right hon. Gentleman was it fair, was it wise, was it politic in him, as a mere partisan politician, to say he would
 339
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, that he
 342
 MR. HUME  said, that this was a vote for renewing Exchequer bills, and he thought that that House ought to take the opportunity of fixing the rate of interest.
 MR. HUME  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should take the opinion of the House before settling the price of Exchequer bills. It was his duty to watch the market, and to make the cheapest possible bargain for the public.
 MR. HUME  said, he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that he need be under no fear that he had made a distinct and clear explanation. His statement had been perfectly intelligible, and he (Mr. Hume) understood every proposition which the right hon. Gentleman had laid down, although he could not at all agree with the reasoning on which the right hon. Gentleman had grounded them. He (Mr. Hume) had never found that House unwilling to vote whatever number of men was proposed by the Government for the Army, and believed that during the whole period he had been in that House, no Motion had ever been successful in resisting a proposition of the Government in that respect, however absurd or preposterous it might be. He therefore despaired in any expectation that the House, constituted as it was at present, would afford oven a patient hearing to any observations he might make on the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman. By introducing this measure they were about to violate one of the maxims which a statesman should always uphold—that of husbanding their resources in time of peace, and, by placing their finances in a proper condition, preparing for the time, if it should ever arrive, when they would be called upon to defend themselves. No ground whatever had been shown to justify this measure; the panic which had existed a few weeks ago had completely subsided, and there was not an old woman in the country who now apprehended the slightest danger. We were on the most amicable terms with
 282 l. 283 l.; l. l. 284 l. l. 285 l. 286 287
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, as a Member of a large constituency, he wished to join his entreaties to those of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, that Her Majesty's Ministers would place the Bill upon the table and take the opinion of the country upon it.
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I would not be doing justice to my own feelings if I allowed this measure to be brought in without troubling the House with a few remarks upon it. The difficulty which I feel in these discussions is greater and greater, time after time; because the more I hear from hon. Gentlemen, and right hon. Gentlemen, and noble Lords, and gallant Officers, on both sides of the House, and in both Houses, upon the alleged necessity of an increase in our armaments, the more am I at a loss to understand the reasons why we should grant that increase. For it appears to me, if I am to believe at all in the sincerity of the official declarations made to us, that so far from there being any cause for adding to the strength of our establishments, we are now, at this period, removed farther than ever from any such necessity. The right hon. Gentleman who has introduced this proposal to-night, as if to make a mockery of it, and as if to leave us without a shadow of pretence to go with to our constituents, has stated, speaking with the
 303 304 Laughter. 305 306 Hansard, 307 308 309 310 vis-a-vis. 311
 MR. WALPOLE  said, in answer to the question put by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, and backed by the hon. Member for Middlesex, he would remind the House that this Bill was brought in in obedience to a decision of the House. He could only add that it was not the intention of the Government to press it hastily, but to give the House and the country a fair time for consideration. They would proceed with the measure, but would not bring on the second reading until after the Easter recess.
 MR. WALPOLE  replied in the affirmative.
 MR. WALPOLE  begged to say, in answer to the first question of the noble Lord, that it was intended to take the Registrar General's districts as the districts that would furnish men; because, in consequence of the convenience of referring to the Census of 1851, it would be found that they could fix the quota of men to be supplied by the different places more equitably by going to those districts than by going to the parishes. With regard to the question concerning the ballot, it was a necessary consequence that they should fall back upon it if they could not procure a sufficient number of men by voluntary enlistment; and it would also be a necessary consequence of the ballot, that substitutes should be allowed. In regard to the next question of the noble Lord, he would lay before the House a calculation which he held in his hand with regard to the expense. If 3 l. l.; l. l., l.; l.; l.; l. s. l.; l.; l. l. s. l. s. l. s. l; l., l. l.; l. l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l.
 MR. WALPOLE : Five years. I have endeavoured, however, to give you a plain and simple account of the facts of the case, as I believe them to exist with reference to the state of your internal defences. I think I have shown you that there is an absolute necessity for some improvements in your defensive armaments, if you intend to secure yourselves against all the casualties to which nations like individuals are equally liable, and to diminish at least, if not to prevent, the chances of danger by provisions made in time of peace. I have offered to you reasons, political and financial, which we believe fully prove that you cannot add to your defences either by increasing your Navy or your military establishments; and seeing these facts, I know not to what
 280 281 "That in pursuance of the order of the 20th day of February last, 'That leave be given to bring in a Bill to amend and consolidate the laws relating to the militia;' Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Secretary Walpole, and Mr. Secretary at War, do prepare and bring in a Bill."
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, pursuant to the order which has just been read by the Clerk at the table, I now beg leave to move, that certain Members of the present Government be ordered to prepare and bring in a Bill for the purpose of consolidating and amending the laws relating to the Militia. In doing this, I own I feel no ordinary anxiety, and I throw myself at once on the indulgence of the House, on that indulgence which I have so often experienced before, but which, I assure you, I never felt so much in need of as on the present occasion; for as, on the one hand, I am so conscious of the magnitude of this sub-
 268 269 270 271 272 "Early and provident fear is the mother of safety. For in that state of things the mind is firm and collected, and the judgment unembarrassed; but when fear and the thing feared come on together and press upon us at once, even deliberation, which at other times saves, becomes one's ruin, because it delays decision; and when the peril is instant, the decision should be instant too." 273 History of the Peninsular War, 274 275 l.; 276 Geo. 277 l. l. s. s. d. Geo. 278 l. l. l., l. l. 279 Laughter.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he must oppose the Motion, on the ground that it was quite unusual to have sixteen Members on such a Committee, and that if the Motion were carried, it would materially alter the constitution of the Committee, which had been settled with great care, and that too in such a way that no report made by the Committee could then give satisfaction.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he could confirm what had been said by the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department, with respect to the difficulty of constituting the Committee as now proposed to the House. He, to a considerable extent, represented a great body who were in favour of secular education, and on their behalf he had also to complain of their not being quite fairly represented on the Committee. That body were supported by a petition signed by not fewer than 60,000 inhabitants of the district, and they had expended large sums in supporting their views, and in gaining public support. He quite agreed that the supporters of the voluntary system should be fairly represented, and his own individual opinion was not adverse to having another Gentleman of those views on the Committee; but having agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Home Department as to the constitution of the Committee, he felt bound to stand by that agreement. He
 343
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he rose principally to ask Her Majesty's Government whether they would not consider it a judicious course to postpone any future proceedings on this measure until after that appeal to the country which they were told was shortly to take place. He said this because the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department did not submit to the House that there was any peculiar emergency which called for this measure, or that was of a temporary character, but that it was founded on a permanent policy, and had been maturely considered. Those being the grounds on which it was brought forward, he thought those who were opposed to it were entitled to bring to their aid the opinion of the constituencies of the country. If they were about to commence a new system of policy, and it was to be of a permanent character, as they were on the eve of a general election, it appeared to him that there was nothing so reasonable as to wait for the verdict of the country on the measure which had now been proposed. That was the course which the Government had pointed out as proper to be pursued on other branches of their policy. With regard to their commercial policy, they had said it was to be decided by the verdict of the country; and again, as regarded the settlement of our relations with the Roman Catholics, they were to await the verdict of the constituencies. He (Mr. M. Gibson) said, therefore, that in matters connected with the defences of the country, which were not called for by any pressing emergency, and were to be permanent in their character, they should also await and be guided by the judgment of the constituencies. He had listened to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), and, although he had appealed to the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), and seemed to calculate on receiving his support, yet, as he (Mr. M. Gibson) understood that the measure did not ex-
 290 "That it should be lawful for mayors, bailiffs, and justices of the peace, to quarter and billet the officers and men during the times they should be called for exercise, in inns, livery stables, alehouses, and houses licensed for selling brandy, strong waters," &c. 291 "That the profession of a soldier always unfitted a man for any other; and that out of three inhabitants of a village it would be better for one to be a soldier by profession than that the whole three should be husbandmen at one time and militiamen at another, as in the one case you would get one good soldier and two good husbandmen, and in the other you would get three idle militiamen of profligate pursuits." 292
 MR. T. B. HOBHOUSE  said, that until the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Maule) who had just resumed his seat, advanced his powerful objections to the measure, he was inclined to say that all the authority of the House was on one side, and all the argument on the other. When he remembered that the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, and the noble Lord the Member for London, were both in favour of the
 320 321 322 l. l. 323
 MR. HOBHOUSE  rose to order. He had proposed an Amendment, and he would beg to remind Mr. Speaker that his Amendment had not been put.
 MR. BERESFORD  said, he would not follow the hon. Member for the West Riding into the colonial or the naval features of the question, but would confine himself to his remarks on military topics. The hon. Member was only following his usual avocation—that of throwing a slur upon every man that wears a red coat. But the hon. Gentleman was not the best prophet on such occasions. He had made a tour of peace and good will a few years ago, prophesying at the time universal kindness between man and man throughout Europe, but immediately after his return in 1847, there were wars and rumours of wars throughout Europe—citizens armed themselves against citizens, and were seen cutting each others' throats by wholesale. They could not, therefore, place implicit credit on the hon. Gentleman's prophecies, because on this occasion he was found decidedly wanting. The hon. Member had referred to Napoleon Buonaparte, who in 1802 meditated an invasion of this country, had prepared his vessels of war on the opposite side of the Channel, and gathered together a large army; but an attack which at such a time was difficult, was rendered much more easy in these days, when they had the power of steam to resort to. England was not the only country which possessed railroads. The French had also the advantage of railways like ourselves; they had the power of concentrating a large force in a given time on their northern coast. England had, no doubt, a large army, but it was only sufficient for her colonies, and could not well be dedicated to domestic defences. It appeared to him that this country was bound, in order to protect her great wealth, and to maintain peace, to keep at her disposal such a force as would enable her to transmit those advantages to posterity. The French army was larger than that country ought to have for purely domestic purposes; and as we had a very small army in England, it was manifest that we, in a defensive point of view, were in a worse position than that country. It was not that the Government dreaded an offensive force from France, but that they desired to have a sufficient force to preserve that peace and safety which England had so long enjoyed. It was not because they dreaded a hostile force from Boulogne or any other particular quarter that they sought to
 312 313 314 Laughter
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  wished to know whether anything were to be done relative to the price of Exchequer bills?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the rate was settled in March, and the Exchequer bills were exchanged in June. He thought they ought not to allow the Chancellor of the Exchequer to have this Vote without a distinct understanding what the rate of interest was to be. The present rate of interest was 2 l. s. d. d.
 SIR De LACY EVANS  said, he had a notice on the paper of a Resolution which he had intended to move with reference to this subject, provided the Motion for the introduction of the Bill were agreed to; but, understanding from Mr. Speaker that it would be irregular to move it on the present occasion, he begged to say that he should postpone it till the second reading. In the meantime he would take the liberty of saying that he greatly doubted the propriety of the plan proposed by the Government. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had stated that it was not possible to concentrate more than 25,000 men for the defence of the metropolis in case of attack; but he believed that he should be able to show that we had a greater body of troops disposable in case of necessity. [Mr. WALPOLE: In this country?] Yes, in this country. The right hon. Gentleman had stated as some reason for this preparation, that the attacking party had an advantage; but if that was the case, how was it that the weaker party always resorted to the defensive? He had no hesitation in saying that in case we were put upon our defence, we should prove that we had very material advantages, and that any attacking Power would rue having put us to the test. The right hon. Gentleman reminded him of a French officer who turned out his company, and telling them there was a desperate
 288 l. l. l. 289
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  would support the Motion. There was at present only one Member on the Committee who could be said distinctly to represent the opinions of the friends of voluntary education, and he did not think that was a fair representation of the body on a Committee connected with the subject of education, in which they had taken so prominent a part. He did not think that the report of the Committee as then constituted could give satisfaction.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said: Sir, I am not going to answer the call which has been made upon me by my right hon. Friend who has just sat down; for, so far from opposing this measure, it is my intention to give to Her Majesty's Government any support in my power in carrying it into a law; and I cannot but compliment the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, for the very able, forcible, and, to me, satisfactory manner in which he has placed his proposal before the House. Sir, it is impossible to overstate the necessity for some permanent arrangement of this kind. It is all very well for Gentlemen to talk of the amount of our army, including in that term our troops in the East Indies and in our scattered Colonies in every part of the world, and then to tell us that that army is available in defence of the United Kingdom. Why, it is perfectly absurd to make use of such arguments; and I am surprised that hon. Gentlemen should rise one after the other to endeavour to persuade us that a military force, scattered and dispersed as ours is in various parts of the world, is available for any purposes of defence at home. The hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans) appeared to doubt the calculation made by the right hon. the Secretary of State as to the smallness of the number of troops which, in the present state of our military forces, could be brought together for the defence of the capital were an enemy to land upon our shores. I have seen calculations made on that subject, and I am convinced, from what I have seen, and from what I know, that the statement of the right hon. Gentleman was by no means under the mark as to the amount of force
 293 294 295
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, it must be apparent to the House that in the many discussions that had taken place with reference to this subject, the speeches of the Members belonging to the Financial Reformers all partook of one type, containing an essential contradiction in itself—a wild theory and a perversion of facts in every possible way for their own argument. It was of the utmost importance, therefore, that the people of this country should be in possession of the real strength and condition of our naval armaments and of those of Continental Powers. He recollected that in 1845 the late Sir Robert Peel, when the Government were called upon to state to the House the resources of the country for defensive purposes, said it was the duty of the Ministry to withhold that information, and that it was wrong to supply foreign countries with it; but the fallacy of that argument was exposed by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, who showed that Russia and every other nation were as completely aware of our resources, both by sea and land, as we ourselves, and at all times there came foreign officers visiting our dockyards, and acquiring that information. He felt grateful, therefore, to the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty for his statement. He was glad to find that his opinion as to manning the Navy was now entertained by others; and he hoped the House would think that the Board of Admiralty, in the particular vote for the reserve force, ought to be allowed some margin, so as to enable them to adopt a more general and efficient plan.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had not shown his usual good nature in the blame he had cast on the officers of the Navy. Whatever they received for salvage was awarded to them by Courts of Law; and whatever might be the propriety of altering the law, while it remained unaltered they were not to be reproached for claiming that to which they were entitled. One case had lately come to his knowledge in which a claim had been improperly made, and it had led to the order of the Board of Admiralty which had been alluded to; but, generally speaking, there had been no deficiency of that generous and liberal spirit which was the characteristic of British sailors. He (Mr. Cowper) regarded the system of reserves as a most economical means of having available for any emergency a force which was not necessary in times of peace, but which, if not held in reserve, would have to be regularly paid as part of the permanent establishment. He could not, like the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume), blame the hon. Secretary to the Admiralty for comparing our naval strength with that of other nations, because he thought it necessary to consider by what amount of force we were likely to be attacked when we were determining the extent of our own establishments. Now, by a return, he found that the French navy consisted of about 40,000 men, including 15,000 marine infantry and marine artillery; whereas the Estimates now on the table of the House gave England only a total of 39,000 men. The expense of the French Naval Estimates for the home and colonial service last year amounted to 4,276,000 l. l. l. 394
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE  said, that this subject had already engaged the attention of the Board of Admiralty.
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY  then rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice with respect to the Ballot. He said they had before them the prospect of a general election. [ A laugh. 407 maison des fous, 408 "Where do you reside?—At Birmingham. "What are you?—I am a licensed victualler and wine-merchant. "Did you take an active part in the last election for the borough of Birmingham?—Yes, and canvassed for Richard Spooner, Esq. "Was any extensive system of intimidation in practice at that election by which the votes of a considerable number of electors were influenced?—Yes, there was. "You are a partisan on the Tory side?—Yes; I have taken a part, and have always been proud to do it. It has been a hobby all through my life; I have done it for forty years. "Can you give any instance that came within your own knowledge by which a vote or votes were influenced?—The witness then cited three very strong cases, those of two landlords and a pork-butcher. "Do you think the system of political union contributes to the system of exclusive dealing?—Yes; and if there had never been the Political Union, Mr. Richard Spooner would have been now in the House. "Do you think that there are many men as strong partisans as you are who would rather not have a vote?—I'm sure I can't say; I never heard them say so; I have heard their wives say so; but a good Tory never flinches. "Do you think a good Whig would flinch?—I'm sure I can't say. I never keep company with such gentry. "Did the clergymen in, and of the neighbourhood of the town of Birmingham, come in to canvass at or previously to the election?—I never saw one canvass, and I never saw a clergyman of the Church persuasion there all the time. "Have you known Dissenting ministers canvass?—I have been informed they have, but I never saw them; particularly one, Mr. East, laid great stress on his congregation. 409 "And the Catholic clergymen?—Yes. "Did the Dissenting ministers take an active part in the election?—They did, indeed; and one Catholic man was very active. "Have master manufacturers much influence over the votes of the operatives?—Yes, very great influence. I have heard of their making speeches to them, and telling them (which is a very great stroke of deceit), this is the reason why we have to pay you such low wages, and if the reform were got we should pay you better wages." "There are clergymen and manufacturers, probably both Whig and Tory, acting this way?—No; the Tory side never preach up about reform, for it does no good. "Though they do not preach about reform, they preach about something else, perhaps, in order to influence votes?—I believe that the chief that they preach is about the Church being in danger. "According to your evidence, the man who is not independent in Birmingham, is the tradesman whose custom lies among the populace?—Yes, they are all dependent upon the populace." "Do not you think it would be a good thing if men could give their votes without being subjected to lose their custom?—I can never bring my mind to do anything in secret. "Do not you think that those who are not able to give their votes openly, without ruin, would be benefited by giving their vote secretly?—It would be a benefit at the time, but if it got wind, it would cause a worse jealousy. "Supposing that it never did get wind?—Then it would be a benefit. "Supposing that you contrived, as the gentlemen in the clubs in London contrive, to vote so that it can never be known how you voted?— Though I should never be an advocate for that, it would be of vast benefit to me. "Do you think that if a man had voted in secret, he could not keep that secret?—I cannot say; I think they would be able to get it out of him, unless he were a man of strong nerve. "What, if he knew that his ruin would follow?—I can't say. "Would not the welfare of honest men be increased by that secret voting?—It might do away with that violent party spirit after a time, perhaps. "That would not be the case for many elections, you mean?—Yes. "You think it might after a time?—It might do it away. "Do you think it would do that away when there was a contest?—Yes; it is the seeing a man going up to vote, and knowing how it must be, that rouses the spirit. Father and son often will hardly speak to one another. "You have suffered yourself severely from your vote?—I have. "Do not you think that it is very hard to suffer
 410 "That is a form of bribery, is it not?—They have said, you will be ruined by sticking to that party. I have said, I have been brought up as a Tory, and I will go to the workhouse as one, sooner than change. "Your opinions, in consequence of your being an active partisan and a bold man, are well known; but take the case of a person who has never taken an active part, and is quite nervous about these matters, would it be better for him?—Yes, it would, I believe. If it had been done in that way that nobody knew how they voted, Spooner would have been returned. "Therefore, many voted against their opinions?—Yes. "Would it not be a great point to have their votes agree with their opinions?—Yes. "Do not you think it would have been a great thing for the pork butcher, you just now mentioned, to have been enabled to vote as he wished?—Certainly. "Do not you think that it is very hard that an honest man should be injured for conscientiously exercising his will.—Certainly." 411 412 413 "The statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer is no doubt substantially correct, but I have great doubts whether any American will consider that his inferences are the same. That intimidation has been resorted to, and that bribery has been partially successful, is I believe incontestable; but that the taking of the votes by way of ballot had anything to do with the difficulty, is clean out of the question. You will find that the Governor of the State of New York called the attention of the Legislature to the prevention of these disturbances at elections, but not one word was said by him on the subject of the ballot. The destruction of the ballot-box was accounted for I by saying it was held in no great estimation by I the advocates of bribery; but I believe it will be found to have arisen from not having been stationed in a place of safety; and we shall find that our local legislature will pass some stringent law on the subject, and will in future recommend our voting-urns to be located in a place of greater security." 414 Bristol Gazette. au fait "A man may vote one way, and register another. Suppose you give a man five pounds; he may receive the money, and vote another way. That goes to make a man disguise his real sentiments and meaning. If even I purchase a man I may not be able to know how he is going to vote; he may vote against me after he has said he will vote for me." "That is what we want; you will not then have us under your thumb." "Gentlemen," said Mr. Vining, "I feel the majority of you are in my favour. Now, all I ask is this: Let us co-operate cordially in supporting true Conservative principles, and in promoting the welfare of the State, and our own interests." 415 pro arts et focis,
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY : The statement of facts, not the inferences drawn from them.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  thought it was high time that our representative system ought to be placed upon a more just basis, in order that the democracy might be relieved from the burthens imposed upon them by the aristocracy. Hon. Gentleman spoke of that House being the representative of the people of England, but it was no such thing; it was merely a representative of the landowners, landlords, millowners, and rich men, who did not represent the people. Whenever a man went to the hustings to give his vote, he felt what a gross deception he was obliged to endure; he knew that he could not freely exercise the franchise; he was compelled to vote for red or white as some rich man might dictate. In times past he (Lord D. Stuart) was opposed to the ballot, and, in fact, had voted against it in that House. That was immediately after the Reform Bill. He thought it only just that that Bill should be fairly tried before they decided on the introduction of the ballot system of voting. At that time (1833–34) an address was submitted to those whom he had the honour to represent, advocating in the strongest terms the necessity for an immediate enactment of the ballot and triennial Parliaments, and to that address was appended the name of Benjamin Disraeli. It was of course quite open to the right hon. Gentleman to change his opinions, as indeed he (Lord D. Stuart) had himself done upon this subject, but they had come to very opposite conclusions upon the question. Probably at that time the right hon. Gentleman was sowing his wild oats, a species of grain which he (Lord D. Stuart) supposed was to pay no duty. Now, after a long experience of the workings of the Reform Bill, he (Lord
 436 "God forbid (said the noble Earl) I should not have sufficient trust in the wisdom of the country, judging not from the mob, but from the opinion of the nation, to prevent me from repairing our institutions, and declaring against the necessity of a change which few men deny—from complying with the demands of the people—which there was danger in delaying compliance with, and which must finally succeed."
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, it had been the practice, when great innovations were proposed in the institutions of the country, to introduce an imaginary foreigner to the contemplation of things as they existed. The noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell), when he proposed the Reform Bill, introduced this fictitious gentleman into the country, and conducted him round to Old Sarum, Gatton, and East Retford; and, as the hon. Gentleman who brought on the present Motion, in accord-snce with custom, had introduced this distinguished foreigner during the general elections, he (Mr. B. Cochrane) thought that if a foreigner came amongst us to be initiated into the mysteries of our elections, he would certainly need a  cicerone, cicerone 421 "The whole system of secret voting was inconsistent with the English character. If he be an honest man and a firm friend, he will not want the ballot—if he skulks, he will not avail himself of it. The only persons to whom the ballot would be valuable, would be dirty and hypocritical cowards." [3  Hansard, "Those dirty, hypocritical cowards—men whose faces belie their purpose—men who pretend to be your friends only to deceive and betray you—who flatter you with vain hopes of support which they have no intention to realise—men who talk of intimidation, but seek the opportunity of gratifying their sordid envy, their revenge, and that bitter hatred which, combined with their cowardice, mark them as the most contemptible of man-
 422 "To lend to lies the confidence of truth." [3  Hansard, 423
 MR. ANDERSON , in reply, said, that after the very satisfactory assurance, on on the part of the Government, which had been given by the hon. Member the Secretary of the Admiralty, he felt that it would be unnecessary, as well as unbecoming, for him to press the matter further; and therefore, with permission of the House, he would withdraw the Resolution.
 MR. ANDERSON : * 370 "To inquire into the practicability of providing, by means of the commercial steam marine of the country, a reserve steam Navy, promptly available for the national defence, when required." "That it is the opinion of this House, that in order the better to provide for the public safety, to economise the public resources, and to preserve peace, it is desirable that measures should be adopted, with a view to render the commercial steam navy promptly available for the national defence, in case of emergency." 371 Excellent, "Is it your opinion that some of the smaller vessels might be made capable of carrying a long 24 or a long 18-pounder amidships, that is, what is technically called a 'Long Tom,' and might, in some events, be made useful?—I would have no armament under a 32-pounder, and I believe there is no steamer that we have that cannot carry a 32-pounder of one description or the other. "The smallest that we have?— The very smallest steamer. I do not think that there is a steamer upon the river, of any kind, that will not carry a 32-pounder." 372 l. l. 373 l. l., l. l. l. 374 Excellent, 375 Excellent, 376 
 
 Mr. Arthur Anderson. Hon. Francis Scott. 
 Capt. the Hon. M. F. Berkeley. Right Hon. T. Milner Gibson. 
 Lord John Hay. Mr. George Duncan. 
 Admiral Bowles. Mr. Matthew Forster. 
 MR. T. A. Mitchell. Mr. R. J. Tennent. 
 Right Hon. H. T. Corry. The Earl of Shelburne. 
 Mr. Richard Cobden. Mr. W. A. Mackinnon. 
 Captain Fordyce. esprit de corps, 377 "Your Committee are of opinion, which is corroborated by the evidence taken before them— "That mercantile steam ships, of the size and strength necessary for the reception of such guns as are in use in the Royal Navy, would be a most useful auxiliary force for national defence; and your Committee do not foresee any difficulty in carrying out such a measure. "That the prompt development of the whole available maritime resources of the country, in the event of threatened hostilities, is most desirable, as a means for the preservation of peace. "That the steps necessary to render such mercantile steamers available for the purpose, and the remuneration to be given by the public for fitting them and holding them liable to be called into the public service, must be matter of arrangement between the owners and the Government, upon which your Committee do not deem it necessary to offer an opinion." 378 379 "It cannot be too often or too emphatically repeated, invasion must be made impossible. If ever a foreign army seta foot on our shores, a wound will have been inflicted on security, on credit, on the common weal and the commonwealth, which no pecuniary saving, past or future, can heal or can atone for. If ever a foreign army sets foot on our shores, either our naval service must have been awfully and most criminally remiss in the performance of that duty which 'England expects' from it, or our Ministers must have been guilty or incapable beyond the reach of pardon."— Economist,
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he must do the hon. Member for Orkney, who had brought forward this important subject, the justice to say, that whatever decision the House might come to with regard to this question —whether favourable or otherwise — his course had been not only plain and businesslike, but entirely removed from all party considerations. The hon. Member had turned his attention to the subject, not as a partisan, but as an Englishman; and he (Mr. Stafford) must say that he had never known a Committee which had paid greater attention to a subject or conducted an inquiry in a more fair and impartial manner than the Committee of which the hon. Member for Lymington (Mr. Mackinnon) was chairman. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Anderson) considered that when the attention of the country was intently fixed on the question of our national defences, it was an opportune period for discussing this subject, and in that opinion he (Mr. Stafford) entirely concurred. If he understood the hon. Gentleman aright, his proposal was, that as we had already a reserve of seamen, we should carry the principle further, and have also a reserve of steam vessels. He was consistent in making that proposal, and no better opportunity could have been taken for bringing the question before them. As the Board of Admiralty had not yet found an opportunity of laying any lengthened statement before the House relative to the Navy, it was thought desirable that he should, on the present occasion, bring before them a few particulars, and to those he called the earnest attention of the House. He would first proceed
 382 
 
 Vessels. Men. 
 Woolwich 9 530 
 Sheerness 7 1,544 
 Portsmouth 16 6,642 
 Devonport 11 2,822 
 Cork 5 368 
 Total 48 11,906 Hecate Pluto, Antelope, Vulcan, Simeon Vulcan, 
 
 East Indies and China 19 
 Cape of Good Hope 9 
 Coast of Africa 22 383 Montezuma, 384 "We have no defence, no hope of defence, excepting in our fleet. … But, as we stand now, and if it be true that the exertions of the fleet alone are not sufficient to provide for our defence, we are not safe for a week after the declaration of war." "I am bordering upon 77 years of age, passed in honour. I hope that the Almighty may protect me from being the witness of the tragedy which I cannot persuade my contemporaries to avert." "In the event of a war, France would send out a number of armed steamers to intercept and annoy our trade. Would it not be very important to have our own mercantile steamers prepared to watch the ports and protect our trade?" answered, "I think they are highly necessary as auxiliaries. I do not think you ought to have less than 150 to 200 of your most powerful vessels, because you cannot expect that they would be all in port at a time; you will not have half available. "In case of war, the first effort would be, I suppose, directed to the destruction of the enemy's steam vessels, as being their essential arm?" answered, "In the first of the war we ought to have a number of light fast steam vessels for the Channel to protect our trade, and to cripple the enemy's vessels; in the event of a war the enemy will always have numberless privateers; they would always have those vessels as fast as they possibly can, with a small quantity of fuel on board, be on our coast during the night picking up and destroying our merchant vessels, and in the morning they can be over on their coast; that is the way we shall suffer most in the case of another war, in my opinion." 385 "Have you had any means of knowing, by conversation or consulting them (merchant seamen and engineers), what are their views on that point?" answered, "The only proof that I could give is this, that last year, at the time there was a little disturbance, and no one know what the result might be at the time, I received orders from the Board to have so many ships in readiness, as they might be required. It never entered into my mind to ask them a question about it. I told them the ships were wanted to go at a moment's notice, and we did not know where, and they never asked me any question about it." 386
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman who has brought forward this question has entered into a long and, as far as I could collect, an accurate narrative of the history of the wine trade, sketched from the period of the Methuen Treaty to 1787, and even going much further back. I assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that I entirely sympathise with the policy that was pursued by Mr. Pitt—a policy founded upon the true commercial principles on which a country should he governed. I rejoice at the great advantages to both countries from what took place; but I must remind the hon. and learned Gentleman that the principle adopted by Mr. Pitt was a principle of reciprocity; and though we have at several periods reduced the duty on French wine, I do not find on the part of the French Government that reciprocal inclination that Mr. Pitt was more fortunate in meeting with. The hon. and learned Gentleman has also entered into some general principles of taxation on which I am inclined to agree with him in opinion. He has said that the reduction of taxation will lead to an increased consumption; but at the same time you are bound to take into consideration to what danger that decreased taxation will lead. I cannot but
 402 l. l. l. l. 403 404 405
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, the facts stated to the House by the hon. Secretary to the Admiralty were very satisfactory, and went far to show that the country was in a perfect state of naval defence; but he thought the speech of the hon. Gentleman ought to have preceded the debate of the preceding night, and if it had, it would have dissipated a great many of the doubts and hesitations which had been expressed with regard to the mode of defending the country. Though a steam navy gave greater facilities of attack, it afforded an equal power of defence; and it was hard for a landsman, much less for a soldier, to understand the precision with which steam vessels were now managed. But the force on our coast ought to be so managed that they could be, at any given time, concentrated at any given point. As for invasion, it ought to be borne in mind, that the invaders, if they attempted to effect a landing in rough weather, would find it to be almost impossible; for the landing of soldiers, and ammunition, and artillery, in a troubled sea, was attended with the greatest difficulties; and in fine weather, our cruisers must be very negligent indeed if they did not prevent it. The hon. Gentleman said, there were nine vessels of the line on the home station; but he asked, was there any one of them, except the  Rodney, 387
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he would only detain the House a short time. The hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. B. Cochrane) had referred to the Chancellor of the Exchequer's speech, in which he had referred to what had occurred in New York between two representatives at Washington. The hon. Gentleman did not see he was playing with edge tools. There were a great many points in that hon. Gentleman's speech which ought to be set right, if the House would allow him only five minutes more. He represented a constituency which sighed—which longed for the ballot. And, therefore, in fairness, the House ought to give him a few minutes. He would remind the hon. Member for Bridport, who had east
 431
 MR. HENLEY : The question to which the noble Lord has referred, is one he has correctly stated so far as I am able to judge. He has correctly stated that communications were going on at the time he ceased to be connected with the Foreign Office with regard to this question. Those communications have been carried on to I the time at which the late Government left office. They are at the present moment going on, and the present Government will not lose sight of the subject. They feel its importance, and it will not be through want of attention on their part if it shall not be brought to a satisfactory conclusion.
 MR. HUME  wished to make one or two observations on the statement of the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty, which he thought ought to have been made when the naval estimates were introduced. He (Mr. Hume) called upon the country carefully to read the hon. Member's speech, for it would, he thought, be found to contradict the alarms which had been circulated on this subject. It showed that our coasts were not denuded of ships, though the men-of-war belonging to this country had not been summoned from foreign stations. There was one point to which he hoped the Government would pay attention; it was the manner in which our ships of war had been employed in different parts of the world. He (Mr. Hume) quite agreed with the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Sir G. Peehell), that the conveyance of specie in British men-of-
 391 392 393
 MR. COBDEN  said, he would promise to be very brief on a subject which had been more nearly exhausted in argument than any proposition which had ever been brought before that House. It was an undoubted historical fact that Mr. Grote, in the course of his remarks on the ballot, brought to it an amount of logical power and mental acumen which gave to his advocacy the character of an intellectual triumph. He did not intend, therefore, to expose the fallacies of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He did not intend to point out to him the difference between a Member of Parliament who came there voluntarily to represent the opinions of others, having his votes made public—and the votes of the electors who nominated him, being made public: that had been abundantly proved before. Nor should he go into the discussion of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer's thousand-time refuted objection, that if you gave the ballot to a limited constituency, you constituted that constituency an oligarchy. That had been met with this unanswerable argument: if you think that the unenfranchised are fit to lead the enfranchised, and to dictate how they shall vote, then give the unenfranchised votes themselves. Those who urged this objection, were the very people who would not do that In the intellectual mode of dealing with it, this question had been triumphantly settled; but, he thought, there were moral aspects of the question which might be better argued then, than they could be when Mr. Grote dealt with it seventeen years ago. They had had opportunities of witnessing the efficacy of the ballot in the elections of a neighbouring country, carried on under the most exciting circumstances, and these showed what an immense gain the ballot would be to this country, by putting an end to the frightful demoralisation and violence which were seen at almost every one of our own elections. Now, he said, the example of France at their own door, upon this view of the question—it was only a very limited view of the question, but it was its moral aspect—the example of France was conclusive. They had had 6,000,000 of people in France all voting in one day, they had had three or four general elections all over France with universal suf-
 424 Ironical cheers Courier and Enquirer, New York Tribune, 425 426 "If we had the ballot, I would say, as an English landlord, I would not only see whether the elector dependent on me voted, but I would see him put the ticket into the balloting urn. I do not mean to say that this would be a desirable course of proceeding, or a course which ought to be adopted by landlords, unless forced to it by expediency; but I, as a landlord, should be driven to that expediency, if the ballot were employed, in order to satisfy myself."—[3  Hansard, 427 Cheers. "It is a matter of pride and satisfaction to the landlords of England that their tenants usually feel a desire to comply with the landlords' wishes. I neither seek to deny nor to apologise for it, while I condemn the exorbitant or undue exercise of the power; for if it were pushed to the extreme, it is known that when any man attempted to estimate the probable result of a county election, it is ascertained by calculating the number of large landed proprietors in the county, and weighing the number of occupiers under them."—[3  Hansard, 428 l. Cheers from the Ministerial benches 429 Hansard 430
 MR. COBDEN : I did not say so. The right hon. Gentleman is only wasting his own time and ours in arguing on an unfounded hypothesis. I quoted the Earl of Derby's words from  Hansard,
 MR. WALPOLE : I should be very sorry to misrepresent the hon. Member. [Mr. COBDEN: "Capital" is an American phrase.] The hon. Member shall not put me out by these interruptions. That the hon. Member used the words I have stated, and in the manner I have stated, I firmly believe, because they were taken down at the time. If not, let him retract them. The hon. Member unquestionably went on to quote the exact language used by the noble Lord at the head of the Government; but does that language contain the expression attributed to the noble Lord by the hon. Member? On the contrary, it pointed to this, that the occupying tenantry of counties and the landlords of counties entertained feelings of mutual regard and goodwill towards each other, and in that way landlords exercised influence over their tenants. That was the effect of the passage quoted by the hon. Member, and it contained nothing to justify him in asserting that the Earl of Derby said, or ever intended to say, that the farmers of England were the political capital of their landlords. Having corrected what I think an unfortunate misrepresentation, I will now advert to the two principal arguments of the hon. Member in favour of the proposition before the House. The hon. Member said that the ballot would prevent bribery, and also the influence exercised by employers over the employed, and landlords over tenants. I deny  in toto 433
 MR. WALPOLE : The hon. Member's American correspondent admits the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer's statement of facts to be correct, but denies his inference. Then I put aside the inference drawn by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as well as that drawn by the American, and I leave the House of Commons to draw its own inference from the statement of facts admitted to be correct. The New York case appears to me a complete answer to the assumption that the ballot would prevent bribery. Then, if it will not prevent bribery, I ask those who maintain that inviolable secrecy can be maintained under the system, how can bribery be punished—how can it be detected?
 434 435 Tabellas poposcit, stilum, ac-cepit, fidem abjecit, caput demisit, neminem veretur, se contemnit.
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), in arguing this question with his usual ability, has rested his support of the ballot on two grounds. The hon. Member did not condescend to discuss the question in its political bearings, but invited us to look at it in its moral aspect; and, viewing in it that light, he contended that the introduction of the ballot would prevent certain evils, and elevate and improve the moral condition of the people. Now, I think, Sir, I shall he able to show that the ballot, instead of preventing the evils to which the hon. Member has referred, might possibly leave them as they are, but would more probably augment them; and that, instead of advancing morality, it would be very detrimental to it. Before entering upon this part of the subject I will take the liberty of referring to two observations which fell from the hon. Member in the course of his speech. The hon. Member declared that the extension of the franchise, for which he is so anxious, would be an unmitigated evil, unless it were accompanied by the ballot. I trust the Members of this House will bear this declaration in mind when they come to give their votes upon the next question which will be submitted to their consideration. It is for leave to bring in a Bill "to make the franchise and procedure at elections in the counties in England and Wales the same as in the boroughs, by giving the right of voting to all occupiers of tenements of the annual value of 10 l. 432
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  begged to thank the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer for his courtesy, and would take the Committee in the way he had pointed out, omitting in his Motion the words "causes of the decline." appointed
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the cause of the decline in the Revenue derived from the Import Duties on Wines. The terms of his Motion demanded some explanation. He was willing to admit that, if the Revenue of the present year were only to be compared with that of one or two years immediately preceding, if would not be correct to say that there had been a decline. What he meant was
 396 vice versâ; s. d. s. d. s. l. l. l. l. l. d. d. 397 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. l. l. s. d. s. d. s. d. 398 s. d. s. d. s. d. l. l. l. l. s. d. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. 399 l. l. l. s. d. s. d. ad valorem s. octroi l. l. l. 400 W. & M. "It hath been found by long experience that the importing of French wines, vinegar, brandy, and other the commodities of the growth, produce, or manufacture of France, or of the territories or dominions of the French King, hath much exhausted the treasure of this nation, lessened the value of the native commodities and manufactures thereof, and greatly impoverished the English artificers and handicrafts, and caused great detriment to this kingdom in general." 401 "None of the commodities aforesaid, or any any other whatsoever of French growth, product, or manufacture, shall be brought in or imported, and that all and every importation and importations, vending and selling, or uttering or retailing of any French wines, vinegar, brandy, or other commodities, shall be adjudged to be a common nuisance." W. & M.
 MR. BARROW  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken was rather unfortunate in having alluded to the last election for South Nottinghamshire; for the fact of his (Mr. Barrow's) standing in the House of Commons at that moment was the best possible proof of the absence of intimidation on the occasion to which he referred. He knew, that in part, he owed his success at that election to the assistance of some Gentlemen who were themselves friends of the vote by ballot—not because they sought it for their own sakes, but because they believed it would be a protection to their friends and neighbours. They were well aware of his sentiments with respect to the ballot when they gave him their votes; and he felt perfectly satisfied that they would give him credit for the honesty of his principles at least, in venturing as he did now to declare that he was not a convert to the necessity of the ballot, and that, so far from believing it would deliver the people from a state of serfdom, he believed it would increase bribery and demoralisation to such an extent as would be positively frightful to contemplate. Allusion had been made to the advantage of the ballot in the clubs. But, for his part, he confessed that a large portion of his objections to the ballot were the result of the ill feeling he had witnessed in clubs in cases of blackballing. He had seen so much mischief arise from it, that even in those cases where, through the honour of the scrutineers and members, perfect secrecy was observed, he had come to the conclusion that the system had better be abolished. He was rather surprised to hear the secrecy of the ballot assumed as a matter of necessity. In proof, however, of the fact that it did not secure secrecy, he might refer to that country which had already been referred to so often, and in which the ballot had been in operation for the greatest length of time. He did not believe that secrecy ever had been or ever would be obtained by means of the ballot; for he found that in Massachusetts, one of the oldest States of the American Union, the Legislature appointed a Committee last year with the express object of considering in what manner they could secure secrecy under the ballot. And, surely, with such an example as that before him, he might be allowed to doubt whether that secrecy which was assumed as inseparable from the ballot really did exist. With re-
 417
 MR. MACKINNON : Sir, having been Chairman of the Committee moved for on this subject in the Session of 1849, I feel myself called on to say a few words on the subject. The Committee, which agreed unanimously to the Report quoted by the hon. Gentleman who has brought this Motion before the House, was of a most impartial character: it consisted of the Members of the late Admiralty, of the leading Members of the Admiralty that preceded them, also of the Member for the West Riding, and of some Gentlemen connected with the shipping interest: this Committee agreed that it would be desirable in case of war to use our mercantile steam vessels. For this purpose it appeared, before the Committee, that the number of vessels of sufficient tonnage to be made war steamers, amounted in Great Britain to 320; that these steam ships could be made effective for carrying guns, if strengthened by (I will not use technical terms) beams from the deck to the keel, by which the decks could bear an additional weight; that this mode of strength could be made effectual in about three weeks. It appeared, also, that the immense mass of guns and ammunition in our several dockyards and arsenals being
 380 l. 381
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that there were 214 boroughs, with 161,500 voters, which returned 329 Members to that House, being a majority of the entire number. The two great parties who contended for power in this country were so nicely balanced, that it depended on the amount of money spent at elections which of them held the reins of Government. The Committee of 1835 stated in their Report that bribery, corruption, intimidation, and coercion prevailed to an enormous extent at the preceding election. The Committee of 1841 stated in their Report that 8,300 l. l. 420 l. l.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he was quite willing to admit that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was a remarkable instance of the people having exercised their own will against the influence of the aristocracy. But let the House recollect the circumstances which took place just prior to that election. The tenant-farmers, who felt strongly in favour of protection, and who not trusting, perhaps, the aristocracy of the country, were determined to bring forward some man themselves for the purpose of carrying out that object; and they chose the hon. Gentleman who now represented them, though it did not appear that the hon. Gentleman had done anything, or had a wish to do anything, in furtherance of that object for which he was specially elected by the tenant farmers. When the election to which he had referred took place, the noble Dukes and noble Lords in that county, by their agents, brought up their tenants to the poll just as they would have driven a flock of sheep. ["Oh, oh!"] He said it was a fact, and if they looked in the papers of that day they would see it stated; nay
 418 l. 419 l. l. l.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he understood that in his absence from the House the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Navy had referred to the town of Brighton for the purpose of supporting his argument. Now he begged, as the representative of that borough, to deprecate the supposition that it was favourable to the expenditure of any more money upon the defences of the country. It was in vain to think that that town could be defended by placing guns at the end of the chain pier, or at the end of every street. They could not thus
 395
 ADMIRAL STEWART  said, that on this his first attempt to address the House, he would not long trespass on their patience; but he wished to make a few remarks upon the question now under discussion. He hoped that no such idea would be for a moment entertained as that there was any
 388 389 "If their flat-bottoms in safety get o'er, Why let there be Britons to meet them on shore."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that he would just suggest that it might be expedient to exclude iron steam vessels from the arrangements now in contemplation; for he apprehended that they would not be found to be fitted for the purposes of war.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, perhaps the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) may not now be able to answer a question in connexion with the statement that has been made by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, (Mr. C. Anstey) which I wish to put to him, but he may be able, on another day, to inform the House how the matter stands to which my question refers. The hon. and learned Gentleman has adverted to the great abuses practised by the Oporto Wine Company, in regard to the trade in wine between Portugal and this country. Her Majesty's late Government had many representations made to them that the regulations established by the Portuguese Government in regard to the Oporto Company, and the practice of the Oporto Company itself, were inconsistent with the stipulations of the treaty of 1842. It was the opinion of Her Majesty's late Government that those representations were well founded, and that impediments and restrictions were imposed upon the exportation of wine from Portugal, and its importation into this country, which were at variance with the stipulations of the fourth article of that treaty. We made a strong representation to the Portuguese Government on the subject; and when I ceased to hold the office of Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, an understanding had been established between the two Governments, that after the general election, which was then about to take place in Portugal, the Portuguese Government would remedy the abuse of which we complained, and that either by an alteration of the Executive Government, or by some new law that was to be proposed to the Cortes, the practice of the Oporto Company should be placed in harmony with the stipulations of the treaty. I am bound to say, however, that the Portuguese Government did not admit our argument that the regulation was at variance with the stipulations of the treaty, notwithstanding our case was completely established; but the Portuguese Government, without admitting the force of our argument, engaged to remedy the evils of which we complained. I wish to know therefore from Her Majesty's Government, either now or at some future day, what is the state of the communications between the two Governments on that point, and whether the Portuguese Government have taken any steps to redeem the pledge I
 406
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  seconded the Motion.
 SIR EMERSON TENNENT  said, he regarded it as discouraging to the prospect of an adjustment of this long-agitated question that the present was the fifth, if not the sixth Bill which had been ineffectually submitted to Parliament with that view within the last five or six years; and he deeply regretted that this fresh effort of his hon. Friend (Mr. S. Crawford) should be likely to end in a still further postponement of a remedy. But concurring, as he did most entirely, in the justice of the great principle on which the measure was founded, of securing to meritorious labour the fruits of its own exertions in the creation of permanent improvements, he found it impossible to support a Bill in which that valuable principle was so overlaid with novel and unreasonable details as to disentitle it to the sanction of the House, or to the cheerful acquiescence of the country. With respect to the observations which the hon. Member for Rochdale (Mr. S. Crawford) had made upon the Ulster Tenant Right, he believed that his hon. Friend was quite mistaken in supposing that it was now regarded with indifference by the people of that province. It was impossible for any one who observed the benefit conferred upon the north of Ireland by that system not to wish to see it extended to the rest of Ireland; but he must confess that he feared lest in the attempt to extend and legalise this principle or custom, which was now carried out by the general feeling of the landlords of the north of Ireland, it might be deteriorated by the process of subjecting it to a cold and formal definition. His hon. Friend had said, that Tenant Right was
 465 Newry Telegraph, l., "The words 'fair rent' shall be taken to mean the landlord's just proportion of the money value of the gross produce (according to the market price of such produce) which the lands in the occupation of the tenant, according to their quality and circumstances, are capable of yielding under a fair system of improvement and culture, after allowance has been made for all labour, and the in-
 466 467 468 469
 SIR EMERSON TENNENT  said, he understood the noble Viscount to taunt those on that side of the House.
 SIR EMERSON TENNENT  said, that of course the noble Viscount must be the best judge of the intention and meaning of the words which he had used; those to whom they were addressed could only judge of them by their import and their tone; but he (Sir E. Tennent) heard those by whom he was surrounded addressed twice by the noble Viscount as the "Mokannas of the Treasury Bench;" and when this was accompanied by the expression of a wish, on the part of the noble Viscount, that rather than wait for an indefinite period, he wished to proceed with a measure of which he, nevertheless, disapproved, he (Sir E. Tennent) thought it impossible not to draw the inference from the words of the noble Viscount, that he thought there was a reserve on the part of the Government as to what were their intentions. He was now in a condition to state to the House that the Bills which had been announced by his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland were now in such an advanced state that they would be laid on the table at the earliest possible moment. Anticipating that they would elicit as much satisfaction as the Bill of his hon. Friend (Mr. S. Crawford) had encountered disapproval, and that while they would be regarded as affording protection to the just right of the tenantry,
 470
 MR. ROCHE  said, that in the name of justice, mercy, and fair play, let the law be a terror to all evil-doers, but let the House remember that all the evil-doers in Ireland were not confined to the Ribband lodges. The right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland said that they could not make good landlords by Act of Parliament, but they might prevent landlords from being mischievous by Act of Parliament. Though he had listened with great pleasure to the commencement and greater part of the speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, he was sadly disappointed with the conclusion, because, if ever he had heard a speech which contained a good reason for going into Committee to consider the details of a measure, it was the speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman. In the present unhappy state of Ireland it was of the utmost importance that the principles lately proclaimed by the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland at Coleraine, and repeated by the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) that afternoon, should take the form of an Act of Parliament; but after the speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman he did not know how the country was to be governed. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had said it was necessary there should be a change of the law. That was said out of office; but now the noble Lord (Lord Naas) and the right hon. and learned Gentleman were in office, they did not come forward to propose it. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had
 453 454
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY : Perhaps I ought to apologise to the House for presenting myself so soon after my first introduction; but there are some peculiar circumstances connected with this Bill which may justify my intrusion. I can bear personal testimony to this House, of the deep, intense, and all-absorbing interest which the people of Ireland feel at the present moment in the Bill of the hon. Member for Rochdale. In the greatest agricultural constituency in Ireland, which bears the same analogy to Ireland as Yorkshire does to England, the whole question at issue, during the recent election, was the question now before the House. In every part of that great county, and in every meeting that was held throughout it, attended by thousands of persons, the one question absorbing the minds of the people was that of tenant right. In Ireland there will be the very deepest feeling of disappointment, from Coleraine to Cork, if this Bill is not allowed to be read a second time. It appears on all hands, and it is most satisfactory to find from the speech of the right hon. the Attorney Gen-
 458 459 460 461 462 Blackstone's Commentaries, Wright's Law of Tenures, Reeve's History of the English Law, 463 464
 MR. GRATTAN  said, he would ask if
 472
 MR. WHITESIDE  must say, with great respect, that the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, was bound to give his vote without reference to any assurance from the Government, according to his conscientious opinion of the Bill. He (Mr. Whiteside) rejoiced to sec so many Gentlemen belonging to England and Scotland present at that discussion, and he should like to hear them give their honest opinions on the principles of this Bill. What was the principle of the Bill? It was not that which had been stated by the hon. mover of the Bill (Mr. S. Crawford). Was the Bill to remedy the distinction that was taken between agricultural and manufacturing fixtures? It was not. Was it a Bill to remove the difficulties arising from mortgages? It was not. The hon. Gentleman had introduced his Bill on certain statements which he had never referred to in the Bill. He (Mr. Whiteside) denied that the custom of Tenant Right had been determined as a matter of law by any legal determination, and if there was such a custom, it would be half of the law. The existence of such a general custom would render the Bill unnecessary, and the introduction of the Bill proved that there was no such general custom. With regard to the clause in reference to compensation, there was no time specified in the Bill as the period from which compensation should be given; and, so far as the Bill had provided, it might be from the time of the flood. The free-traders, who had established a free trade in the produce of the soil, would not recognise free trade
 474
 MR. J. GREENE  made an earnest appeal to the English Members of the House to allow the Bill to advance into Committee. He could afford them the most complete proofs of the necessity for passing into law some sound and well-considered enactment, by which the landlords of Ireland might no longer be sanctioned in that destructive course which many of them had pursued. He himself had had considerable experience of Ireland, and in travelling through many parts of it he found the land undrained, uncultivated, and unfenced. He maintained that there must be some cause which was capable of being manifested to explain why such a state of things existed. He agreed with the noble Lord who had just sat down, that these evils had their origin in the tenant-farmers of the country having no security for any outlay they might make. There were certain bad and heartless landlords existing in Ireland who took advantage of the industrious and provident wherever they found him, and hurried him into a common ruin with those who had been wasteful and unthrifty, dispossessing him of his holding, and then selling that land to the highest bidder which he had made valuable by his industry. Could any one, then, make it a matter of astonishment that such a race of tenantry existed in Ireland, or that no improvement had taken place there? To him it seemed but the natural working of cause and effect. He was most happy, for one, to join his humble voice in calling on English proprietors, for their own interest, to consider what enactments might be de-
 457
 MR. NAPIER  said, it had for a long time been his opinion that there was no subject better entitled to the consideration of that House than the question which then engaged their attention. It was most desirable that they should encourage a beneficial cultivation of the soil in Ireland, and promote the industry and stimulate the energies of the people of that country, as far as legislation could effect these objects. That subject should be approached in a dispassionate spirit; and he could not help expressing a hope that the candid and temperate manner in which it had been introduced by the hon. Member for Rochdale would be imitated by every speaker who might follow him on either side of the House. He was deeply conscious of the great difficulties which surrounded the question, but he thought that he would himself at no very distant period be able to bring forward a measure which would offer, as he believed, a fair solution of those difficulties, which would consolidate and simplify the whole code, regulating the relation of landlord and tenant in Ireland, and which would promote, as far as legislation could promote, the prosperity of the inhabitants of that part of the United Kingdom. He had, from the first, been an advocate of the principle of granting the tenant compensation for unexhausted improvements, on the principle that "what a man sows, that shall he reap." And it should be remembered that in Ireland improvements were usually made by the tenant, which in England and in Scotland were in general made by the proprietor. It was manifest that the tenant who improved the soil ought not to be deprived of the fruits of his labour by any act of arbitrary caprice. He had been much struck by a statement of the late Mr. O'Connell upon that very complicated question. Mr. O'Connell had observed, that—
 "In everything that is said about the alteration of the law of landlord and tenant in respect of
 445 "Although it is certainly desirable that the fair remuneration to which a tenant is entitled for his outlay of capital or of labour, in permament improvements, should be secured to him by voluntary agreement rather than by compulsion of law; yet, upon a review of all the evidence furnished to us upon the subject, we believe that some legislative measure will he found necessary in order to give efficacy to such agreements, as well as to provide for those cases which cannot be settled by private arrangement. We earnestly hope that the Legislature will be disposed to entertain a Bill of this nature, and to pass it into a law with as little delay as is consistent with a full discussion of its principle and details. We are convinced that in the present state of feeling in Ireland no single measure can be better calculated to allay discontent, and to promote substantial improvement throughout the country." 446 447 448 449 450 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. 451 "The Ulster Tenant Right depends merely on the good feeling and sense of justice of the landlords, joined with the fear that an infringement of what the tenants have esteemed their rights might produce serious disturbances. It does not effect perfect security in Ulster, and it appears to us impracticable to adapt it to the rest of Ireland. To give the tenants a perpetuity at the present rents, or at a valuation, would be to violate the rights of property, by confiscating the future interests of the landlord for the advantage of the tenant. Such injustice can never be expedient, and so long as the present laws remain in operation it does not appear to us that it would effect any good end. To give the tenant a legal right to compensation for improvements, subject to all the restrictions and limitations which have been proposed, would only be an additional complication of the law, harassing and vexatious to the landlord, and delusive to the tenant. The remedy which we propose is freedom. All dealings connected with the land are best determined by private contract, and legislative interference in such case is hurtful; but the present system is one continued series of interferences. For the removal of this Interference the assistance of the Legislature is required; but all legislation on this subject should be permissive and enabling, not compulsory. If all parties connected with land be placed on a footing of complete mercantile equity—if perfect facility of forming and enforcing valid contracts be given them—the arrangements which their mutual interests will suggest will ensure the greatest benefit for themselves and for the public." 452
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he regretted that a debate which had been commenced under such favourable auspices should have been embittered by what he must deem an inadvertent expression on the part of the hon. Member for Lisburn (Sir E. Tennent). He was favourable to the principle of the Bill. He wished the tenants should be compensated for improvements, and he could not otherwise, honestly speaking, avow any other intention than that of voting for the second reading. He concurred in the observations of the noble Lord the Member for the county of. Down (Viscount Castlereagh); he agreed entirely in his views. Whatever fell from that noble Lord was always entitled to respect, but more especially on the present occasion, when he not merely did not make a speech to, obtain or keep a seat, but when he had sacrificed a seat to the sincerity of his own convictions. He could not go further without expressing his deep satisfaction at
 473
 MR. CONOLLY  thought it was intended by this Bill that the contracts with regard to land should be arbitrarily settled, without giving the landlord any voice in the matter, and he, for one, would not consent to be thus trampled upon. If he had time to go through the details of the measure, he could show that the object of the Bill was to have a valuation in favour of the tenant, and against the landlord. The object was to take the whole power out of the hands of the landlord, and make it a one-sided question. If compensation was the question on which they were going to divide, he could tell them that they were all agreed that every encouragement should be given to an improving tenant in Ireland.
 MR. KEOGH  said, there really was not time to discuss this question. Many friends of his wished to address the House—hon. Gentlemen who, since they were elected, had not had an opportunity of expressing their opinions. Until the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lisburn (Sir E. Tennent) had, probably animated by some ancient hostile feeling, alluded in terms of bitterness to the observations which fell from the noble Member for the county of Down (Viscount Castlereagh), he (Mr. Keogh) felt bound to say that the speech of the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland was most conciliatory, and that no asperity had been thrown into the debate. His noble Friend the Member for Down said that the conduct of the Government reminded him of Mokanna on the Treasury bench. This the hon. Gentleman (Sir E. Tennent) said was a taunt. Now, in his (Mr. Keogh's) opinion, the only inference to be drawn from the remarks of his noble Friend was, that the celebrated prophet were a veil, and that the Government were a similar habiliment, and with that veil they intended to shroud intentions full of mystery—a purpose which might serve the objects of the Government, and which was very well calculated for a general election, but which would not prove satisfactory to the people of Ireland. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Lisburn (Sir E. Tennent) told the tenant-farmers, his constituents, that he approved of the principle of this measure, and he demonstrated his approval in this House by arguing against its details. The hon. Gentleman had evidently prepared a speech which was intended for delivery on the House going into Committee, but which he incontinently fired off on the second reading of the Bill. He (Mr. Keogh) trusted the farmers of Lisburn would bear in mind the words of the poet, and apply them—
 "There, ye wise saints, behold your light, your star; Ye would be dupes and victims, and ye are." 471
 Mr. S. CRAWFORD,  after presenting 109 petitions from different parts of Ireland in favour of the Bill, moved the Second Reading of it. He said that the principle of the Bill had been so much mis-
 440 441 442 l. l. 443 444
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said, that if there were any difficulty greater than another on this question among those hon. Members from Ireland who sat on his side of the House, it arose from the feeling that the Government had not solved the dilemma in which Ireland was placed by bringing in a Bill upon the subject. His hon. Friend the Member for Rochdale (Mr. Crawford) had, in common with many other hon. Members who advocated this question of tenant-right, inflicted what the great daily organ of public opinion called an annual "craze" upon the House; but he had done so, not with a view of obtaining popularity, or for any interest connected with tenant-right, but from a deep and earnest conviction that to this question much and many of the calamities of Ireland were to be attributed; and his hon. Friend having brought forward this Bill, he (Viscount Castlereagh) thought it was the duty of the Government to allow the
 455 456
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH : I rise again to order. The hon. Gentleman accuses me of uttering a taunt, whilst I most distinctly have denied that I meant to use a taunt. I think, therefore, with the greatest deference to the House, that that word should not have been used again.
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  begged to correct the hon. Member. He had not taunted the Members of the Government, as stated by him, but had merely, as he had a right to do, complained that they had given the House no information on the point.
 LORD SEYMOUR  wished to know whether there would be any objection to lay upon the table Mr. Walker's letter as to the stability of the bridge?
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he agreed with what had been said by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department, and his noble Friend the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), that if there had been an angry correspondence between this country and foreign nations, which had now come to an end, it would be better not to revive it. Still the hon. Member for Pontefract's Motion was a reasonable one, and had elicited much from the Government. He (Mr. V. Smith) wished to elicit something more. He wished to know whether British, travellers in Austria would continue to be subjected to additional inconvenience, and, if so, whether that was to be done in consequence of the refusal of our Government to do that which they had no power to do? He wished particularly to call the attention of the House to the letter of the 9th December, 1851, containing
 520 "Would Austria not be justified to employ this line of argument as against England, if the British Government should not find means to put an end to the aggressive machinations directed against the tranquillity of the Austrian empire by political refugees residing in England? And would English travellers be entitled to complain, if, coming from a country where manifestations, and, what is more, acts, openly hostile to Austria are tolerated, they should henceforth be no longer admitted into that empire except under the safeguard of exceptional precautionary measures?" Le cher Aberdeen; 521
 MR. CLAY  said, it mattered little to him whether the case made out against Harwich by his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir De L. Evans) was such as would be received in a Court of Justice or not, or whether the corruption in that borough was imputable to the late, the present, or any other Government—though, for the credit of all Administrations, he trusted they were all equally free from such disgrace. For him, in a matter of this kind, notoriety was all he required, and he should be greatly surprised if any hon. Gentleman told him that it was not a matter of notoriety that corrupt practices were carried on at Harwich. He had it on the authority of a gentleman who was intimately acquainted with the borough, and whose statements this House would put faith in, that at the election in 1841 two men, father and son, received between them 1,000 l. Attwood, Plumper,
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, in reply to the opinion which had been expressed by the hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Clay), as to the non-effective working of Election Committees, that he had sat last year upon two of those Committees, and in both of them the Members were unseated, one of the cases being for the smallest possible amount of bribery. He believed the alterations in the law effected by the late Sir Robert Peel had been attended with the best possible results, and that the decisions of the Committees were now given totally uninfluenced by any party feelings or consideration.
 MR. CLAY  explained that he had not intended to throw any doubt upon the character of Election Committees, but considered that, as at present constituted, they were not the best tribunals to inquire into the subject of bribery at elections.
 SIR JOHN TYRREL  said, this was another instance of an unnecessary and improper interference. The Manchester school were determined to have a finger in everything. He thought the eastern portion of the Kingdom had a good deal to complain of, for Sudbury had been for some time disfranchised, and an attempt was now being made to disfranchise Harwich also. He hoped the House would not accede to the dictates of the broad-brimmed Opposition—nor consent to the withdrawal of the Motion for issuing the writ.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must object to the Amendment.
 MR. EDWARDS : It is not my intention to trouble the House at any great length at this hour of the morning, as the clause I am anxious to introduce fully explains itself. Having, however, been pressed by various interested parties connected with my own borough and many others to do that which I trust the House will consider an act of justice, I hope to be supported. It appears by the Municipal Corporation Act, 5 & 6  Geo. 546
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  hoped that his hon. Friend would not press the clause which he had proposed.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  trusted the House would always attend to one rule, namely, to do nothing hastily. [ Laughter.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART , in seconding the Motion, said, that he could not help congratulating Her Majesty's Ministers upon the revelations contained in the papers laid upon the table. The present Government, who had lately come into power, were by their own confession, in a minority in that House, and it was extremely doubtful whether they were not also in a minority in the House of Lords; and as to the estimation in which they were hold by the country at large, so afraid were they of making an appeal to the people of this country, that sooner than do that, the noble Lord at the head of the Government did not shrink from violating an assurance which he had given in his place in Parliament, and backing out of his engagements, though the House of Commons, upon the faith of those engagements, had consented to vote the Supplies. [ Cries of and 491 "Beside them stood another ruling thing, In acts, in words, in all but name, a king." 492 "Qui tulerit Gracchos de seditione quærentes?" 493 494 495
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, there would be no objection to lay upon the table Mr. Walker's letter relative to the stability of the present bridge.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that, on his accession to office, he had thought it right that additional inquiries should be instituted with regard to the actual necessity of bringing in a measure, in the course of the present Session, for the rebuilding of Westminster Bridge. The probable expense of erecting a new bridge was a matter that caused considerable difficulty to the Government; and, taking into consideration the silence of the Report of the Commissioners on this important point, they had determined to do nothing in the business, except with deliberation and caution. Additional inquiries bad accordingly been instituted, and the result of those inquiries was the decision—concurred in by Mr. Walker—that there was no necessity to take any step in the matter during the present Session of Parliament.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that although no despatch had yet been published from which it appeared that the menace of the Austrian Government had been withdrawn, he found it stated in an article in one of the newspapers, that that Government, so far from wishing to place greater restrictions in the way of British Subjects passing through the Austrian territories, or to render a residence in Austria in any way disagreeable to them, intended to adopt with respect to them precisely the same regulations which were applied to all other foreigners visiting the Austrian dominions. He could not agree with the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) when he expressed his gratitude to the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. M. Milnes) for bringing forward this question. He (Mr. B. Cochrane) did not know whether the Motion had been brought forward in conformity with the wishes of the noble Lord, but he could not but regret the language that had been used in the course of the discussion. He thought the result of the Motion would be most mischievous, and that it was much to be regretted that it had been brought forward. The noble Lord the Member for Marylebone (Lord D. Stuart), and the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey), had used language which made him (Mr. B. Cochrane) think that the results of the Motion must be highly mischievous—and it was much to be regretted that it had ever been brought forward. The language he had heard that night formed a strange contrast to the moderate and calm self-reliance which characterised the admirable despatches of Earl Granville and the Earl of Malmesbury. The hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. M. Milnes) found fault with the Imperial Government for expressing kindly feelings towards this country, for—no matter on what account—the Imperial Government did express kindly feelings, and avowed the confidence it entertained in the good intentions of Her Majesty's present Government. But what was the language that had been used in that House?—language which he believed it to be highly improper to apply to an alloy of the Crown. The hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey) had applied the term "perjured despot" to the Emperor of Austria. He (Mr. B. Cochrane) did not know how far the rules of the House would permit such language
 522 "Their cause was a popular one, and their secret association throughout this land was such that messages could be despatched from town to town with nearly as much security as they could between London and Dublin." 523
 MR. TENNYSON D'EYNCOURT  seconded the Motion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the Liberal Members were actuated by party motives in the course they had takes on this question. First, it was endeavoured to carry what was thought would be a popular Motion, which would lead to the disfranchisement of Harwich, but the House had rejected it; and thinking that a liberal candidate would not be very well received at Harwich, the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) moved to issue a writ, though he had just declared the borough unfit to return a Member, The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) was more prudent, because he asked for delay, on the ground that Members had not had time for preparation. So that no unfair advantage should be taken, he would suggest that the notice for issuing the writ be fixed for to-morrow.
 MR. BANKES  said, that, upon one petition from Harwich the Member was unseated on the want of qualification; and that, upon the next election, the same Gentleman lost his seat by no more than five votes. A petition was sent to him, stating that three of the five voters who constituted the majority at the last Harwich election had been intimidated by the late Government. The petition had been placed in his hands by persons whom he believed to be respectable; and he had no further interest in the matter whatever. At the beginning of the present Session there had been no petition praying for a renewal of the inquiry, and therefore although the same Government was then in office, he had not thought it his duty to press the subject. It was quite true that he had moved for a Committee, but that was a very different thing from a Commission. With regard to the case of St. Albans, there had been a technical difficulty as to the adjournment of the Committee, and that had vitiated their whole proceedings. So far was he from wishing to stretch the power of the Constitution, that he had voted against that Commission, thinking that its powers should be entrusted to Members of that House; and he wished they had been so. The House would have stood higher had that inquiry been conducted by its Members. That Commission had shaken their jurisdiction, and had tended to invalidate the decisions of their Committees. At present, he saw no ground for the proposed Commission. Had a Committee been proposed, supported by such a petition as he had presented, he would have voted for it. If the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) would move the issue of the writ for Harwich, he would vote with him.
 MR. KER SEYMER  hoped the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans) would not charge him with acting uncourteously because he took that early opportunity of rising to oppose his measure. The question before the House was this. The people of Harwich were at that moment deprived of their constitutional rights; and if the hon. and gallant Gentleman's Bill were brought in now, those rights would be suspended during the whole of the Session, under any circumstances. And believing that no Parliamentary case existed for this measure of disfranchisement, he (Mr. K. Seymer) felt himself obliged to take this the earliest opportunity of opposing the Motion. How stood the case of Harwich? Why was it now before the House of Commons? And why was it that that borough was not in the enjoy-
 531 l. 532 533 "It appears to the Committee that the system of bribery and corruption which was carried on at the last election for the said Borough of Leicester was such as to demand the attention of the House." 534
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, it was not his intension to have taken any part in this deviate; but as St. Albans had been dragged into it, he begged to make a few remarks. He must revert to the admission made by the right hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, namely, that the powers which had been recently exercised in reference to St. Albans were unconstitutional. St. Albans was bad enough, without being made worse than it was; and he thought it was rather severe to exaggerate the amount of corruption which had been proved in that borough. According to the Report of the Commissioners, he thought there were more than 200 electors against whom there was no allegation of bribery or corruption. He thought it unfair, therefore, to state that the corruption was universal there. He would not take any part in the division, as he felt that if he were to vote
 538
 MR. BAGSHAW  said, the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. K. Seymer) seemed to have a notion that the writ for Harwich had been purposely withheld in order to keep out some Gentleman who, if elected, would have taken his seat on the Ministerial side of the House. He (Mr. Bagshaw) thought the best thing that could happen for Harwich was to let the matter remain as it was until the next general election, and by that general election to let the borough be judged. If the people at Har-
 535
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the Motion appeared to follow somewhat naturally from the course taken by the Government; but there was no necessity in his opinion why it should be made so immediately. On one or two former occasions an attempt had been made to move for a writ for Harwich, and the opinion of the House was, that the writ should be suspended for some time longer, for some reason which was not very distinctly explained; but there was an understanding which he thought would not be denied, that notice should be given before the writ was moved for. He was not going to argue the necessity of issuing the writ, but he was prepared to contend that, under the circumstances of that evening—after a debate which was not supposed to have any special reference to the Motion before the House—it would not be fair, taking into account the understanding he had referred to, to assent to the Motion of the hon. Member for Finsbury. He would not discuss the character of the borough, or the propriety of the proposition which had just been rejected, but would stand simply on the understanding already mentioned—on the suddenness of the Motion, and on the fact that a great number of Members were absent from the House who could have had no idea that such a Motion was about to be submitted to the House, because no notice of it had been given. He should therefore ask the hon. Member for Finsbury to withdraw his proposition, and give notice of it for any other day he pleased. It would be much better to postpone it until after Easter, because a period of ten days had been spoken of as the notice which should be given. He therefore begged leave to move that the Debate be adjourned.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary that a Commission was founded on a principle adverse to the law of England; for he (Mr. Roebuck) denied that any man was called on to give evidence against himself. The witness was protected from the consequences, and called on to tell what had occurred. But he considered that for the  laches
 MR. BROTHERTON  thought it was contrary to the express understanding of
 544
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was not unnatural, in the state of things which had taken place during the last three or four years, that many persons, without having anything to do with those transactions, might be exposed to inconvenience, and that was a matter which should not be lost sight of in considering this subject. The fact was, as had been stated by the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), that more than 2,000 persons, not British subjects, had had the protection of English and French passports granted to them in order to facilitate their removal from places which had derived great advantage from their absence. Under these circumstances, no doubt, many parties had received that protection who were undeserving of it. At the present moment, as heretofore, however, to be a British subject was a claim to respect in any part of the world, because it had always been known that England was a Power which would see no injury inflicted upon its subjects without ample reparation. He (Mr. Henley) was one of those who thought that any and every Government in this country must always act on that principle. The noble Viscount had alluded in humorous terms to the letter addressed by the Austrian Ambassador to the Earl of Derby; but the commendations in that letter could only fairly be taken as applicable to the principles expressed by the Earl of Derby—not to any particular set of men, but to the principles they professed. Now, with regard to the question put by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. V. Smith), he was not aware that any possible inconvenience could have arisen to any British subject in, consequence of the despatches which were the subject of the present discussion; and he certainly had not heard, nor did he believe that any such inconvenience existed. When the right hon. Gentleman asked whether the restrictions which had been threatened to be put upon British subjects were now at an end, he had only to say, in reply, that he thought they had a right to consider that what was called the semiofficial paper transmitted by our Minister at Vienna to this country, did give a different complexion to the matter, and that all the Austrian Government meant in
 525
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES , in reply, said, that he should but inadequately acknowledge the kindness with which the House had bestowed its attention on the subject, if he showed any unwillingness to follow what appeared its general desire that it should not divide on the present question. At the same time, he must maintain that the words of his Motion were, on the whole, so moderate, and couched in so amicable a spirit to the foreign Government to which it alluded, that he did not think the general consent of the House to the Resolution would have had any other meaning than implied by the present course, namely, that they regretted the circumstances which had led to the language used in the despatch of the Austrian Minister, and that the feeling of the House was that that language was profoundly to be regretted. He had been a follower of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) when he had recommended energetic measures, and now he was not disposed to differ from his counsel when he advised moderation. The noble Lord was a far better judge upon such a subject; and if he thought the object in view could be obtained, he (Mr. M. Milnes) would not attempt to put forward his inexperience against the knowledge of the noble Lord. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Bridport (Mr. B. Cochrane) had stated that the present Motion was an ungenerous one, considering the especial favour which the Government of Austria had extended to him (Mr. M. Milnes). Now, in reply to that statement, he could only say that in the course of last year he had been stopped on his journey through the Austrian dominions, and had not been allowed to proceed further. So trivial a circum-
 526
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, that in bringing forward the Motion of which he had given notice, he could not think that he was guilty of an unwarrantable trespass on the time and attention of the House, in submitting to its consideration a subject of considerable public interest, involving many important principles which it was most expedient that that House should either affirm or deny, and creating a practical grievance which at the present moment was felt with severity by a not inconsiderable portion of Her Majesty's subjects. Two series of papers had been laid upon the table of the House respecting the residence in England of certain foreign refugees, and the measures taken by foreign Governments to procure their punishment, expulsion, or extradition. It was, doubtless, in the recollection of the House, that during the recent political convulsions in Europe, numbers of persons from different foreign countries had been driven to England, as to the only asylum left open to them amid the tumults of the Continent. It was asserted that after a certain residence in this country, these refugees becoming more and more excited, in proportion as their cause on the Continent became more hopeless and embarrassing, and rendering their return to their respective countries more difficult, formed themselves into associations, and set on foot conspiracies, having for object to revolutionise, or at least to alter, the Governments to which they severally belonged. It was alleged, moreover, that those persons endeavoured to levy money, by way of loan, from the people of this country, for the purpose of exciting revolutionary disturbances in foreign States. About that time also, there arrived in this country, a very remarkable man, a Hungarian refugee, no other, indeed, than Louis Kossuth, an individual who had been made the subject of much diplomatic communication between this and other countries, and in whose favour, and for the purpose of saving him from being surrendered to the Austrian Government, England had adopted the extreme and unusual measure of sending a British fleet to the Dardanelles. Several foreign Governments thought themselves aggrieved by Kossuth's reception in England, and
 478 479 "The Government of the United States must not take it amiss that Her Majesty's Government should resort to measures of precaution and of repression in regard to persons, whatever their nationality may he, who, in this posture of affairs may come from the United States to this realm; and if there should be any citizens of the United States who have chosen this period of disturbance for visiting Ireland for innocent purposes, they must not be surprised if, like persons whom curiosity may lead into the midst of a battle, they should be involved into the sweep of measures aimed at men of a different description." 480 "The Emperor, in noting down these assurances, has pleasure in thence deriving a hope that the British Government will henceforth know how to make more ample and rigorous use than it has hitherto done of the legal means at its disposal, and which it appears to judge sufficient to enable it to fulfil its international duties with regard to the proceedings of the refugees. At any rate, while waiting till these dispositions of the British Government are followed by deeds, the almost unlimited liberty of action which the refugees have hitherto enjoyed in England, with regard to the revolutionary plots that a great number of them do not cease hatching against the repose of the States of the Continent, imposes upon us, on our side, the duty of taking some measure of precaution, tending to guard us against the annoyances and dangers of which that liberty is the source. The Imperial authorities will henceforth receive orders to 'redouble' their vigilance with regard to travellers coming from England, and to execute strictly, in relation to their passports, the existing rules to which formerly, under the empire of other circumstances, it had become a habit to make frequent exceptions in favour of British subjects. The Imperial Government, moreover, reserves to itself the faculty of taking into consideration ulterior measures, if unhappily the need of them still makes itself felt." "From you, M. Le Comte, I have received communication of a despatch from Prince Schwarzenberg, in which, while professing the hope that the British Government will henceforth make more ample use of the means at its disposal for repressing the intrigues of the refugees, his Highness, contrary to the belief expressed by me in my despatch to the Earl of Westmoreland, of the 13th ultimo, that it will be in the highest degree unworthy of the enlightened character of any European Government to put vexatious impediments in the way of unoffending English travellers, by way of retaliation for the acts of foreign refugees in England, threatens, in terms to which I will not further advert, to renew precautions become obsolete with regard to such travellers, and reserves to himself the power of considering still more stringent measures." 481 animus "The intelligence of the formation of the new Government under the auspices of the Earl of Derby has been received by the Imperial Cabinet with a feeling of general satisfaction. The hopes
 482 483 484 primâ facie 485 486 487 "That he still enjoys the security of this asylum is perhaps owing to the firmness of the King's Government. If that he the fact—if His Majesty's Ministers have received applications to expel the unfortunate gentleman from England—I should publicly thank them for their firmness, if it were not unseemly and improper to suppose that they could have acted otherwise, to thank an English Government for not violating the most sacred duties of hospitality, for not bringing indelible disgrace on their country." 488 489 "Qui autem civium rationem dicunt habendam, externorum negant, hi dirimunt communem humani generis societatem; qua sublate, beneficentia, liberalitas, bonitas, justitia funditus tolli-
 490
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I think I shall best consult the convenience of the Houses if I avoid those more inflammatory topics with which the hon. Gentleman opposite commenced his speech, inasmuch as they have no immediate relation to the question; now before the House: and I am the; more particularly anxious to do so, since, in the unavoidable absence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the somewhat unexpected duty has been thrown upon me speaking upon a question of foreign affairs, with which I am not so well acquainted as with the affairs of that department with which I am more immediately connected. I, have, however, carefully read through the papers which have been laid upon the table of the House in reference to this, subject, and I have listened most attentively to the observations of the hon. Gentleman the Mover of this Resolution, and also to the speech of the noble Lord who has just sat down; and I must say, I am quite at a loss to understand whether they intend to blame the late or the present Government. But I think I can satisfy them that a more careful perusal of the papers to which I allude, will prove that the only fair inferences to be drawn, from them are those which I shall presently mention, and which I hope, more especially from the circumstances in which we are now placed with regard to foreign, Governments, will induce the hon. Gentleman opposite not to press his Resolution to a division. I think that these inferences may be drawn from the despatches on the table. The first of them is, that the conduct of the Government of this country—of the late as well as of the present Administration—has been such as tip uphold and maintain the honour and dignity of the country with reference to its relations with foreign Powers. The second inference to be drawn is, that the, foreign Governments in question have some-what misunderstood the laws and regulations of this country with reference to foreign refugees, and that misunderstanding has naturally arisen from the difference between the laws which exist in their own countries and those which exist in
 497 "My Lord—I have the honour to transmit herewith to your Excellency a memorandum, together with some papers in support of its contents, with a view of proving the existence of a continued conspiracy on the part of revolutionary committees organised by the political refugees in London, against all the Governments of Europe, and particularly against France. The facts and proofs contained in these various papers render it impossible to doubt the existence of a conspiracy which does not confine itself to vague projects, but which is constantly at work, and in every I possible manner. The series of the manifestoes I of the Central Society of Demagogues, presided ever by Ledru Rollin, Mazzini, &c, which I shall I shortly have the honour to complete, are open calls to insurrection, and will doubtless be regarded by your Excellency of sufficient importance to warrant Her Majesty's Government in adopting all such measures against those conspirators as the laws of England will permit. I am instructed by my Government to request your Lordship's immediate attention to our representations, and to ask you to put an end to the open designs of these conspirators, who shelter themselves under the erroneous idea that they
 498 "That he had received a despatch from his Government, in which they express regret that there should appear to be an idea entertained by Her Majesty's Government that the presentation of the French note on the subject of the refugees, was part of a combined scheme with the three other Powers; that this was not the case; that France had acted alone in this matter; and that Count Walewski's note of the 29th of October last merely transmitted a memorandum drawn up by M. Carlier for the use of the Minister of the Interior, and that in this communication no future course of action was pointed out." "We are willing to hope that the English Ministers, in their wisdom and equity, will devise a remedy for a state of things which is irreconcilable with the principles of public law. For
 499 "Your Excellency will allow me to remind you that the Austrian Cabinet has with pleasure conceived the hope, from the expressions contained in that document, that the British Government would for the future be able to prevent all attempts at insurrection against friendly and allied Governments, and that the avowal of such intention has already sufficed to induce the Imperial Government to suspend, for the greater part, the restrictive measures which, under contrary circumstances, they would have seen themselves compelled to adopt in the interest of their subjects. I am happy, moreover, to acknowledge that the different interviews which I have had the honour to hold with your Excellency have left me with the impression that the British Government admits the importance of providing against the continuance of intrigues openly hostile to the States of the Continent; and, if the information which I have gathered has been accurate, your Excellency will, during the transitory duration of your Ministry, have within the very restricted limits which the legislation of Great Britain prescribes, already devoted your meritorious attention to this object. I will even add, and I have net failed to give its value to this circumstance in reporting to my Court, that if the results have hitherto only feebly responded to the disposition Which has been avowed, this must be attributed to reasons entirely independent of the intentions of the British Cabinet, and of the will of your Excellency." 500 "The Cabinet, of which he is the head, the Premier said, is penetrated with the necessity of maintaining universal peace. He thinks that, in order to attain this object, there is no batter means than to adopt towards all foreign Powers a calm and moderate demeanour, scrupulously to maintain treaties, and to respect, in the highest degree, the independence of all nations, great or small, and their right to manage, according to their own convictions, their internal affairs. If the English Government (continued Lord Derby) had causes of complaint against another nation,
 501 "Keeping steadily in view those principles and intentions, maintaining inviolate the sacred right of according hospitality towards those whom misfortunes or political offences may have banished from their native land; discouraging and repressing, as far as the law and the constitution warrant, any attempt on the part of such exiles to abuse the hospitality they enjoy, by seeking to foment disturbance in their own country; restrained by the highest obligations of duty from straining that law beyond its legitimate bounds, but visiting with exemplary punishment those who may violate the law, Her Majesty's Government feel assured that they shall have no difficulty in reconciling their duty as Ministers of a constitutional Sovereign with the obligations which they owe to the just claims of any friendly Power, and the sentiments of sincere friendship with which they are actuated towards the Court of Vienna." 502 "3. Foreign Office Passports are granted only to British subjects, including in that description foreigners who have been naturalised by Act of Parliament, or by Certificates of Naturalisation granted before the 24th day of August, 1850; in this latter case, the party is described in the Passport as a 'Naturalised British subject.' 5. Passports are granted to persons who are either known to the Secretary of State, or recommended to him by some person who is known to him; or upon the written application of any Banking Firm established in London or in any other part of the United Kingdom. 6. Passports cannot be sent by the Foreign Office to persons already abroad. Such persons should apply to the nearest British Mission or Consulate. 7. Foreign Office Passports must be countersigned at the Mission, or at some Consulate in England,
 503 "The custom, which has more and more established itself, of foreigners furnishing themselves with passports emanating from an authority other than that of their respective Governments, having given rise to divers abuses and inconveniences, it has been thought useful to abolish it for the future." 504
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he proposed, before the House went to a division, to state the view taken by Her Majesty's Government of the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member (Sir De L. Evans), involving as it did a very important question. The House was called upon, on the ground of the notoriety, as it was termed, of bribery and corruption in Harwich, to issue a Commission superseding the common course of the law of the land. But such a Commission ought not to issue except upon a case of gross corruption, clearly established and proved to have recently happened. Such a Commission would have power to call upon parties to give evidence even against themselves, under guards and provisions sufficient to protect them from the penal consequences which would otherwise flow from it; and then in their anxiety to obtain a searching inquiry, the powers exercised by such a Commission were of the most unlimited and extraordinary kind—were, in fact, unless they were called for by an urgent necessity, absolutely unconstitutional; for such Commissions would give to a majority in that House such an enormous means to get rid of boroughs, or even to counties, opposed to their own views, that he, for one, could never consent to such a proceeding unless there was something like a clear proof of the truth of the charge that was brought against them. He wished the House to bear distinctly in mind what was the case with regard to Sudbury and St. Albans, which had been mentioned as precedents for the course they were now called on to take. In Sudbury the bribery was so great that, out of the 276 who voted for Mr. Dyce Sombre, not less than 200 were proved to have taken bribes; and the Commissioners reported that, in their belief, the bribery had been still more extensive, because the sum of 3,000 l., l. 536 "The system had so long prevailed, and corruption was so widely extended, that the moral sense of the inhabitants was deadened, and they evinced no shame when they avowed their participation in these practices. From this sweeping charge we are happy to be able to exempt the clergy of all denominations, and some of the principal inhabitants of the town, who united their efforts to put an end to so degrading a system" 537 Laughter.
 MR. WALPOLE  begged to explain, that he did not lay down the opinion that it was a constitutional course to suspend the issuing of a writ on the eve of a general election. But, coupling it with the fact of their having suspended the writ for more than twelve months, he for his own part did not think it right to move that it should be now issued. The House might do it if it chose.
 MR. WALPOLE  wished to say one word upon the question. When he stated that he thought the writ ought not to be moved for, he gave reasons for his opinion, but one reason he certainly did not give, namely, that it might be supposed, if he moved for the writ, he was endeavouring to obtain an advantage for the Government in reference to the return of a Member for Harwich. He had that opinion in his
 545
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he regarded with some suspicion the declaration which the right hon. Gentleman had just made of the good intentions of Her Majesty's present advisers with respect to this foreign question. He believed that it was with the concurrence of the present Government that the Austrian Government were carrying out their recent measures. To him (Mr. C. Anstey) this was manifest, from the despatches of the Austrian and the Russian Ministers. What these Governments required was, that England should frame her free laws upon the model of their own system of surveillance and espionage. In the month of October last the menace was held out by Austria; and on the 10th of January succeeding, we had the first instance of her determination to make her threats good. Three Scottish ministers of the Free Church, who in 1841, with the permission of then Viceroy, emigrated into Hungary to diffuse Christianity among the Jews, in the
 505 506 507 508 509
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he was surprised to hear the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department assign as a reason for not issuing the writ for the borough of Harwich, the fact that a general election was near at hand. If that argument were to be allowed any weight, the writ might be withheld from any large constituency whose Members might die, because an election might probably take place in "May, June, or July." The reason why the writ had not been issued before was, that the inquiry was pending. The House was now bound to do one of two things—either to grant leave to bring in the Bill asked for by his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir De L. Evans), or else issue a new writ to-morrow. It was an act of great injustice to withhold the issue of the writ to a borough which they were told was so pure and immaculate as the borough of Harwich. On the other hand if the borough was so pure, what objection could there be to allowing the Bill to be brought in? If the Motion were not agreed to, he would move to-morrow the issue of a new writ for the borough of Harwich.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he considered that, as the House had decided that no inquiry should take place, it had no right to disfranchise the borough, and he should therefore move that Mr. Speaker issue his warrant for a new writ for Harwich.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he should be sorry to commit a breach of any understanding that existed in the House. He perfectly recollected there was an understanding that the writ should not be issued without notice, but then that was on the ground that an inquiry should take place, and if no inquiry was instituted, the writ was to issue on the notice. The writ had been suspended until the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans) came on that evening; and now the House had decided against it, he was ready to bow to the decision of the majority. He had no objection to the adjournment of the debate until tomorrow.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he had acted as Chairman of the second Harwich Election Committee. No evidence as to bribery was laid before them, nor was any conclusion come to on that subject. The Committee's decision was founded entirely on a point of law as to whether the poll was
 540
 SIR DE LACY EVANS , in reply, said, he was not aware that the minority had any such peculiar claims to consideration as had been urged by the right hon. Home Secretary; he (Sir De L. Evans) had always understood that the majority decided everything. He felt justified in asking for the appointment of the Commission by reference to the case of St. Albans, from which he contended great benefit had resulted.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the purpose of appointing Commissioners to inquire into the practices of bribery and corruption that were alleged to exist in the Borough of Harwich. He said the Bill which he proposed to bring in was nearly word for word the same as that which had been passed with regard to the Borough of St. Albans. His hon. Friend the Member for St. Albans (Mr. J. Bell) had asked why St. Albans had been selected when so many other boroughs were accused of corruption? He thought he would be able to show, not only that there was a  primâ facie 527 embarras des richesses. 528 l. l., l. 529 l. l. l., l., l. "Resolved, that John Attwood, Esq., is not duly elected a burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Harwich; that the last election for the borough, so far as regards the return of the said John Attwood is a void election; and that the said John Attwood was, by his agents, guilty of bribery at the said election." "That it appears from the evidence that an hon. Member of the House, John Attwood, Esq., has since the year 1842 purchased a considerable property in the neighbourhood of Lyme, and that he has been in the habit of granting loans of money on property to voters, on condition that Such voters should on any future occasion vote for him or any one he may appoint to be a candidate for the representation." l. 530 Times
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that the hon. Member who had just sat down perhaps did not know that British subjects had recently been expelled from Hungary, under circumstances of great oppression and hardship. Scotchmen and their families had been expelled from Pesth without being guilty of any violation of any law; and Captain Pakenham and others had been sent away from Florence for no fault being alleged against them, but simply from the fact that they had been found reading the Bible, and uniting in family prayer. He could also inform the House, from his own experience, that every possible inconvenience and trouble were heaped upon English travellers. The noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), who was so well qualified to advise them on this matter, had suggested that the House should not be forced to a division, and he trusted that the noble Lord's suggestion would be accepted. The noble Viscount had been long recognised as the protector of British subjects in every part of the world. He had known it from his own experience; and he could tell the hon. Member (Mr. B. Cochrane) that under the Government of the noble Viscount, the fact of being a British subject, and the fact of the noble
 524
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he thought that the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. M. Milnes) had totally failed to show that the Austrian Government intended to inflict any hardship upon British travellers in their dominions. And indeed the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat had told the House that the regulations which the Austrian Government had lately adopted were perfectly fair, and such as it was open to any foreign Government to adopt for the purpose of excluding foreign refugees. It appeared to him that the real fact of the case was this—that in times when Europe was in a much more peaceable state than it had been lately, many passport regulations were, as a matter of favour, waived by Austria; and all the Government of that country had now done was to notify to us that in the altered circumstances of Europe it would be necessary to enforce those regulations (which had always existed) more precisely than
 517 518 519 primâ facie
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that although there was no specification in the Report of the cost of erecting a new bridge, there were the fullest particulars on the subject in the appendix.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he had given both public and private notice of his intention to put a question to Her Majesty's First Commissioner of Works, in respect to Westminster Bridge, and he hoped that he might be permitted to preface the interrogatory by a few words of explanation. It was probably in the remembrance of the House, that six years ago the state of Westminster Bridge was deemed to be so alarming, that a Committee was appointed to make inquiries respecting it, and to report to that House. They did so, and reported that the bridge was in such a condition that it would be
 476
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I think my hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract (Mr. M. Milnes) has acted quite right in bringing under the consideration of the House a question of great importance as regards our own laws, as regards our international relations, as regards the rights of British subjects abroad, and the obligations of the British Government at home. Sir, I think that the right hon. Gentleman who has spoken on behalf of the Government, has not altogether embaced the full scope of the argument of my hon. Friend. He has addressed the better part of the observations which have fallen from him to one branch only of the arguments of my hon. Friend. My hon. Friend dwelt with great force upon two points—the one, the duty which is incumbent on the British Government to afford protection to foreign exiles; the other, the duty which is also incumbent on the British Government to afford protection to British subjects travelling abroad. Now the right hon. Gentleman seemed to me chiefly to direct his remarks to the first of those points, and having, as he conceived, satisfactorily shown to the House that the present Government was determined to maintain the right of affording hospitality to foreigners, he seemed to think that he had laid sufficient grounds for negativing the Motion of my hon. Friend. But he did not, I think, equally explain to the House the determination of Her Majesty's Government to enforce that protection to British subjects travelling abroad, to which, when not violating the laws of the country in which they may happen to be, they are so decidedly and positively entitled. Now, Sir, with regard to the papers which are the subject of discussion, and with respect to the transactions to which they relate, I think it right to say that some allowance ought to be made for the sensitive anxiety which some of the Governments of the Continent expressed last year in regard to the proceedings of certain foreign refugees in this country. We must remember that they have not the same notions as we have of the expediency, as well as of the right, of free discussion and free action, which fortunately belong to every man in this country. They are apt to measure things here by their own standard of what is
 510 511 512 513 514 515 Rymer, 516
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said: Sir, in giving notice of my intention to oppose the Second Reading of this Bill, and in rising to carry that intention into effect, I beg to assure the right hon. Gentlemen opposite, that I have no desire to offer a factious or unfair opposition to any measures they may deem advisable to propose. I seek not to hold them responsible for the legislative enactments or the executive decisions of which I complain. They have no part in the Treasury Minute which is about to become the subject of discussion this evening—a document as unjust as it is illegal. Her Majesty's Government cannot be considered answerable for a course of policy which, however well-intended it may have been, has destroyed the capital and depopulated the shores of Ireland; on the contrary, I am bound to admit, that whilst they occupied the benches from which I am now speaking, every proposition for the amelioration of Ireland received from them a fair and generous consideration. I cannot forget that without a single exception they voted for an advance of 16,000,000 l. s. s. s. 603 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. s. Vict., 604 l. l. l. l. 605 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 606 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. Vict., Vict., 607 l. l. 608 d. l. l. l. l. l. l, s. d. d. l. s. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. s. d. per diem. 609 l. 610 l. l. l. l. Vict., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 611 l. l. 612 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 613 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. s. d. s. s. d. 614 s. s. s. s. d. l. l. l. 615
 Mr. GRATTAN  said, there was not the slightest doubt that Ireland had been plundered, and all they wished to know now was what had become of the money. From 1847 to 1852 they had been plundered under the care—under the special providence—of the late Government, who had always professed to have so much at heart the interest of Ireland. Where was the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), where were the Manchester Members, who had supported this bad policy, and now shrunk from its exposure? Where was the hon.
 616 l. 617 l. l.
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, what he was anxious for, was not to get rid of the Poor Law, but to see it work well. It was intend-
 618 s. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. 619 l. l. l, l. l. s.
 MR. MOORE  said, he was of opinion that the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. F. French) had introduced this Motion for no other object than to make a speech upon it. He thought it would be well for
 620
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I wish to recall the attention of the House to the real question before
 621 622 623 624
 MR. MONSELL  thought that the Government should make some specific statement as to whether they intended to proceed further in carrying out the principle of the Bill. That principle, he thought, would he most injurious in its effects. For what would be the result? Those Boards of Guardians who had previously exerted themselves to keep the rates below 4 s. l. l. l. l. s. 625
 MR. ROCHE  would have suffered the Bill to pass without his opposition, had it not been for the observations of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer. But he still recollected the speech of the right hon. Gentleman about burdens on land last Session, and not considering the present explanation satisfactory—it was as unsatisfactory, indeed, as all the other explanations of Her Majesty's Government, especially about land—he, too, would call on the noble Lord the Chief Secretary for Ireland to make the matter clearer. Or perhaps his hon. and gallant Friend (Col. Dunne) would volunteer, who, even while supporting the Whigs, had always been most energetic in denouncing their measures for imposing local taxation.
 SIR HENRY BARRON  heard with great satisfaction the speech of the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Roche). That hon. Gentleman had always been a steadfast, an abject, supporter of the Irish policy of the late Government.
 MR. ROCHE  rose to order. It had been said that he had been an abject supporter of the late Government. Now, so far from being a abject supporter of theirs, he had not even been a consistent one.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member for Cork has already spoken, and is quite out of order in now addressing the House.
 SIR HENRY BARRON : The hon. Gentleman had said he was not an abject supporter of Whig policy towards Ireland, but at all events he (Sir H. Barron) asserted he was a steadfast one. Now he, on the contrary, would be a steadfast opponent of Whig policy in Ireland, and that was the reason for not moving over with the Whigs to the opposite side of the House, as he considered that would be a tacit identification of their policy and the whole course of his career. In the whole course of his reading he had never met nor read of anything so completely ruinous as the policy of the Whigs towards Ireland. He did not want to state that to Her Majesty's late Government in a roundabout way, for they deserved to hear it emphatically. Again he told them that they had ruined Ireland, for their only remedy for all her calamities was the same for ever, and that was taxation!—taxation!—taxation! When the late Government came into power, the local taxation of Ireland was 316,000 l. l. 626 l. l. l. l. 627 l. l. l. Taxation, Finances, and Trade, l. l. l. l. 628 l. l. l. l. l. l. s. s. s.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  begged to remind the House that the sole matter before it upon the present occasion was—whether it would adopt a Bill introduced by the late Government, the simple effect of which would be to remit a small portion of those poor-rate annuities which had already been imposed upon the different unions in Ireland by an Act passed in a former Session. By that former Act certain Government advances, amounting to near 4,500,000 l. l. l. 629 s. l. l. d.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, a notorious fiction existed, which, if it were possible to realise, would involve the public at large in interminable confusion—the fiction being that a stranger sometimes found his way into the House, and that in Consequence their proceedings became matters of public notoriety; and on the present occasion he had listened to speeches from those he regretted to call his countrymen, which, in his opinion, would subject them in the minds of an honest Englishman, or an honest Scotchman, to the imputation of being either rogues or fools. Now, that was a kind of confusion he was most anxious to avoid, and therefore he disclaimed all identification with either of these classes. He severed himself from those who got up in the House and said they were not grateful for the relief which had been held forth to their country, and also from those who would not recognise
 630
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed surprised that a Bill which was so very simple in its object should have led to so much discussion; but if he had had a larger official experience, he would have found that this was usually the case with Bills relating to Ireland, more especially when it was proposed to remit a portion of taxation. The present Bill had this very simple object—that whereas the sum of 245,000 l. l. l. l. l. 631 l. 632 633
 MR. H. HERBERT  thought the remarks of the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat contained a warning to hon. Gentlemen opposite. The noble Lord had distinctly disclaimed the principle of the Treasury Minute which rendered this Bill necessary. It must be felt by Irish Gentlemen to be odious to refuse payment of claims upon them, and he had himself done all he could to prevent resistance to the law in regard to the repayment of these advances; but the Irish were aggrieved, and men could hardly be blamed for expressing dissatisfaction at being called upon to repay money when their suggestions as to its employment had been disregarded. A third of the advances under the Burgoyne Relief Act, as was stated by Sir Charles Trevelyan, were made to electoral divisions; and a change in those divisions had long been asked. The Irish asked for the same facilities as there were in England for working a Poor Law. He would recommend the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer to consider the declaration of the noble Lord the late Prime Minister, who, in approving of the Bill, stated his total disapproval of the principle on which it was founded; and he implored the right hon. Gentleman, in his future dealings with Ireland to act upon principle, and bear in mind that what was right and just in England, could not be wrong in Ireland.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he could not see the good which was to result from this discussion. In fact, it reminded him rather of a consultation of another description
 634
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would not trespass long on the attention of the House. The hon. Gentleman who had last spoken in such a very professional spirit, laid upon the
 635
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  said, he would not have risen but for the speech of the noble Lord the Member for London. The noble Lord had no more right than any other Member to criticise unfairly the debates of Irish Members on Irish questions. It was open to every Irish Member to debate a question, no matter whether English or Irish, independently and without regard to the feelings of the noble Lord, however great might be their respect for him as an individual. The noble Lord had no right to taunt Irish Members; and he, for one, would not submit to it from the noble Lord or any other hon. Member. With regard to the observations of the right hon. the Attorney General for Ireland respecting the Ribband system, and its extension throughout all Ireland, he (Mr. O'Flaherty) begged to state that the west of Ireland was entirely free from it, and that a more peaceful and industrious province than Connaught did
 636
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he wished to say that he did not mean to prescribe any limit to hon. Gentlemen in their speeches. He had only wished to express his surprise at the nature of the discussion, and to say that such discussions were not unusual on Irish questions.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he was not aware that he had said anything about Connaught. At an earlier part of the evening he had stated, in answer to the hon. Member for Cavan (Sir J. Young), that threatening notices were being given in many parts of Ireland, and that the system was extending. There was no part of Ireland of which he had a more lively hope than the west.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), who was a high Parliamentary authority, stated that there were a variety of precedents on the journals for suspending a writ; but he would ask the noble Lord whether the precedents to which he referred did not all of them occur prior to the Grenville Act, when the House itself decided as to the validity of the elections; and whether the noble Lord was prepared to favour the House with any precedent applicable to the particular circumstances that they had now to consider? Now, it was true that in the year 1842 there was a very strong Report submitted to that House, in which it was declared that extensive bribery had prevailed at Harwich; and it was recommended to the House at the time that, if necessary, a further and more searching inquiry should be made into the alleged corrupt practices, to see whether they were of so extensive a character as to justify the disfranchisement of the borough. The House, however, on that occasion chose to pass over the Committee's Report, and agreed to the issuing of a new writ; and if any act could amount to what was called condonation, unquestionably the House, with a full knowledge of all that had occurred in 1842 at Harwich had acted upon that principle. In 1847 an election took place, and there was a Report by an Election Committee to the effect that Mr. Attwood had been guilty of bribery by his agents, and that gentleman was in consequence unseated. But it was stated by hon. Members, in 1847 or 1848 (he forgot exactly which year), that the proofs of bribery were of so flagrant a character as to warrant the interference of that House, and to demand a further investigation. At that time an Act had been
 600 bonâ fide 601
 MR. HEADLAM  wished to know whether any public prosecutor would be appointed to bring the cases of corruption before Committees, and whether the expense of the proceedings would be defrayed by individuals, or provision would be made by the Bill for their payment?
 MR. MILES  defended the Amendment, considering that the House itself was not the place where a discussion should take Parliament at any Election or Election of such place whether a Commission should issue or not.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  supposed the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary meant to guard a rash vote of that House, or the vote of a majority in a small House; and for that he suggested an inquiry before either an Election Committee or a Select Committee. Now, he feared that neither of those Committees would answer the purpose, especially as a Select Committee was without the power of taking evidence on oath, or giving an indemnity to witnesses. He thought, however, that if the right hon. Gentleman had intended to propose this Amendment, he should have given some notice to the House.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  wished to know if the noble Lord agreed to the Amendment? [Lord J. Russell was understood to say he agreed to it.] The objection to the Select Committee might be obviated by acting on the suggestion of his hon. Friend (Mr. T. Baring), of giving the Select Committee power to examine on oath. The only precedents which existed for the issue of Commissions were St. Albans and Sudbury, in both which cases the Committees reported that extensive bribery had prevailed, and the Commissions were issued with the sanction of Parliament.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  thought the Bill should be framed with a view to practical results. Select Committees were appointed by political feelings, though an appearance of fairness was attempted. The present law should be strengthened. Election Committees ought to be instructed to report on general bribery, and on that Report a Select Committee of men of experience should then be appointed to investigate the
 643
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  begged to explain that he meant that Election Committees should be strengthened in point of numbers.
 MR. BERNAL  begged to inform the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, that he could not propose that Motion until the present question before the Committee had been disposed of.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that after the discussion that had taken place, he would not press his Amendment.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he begged to move as an Amendment that no writ should issue during this Session of Parliament for the borough of Harwich. He agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe), that Harwich was a rotten nest of corruption, and it was upon that ground that he called upon the House not to encourage corruption by issuing another writ for this borough. It had been said that there were only two courses which could be pursued on the present occasion: either to institute an inquiry, or to issue a writ. But he (Mr. Bouverie) would affirm that in this, as in other cases, one of three courses might be adopted, and that they might either determine to issue the writ, or to suspend the issue, or to institute an inquiry. They all knew what had been disclosed on the Committee, with respect to Harwich in 1841, and that a compromise had been effected with reference to the return for that borough, with the view of screening the Members who were returned at that election. Had there been any reason to suppose that since 1841 the state of things had in the least degree improved? Far from it. In 1847 there was another election, and in reference to the candidates returned at that time a Committee of that House had declared that Mr. John Attwood had been guilty of bribery by means of his agents. It was alleged in extenuation of the sins of this borough, that two elections had occurred there since
 594
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I think, with the right hon. Gentleman, that the business of the House ought to be expedited, and I have no objection to the postponement of the Militia Bill to the 23rd instant, provided that, if it be then read a second time, the Government proceed with the measure without delay. While on this subject I am desirous of addressing a few words to the House on a matter connected with it. Much apprehension has existed in the public mind during the last few days from a belief that some circumstance has arisen to alter the intention of the Government to advise a dissolution of Parliament as soon as the state of public business would permit that course to be adopted. I will not particularly advert to the circumstances under which that apprehension has arisen. I feel the inconvenience of adverting to words supposed to have passed in a conversation elsewhere, at which no Members of this House may have been present. At the same time, I think it desirable that before we enter into Committee of Supply on Monday, some explanation or statement on the subject should be made by the Government. I feel myself the more bound to require this course to be taken, because, relying on the accuracy of reports of what had passed in another place on a former occasion, and being assured by many noble friends of mine that what they had heard was perfectly satisfactory to them, I advised those with whom I act on this side of the House not to do anything which would have the effect of postponing or delaying the Supplies, but to proceed at once to vote the money for the Estimates. This side of the House certainly complied with that request most cheerfully, and no less than 14,000,000 l. 590
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not concur with his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford in thinking that the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) would be an unparliamentary proceeding, or that it would be a precedent that would give an undue power to a tyrannical majority. The power of suspending a writ had been used by that House from time to time since the year 1696, when he believed the earliest precedent of this kind was established. With respect, however, to this particular instance, he owned that there was much more doubt as to the discretion of exercising this power. He considered that the House having chosen, on the last occasion when the seat for Harwich was declared void, to suspend the issuing of the writ from the month of July last to the present April, there could be no reason for it to alter its course. His hon. Friend (Sir R. Inglis), appeared to think that the House had been in error all that time, and ought now to make haste to get out of it. Now he (Lord J. Russell), when be was at the head of the Government, certainly could not agree in that view, and having consulted with his right hon. Friend the Member for Northumberland (Sir G. Grey), they determined that, if a new writ for Harwich was proposed to be issued, they should oppose that Motion. He (Lord J. Russell) had seen no reason for changing the opinion he had formed, or the course be had decided upon taking. Nevertheless, it would seem that the last two elections for Harwich made this a peculiar case; and he thought the opinion of the House appeared now to be in favour of issuing the writ. If, however, his hon. Friend (Mr. Bouverie) chose to divide the House, he (Lord J. Russell) must certainly divide with him; but he would rather suggest to his hon. Friend that it would be better
 599
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  objected to placing the matter in the hands of an Election Committee to report upon, but said he should have no objection to a Report from a Select Committee. He also thought it would be sufficient to insert the words "extensively prevailed," without using the word "generally."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) had taken unnecessary alarm respecting the measures that might be resorted to under this Bill. According to the Amendment, there must be in the first place the Report of a Select Committee that corrupt practices had extensively prevailed, and they would have great difficulty in obtaining evidence, even in the case of boroughs where corruption had notoriously been practised. But, suppose the evidence obtained to induce a Select Committee to believe corruption had extensively prevailed, the House would next be asked to agree to an Address to the Crown to appoint a Commission of Inquiry. Supposing the House agreed to that, and the Commission, consisting of certain barristers, well qualified to take evidence, was appointed, they would go to the borough, or in certain cases would sit in London, and take evidence on oath, and, if they were not provided with legal evidence that corruption had extensively prevailed in the borough, the whole case fell to the ground. For his own part, he had so much reliance on proceeding by Commission, he thought no mischief could haw been done under the Bill as it originally stood, for, while he believed there were many boroughs in which corruption, prevailed that had never been subject to inquiry, and still less to punishment, he was also of opinion that the common belief on this point went further than the fact, and it might be useful to show that general
 641 642
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thought it would be better to have the Amendment printed. In his opinion, it would be unwise to fetter the Commission in their inquiry.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  considered that the hon. and gallant Member had forgotten that as soon as bribery was discovered by an Election Committee, one or other party withdrew the petition. He did not think a majority of the House would depart from fairness and justice to issue a Commission against particular boroughs; and he hoped, looking to the important object of the Bill, it would be received by the Committee in its present shape.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he did not entertain the same apprehensions as some of his friends as to the tyrannic exercise of their power by majorities in that House, though he admitted that there had been occasions when an oppressive use of their power had been made by majorities. However, he did not think that, where the object was merely inquiry, majorities would be found in that House to act oppressively. Considering, then, the importance and value of the Bill for the purpose of preventing corruption, he thought hon. Gentlemen would do well not to peril the Bill, by refusing to accept it as presented by the Government. He would suggest that, in the clause referring to an Address to the Crown, an alteration should be made so as to prevent its appearing that the Address to the Crown should be forwarded on the Report of the Committee, as would be the case if the clause remained unaltered, instead of being founded upon the decision of the House itself. Under this Bill the expense would be immense, and the delay prodigious, and at the same time the effect would be futile. He would test
 644
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  considered it a most mischievous Amendment. As he understood it, if there had been one single election where bribery had not taken place, the Commissioners were restricted from going behind that election. Now, they were all aware that the parties sometimes agreed that neither should bribe, or there might be a compromise. This Amendment, then, would defeat the object of the inquiry; therefore, he would suggest that if the Commissioners found an intermediate election, at which bribery had not taken place, they should report such fact to the House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he coincided with the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) in thinking that the writ for the borough of Harwich ought at
 595 596
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that to meet the wishes of
 589
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I have no wish to interfere with any discussion which the House may legitimately think fit to entertain with respect to the conduct of Government on going into Committee of Supply on Monday next; but, as I have no desire that any misconception on this important subject should unnecessarily remain until Monday, perhaps the House will allow me now to make some observations on what has fallen from the noble Lord opposite. I entirely agree with the noble Lord that it is most inconvenient to have controversies in one House respecting the exact meaning of expressions reported to have been used in the other; but, having necessarily, from my position, an intimate and complete acquaintance with the views and feelings of the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown with respect to the subject to which the noble Lord has referred, I have no hesitation in saying—without waiting till Monday—that very great misconception has existed within the last two or three days with respect to the intentions of the First Minister of the Crown, and that the noble Earl at the head of the Government never intended in any way to convey to the Parliament or the country the impression that his opinion on the subject of the dissolution of Parliament was in the least degree changed. It is not in the slightest degree changed. It is the intention of the Government—as it was the intention of the Government—so soon as those measures are passed which we deem necessary for the service of Her Majesty, and for the security and good government of her realm, humbly to counsel Her Majesty to dissolve the existing Parliament; and we shall take this course, also, with the full intention of recommending Her Majesty to meet Her new Parliament in the course of the present year, under circumstances which will afford it an ample and complete opportunity of deciding on the character and policy of the existing Government. In saying that, I think I have said all that the Government can say. We have never for a moment hesitated or faltered in that intention. As for any Government pledging itself to recommend a dissolution at a particular and
 591 bonâ fide
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that on moving the adjournment of the House for the holydays, he would state the arrangement which he proposed the House should adopt with respect to public business. The Government was anxious to expedite the public business as much as possible.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he really despaired of inducing the Opposition to pass any measures during this Session. This was the fourth time that the Government had been defeated in their efforts to accelerate the progress of public business. They wished the Militia Bill to be read a second time after the Easter recess; and who, above all other persons in the world, should rise up to protest against it but the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden)? He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) then stated that he wished to make some arrangement for fixing a day on which to make the financial statement of the Government; upon which a distinguished Member of the Opposition, in the name of the Irish Members, implored him to give them at least a week to consider it. Almost the whole of the even-
 645
 MR. MOWATT  said, he wished to ask a question of the Government, which affected the character of that House for justice, good faith, and consistency. He wished to ask what distinction could be drawn between St. Albans and the borough of Harwich? The two cases were admitted to be parallel up to the year 1848; but the bribery practised at the last two elections could not be gone into because the elections were annulled upon preliminary objections.
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, he had been Chairman of the Harwich Election Committee, and must say that, after a long scrutiny, the Committee were of opinion that general corruption had not prevailed at that election. The House must well know that allegations in an election petition ought not to be considered as evidence, and he would further remark, that if the principle of condonation were ever to be admitted, Harwich had amply condoned whatever offences it had been guilty of.
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, he was anxious to make one or two observations on the Bill now before the Committee, in order to point out some defects in its provisions. The measure, to be serviceable, should increase the facility of conviction, so that the offence should be as certainly as possible, followed by punishment; whereas, by the provisions of this Bill, considerable difficulty might be found in that respect. If the proceeding was to originate on an Address moved in that House, the plan would be open to great abuse, inasmuch as a party would only have to single out a borough liable to exception, and propose an Address to Her Majesty relative to that borough. If a Commission should be sent, another obstacle would arise under the 9th Clause, which stated that all witnesses are to be exempted from punishment, provided they make a disclosure of every circumstance connected with the inquiry. It appeared to him that the indemnity should only apply to cases before the passing of the Act, because in the case of prospective Acts a premium would be held out for the commission of the offence. The 500 l. 637
 MR. BRIGHT  begged to remind his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck) of the Resolution of the Committee of 1847, referred to by the hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie), which declared that at that election Mr. Attwood had been, by his agents, guilty of bribery. It appeared that there was something like logical sequence in the argument of the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe), that the House, having refused an inquiry into the state of the borough, was bound to issue the writ. But there were two kinds of punishment which Parliament had power to inflict upon offending boroughs. The one was, an inquiry with a view to disfranchisement, which might be termed Capital punishment. The other was the minor punishment of the suspension of the writ. They were now approaching the termination of the present Parliament; and if any malpractices should take place at an election for Harwich, consequent upon a writ now issued, it would be impossible for this Parliament to punish it in any way. He therefore proposed that the House should not make itself responsible for issuing any writ now, but that it should allow Harwich to exercise its privilege at the general election of returning Members to that House.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the Militia Bill was too important a measure to be proceeded with on the first day after the holydays, when a numerous attendance of Members could scarcely be expected.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the sole result of this Bill would be to give power to the Crown to issue a Commission, without the form of an Act to inquire into oases of bribery, after two votes of the House had been in favour of inquiry. There were two kinds of Committees at present—the Election Committee and the Select Committee; and no one who had sat on either of those Committees to try a case of bribery would deny the extreme difficulty of getting the Committee to agree to any report which might lead to ulterior proceedings against the borough. An Election Committee was composed of two Members from either side of the House, and one Member alternating between them. That tribunal was, perhaps, as impartial as the House could make it; but still the Member whose case was to be tried always considered it a favourable circumstance, if the Chairman of the Committee was chosen from his side of the House. That was a proof that they were not free from party motives, however they might intend to be so. If the Select Committee was composed of five, seven, or nine Members, the same state of things would arise; and if fifteen or sixteen, it would still be a party fight, without that feeling of responsibility which attached to a smaller Committee. He approved of the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for the city of Oxford (Sir W. P. Wood), and he was very sorry the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had consented so speedily to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department.
 MR. BRIGHT  considered that there wag great inconvenience in discussing questions of this nature without the Amendment being printed. He would therefore move that progress be reported, and that the Committee ask leave to sit again.
 MR. COBBOLD  said, that he had been a voter at the last three elections for Harwich, and he would undertake to say that there was no ground whatever for the sweeping allegations that had been made respecting bribery at those elections.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that in 1842 he had moved for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into certain matters connected with Harwich, when it was proved that money had been spent in the borough in a wholesale manner. When the inquiries of that Committee were closed, he had come before the House, and had moved that no writ should issue for Harwich, but that Motion was negatived by the House. Ten years had now elapsed since that time; much bribery might have taken place during that period, but none had been proved, and the House was now asked to do that which, when he had asked it, at a time that the inquiry was fresh, and the
 597
 MR. STANFORD  said, the object of the Amendment was to fetter the Commission, so that they would not be able to elicit the truth.
 MR. HUME  thought there had been as much bribery at the last two elections for Harwich as at any former election; and charges of bribery had been brought against the sitting Members, which charges, however, were not gone into, because the return was declared null upon some other preliminary allegation—such, for instance, as when Mr. Prinsep's seat was declared void on the ground that he did not possess the requisite property qualification. He should support the Amendment, because he thought the suspension of the writ a mode of punishing the borough for its corruption.
 MR. HUME  said, that there was one thing required in order to give satisfaction to all parties, and that was a statement of what those measures were which the Government thought necessary. He must state to the right hon. Gentleman that an idea prevailed that there existed an unwillingness to give that information to which he thought the House, under the circumstances, was entitled. Though, when first assuming power, the Government might not have been able to state what those necessary measures were, surely after this lapse of time the noble Lord at the head of the Government, and the rest of the Cabinet, must have made up their minds on the subject.
 MR. COBDEN : It will be in the recollection of the House, Sir, that in the course of the remarks made by me in the debate which arose on the hon. Member for Bristol's Motion respecting the Ballot, in the course of some remarks I offered upon the subject, I made two quotations of words purporting to have been used by the noble Earl at the head of the Government; the first in 1835, and the other in 1841. I have received a letter from the noble Earl respecting the quotation of 1835, which, with the permission of the House, I will read:—
 "St. James's Square, March 31. "Sir—I read this morning with no little surprise a report of your speech of last night, in which you appear to have stated that on the 2nd of June, 1835, I had declared that 'if they had the ballot, I, as an English landlord, would not only see that my tenant voted, but would see him put the ticket in the ballot-box,' and you proceed to argue on the necessity of taking measures to screen the voter, 'even from the prying eyes of Lord Derby.' The above is the report of the  Times. Morning Chronicle 584 Morning Post, Morning Herald, Daily News, Mirror of Parliament, * "I am sure, Sir, that you will see that the above quotation, taken from the most authentic report of the day, is so far from bearing out the imputation which you have thought yourself justified in casting upon me, that I characterise the course which you would have it supposed I was myself prepared to adopt, as that of' a landlord determined to exercise his powers oppressively,' a character which I hope and believe has never attached to me. "Having made this statement, I leave it to you to act as you may think that justice and honour demand.—I am, Sir, your obedient servant, "DERBY. "Richard Cobden, Esq., M. P." "House of Commons, 5 o'Clock, April 1. "My Lord—Your Lordship's letter has just reached me here. I should deeply regret to have misrepresented your expressions, and can plead, in justification, that I quoted them from  Hansard, 585 Mirror of Parliament, "R. COBDEN. "Right Hon. Earl of Derby, &c." "St. James's Square, Thursday Night. "Sir—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter, dated 5 p. m. this evening, from the House of Commons, in answer to mine of yesterday morning, which appears only then to have reached you. In reply, I beg to say that if you will do me the favour of referring to my letter of yesterday, you will see that I then expressed my conviction that the report from which you quoted my speech of June, 1835, was erroneous, the grounds of that conviction, and the confirmation which it subsequently received from an examination of the only contemporaneous report in my possession of what I really said. The  Mirror of Parliament Hansard's Reports: * Hansard "I think it right to add that Mr. Walpole is in possession of the correspondence which has passed between us, including this letter.—I am, Sir, your obedient servant, "DERBY. "R. Cobden, Esq., M.P." Hansard. Hansard Mirror of Parliament 586 Cries of Hansard "He would now come back to what his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) said about trusting in the forbearance of landlords, and upon that point he agreed with his noble Friend. If they had the ballot, he would say, as a landlord, that he would not only see whether the elector dependent on him voted, but he would see him put the ticket into the balloting urn. He did not mean to say that that was a desirable course of proceeding, or a course that ought to be adopted by landlords unless forced to it by expediency; but he, as a landlord, would be driven to that expediency if the ballot were employed, in order to satisfy himself." Mirror of Parliament: "I hare no doubt that if the ballot were adopted in England, a landlord determined to exercise his powers oppressively might declare that he would not be satisfied unless he saw with his own eyes voters put their tickets into the ballot box. [An Hon. Member: No, no!] Let not the hon. Member who calls 'No' misunderstand me. I do not say that would be a desirable course to pursue; but if you drive men to expedients in order to ascertain how persons vote, I will show you by what means they have it in their power to vote so as to defeat your object, if they think fit to use those means." Hansard Cries of Mirror of Parliament. Mirror of Parliament Hansard, Mirror of Parliament. 587
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD  said, that if the Committee adopted the plan proposed in the Bill as it stood, he had no doubt that its proceedings would be marked by the calmness and deliberation which were so highly to be desired.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, as the Clause was then drawn, the Commissioners would have power to inquire into corrupt practices at previous elections, dating, it might be, ten or twenty years hack, and by coupling those practices with the practices at the last election lay a foundation for the disfranchisement of a borough—though there might have been an intervening election at which no corruption had taken place. His Amendment would have the effect of allowing the Commissioners, if they found corruption at the last election to go back to the previous one, and so on until they came to an eleection at which those practices had not been proved to exist, when the inquiry should stop. With
 646
 MR. WALPOLE  intimated that he acquiesced in the suggestion of the noble Lord.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, as the Bill was drawn, a simple majority might address the Crown, without any allegation or proof whatever. The object of his proposition was to protect the minority in case a majority should be inclined to proceed in an unconstitutional way.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that when they went into Committee on a former night,  pro formâ, 639
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that he had consolidated the former Acts relating to the militia by way of reference, and in order that all the provisions of previous Acts might be contained in a small compass. He wished upon this occasion to state his intention of introducing an important alteration into the Bill. He, therefore, gave notice, that should the House agree to the second reading of the Militia Bill, he would move the insertion of a clause in Committee providing that any person who served two years in the militia should be registered as a voter for the county in which he resided.
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I may be permitted to say that the frank and handsome explanation which the hon. Gentleman has just offered, is, I can assure him, as satisfactory to the Government as I have no doubt it is to the entire House. I am sure, Sir, that the House and country will feel that the imputation which has rested for a few days upon my noble Friend, is as inconsistent with the real facts of the case—now that these facts are correctly ascertained—as it must always have been supposed to be from his untarnished reputation and unblemished honour.
 MR. WALPOLE  thought the clause, as it now stood, gave a power to the majority, which might be abused to a very great extent, and he proposed, that before any inquiry should be instituted, there should be either the Report of a Committee appointed to inquire into the Election return, or a Committee generally appointed by that House to inquire into corrupt practices in the borough in which such practices were alleged to have been committed. If the Committee should entertain that opinion, a fair foundation would be laid for the issuing of a proper Commission. He would therefore move the following Amendment:—
 "To leave out from the beginning of the Clause to 'it shall be lawful,' in line 6, for the purpose of inserting the words 'when by an Address of the House of Commons it shall be represented to Her Majesty, that a Committee appointed to try an Election Petition, or a Committee appointed to inquire into the exercise of corrupt practices in any Election or Elections of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament, have reported to the House that corrupt practices have, or that there is reason to believe that corrupt practices have, or that there is reason to believe that corrupt practices have, extensively prevailed in any City, Borough, or place in the United Kingdom electing or sharing in the Election of a Member or Members to serve in Parliament at any Election or Election of such Members or Member; and the said House shall thereupon pray Her Majesty to cause inquiry to be made under this Act,' instead thereof."
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  believed the proposed Amendment would defeat the object of the Bill, for if it should be adopted the Bill would not meet such a case as that of St. Albans. In that case the Committee reported that there was no proof of bribery or treating, but that they had been prevented from inquiring by the corrupt withdrawal of witnesses. If this Bill had been the law at that time, the Queen would have bad no power to issue a Commission. This showed how dangerous it would be to narrow the clause, and he trusted the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) would not consent to the change. He thought such an important Amendment ought not to have been proposed without due notice; and he should, therefore, move that the further consideration of the clause be postponed.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, the House had virtually decided that no further inquiry into this matter was necessary, and under those circumstances he could not see how it could be made consistent either with former precedents or with reason or justice that they should refuse any longer that which was the natural right of a constituency. He should consequently vote for issuing the writ.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  would remind the Committee, that the evil this Bill was intended to obviate was the expenses of inquiry previous to appointing an Election Committee, and this clause would not at all tend to diminish those preliminary expenses. He intended to move, that the further consideration of the clause be postponed until there was a fuller attendance on that side of the House.
 MR. T. BARING  had one suggestion to make. Let the evidence before the Select Committee be taken on oath.
 Mr. T. BARING  feared that this clause would allow an interference with the constituencies of the country by a majority of that House, because it was impossible not to see that it was in the power of the House at any time, upon any representation, without any evidence, to institute an inquiry into any borough for party or particular purposes. The Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary said, there should first be the decision of either an Election Committee or a Committee specially appointed. An Election Committee would, of course, be according to the forms and acts of the House, but a Committee specially appointed might be carried and appointed and selected by any majority actuated by any hostile, personal, or political feelings. That was a very formidable power to place in the hands of a majority, and if they once established that a majority of the House might decide either on the tenure of a seat of a Member, or of the power of a borough, they would expose the rights of constituencies to a most tyrannical interference. The clause went to place in the majority of the House the power of deciding on the return of any Member. ["Hear, hear!"] What a premium to boroughs to send Members connected with the majority! for it was telling them, "You will have no Commission of Inquiry if you return a Member connected with the majority; but if you return one connected with the minority, you will be exposed to most vexatious proceedings, and have your rights taken from you." He would refer to the opinion of one who would be acknowledged by hon. Gentlemen
 640 "That Bill originated in a belief that this House, in the aggregate, was an unfit tribunal to decide on contested elections. It viewed this House as every popular assembly should be viewed, as a mass of men capable of political dislike and personal aversion, capable of too much attachment and of too much animosity, capable of being biassed by weak and wicked motives, liable to be governed by Ministerial influence, by caprice, and corruption. Mr. Grenville's Bill viewed this House as endowed with those capacities, and judged it therefore incapable of determining upon controverted elections with impartiality, with justice, and with equity. It deprived it of the means of mischief, and formed a judicature as complete and impartial as human skill could conceive."
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, when he gave notice of his Motion for issuing the writ for Harwich on the previous evening, it appeared to him that it was one which was generally acceptable to hon. Members on his own side of the House; but he had since been given to understand that oppo-
 592 593
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he thought that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer should make some announcement of the manner in which he proposed to proceed with the business before the House after the Easter vacation, and he wished the Militia Bill to be postponed beyond the first day of meeting after the holydays.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  gave notice that upon the Motion for the second reading of the Militia Bill, he would move that it was not expedient to proceed with the Militia Bill in this Parliament.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the object of the right ban. Gentleman the Home Secretary appeared to be to check the improper conduct of a majority. But surely, as the House pretended in theory to represent the people, it ought to be guided by the ma-
 638
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that the observations of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. T. Baring) were founded on a mistrust of that House in a judicial matter. His (Mr. Wakley's) object was to retain the Bill in its present shape, and he, therefore, would entreat the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary to allow this discussion to be postponed, in order that his alterations might be printed.
 MR. DEEDES  said, that, having acted as a Chairman of the Committee which sat upon the last election for Harwich, he could state that it was distinctly and openly declared by the counsel for the petitioner that he had never any intention whatever to charge the sitting Member, or any of his immediate friends concerned in the election, with any acts of bribery or corruption.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, he thought it would be an improvement to give the Committees the power of examining on oath, and he would suggest that the Commissioners should have the power of indemnifying the witnesses, as at St. Albans. That power was the reason of the success of the Commissioners, and the want of it accounted for the failure of the Select Committee.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, the hon. Gentleman had complained of a sort of morbid sensibility which had been shown by that House with regard to corruption; but, considering that a Bill had been brought forward by the Government of which he was a supporter for the express purpose of enacting provisions to put down corruption, such a complaint on his part was rather strange. He (Sir De L. Evans) had stated in his remarks, on a former evening, that there were particular circumstances connected with this borough that made it conspicuous above all other corrupt boroughs in this country, and that there was stronger proof against it than there was against St. Albans and Sudbury, for that two Committees had found it guilty of corruption. He had offered the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, that if he would point out any other borough equally corrupt, he (Sir De L. Evans) would withdraw his Motion; but not one syllable had the right hon. Gentleman said in answer. Under these circumstances he must oppose the issuing of this writ.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had stated that Parliament had two punishments to inflict upon offending boroughs. Who denied it? The question really was, not whether Parliament might inflict either punishment, but whether that House would think fit to inflict either in the present case. There was no doctrine more clear than this, that whenever a vacancy occurred, it was the duty of the remaining Members of that House to supply it. Exceptions might occur, and if a Committee made a Special Report, upon that Special Report the House might act. But was there a Special Report in this case? There had been two elections at Harwich since 1848, and had it been alleged in cither case that there had been such bribery as to justify that House, without the encouragement of a Special Report of any Committee, in recommending a measure so
 598 ex debito justitiœ,
 COLONEL ROMILLY  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department. The right hon. Gentleman had given notice on Friday night, that if the House should agree to the second reading of the Militia Bill, he would move in Committee the insertion of a clause providing that any person who should have served in the militia for two years should be entitled to be registered, and to vote for the county in which he resided. The question he had to ask of the right hon. Gentleman was, whether he contemplated the extension of a similar privilege to any other branch of Her Majesty's military service?
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, in most debates there was some point which seemed miraculously to escape notice. In the present case, the missing point was, "How did the war begin?" Could nobody tell? Was knowledge on this subject tabooed, or was there any rule of that House, when 400,000 l. 763 A laugh
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, he greatly regretted that the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Adderley) had not brought forward the Motion upon this subject to which the hon. Member (Mr. F. Peel) referred. After what had been said by the hon. Member, he felt it his duty to do a simple act of justice toward Sir Harry Smith. If the noble Lord (Earl Grey) had pleased to censure him for having pursued a line of policy contrary to the instructions which he had received, it was for the noble Earl to do so, and to recall him from the Government, if he pleased. But when the noble Earl presumed to censure the military operations of Sir Harry Smith—[ Cries of 766
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had to propose an Amendment limiting the retrospective operation of the Clause. His object was, not to leave the Commissioners an unlimited discretion to go back to as many antecedent elections as they might think proper, but to restrict their powers of inquiry to the last ten years, or to the last three elections.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not think it would be wise to limit the
 769
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  opposed the Amendment, and said he must blame the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) for making so many concessions to hon. Gentlemen opposite. If there was to be any utility in the Bill, the Clause must be allowed to stand in its original shape; and if the proposed alterations were permitted, the country would consider the Bill a delusion and a sham, and would not believe there was any disposition to put a stop to corrupt practices at elections.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought, if the words stood as they were, they would give too large a discretion to the Commissioners, and that it was desirable to put some limit to the inquiry. It might be difficult to define what that limit should be, but he was rather disposed to take a certain term of years, and to prevent the Commissioners from going beyond it. He should suggest that the term of ten years, or three elections—either one or the other—should be taken, which would give sufficient space for full inquiry into the state of the borough, more particularly when it was recollected that this Commission was to be preceded by an inquiry before a Committee.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, the St. Albans Bribery Bill had the words now proposed to be expunged in it when it left that House, and when it came down there again they had disappeared from the Clause, but the House had them reinserted. That was pretty conclusive as to what had been the feeling of that House against the right hon. Gentleman's Amendment.
 MR. REPTON  said, he should support the Amendment, as being calculated to render the Bill a good working measure. The St. Albans Commissioners had had very large and unlimited powers confided to them, and they had gone into evidence regarding a great number of anterior elections. He admitted that they had performed their duty with great fairness and ability; but he thought this Bill would be more efficient if some limit were laid down with respect to the powers of the Commissioners to be appointed under it.
 MR. HUDSON  thought that until the
 770
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  hoped the Committee would not consent to this Amendment, nor agree to anything that would abridge the powers of the Commissioners. If the Commissioners were to be invested with such large powers, they must, of course, select men for the office on whose discretion they could rely; and if they could rely upon them, it would be unwise to fetter them in their investigation. They were now on the eve of a general election, and each party was going to the country with confidence in the result of the appeal. If he might judge from the last election which had taken place—he alluded, of course, to the borough of Monmouth—scenes of corruption, debauchery, and violence would take place which would be a disgrace to us as a civilised community. He trusted, therefore, that this Bill would be made effective, so that boroughs which were guilty of corrupt practices might be punished, and on this ground he called on the Committee to resist the Amendment.
 MR. MULLINGS  proposed to add in line 42, after the word "election," the following words:—
 "And whether or not all or any of such corrupt practices were committed or done by the fraud or contrivance, or at the instance, of any and what person or persons in particular, and for what object, or under what circumstances."
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  thought that the proposed Amendment was superfluous, as the object of the Bill was to punish corruption in the electors, and not in any other person; and at all events there was this conclusive objection against it, that the Commissioners would have nothing to do with disfranchising a
 771
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he concurred with his hon. and learned Friend in thinking that if they appointed Commissioners, they must trust that they would report fairly what had taken place; and if fraud had taken place, and evidence of it was given before them and reported to the House, they would not then disfranchise the borough.
 MR. JOHN STUART  said, that he could not help expressing his astonishment at the doctrine which had been propounded by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Southampton (Sir A. Cockburn). It seemed that this Bill was only intended to punish the recipients of bribes, while those more guilty persons who paid the money and tempted the poor voters were to go unpunished. He protested against this wretched hypocrisy, especially coming from the quarter whence it did. Did any one doubt that the dockyard boroughs were the most corrupt and the worst seats of bribery? And, therefore, when a Member for Southampton, of all persons in the world, was considering how he could punish those who accepted bribes, but not at all those who offered them, he (Mr. J. Stuart) said, that he was advocating a measure contrary to every principle of justice and fair dealing, and one in which he (Mr. J. Stuart) would take no part. The whole principle of the Bill seemed to him eminently calculated to defeat its professed object, and half the speeches that had been delivered upon it were founded on the most hypocritical pretences.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, that he would not bandy words of this description with his hon. and learned Friend who had just resumed his seat; but he begged leave to tell him that when he charged him (Sir A. Cockburn) with hypocrisy he made a most unjust and unfounded charge. There was not, he solemnly protested, either in or out of that House, an individual who would do more than he would to put down this practice of bribery, not only in the bribed, but also in the bribers; but how could two objects be accomplished in one and the same Act? This was a Bill to prevent the corruption of a constituency, and if it had taken place, to detect and expose it. He did not contend that if they had a Report from Commissioners pointing out that corrupt practices had existed in a certain borough, and who had been guilty of them, that they should
 772
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Newark (Mr. J. Stuart) appeared to have so had an opinion of the Government as to think that they would use dockyard influence at the next election for corrupt purposes. The hon. and learned Member for Southampton did not, however, represent such a borough; and he (Mr. C. Anstey) had a better opinion of the Government than to suppose they would be guilty pf that wholesale bribery which the hon. and learned Member for Newark foresaw would take place at the coming election.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that this Proviso hardly came within the scope of the Bill, the object of which was to provide for an effectual inquiry into corrupt practices, but not to make any new law, or to define by law what was a corrupt practice. The two objects should, he thought, be kept perfectly distinct. The hon. Member (Mr. Adderley) could himself bring in a Bill on the subject, or he believed that an hon. Friend of his own intended to do so. There was much to be said in favour of such a Proviso; but at the same time great care must he taken in doing it. He thought, however, that it should be the subject of a distinct Bill.
 MR. ADDERLEY  begged to draw the attention of the noble Lord to the 56th Clause, in which treating was referred to. He thought, therefore, that it would not be inconsistent with the object of the Bill to add a Proviso, explaining what should be taken to be treating.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, that this Clause did not attempt to define either treating or bribery, but merely pointed out how, taking the offences to be as they were at present defined by law, the fact of their having been committed might be ascertained.
 MR. ADDERLEY  begged to ask whether the proposed Bill, to which the noble Lord the Member for London had referred, would be brought in before the coming elections?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that it was his hon. Friend the Member for Essex to whom he had referred; but the hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley) could, if he wished, bring in a Bill on the subject.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL , as one of the Chairmen of the Election Committees to whom the hon. Gentleman had referred as
 774
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman in thinking that the subject was one of importance; but this was not the opportunity for introducing it. Besides the objections pointed out by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Southampton (Sir A. Cockburn), and the noble Lord, he thought that, as this Bill was confined entirely to boroughs, the Proviso proposed by the hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley) would not apply to counties where the grievance of which he complained existed.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, in deference to the general feeling of the Committee he would withdraw the Amendment; but he would do his best to introduce a Bill on the subject.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said: In the speech that has just been delivered there was one expression which I feel myself called upon to notice. It was a repetition of a similar expression which was used by the noble Lord the Member for Colchester
 708 709 s. 710
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : What I said was, that the Corn Laws might be characterised as a system of outdoor relief to the country gentlemen; but I said also, I was persuaded that if Gentlemen opposite held the same opinion, they would not have supported those laws.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that however strong might be the objection which the hon. Gentleman entertained to large and comprehensive schemes of legislation, it was at least certain that he had but little aversion to large and comprehensive criticisms on whatever was said in that House and in another place. He (Lord J. Manners) felt himself under no obligation to follow the hon. Gentleman into all the minute details of his long and elaborate speech. His reason for refraining from doing so was, that Her Majesty's Ministers had nothing new to say on the topics to which the hon. and gallant Gentleman had referred. The intentions of the Government had been repeatedly and distinctly declared by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he defied the hon. Member to point out the slightest discrepancy between the statements made in that House and those that had been made elsewhere. The Government were prepared to take their stand, not upon any particular expression, nor on any one specific statement, but upon all and every one of the declarations which had been made on their behalf in that House and in the House of Lords; and when the hon. Gentleman undertook to assert that the country would have no confidence in men who used such language as that which had fallen from his (Lord J. Manners') right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the noble Lord the First Minister of the Crown, all he would tell him in return was, that they (the Government) would not shrink from that issue, but courted it, and were prepared to abide by it to the last. It was not very easy to understand at what the hon. Gentleman was
 693 694
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I feel that I cannot avoid saying a few words after the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for West Surrey (Mr. H. Drummond). I will therefore take upon myself to say a few words with reference to that matter. My opinion is, that Earl Grey was very reluctant to recall Sir Harry Smith, although he had been for some time convinced, and I had been at one time of
 767 768
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he had listened very attentively to the right hon. Gentleman's address, in the hope of hearing a solution of the difficult question of the government of the colony of South Africa; but the right hon. Gentleman had left that question, at the conclusion of his eloquent speech, in the same position in which he found it. The question to be discussed in the middle of the nineteenth century was not the same as that which arose in North America in the seventeenth century. The first expeditions to North-America consisted sometimes of merchant vessels, adventurers under commissions from the Crown, and sometimes of buccaneers. These parties founded there a settlement upon some part of the coast, and if in two or three years that settlement was swept away,, and its inhabitants murdered by savages, no account of it reached this country for perhaps, two or three years, and then the rumour of the loss was perhaps confined to Plymouth or its neighbourhood, and spread little, if any further, into this country. Other adventurers followed; they grew in numbers, and, adopting a wise policy, they resisted the incursions and attacks of the Indians, and in process of time they not only succeeded in keeping their ground, but gradually drove them away and exterminated them; and the intelligence of the destruction of the natives Was regarded with as little interest as that of the slaughter of settlers had previously been. It was this indifference to the origin of our American colonies which gave rise to the remark that those colonies were the growth, not of our care, but our neglect. There was no resemblance between such a case and that presented by the Colony of South Africa, or even with the present state of the frontiers of that great country which is now called the Republic of the United States. When the right hon. Gentleman referred to the example of America with respect to frontier policy, he could not have been aware that the Secretary of War for the United States reported this year to Congress that the expense incurred by the Central Government in repelling the incursions of savage tribes in Mexico, was 700,000 l. 751 752 753 754
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to point out in a few words, as a Member of that House unconnected with the Government, the glaring and palpable fallacy contained in the attack of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down. He had in the same breath accused the Government of putting forth vague and unintelligible pretences, and of putting forth false pretences. The two charges were manifestly self-contradictory; and the hon. and learned Gentleman must stand upon either the one or the other charge, but he could not stand upon both. If the propositions of the Government were unintelligible to the learned Gentleman, their falsehood must be a gratuitous and uncharitable assumption on his part. If he knew them to be false, they were patent to his understanding. The one half of the hon. and learned Gentleman's attack was an answer to the other. But take the first charge—that the policy of the Government was vague and unintelligible. Well, if that was the hon. and learned Member's attack, and the attack of the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne)—if that was what they honestly meant, let them come to the test as soon as possible. It appeared to him (Mr. Adderley) that the Earl of Derby's declarations had been as plain and distinct as words could make them, namely, that if Parliament only allowed him to pass the measures which were urgent and necessary, he would then take the sense of the country. Now, if hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition benches were honest in their complaint against this course of policy, let them wait till the first measure was brought forward which they did not think necessary, and then let them oppose that measure. That would be a fair and straightforward proceeding, and it was within their power at any time, as they professed to command the majority. But no; instead of that, they came forward to obstruct the necessary measures, and to waste time by useless and pointless speeches, which prevented the Government from coming to the very test which the Opposition ap-
 700 701
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the right hon. Secretary of State for the Colonies had observed that we ought to deal with the subject at present under the consideration of the Committee with caution and deliberation. He (Mr. Adderley) should agree with him if delay were possible in such a matter, but he begged to point out to him that the course of our future policy with respect to the Cape must be to a great extent determined by the despatches that would be sent out by the next mail. The right hon. Gentleman might rely upon it that another chapter of accidents would fall upon this country through the omission to send out distinct and positive orders by the next mail; and those orders should be to close the war, and leave the colonists to take up their own future line of self-defence. No Kafir war had ever been really concluded, but peace was patched up  flagrante bello. 761 bonâ fide 762
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he regretted that the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. F. Peel) had not taken that opportunity of justifying the vast accession of territory which Earl Grey approved, because the present was not a party Motion. He (Mr. Hindley) thought that the policy of Lord Glenelg was the right policy, and that it would have been much better if we had confined ourselves within the boundary of the Great Fish River. If that had been done, we should not now have the Government asking for votes like the present. He was sure that the sooner we returned to the policy of Lord Glenelg, the better would it be both for this country and for the colony of the Cape.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  was glad the right hon. Gentleman had acquitted the country gentlemen of England of being actuated by such base motives in their opposition to the policy of 1846—a policy against which, he (Mr. S. Herbert) had, previous to 1846, co-operated with the Protection Societies in his own county. He (Mr. Newdegate) as vice-chairman of the acting Committee of the National Association for Protection, had, owing to the illness of his hon. Friend near him (Mr. G. F. Young), had the honour of occupying the chair of that Committee, and he could assure the
 716 717 s. s. 718
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert) had stated his firm adherence to the principles he had adopted in 1846, and had dwelt on the sacrifice he then made in not only changing his opinions, but in forcing those opinions on the country. Now, every one must feel that when a man had made great sacrifices, it was natural he should entertain an attachment to the object for which he had made them; but such attachments often became exaggerated by the sense of the sacrifices made by those who entertained them; and the right hon. Gentleman now intimated that if a bridge could be constructed to reunite him to those from whom he had been separated by his change of opinions in 1846, he would gladly add an arch to such a bridge. He begged, however, to tell the right hon. Gentleman, that his subsequent observations did not tend to any such object, when he said that those who had supported the Corn Laws had supported them as a system of outdoor relief to the country gentlemen of England—an expression which he trusted he would see the propriety of retracting.
 MR. C. VILLIERS  said, he did not rise to occupy the time of the House, nor to attack the hon. Gentleman opposite, but rather to set himself right, in consequence of something that had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Colchester (Lord J. Manners), as well as the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck). There had been some allusions made to a Motion that was to have brought the protective policy to a test in that House, and some taunts had been thrown out from the other side of the House, inquiring why the question had not been brought to an issue. He gave a notice to that effect in that House, as soon as it was possible for him to do so, on the occasion of the present Ministers taking office. He did so from the conviction he had that those hon. Gentlemen, having for five years been labouring assiduously for one purpose, and one purpose only, that upon taking office they would attempt to reverse the policy of free trade. He gave that notice to exhibit to the country that the majority of that House was unchanged on that question, and that they had been only fortified in their opinion by the experience they had acquired of the results of that policy. But at the time he was giving that notice there was an important speech being made elsewhere by the First Minister of the Crown; for that speech contained an unqualified admission by him, that, upon the subject of a Free-trade or the Protectionist policy, the Government was in an unquestionable minority in the House of Commons. The noble Earl said something further: he said he would in consequence take the opinion of the country without any delay on that question. These admissions made him (Mr. C. Villiers) assent to the policy of postponing that Motion, and he lis-
 702 703 704 705 706
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the present Estimate for the expenditure of the Kafir war was up to the present time—that was to say, up to the 25th of March. With regard to the future prospects of the war, it was impossible for him to form an estimate, but he trusted that the next mail would bring them cheering prospects.
 MR. MOORE  said, that it appeared to him that the question which had so uselessly vexed the country during the last month might be summed up in one remarkably short sentence: The Protectionists are ready, it is said, to abandon protection, and the Free-traders will not let them.
 711 Laughter. 712
 Mr. ROEBUCK  said, that, although there was a great deal of good sense and plain straightforward honesty in the words used by the noble Lord who had just spoken, there could be no doubt in the minds of men accustomed to constitutional forms, that the proceedings of right hon. Gentlemen opposite, so far as they could be judged of, were not in consonance with constitutional government. He had no feeling of hostility towards right hon. Gentlemen opposite, and up to that time he had said nothing in opposition to them. But now he felt called upon to express his opinion as regarded their position before the world, and be would at the same time express his opinion with respect to those who opposed them. He would ask why it was that this question was not brought to an issue, and why were right hon. Gentlemen opposite permitted to continue a policy and conduct wholly unworthy of the Government of this country? Why did they not by a direct vote in that House now bring the matter to an issue? It appeared to him that the Government opposite had come into office under the appearance of maintaining one set of opinions, and that being in office they were endeavouring to shirk and shrink from those opinions. He would ask the House to take a very short review of the facts preceding the advent of the Government to office. He would take them as typified by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He was the man who had made them—he had breathed into their body something like life. They had traded on his ability, and he was in office upon their support. Now the right hon. Gentleman acquired the whole of his renown, acquired the whole of his force with his party, by reiterated attacks made upon the late Sir Robert Peel. And on what ground? Why, the late Sir Robert Peel had long supported the views of the country party, but a time came of great difficulty and danger to the neighbouring nation of Ireland. Famine stared them in the face, and he, foreseeing the difficulty—putting by all considerations of personal interest and personal renown, and casting himself upon the candour and honesty of the people of
 695 696 697 698 699
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, apparently did not understand the question at all. There was far more behind than he had touched upon. There was far more behind than the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) and the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had touched upon; and that was the feeling of the people of the country. It was clear that if British colonists were allowed to take possession of a country, and import there into all the power. I which their arts of civilisation gave them, I they could resist the barbarous tribes around them. But for that purpose they must be left to act for themselves, and completely for themselves. But the Colony of South Africa had not been allowed to do so; and the difficulty of the whole question was this. There was a place in this City called Exeter Hall, and the people assembling there said, "You have no right to; go to South Africa." But the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University Of Oxford, and the Colonial Secretary, did not say so. They were all prepared to go there. These people in Exeter Hall said, "Your going there is a breach of the rules of morality, and you are taking English civilisation and power there for a purpose contrary to morality." The people complained that the power of England had been employed for the purpose of maintaining conquests in that country. He would ask the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies this question—was he prepared, first of all, to maintain the colonists in that country? If so, he would ask the right hon. Gentleman how were they to be maintained? They must be maintained against
 759 760
 MR. HENLEY  said, the hon. Gentleman who had spoken last, and the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck), had asked what the Government was going to do. He might answer them in Quaker fashion—what did hon. Gentleman want? Because some of those hon. Gentlemen wanted to press a dissolution, and the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had asked, what need was there to go to the country; that the whole business of the country would be interrupted by a dissolution. That was rather odd language, in the fifth year of the present Parliament, in the mouth of the hon. Gentleman, who, if he mistook not, had the other night walked into the lobby in favour of triennial Parliaments. One portion of the Opposition found fault with them for dissolving, while, on the other hand, the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield quarrelled with them because they did not at once go to the country, and subject it to all the inconvenience and excitement of a general election. But the real fact was, that hon. Gentlemen opposite found that the country was very well satisfied with what the Government intended, and the country was under no mistake as to what they meant. They had been told that in another place, in language which they could not misunderstand, and which, he begged to say, they did not misunderstand—they had been told that that great question which hon. Members, for their own particular purposes, wanted to make the only question, but which the Government would take care would not be the only question—tbey were told that that great question would not be raised or mooted until another Parliament had met. But that did not suit hon. Gentlemen opposite—that was not convenient to the party who had sacrificed the last Government; for it was evident that but for their laches, idleness, or indifference, that mishap would not have been brought about. If they thought that the colonial interests of the country had been so particularly well managed, or that the foreign affairs and policy of the country had been so judiciously conducted, why had they suffered
 707
 MR. HUME  wished to know to what period this Vote extended; whether fox the whole of the year, or for a portion of the year; and he also wished for accounts to be produced from the colony, to enable the Committee to judge respecting the probability of a continuance of this expenditure.
 MR. HUME  said, this question of the Cape was not one that could be settled in Downing-street. The only mode by which it could be settled was on the spot, by those who would, if they were allowed, manage their own affairs. If the hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Peel) could defend Earl Grey in this matter, he believed he was the only man in England who could. In the House, and out of the House, he had heard but one universal expression of condemnation of Earl Grey's despatch to Sir Harry Smith. He trusted that Government would speedily give to the colonists at the Cape a free Government, and entrust them with the responsibility of managing their own affairs.
 MR. HUME  said, the House would recollect that he had announced his intention of bringing the condition of the Ionian
 719 720 721 722 723
 MR. P. HOWARD  said, the only measure proposed by the Government, which they could call their own was, that by which it was intended to give the franchise to any person who had served two years in the militia. It had always been usual, on a change of Government, that a sketch should be given by the Ministry coming into office of the policy it intended to pursue. When Sir Robert Peel acceded to office he wrote a letter to his constituents at Tamworth, in which he entered minutely into the policy he intended to pursue; and when Earl Grey came into power, he was equally distinct in the exposition of his policy. The present Government, how-
 715
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that before Mr. Speaker left the Chair he wished to draw the attention of the Government to the present anomalous state of affairs in that House. He could assure them, with the most unaffected sincerity, that in alluding to this most important subject, he was actuated by no idle motive, nor by any feeling of hostility towards Her Majesty's Government. But, really, the state of affairs in that House was so anomalous—so unheard of—that there was no Member who felt himself under responsibility to his constituents who would not be justified in directing the attention of the House to the subject, not only for the sake of those whom he represented, but out of regard for the interests of the community at large. He did not mean to enter into any minute or elaborate criticism of the surprising Ministerial statements which bad been made in another place on the 15th, the 19th, and the 31st of March; nor had he any intention to undertake the very easy and obvious task of pointing out the various discrepancies in those declarations. But, setting aside the statements in question, as though they had never been made, he put it to the House to say whether—this being the last supply day before the commencement of the Easter recess—it was not incumbent on Her Majesty's Government to offer some more distinct and more detailed exposition of their future plans and policy than had heretofore been presented to the House or to the country? Whatever diversity of opinion might exist as to the explanations which had been already made in that House, and in another place, he was sure that men of all parties must be now of one accord in thinking that it was in the highest degree inconvenient, in the present state of political affairs in this country, that the First Minister of the Crown should be a Member of another place. They had had explana-
 685 "Her Majesty's Government rejoice to find in your communication a full confirmation of the confident hope entertained by Lord Derby that the surest mode of arriving at a good understanding with the nations of the civilised world, was a frank and honest exposition of principles, to be frankly and honestly acted upon; and it is with the most unfeigned pleasure, though with no surprise, that Her Majesty's Government received the assurance that the Court of Vienna subscribes without reserve to the principles and intentions developed by the First Minister of the Crown." 686 687 "I as I may (that which I would I cannot) With best advantage will deceive the time, And aid the in this doubtful shock of arms, But on thy side I may not be too forward." l. sub silentio. Cries of 688 689 Hansard, 690 "When his legs were shotten off He fought upon his stumps." 691 "Who would not praise Patricio's high desert, His hand unstain'd, his uncorrupted heart! His comprehensive head, all interests weighed, All Europe saved, yet Britain not betrayed? He heeds them not, his pride is in piquet, Newmarket fame, and judgment at a bet!" 692
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, with reference to the notice I gave the other night I have to observe that I intended to take the earliest opportunity to-day, even although the hon. and gallant Colonel had not put his question, of stating that I thought that notice had been given too hastily. The proposition originated with myself, and I thought it would have been a good proposition for three purposes, namely, first, that it might induce respectable persons to volunteer for the militia; secondly, that it might ensure a continuous residence on the part of the volunteers, so that they might be ascertained from year to year; and, thirdly, that it might hold out a reward for public services rendered by them in volunteering to enter the militia. But since I gave that notice, I have had an opportunity of consulting more fully with all my Colleagues; and they think there are so many difficulties, and so many objections to the plan which I proposed, that, as I said before, I had intended to take the earliest opportunity of stating to the House, as I now state, that I do not intend to press that notice if the Militia Bill should go into Committee. Perhaps I may add, in answer to the particular question
 684
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, in reference to what the right hon. Gentleman has just stated, I hope the Committee will not rashly infer from what he has stated I have no doubt with perfect good faith—that this Vote of 460,000 l. 745 l. 746 ad crumenam 747 l. l., 748 749 750
 MR. F. PEEL  said, that the observations which fell from the hon. Member for Montrose had been so fully, and to his mind so satisfactorily, answered by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir J. Pakington), that he (Mr. F. Peel) did not feel called upon, however much he might have wished it, to enter into any explanation of the general grounds on which the administration of Sir Henry Ward might be justified. He was very glad to collect from the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Colonial Secretary, that whenever the hon. Member for Montrose might bring forward a Motion of which he had given notice, Her Majesty's Government would not support that Motion, which was for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the causes of the insurrection which took place in Cephalonia in 1849, and into the present condition of the Ionian Islands, He (Mr. F. Peel) did not believe that an investigation of that kind would be attended with any advantage, while, undoubtedly, it would convey a very grave censure on the conduct of Sir Henry Ward; and having given much of his attention to this subject, it was his opinion that, although, perhaps Sir Henry Ward might not have earned, he had entitled himself to the gratitude of the Ionian people, and to the approbation of that House; for he (Mr. F. Peel) was persuaded it was to the energy and ability which characterised the administration of Sir Henry Ward, that peace and order were restored in 1849. But there were several reasons which made him desirous to take some part in this debate, and to offer to the House some information bearing upon what had fallen from the hon. Member (Mr. Hume), which happened to lie within his reach. The hon. Member had adverted principally to two topics, one of which had reference to the constitution of the Ionian Islands, and the liberties and independence of that people. The hon. Member also referred to the personal administration of Sir Henry Ward, and considered that in the insurrection at Cephalonia Sir Henry Ward was guilty of great excesses—that he employed a military force for the suppression of that rebellion where the civil power would have sufficed—that he proclaimed martial law, and continued it long after the ordinary tribunals should have resumed the exercise of their functions—and that he al-
 731 732 Daily News "I, the undersigned, do declare that I have not signed any other petition respecting my present condition, in consequence of the events of Cephalonia, excepting one addressed last year to the Minister of the Colonies (Earl Grey), and another to the Lord High Commissioner, dated the 9th (21st) of September last. With respect to the letter dated the 18th of October last, bearing my signature and that of Fotino Steculli, and addressed from Cephalonia to a Member of Parliament in England, and inserted in  Galignani's Messenger, 733 734
 MR. F. PEEL  said, he owed it to Earl Grey, to make an observation with refer-
 764 765
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he thought he had some reason to complain of the course which the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had taken upon this subject. The hon. Gentleman moved, a short time ago, for the production of numerous papers relating to the affairs of the Ionian Islands. He (Sir J. Pakington) consented to the production of those papers, but, at the same time, he told the hon. Gentleman, that as it would be necessary to obtain a large portion of them from the Ionian Islands, a considerable time must of necessity elapse before they could be laid upon the table. The hon. Gentleman, however, told him on Thursday, that as the House was to be asked to-night to sanction a Vote for the Kafir war, he thought that would be an appropriate opportunity for discussing the affairs of the Ionian Islands. The hon. Gentleman had placed him in this difficulty—that he had made no Motion; and had it not been for his concluding observations, indicating his opinion that, from the conduct of Sir Henry Ward, it was the duty of the Government to recall him, he (Sir J. Pakington) would not have been able entirely to make out to what points he had to reply, or what was the object of the hon. Gentleman. But as the hon. Gentleman had touched upon this subject, he (Sir J. Pakington) considered that he would be shrinking from his duty if he did not tell the House what the views of the Government were. The House would recollect that the present Government had had no past political connexion, and no political sympathies, with Sir Henry Ward; and that the conduct of Sir Henry Ward in the Ionian Islands, whatever it might have been, had not been under the direction of the present Ministry. On the other hand, he had no hesitation in saying that no party distinctions or party feelings should for a moment deter the present Government from doing justice in a generous spirit to any absent servant of the Crown, who they believed had, under difficulties and embarrassments of no ordinary nature, exerted himself to support the authority of the Queen, and to put down rebellion against Her Majesty, as the Protectress of
 724 725 "Fortunately, ample official materials were extant to prove that before two years had elapsed of this golden age, all the Seven Islands had been guilty of treason and rebellion against its local Government. Horrors resembling those of the old Corcyræan factions described by Thucydides were of frequent occurrence. In Zante alone assassinations have been so numerous as one for each day in the year—a fair average for a population of less than 40,000. Alarmed and disgusted by this situation of their affairs, the Ionian Senate sent, in 1802, a deputation to the Emperor of Russia, to implore his immediate interference, as the only means of putting an end to such scenes of bloodshed and anarchy, the sole result of that power which he had left in their hands." "Lastly, M. Neranzi was directed to impress on the mind of His Imperial Majesty that, 'in a word, the inhabitants of the Seven Islands, who
 726 "My Lord—The present state of the Ionian Islands is, indeed, most lamentable. It was not the will of Heaven that the reforms effected in the constitution should be granted by such gradual steps as would have enabled the people to receive them in a proper spirit, and to make a wise use of them. Introduced too suddenly, and at a most inopportune time, the result was such as might have been anticipated. They awakened the most extravagant expectations, inflamed minds by nature too easily inflammable, offered to the British nation, by which they were conceded, instead of thanks, proofs of the most flagrant ingratitude, and plunged these islands into a state of the greatest confusion and disorder. Your Excellency's well-known abilities and paternal care were unable to provide a remedy for these evils: nor have the good intentions and the remonstrances of the executive power proved more successful. The present system takes from every man, however well-intentioned, the power of promoting in any way the good of his country, and consequently renders unavailing my labours as President of the Senate." 727 728 729 730
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said that, after having listened with attention to the able speeches of the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark (Sir W. Molesworth), and of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford
 755 756 757 "Te claim of sovereignty over the new province, bounded by the Kieskamma and the Kei must be renounced." "The territory of the Kafirs, I am aware, is in itself a fertile and salubrious region, contrasting but too favourably with the prevailing sterility of our own possessions. But the great evil of the Gape Colony consists in its magnitude; in the vast space for which it encroaches on the continent, and the consequent extent of its boundary. We are thus brought into contact with tribes numerous and warlike, and a scale of establishment is required, both civil and military, extensive beyond all proportion to the number and wealth of the inhabitants." 758
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, that he could quite understand that the position of hon. Gentlemen opposite was painfully embarrassed, because he felt that Her Majesty's Government had committed an offence already in that House, and in the country, which was not to be forgiven. They had shown that they had the power, the capacity, and the ability to bring forward measures of a well-considered character, that were likely to give satisfaction to the country; while hon. Gentlemen opposite were so divided in opinion when in opposition, that if they were to change to the opposite side of the House to-morrow, they would be split into infinitesimals, and would be perfectly unintelligible as to any consecutive course of conduct or measures that they were likely to pursue. It was his firm opinion that if Her Majesty's Government had a fair opportunity they would bring forward measures of a better character, and more suited to the feelings of the country, than hon. Gentlemen opposite. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert) had drawn a great draft upon the credulity of the House and the country with respect to the opinions upon protection to agriculture, upon which he plumed himself, and upon which he seemed ready to stake his existence. But if he (Sir J. Tyrell) was mi greatly mistaken, that right hon. Gentle-
 713 714
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that his right hon. Friend the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert)—in proof that no unnecessary impediment had been thrown in the way of public business—had reminded the House that the Government, who had now been six weeks in office, had in no single instance met with a hostile division; but he was sure the right hon. Gentleman would not deny that public business had, to a great extent, been impeded by other means—in one instance by speeches for eight hours, and in another for six hours, on questions which might have been disposed of in half an hour. And who were those who brought forward those questions? They were the very Gentlemen who were so eager that the Members of that House should be sent to their constituents with the view to a new verdict on the question of free trade. Now, he (Sir R. Inglis) begged to say, with regard to the intentions of Government on the subject of a dissolution, he required nothing more than the original statement, in another place, of the Prime Minister. His belief was, that so soon as the measures which, in his judgment, were essential to the public service and the defence of the country were passed, the noble Earl meant, as an honest man, to appeal to the country. Now, that being the case, he asked the House whether, if the course were persisted in, of occupying eight hours on one evening, and six hours on another, and three hours, as on that occasion, with unnecessary discussions, the Government could be expected to advise the Crown to dissolve Parliament at an early period? On looking at the Orders for that day he found no less than three and twenty notices; amongst them were a Bill on the Salmon Fisheries, and the Sheep Contagion Bill. It was not asserted that those were measures of urgency; but he had full confidence in the Government not prolonging the Session beyond the time necessary to pass certain  bonâ fide
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he should not at present discuss the causes of the present state of South Africa, nor what should be the future policy of this country towards South Africa. He should merely confine his observations to the question now before the Committee, namely, our expenditure on account of South Africa, He wished more particularly to call the attention of the Committee to the great and increasing amount of that expenditure, as shown by returns which had been lately presented to Parliament. That expenditure had gone on steadily and rapidly increasing for the last twenty years. On the average of the three years ending 1850, it had amounted to 500,000 l. l. s. 735 736 737 l. l. l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l., 738 739 l. l. l. l. s. l. 740 l. 741 742 Aloe, ferox horrida; Euphorbia, 743 l. l., l. 744 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-quer  thought, that in stating that Her Majesty's envoy was about to touch at Rio, and to enter into friendly communications with the Court of Brazil, he had given a sufficient answer to the question.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he could not give a very distinct answer to the question of his hon. and learned Friend under the peculiar circumstances in which the Government were placed. But he had no doubt whatever that if an opportunity were afforded to them, they would be able to introduce the Bill for the reform of the Court of Chancery during the present Session.
 CAPTAIN FITZROY  said, that the circumstances under which he had brought in the Bill, would, he thought, justify him in refusing to accede to the suggestion of the hon. and learned Attorney General. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had, upon the second reading of the Bill, distinctly stated that the Government did not mean to oppose it; and now the hon. and learned Attorney General coolly proposed that it should be postponed for some indefinite period, on the contingency that some day or other it might please the Government, if their term of office were prolonged, to introduce a Chancery Reform Bill. That seemed to him one of the most monstrous propositions that could be made to the House. It was the general opinion out of doors that the Chancery Reform Bill, upon which the Government plumed themselves, was brought forward to enable the Government to stop private measures for the reform of the law, that they might be able to say, "We have large measures in contemplation—by no means interfere with us." This Bill had gone through both Houses last Session, and had only been lost eventually in the House of Lords on account of the late period of the Session at which it went back to that House. Two or three clauses which were in the Bill when originally introduced in the House of Lords last year, but which were omitted in its progress through Parliament, had indeed been again inadvertently inserted, but he intended to propose their omission. He thought that by pressing this Bill he should be doing his duty, by carrying out a real Chancery reform, and if before it was passed the other Chancery Reform Bill was introduced, and its propositions were found to be antagonistic to those of the present Bill, it would then be time enough to withdraw it. The purposes of its proposers would then be obtained, for he had always stated that, although there were no doubt some advantages attendant on a system of local courts, yet that he should prefer a thorough reform in the Superior Courts. Unless He heard some better reasons for delay than had yet been given, he should persist in going on with the Bill,
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that the Bill for the reform of the Court of Chancery had not yet been introduced, and as they did not even know whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce it, and press it through all its stages in the present Session, he thought it was very unreasonable to 'propose that this Bill should be delayed until the other Bill came down from the House of Lords. He would therefore recommend the hon. Member for Lewes to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for Cirencester (Mr. Mullings), but by no means to hang up this Bill in order to wait for the other.
 CAPTAIN FITZROY  said, that he would accede to the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Mullings), that the Chairman should report progress, for the purpose of reprinting the Bill; but he should certainly fix a day for proceeding with the Committee, unless sufficient reason could be shown for any further postponement. He thought that if the objection of the hon. and learned Attorney General was good for anything, it was fatal to the principle of the Bill, and might just as well have been urged against the second reading.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, that, in moving for leave to bring in a Bill for establishing an office for the benefit of the ballast heavers of the port of London, he was not asking the House to do anything novel or unprecedented. The case
 784
 MR. SPEAKER  said that, as the matter was one relating to trade, it was necessary for the hon. Member first to move that the House should go into Committee.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  then moved that the House do go into Committee.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not rise to offer any opposition to the first step being taken in reference to this matter. All the statements made by the hon. Member with regard to the unfortunate position of these men, were perfectly well founded. It could not be doubted that various parties made a considerable profit by letting out the labour of the ballast heavers. While he admitted that grievance to its full extent, he must not conceal from the House the fact that this Bill would create another monopoly. It was nothing better than a; monopoly to compel the employers of labour to go to a certain place to procure it, and if unable to procure it there, to wait a certain period before attempting to pro-
 785
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, that that House ought to look with great jealousy and caution at measures of this description, which were undoubtedly founded, in many respects, on a dangerous principle. At the same time he could not but recollect the working of a measure which bore a strong analogy to the present, namely, that relating to the coalwhippers. He had been originally strongly opposed to that Bill, of which he feared that the consequences would sooner or later show themselves; but he must confess that the working of that Bill had convinced him that the good in a great degree preponderated over the evil. Besides, it ought rather to be considered in the light of a police measure than as a Bill of Trade. He thought that the ballast heavers had established a  primâ facie
 MR. HUME  said, that this was a large and important question, and that the House ought to consider whether the present was not the time for inquiry into the whole of the laws and customs relating to the port of London. Ballast had been guaranteed as a monopoly to the Trinity-house by an Act of Henry VIII., and the profit annually received from this source was between 4,000 l. l. 786
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he knew the case of the ballast heavers to be one that required a strict inquiry by that House. Their case was simply this—the men were in the hands of twenty-nine middlemen, twenty-seven of whom were keepers of public-houses; and the consequence was that the men could never get any employment unless they agreed to take their victuals, their beer, and their spirits, from the shops of these middlemen. He could not conceive a grosser case, or one more demanding an inquiry than that; and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) would take up the question, for he was sure it would be the means of improving the morality and the contentment of a humble but industrious class. He hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member (Mr. G. Thompson) would not proceed with his Bill at present, but that he would accede to the suggestion that had been made to have a Select Committee to investigate the subject.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he was glad the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had not opposed the introduction of this Bill. He hoped the Government would also consider the propriety of establishing a labour registry office for the benefit of the working classes of this country generally. Let the House not be alarmed—he was not proposing workshops to be placed under the surveillance of the Government. He knew that would be monstrous, and opposed to common sense, and would be highly injurious to the working classes themselves. But what he meant was, that means might be provided by which those who had labour to sell might have an opportunity of disposing of it to better advantage than they now could do. The vendors of corn, coal, cotton, or any other article, had all the means of acquiring the best information as to when and where they could find the best market for their commodities; but the poor man out of employment could not afford to travel,
 787
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, he did not think that any Bill like the present could meet the necessities of the case of the ballast heavers, unless a further inquiry-was instituted previous to its introduction to that House.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  believed it might be perfectly practicable to organise a system of registry for labourers somewhat in the manner pointed out by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley), and he thought it would afford great and permanent advantages to the working classes, at a cost hardly Worthy of consideration.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, that notwithstanding all the care that had been bestowed on the Coalwhippers' Bill, there had been very considerable difficulties attending its working; still it had been clearly established before the Committee which considered that measure, that it had secured great benefits to the working classes, and had raised their character in general estimation. He thought, therefore, that a similar Bill might be passed with advantage for the protection of the ballast-heavers; and as the hon. Gentleman had taken the trouble of preparing this Bill, he hoped the House would allow it to obtain a second reading, and then send it before a Select Committee.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was anx-
 788 789 790 791
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he should support the original Motion, and could see no objection to the Bill being read a second time, and then sent to a Committee. The labour of ballast heaving was of the very lowest class, and there could be no fear of a monopoly among the men, because there was so much competition for the work.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he could not agree with the advice which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) had given to the hon. Gentleman who was in charge of this Bill. The measure involved no new principle; and as the Government had given its sanction to the introduction of the Bill, and was willing to give its assent to the second reading, on the understanding that it should be referred to a Select Committee, where there no doubt would be a critical and searching inquiry, he hoped the hon. Member would persevere in his Motion for leave to bring in the Bill, and fix the second reading for as early a day as possible.
 MR. HUME  said, he could not agree to the narrow object of the hon. Member's Resolution. He would prefer to have the whole question of ballast heaving investigated by a Select Committee.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  hoped the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. G. Thompson) would not follow the advice of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume). The entire subject of ballast heaving was a most complicated question, and there could be little hope of bringing it to a speedy solution.
 MR. GLADSTONE  trusted the Resolution would be allowed to pass as it stood. When he made the suggestion he had done to the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, he had done so in the belief that the Government might not readily accede to the second reading. That was his impression from the speech of the right hon. President of the Board of Trade; but the noble Lord the Member for Colchester (Lord J. Manners) declared that the Government were prepared to assent to the second reading'. He (Mr. Gladstone) did not think the House ought to proceed to the second reading of Bills of this nature until the Executive
 792
 MR. HENLEY  said, that not having seen the Bill itself, he could not pledge himself to its particular provisions. He, however, thought the inquiry before a Select Committee would not be a long one.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, the Committee was placed in a difficulty by the dissimilar statements of two Members of the Government. He understood the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) to agree to the second reading; but the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley), with great prudence, he thought, said he would not be able to support the second reading until he saw the provisions of the Bill. He (Mr. Labouchere) concurred with the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), as to the policy of measures of this nature being introduced by an individual Member of the House. Before the Committee was called upon to assent to a Motion based on an exceptional principle, he considered there ought to be an inquiry. At the same time, if the Members of the Government said they would support the Bill, he should acquiesce in the Motion.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that when his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade said that he could not consent to the second reading of this Bill, the proposal that it should be referred to a Select Committee had not been made. As his noble Friend (Lord J. Manners) had stated, the Government were prepared to accede to the introduction of the Bill, provided it was afterwards referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, that if the Committee would assent to the introduction of the Bill, he would, early after the holidays, and before the second reading of the Bill, move the appointment of a Select Committee, whose Report, he hoped, might be presented to the House before the second reading of the Bill, as he thought it would not be necessary for them to sit long or to take much evidence.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would suggest to the hon. Member (Capt. Fitzroy) who had charge of this Bill the propriety of only going into Committee upon it  pro formâ.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  begged to ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer if he would now state the course in which he proposed to proceed with public business after the Easter recess?
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that this Bill was a fac-simile of that which had last year passed both Houses of the Legislature, and it was not, therefore, necessary to discuss the question whether the County Courts should be extended, as the hon. and learned Member for Newark (Mr. J. Stuart) had proposed. That question had already been discussed and decided, and he hoped, therefore, that the Committee would allow this measure to proceed.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he concurred in the course which had just been suggested by the hon. Member for Cirencester (Mr. Mullings). It seemed clear that there was, now, or would be shortly, before the House of Lords a Bill for the complete alteration of the present system of the Court of Chancery, and for the abolition of the Masters' offices. Now as this Bill proceeded on the principle of referring to the County Courts all work
 797
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, that he should quite concur in the suggestion of the hon. and learned Attorney General if they had any definite expectation of the Chancery Reform Bill coming before Parliament, and being passed during the present Session; and he would therefore take the liberty of asking his hon. and learned Friend what prospect there was of obtaining that great desideratum, a reform in the Court of Chancery during the present Session? If there was any chance of the Chancery Reform Bill being introduced immediately after the holidays, he thought it would be better to postpone the present Bill, the machinery of which must necessarily be altered if the Chancery Reform Bill were passed. But if that Bill were not likely to be passed during the present Session, he hoped that his hon. Friend (Capt. Fitzroy) who had charge of the present Bill, would not consent to postpone it.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that at half-past ten o'clock that morning the Admiralty had received—not by any official communication, but through the electric telegraph—information of that distressing event. They had immediately forwarded a telegraphic communication to Admiral Sir John Ommanney, at Plymouth, desiring him to report to them any circumstances of the case which might have reached him. No answer had since been received from Sir John Ommanney; and at half-past two o'clock a further communication had been despatched to him asking for an explanation of that delay. Until an answer to that communication had been received, it would be premature for him (Mr. Stafford) to pronounce any opinion upon the cause of that delay. He bad waited at the Admiralty until half-past four o'clock, and up to that period no official communication had been received there upon that subject. The number of souls on board the  Birkenhead Hydra Megœra 781
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Admiralty whether the Board of Admiralty had received any information with respect to the loss of the  Birkenhead Megœsra Hydra?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished to express his regret that any misapprehension had occurred respecting the notice of Motion for the adjournment of the House. He must say on behalf of his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury, that he believed his hon. Friend was strictly in order, and that in taking the step which he did, he was influenced solely by a nervous anxiety to Secure their holidays. If any hon. Gentleman wished to make any observations, no advantage would be then taken by the Government of the fact of the Motion for the adjournment being passed. They were prepared to listen to any discussions on their conduct, and would reply to them in the best manner that they could. With regard to the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he could only say that he had not at all conveyed to him (the Chan-
 782
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, Her Majesty's Government has been informed of the circumstances to which the hon. Gentleman refers; but I think he has scarcely in the remarks he has made, accurately conveyed the facts. It is true there was a seizure by the Belgian authorities of a case of books belonging to Mr. Jeff, an English subject, I believe, in consequence of a communication between the Belgian police and the commander of the  Soho Soho, La Vérité des Evenemens du mois de Decembre, Moniteur Français, Bulletin Français, Le Belgie Commercial. Bulletin Français 780
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that on Monday, the 19th inst., the right hon. President of the Board of Control would move the appointment of a Select Committee on Indian Affairs. On the 23rd, according to the wish of the House, the Militia Bill would be proceeded with. He would then propose that, with the exception of questions of great urgency, such as the financial statement, or questions of that description, they should proceed with the Militia Bill and with the Estimates. [An Hon. MEMBER: The Miscellaneous Estimates?] Yes, the Miscellaneous Estimates. He anticipated that the discussion on Indian affairs would occupy some time; but he would place such other business on the paper for the 19th as would not require a very full attendance of Members.
 MR. JOHN STUART  said, he concurred with the hop. Member for Finsbury (Mr, Wakley) in thinking that the Bill came before them in a singular way, and he thought it seemed more extraordinary than ever, after the statement of the hon. Member for Lewes (Captain Fitzroy), for it seemed that it was intended that the Bill should be materially altered in Committee. It appeared from the "Votes of the House of Lords that a Bill called the County Courts Further Extension Bill No. 2, had been introduced into that House on the previous evening, or on Friday evening; and as the Government intended to introduce a Bill, founded upon the Report of the Chancery Reform Commissioners, to abolish the very jurisdiction which the Bill before the Committee proposed to confer, he thought that it would surely be reasonable to allow these two Bills to overtake the present measure, so that they might consider them together. He did not see for what useful purpose they could sit there as a legislative body if they acted in the way in which it was now proposed, and proceeded with this Bill. From a sense of the respect due to the position of their own proceedings before the public, let the Committee proceed calmly and deliberately first to consider whether the jurisdiction of these Courts should be extended, and, if so, how that extension should be carried out.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, the Bill, in its present form, was a complete mass of confusion. First came some clauses about Chancery, then some about County Courts, and then it jumped back again into Chancery, It would be practically useless to proceed with the Bill at present. It gave power to the Lord Chancellor and Lords Justices to frame certain rules; and this was the foundation of the measure. But if the Lord Chancellor and Lords Justices thought the measure not capable of being worked, by reason of a contemplated general measure of Chancery reform, of course they would not make these rules. He recommended that the Bill be reprinted with the Amendments.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he agreed in the principle that had been suggested by his hon. Friend; but he must go further than that. He knew the complaints that were made with respect to the payments that were made to certain individuals who had been officers of the Court of Chancery (Six Clerks), some of whom were receiving 7,000 l.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he wished to ask his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question with respect to what he (Mr. M. Milnes) believed to have been an illegal seizure of the property of a British subject by the Belgian police. It appeared that about 100 l. 779
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had given notice to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he would that night put a question to him respecting the relations between the English Government and the Government of the Brazils, and also in reference to the free navigation of the River Plate. He was precluded from making any statement on this subject, because there was no question before the House. He had wished to take the Opportunity afforded by the Motion for the adjournment of the House, to make his question intelligible by entering into some remarks; but as that question had been disposed of, he would comply with the rules of the House, and confine himself simply to the question. He wished to know from the Government whether they intended to take any steps to place the relations between this country and Brazil on a more satisfactory footing than they had been for some time past; and he also wished to know whether they contemplated, as the result of the joint action of France and England in reference to the River Plate, the free navigation of that river, and its being opened to the trade of Europe. He put the question in connexion with Brazilian relations, because friendly relations with Brazil would appear to be almost an indispensable preliminary to the free navigation of the River Plate.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he meant the whole of the navigation connected with the River Plate. He thought the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not quite answered his question. What he wished to know was, whether the Government intended to take any steps to place our relations with Brazil on a more friendly footing than they had been for some years past? Most angry correspondence had passed between the Brazilian and the English Governments, and he wished to know whether the Government were about to take steps to place us in more friendly relations with Brazil?
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the curious point in the whole matter was, that both Bills had originated, or were to originate, in the House of Lords. Now, although the two Bills no doubt had originated with different
 794
 SIR GEORGE STRICKLAND  hoped that the hon. Member for Lewes (Captain Fitzroy) would not be persuaded to postpone the consideration of the Bill. It was asked, why proceed with this Bill when a reform in the Court of Chancery is promised? But he had the most distinct recollection that for the last forty or fifty years a reform in the Court of Chancery had been solemnly promised either by the Government of the day or by private Members of that House, and yet not a single step had yet been taken to accomplish that most desirable object. This, which would be a very useful one, was an attempt to get that done by the County Court Judges which the Masters in Chancery now professed, but did not do. If a suit now got into the Masters' offices it stayed there for years, without the Masters doing anything, all that was done being that the Master's clerk signed hour warrants, putting off the business from one time to another till the unfortunate suitor was worn out. The Bill gave these Judges power to inquire into matters of account which never could
 796 vivâ voce
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, this measure was called the Suitors in Chancery Relief Bill, but he did not think the suitors in Chancery would get much relief by it. However, as the Bill was
 798
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  wished to ask his right hon. Friend whether it was not by an inadvertence that he had spoken of the free navigation of the River Plate, which was an estuary or arm of the sea; whether he did not mean the rivers Pa-
 783
 MR. HARDINGE : Sir, I trust I may be permitted to say one word on the question now before the House, if it is only to express most humbly my satisfaction that Her Majesty's Government have determined upon dealing with this great question in a spirit of fair inquiry; because I believe the Court of Directors seek such an inquiry, and because it will tend, I am confident, to prove that they have not neglected the interests of the 150,000,000 of people committed to their charge. I would willingly vote for the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, if I could bring myself to believe that a Commission sent out to India would answer the purpose which this country has in view. I rather agree with what has fallen from the hon. Member for Inverness-shire (Mr. Baillie), that a Committee of both Houses of Parliament would collect evidence in a more practical manner. The question of taxation and landed tenure is one which requires mature consideration, as well as the legal condition of India; for Parliament must determine shortly whether the Law Commission is to be abolished, or reestablished with sufficient provisions against any future failure. The hon. and learned Member for Youghal has laid great stress on the hardship and inequality of the land tax; but it must be remembered that that is a tax to which the natives of India have been accustomed from time immemorial, both under a Hindoo and Mahomedan dynasty, and that when fairly assessed it does not press with such great severity upon the population at large. And as regards our revenue system in India, I have always Understood, when in that country, from those best
 845 d. 846
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that hon. Members were doubtless aware that this Bill was based upon the recommendations of the Committee which sat last Session to inquire into the operation of the Passengers Act of 1849. It applied principally to the passage of emigrants between Great Britain and Ireland and the United States; but in order that the law, if the Bill should become law, might be effectually carried out, it was necessary that the action of the United States should be the same as our own on the subject. The existing Passengers Act of the United States was somewhat more stringent than the British Passengers Act, and therefore no inconvenience would arise on that score. But the present Bill proposed that certain alterations should be made in the dietary of the passengers. Instead of raw food being issued twice a week to the passengers for themselves to cook, which it was often impossible for them to do, as they suffered so much from sea sickness, and were unable to get to the galley fire till late, and sometimes not at all, so that they were obliged to eat their food raw, and suffered greatly from dysentery in consequence—instead of this, the Bill proposed that cooked rations should be issued to them daily. Now, we could enforce these regulations in the port of Liverpool, but there was no security whatever that in a voyage between a British port and the dominions of the United States, the law would be carried out, unless we could prevail upon the United States Government to adopt the same system. What he wished therefore, was to get our Government to make an application to the United States to alter their own law on the subject, so as to meet the case provided for by the present Bill. It would not be necessary to do this simultaneously, nor was it essential that the regulations should be precisely the same; but he thought that the United States would meet this plan, because they had a greater interest than we had in the safe passage of the emigrants, and in their arrival in such a state of health as to be capable of immediate self-support, instead of becoming a burden to the port where they landed. He had every reason, therefore, to hope that the Government of the United States would act upon the system proposed by the present Bill, and he was
 870
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Colonial Secretary would reconsider this clause, because it proposed to allow the same space to sick persons in hospital as was allotted to persons in health; but the cabin for the sick was to be divided off by bulkheads, whereas the general compartment for the rest of the passengers was required to be lighted and ventilated. He thought a greater amount of space ought to be allotted to the sick, and that there should be a stipulation in the clause to that effect. In the case of the sick this clause did not specify that their berths should be properly lighted and ventilated. The Americans gave a larger space than forty-eight superficial feet for each person, which was the English allowance of hospital-room. That amount of space in a cabin that was boarded off, would be insufficient even for persons in health. He hoped, therefore, that the clause would be amended, so as to secure first, efficient light and ventilation for the sick; and, next, a larger space for them than was allotted by law.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that a different arrangement with regard to lighting and ventilation was necessary for the sick, because they were to occupy an enclosed space, while the general passengers were all to occupy one general compartment. The amount of space allotted for the sick, which was to be more than was allotted for the healthy, would be taken as a maximum.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, it would be practically the maximum, for this
 872
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that he entertained great objections to this Bill,' but as the present Government had only been in office so short a time, he did not think it was unreasonable that they should propose to continue the present state or things for a limited period; and as he did not wish to offer any factious opposition or to obstruct the progress of public business, he should not therefore oppose the second reading. He thought, however, that the continuance should be for as limited a period as possible, and he should, therefore, in Committee, move an Amendment, limiting it to the year 1853, instead of 1854, as at present proposed. He should also move the addition of a Clause, exempting from the jurisdiction of the Poor Law Commissioners all parishes in which the administration of the Poor Law was provided for by local Acts.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said: Sir, there has been so general a concurrence on the part of the House in the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman, that I certainly do not feel it necessary to offer more than a very few remarks. I rise, indeed, principally to state what in my own mind appears to me the view with which the Committee should be appointed. I wish to take this opportunity of stating my opinion upon this point more particularly, because from some expressions which have fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, it might be supposed that the Committee about to be appointed was one to decide the future government of India. I think that was not the meaning of the right hon. Gentleman, when he moved the Committee, nor of the House, when they assented to it. It must be the intention of Her Majesty's Government that they shall retain in their own hands the power of submitting, when the fitting time arrives, such propositions as they may think wise and politic, to Parliament, after the Committee has made its report, and that Parliament retains in their own hands the power of deciding upon those propositions when submitted to them. I wish, therefore, to say that while I think the appointment of the Committee extremely useful and desirable, and that if I were in the Government I should concur in its appointment, the Committee will be useful in the way of collecting information and making suggestions; and that this is the view in which it is to be appointed, more than as a Committee entitled in any way to decide upon the vast question of the future government of India. I say this the more readily, because in my own mind—and I think from what I can gather that this is the impression of the right hon. Gentleman also—there is not much doubt as to the general nature
 860 861 862 863
 MR. CARDWELL  thought the question was a very difficult one, and he had no desire to press the objection invidiously, but he begged to say that great jealousy was felt respecting powers so extensive being vested in a single person, without the possibility of appeal. The right hon. Baronet the Colonial Secretary said that an appeal would lie to the Emigration Commissioners; but such an appeal would be costly, and would occasion delay—one of the worst evils that could happen to an intending emigrant.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that as the hon. and learned Member for-Youghal (Mr. Anstey) had had an opportunity of explaining the views and opinions he entertained on this subject to the House, he trusted the hon. and learned Gentleman would be satisfied with that advantage, and not press his Amendment to a division. If he understood the hon. and learned Member rightly, he was of opinion that a Royal Commission should be issued to proceed to India, to ascertain the sentiments and opinions of the native population of that country with reference to the manner in which the Government there had been administered under the auspices of the East India Company. Now he (Mr. Baillie) confessed that he entirely differed from the hon. and learned Member as to the best mode of obtaining that information, which, however, he believed the House generally were of opinion it was desirable should be laid before Parliament ere it proceeded to legislate for the future government of India. He did not think it was desirable that a Royal Commission should proceed thither to inquire into the complaints and griev-
 836 837 "Your petitioners need hardly remind the Government that, when by the act of the Government and its officers in the North-West Provinces, many landholders were deprived of their lands by form of law, circumstances seemed to require the appointment of a special commission. The regulation of 1821 accordingly stands on record in the local code, as a testimony to the humanity of the British Government towards their native subjects. In the present instance, however, it is unnecessary to call such machinery into existence, to afford redress to those who have suffered from the arrangements subsequently formed."
 MR. BAILLIE  knew that; but still those to whom he was referring did not seem to be of opinion that their grievances required any special commission such as
 838 l. 839 840
 MR. GOULBURN  said, if he could imagine that the Motion was calculated to fetter by the report of a Committee, the full and free liberty of decision by Government as to the future mode of governing India, he should not be found supporting the Motion of his right hon. Friend; but he thought his right hon. Friend had laid down most distinctly in his speech that which was sufficiently apparent from the Resolution he proposed to move—that the inquiry should be confined to ascertaining what had been the operation of the present Act with respect to India, to lay before the House what were the circumstances which related to the Government of India, and to educe from the information procured, grounds upon which the House might come to a judgment, whether the measures hereafter proposed by Government were such as ought to be ac-
 864 865 "There is one great question to which we should look in all our arrangements—namely, what is to be the final result of our government on the character of the people, and whether that
 866
 MR. HERRIES  rose to ask the permission of the House to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the operation of the Act 3 & 4 William IV., c. 85, for effecting a new arrangement with the East India Company, and to provide for the better Government of Her Majesty's Indian Territories. The House would observe that he had not stated that it was for the renewal of the Charter of the East India Company, because, as was well known to all persons conversant with the policy pursued with respect to India, that charter had ceased practically to exist, and that, in fact, there was now no exclusive charter in favour of the East India Company. He should be occupying the time of the House very unnecessarily if he were to attempt to give anything like a retrospective view of the history and the extraordinary progress of our possessions and empire in India.
 807 808 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 809 810 811 l.; l.; l l. l. l. l. 812 l. l., l. 813 l l. l l. l. 814 l. l., l. l l. 815 l. l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 816 l., 817 l. "Public Works.—Grand trunk-road, Calcutta to Delhi, to be continued to Lahore and Peshawur, complete to Kurnool, north of Delhi, 965 miles, metalled throughout; cost, 1,000 l. l. l. l. 818 819 820
 MR. HUME  complimented the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down upon the ability and zeal he had manifested on behalf of Indian interests, and, from the practical knowledge he possessed of the natives of India, we should find in the hon. Member a steady and useful advocate of their rights and interests. He must express his decided satisfaction at the inquiry proposed by Her Majesty's Government; and he thought that with respect to the statements of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, they contained many facts, no doubt, but they also contained much that was problematical and doubtful; and the object which he proposed was perfectly impracticable. There was a population in India of 100 or 150 millions, consisting of various tribes, and of diversified and distinct interests—how could a Commission possibly ascertain the interests of each and all? They must send a Commission to every one of them, in order to be effective; and where would they find men in this country capable of conducting such an inquiry? Recourse might most properly be had to the servants of the Indian Government—men of knowledge and experience; and he joined most heartily in
 847 848 l. l. 849
 MR. MANGLES  said, that he was sincerely anxious that the blessings of Christianity should be extended to the people of India; but he did not think that the Government, as a Government, should take any active part in its promotion. By doing so he thought they would baffle the object which they had in view; and he considered that it was the duty of the Government to hold the scales even, and afford fair play to the dissemination of the truth. This had been done hitherto. It was perfectly notorious that under the present charter no restraint had been imposed upon the efforts of the missionaries, and these efforts had been made, and were making, not merely by missionaries connected with the Church of England, but by the Church of Scotland, and many denominations of Dissenters. If the Government undertook to attempt the conversion of the people of India, the only effect would be to raise up a great body of hypocrites, seeking to curry favour by the simulated adoption of Christianity. He
 868
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that he had found a correspondence had been going on
 873
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that no one who had heard the speech of the right hon. Gentleman would differ from the conclusion at which he arrived, that it was impossible to overrate the importance of the topics to which he had referred. So satisfied was he of this, that he thought it would be most dangerous that the Legislature should come to any determination upon them without having previously instituted a more searching inquiry than that of a Select Committee, who should sit during the brief period that yet remained to the present Parliament, albeit with a view to their labours being taken up and carried to a useful termination in the new Parliament. He (Mr. Anstey), therefore, wished the House and the right hon. Gentleman to consider whether such an inquiry before a Select Committee would be sufficient for the attainment of the end they had in view. He himself was so convinced that no inquiry could be successfully or adequately prosecuted without having the assistance of local Commissioners of Inquiry duly empowered to take evidence in India, and to report it with their own remarks to that House, that he now rose to propose to the House the Amendment he had put upon the paper. Even if the flattering picture which the right hon. Gentleman had drawn of the present state of Indian finance, and of the general prosperity of the country, were as correct as it was flattering, he should still ask the House to agree to the Amendment of which he had given notice. On the 3rd April last year, he had proposed to the House a Resolution to nearly the same purport; and he then urged, and he should still urge, upon them that it was impossible for them, consistently with a regard for the interests of that vast empire, with a population of 110 millions, and 40 millions of tributaries, and for the honour and interest of the Crown to whom it was subject, to entrust a Company of Merchants in the City, or a Board of Ministers at Westminster for ten or
 821 822 l. l. l., 823 824 s. s. 825 s. s. d. s s. d. s. s. 826 827 l., 828 "I look back for many years, and I see scarcely a trace of the vices which blemished the splendid fame of the first conquerors of Bengal. I sea peace studiously preserved. I see faith inviolably maintained towards feeble and dependent States. I see confidence gradually infused into the minds of suspicious neighbours. I see the horrors of war mitigated by the chivalrous and Christian spirit of Europe. I see examples of moderation and clemency which would have done honour to an Aurelian or a Titus." l. l. l., l., l. 829 l. l., 830 s. l. l. 831 832 l. 833 834 835 "At the end of the Question, to add the words, 'And that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, representing the lateness of the Session, the near approach of the period when the powers and authorities under which the Government of Her Majesty's Indian Dominions is now carried on will naturally determine, and the urgent importance of obtaining a thorough insight into the condition of those dominions, and into the feelings and wishes of the Queen's subjects, Natives and Europeans, resident within the same, before Parliament is called upon to pass any measure for continuing the said powers and authorities; and praying Her Majesty for that purpose to take the necessary measures for sending Commissioners of Inquiry into British India, duly instructed and empowered to commence and prosecute all requisite inquiries in the premises, and to report the evidence, together with their observations thereupon, to Her Majesty in Parliament.'"
 MR. ANSTEY : It was a local commission only.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he wished to ask the right hon. President of the Poor Law Board, whether it was true that the vestry of the parish of St. Pancras having dismissed the governor of the workhouse for incompetency, the Poor Law Commissioners, knowing nothing of what had locally transpired, had, under the authority vested in them by the Act of 1834, refused to allow the dismissal?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  hoped the Committee, when appointed, would bear in mind that since the last renewal of the charter, one of the most disastrous wars which had ever afflicted that country had taken place, costing an enormous amount of treasure and blood. He thought it a point most deserving their attention, that that war was commenced in the teeth of the wishes of the whole Board of Directors, and that it was no consolation whatever when they found that the President of the Board of Control was alone responsible for it. But he rose to call the attention of the House to another point. There was a great deficiency of information of what passed in India. Take finance, for example. They all knew enormous revenues were collected in India. The President of the Board of Control had told them that it had increased from 18,000,000 l. l. l. 867
 SIR JAMES HOGG  said, he did not wish to prolong the debate; but entirely concurred with the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, that it would be much better to postpone the discussion till the Committee had made inquiry, and the House was in possession of full information on the subject. Speaking for himself and the great Company he had the honour to represent, he could only say their sole and most anxious desire was, that the most full and ample information should be laid before the House and the country; and with regard to the result of any inquiry that could be made, in common with every man in the House and out of it, they had only one wish—that it might be such as would tend most to the welfare of India, and to the advancement and prosperity of its countless inhabitants. He did not feel disposed to follow the hon. and
 850 851 852 853 talookdar talookdars 854 855 856
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the emigration officers, who, under the clause as it stood, would have the power of decision, were very competent, and were naval officers, acquainted with nautical
 871
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he should be very glad on the part of Her Majesty's Government, to carry out, to the extent stated by his right hon. Friend, the wish which he had expressed for a communication with the Government of the United States. He (Sir J. Pakington) felt very strongly that it was by no means desirable to enter into any communications which would delay the passing of the Bill; but he agreed that it would be proper to negotiate with the United States for the purpose of insuring uniformity in the regulations of the two countries, so that the law might be fairly carried out.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the proposal made by the hon. Gentleman was, that the sole authority should not be given to the emigration officer, but that the Collector of Customs at the port might be appealed to if necessary. He hoped that, upon reflection, the hon. Gentleman would not press that suggestion. Practically speaking, a sufficient Court of Appeal existed already in the Emigration Commissioners, and he was told that in point of fact captains of ships had never had occasion to complain of the emigration officers, who were generally very competent persons.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the language of the clause was "no less than so many." How that could be called a "maximum," he could not understand. It was the minimum.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he considered the general regulations as to lighting and ventilation sufficient to provide for the case of the sick as well as of the healthy passengers, and he saw no necessity for introducing any special provision of the nature suggested.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that the vestry having dismissed the governor of the workhouse, that officer had appealed to the Poor Law Board to inquire into the circumstances under which he had been dismissed. The vestry had, however, refused to furnish the Poor Law Board with any information on the subject, and they had, therefore, in order to get at the facts of the case, been compelled to call upon the vestry, through the medium of a Court of Law, either to reinstate the governor of the workhouse, or to give valid reasons w his dismissal. The Poor Law Board had no wish to withhold their assent to his discharge, but they wished to obtain that information on the subject which had tip to the present time been refused.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  thought that no one ought to rise after the hon. Gentleman (Sir J. W. Hogg) without beginning by acknowledging his obligations to him, not only for the conclusive answer he had given to the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, but for his very valuable contribution of facts and arguments with regard to the original Motion. He would however, beg to suggest that there was one error in the speech of the hon. Baronet—an error of which few besides himself would have taken notice—relating to one who had always
 857 858 859
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  thought it important that the House should have some clear understanding as to the spirit
 841 842 843 844
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, that his hon. Friend below him (Sir R. Inglis) had raised the question whether subjects of this nature were properly brought before that House. Now, there was one point upon which he thought it would be evident that that House alone was the proper tribunal, and that was in asserting the rights of the laity against the usurpations of the priesthood. He was contending against things, and not against persons, and he cared little whether a man called himself a Papist or a Protestant; but he was against those who said that the priests were the Church, and that the laity were not the Church. Whatever might, in the lapse of time, have come to be the practice, the original law was unquestionably this—and he believed it to be the law now, however long it might have been in abeyance—that no person could be appointed over any flock in the Church without that flock itself, by some means or another, testifying their acquiscence in such appointment. This was a system which ought to be again established.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, there were notices on the paper for Thursday, the 29th, and those, he thought ought to be allowed to come on. He had a Notice of Motion himself which he was desirous of bringing forward.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he also had a notice for that day on a very important subject—the preservation of the Crystal Palace. He understood, when the right hon. Gentleman gave notice yesterday relative to Orders of the Day taking precedence, that the Motion was not to take effect till the Thursday after the 29th of April.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had only one wish, and that was, to consult the convenience of the House.
 891
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he certainly understood that the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was to take effect on the Thurdays subsequent to the 29th of April; and if that understanding generally existed, it would be better for the right hon. Gentleman to accede to it. There was one thing further he wished to say. He certainly understood, from what passed on a former occasion, that on the meeting of the House after the Easter holidays, the right hon. Gentleman would inform them as to the day when he intended to make his financial statement. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would now say when that financial statement was to be made. He believed the Miscellaneous Estimates were not yet delivered, though it was understood that they would be in a few days.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, with regard to the question of the Orders of the Day and Notices of Motion, I really only followed the precedent of the noble Lord last year. Of course, I do not wish to stand in the way of hon. Gentlemen who have Notices of Motion fixed for Thursday week, and therefore I am willing that the arrangement which I propose should not take effect until Thursday, the 6th of May. What I said in regard to the financial statement was this—I said that when the House met on Monday, I hoped that I should be able to fix a day for the financial statement. I did not say that I would fix a day. I hope in a very short time to be able to do so. [Lord J. RUSSELL: This week?] In a few days I hope to do so. There are particular reasons connected with the public service which at present render it not proper to fix a day.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he must remind the House that his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell), before the Easter recess, suggested to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer the expediency of taking Thursdays for the public business, and that it was received with approbation by both sides of the House. But if hon. Gentlemen took advantage of the right hon. Gentleman not having then fixed a particular day in accordance with that suggestion, and now insisted on bringing forward the Motions of which they had given notice, they could be actuated, he thought, by very little anxiety to go to the country. If they really wished to go to
 892
 MR. VERNON SMITH  thought the House should bear in mind that there were Notices now standing on the Paper for the 29th. It was certainly understood that the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman was to apply to the Thursdays after the 29th; and he might observe that it had always been considered a fair thing, in such cases as the present, not to interrupt Notices of Motion already given.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that his reason for making the suggestion to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer before Easter in reference to the proposed arrangement, was in order to prevent hon. Members from acquiring a vested interest in Motions for Thursdays.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 941  said, he must say one word in explanation. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Horsman) had very much mistaken what he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had said. He never denied for a moment the great importance of the subject which the hon. Gentleman had brought forward. On the contrary, he said it was impossible to exaggerate its importance. He said at the same time that he did not see that the proposition made by the hon. Gentleman would meet the difficulty with which they had to contend. The circumstances on which the hon. Gentleman dilated were but very imperfectly known to many hon. Gentlemen in that House; and listening to his statement with the greatest attention, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) acknowledged at once the vast importance of it. He said at the same time that the proposition the hon. Gentleman made was one which would not meet the difficulty; but he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) in no way intended to convey to the House that he himself did not feel the absolute necessity for inquiry. When the hon. Gentleman said a friendly inquiry had been offered, but that he wished a judicial inquiry, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) must say he did not see how, as at present advised, a judicial inquiry could be instituted. He would not talk of a friendly inquiry, nor could he promise a judicial inquiry, but he would promise that there should be a  bonâ fide bonâ fide
 LORD DUDLEY STUART,  in moving for copies of communications which have passed between the Government of this country and Turkey, said, it might be in the recollection of the House that very early in the year 1850—he believed in the first week of the Session—he drew their attention to the events which had then lately occurred in Hungary and Turkey, and to the unjustifiable demands which had been made by Austria and Russia for the surrender of certain refugees, who had been engaged in the struggle that had taken place for the liberty and independence of Hungary, and who had afterwards sought an asylum in the territories of Turkey. A debate, which occupied a considerable number of hours, and in which many hon. Members took part, ensued, and the result was that the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), after stating his opinion upon these transactions, agreed to lay upon the table of the House a selection from the despatches which had passed between this and the different Governments interested in the question. A very considerable time elapsed before those papers were forthcoming, and it was not, in fact, till the year following, after he (Lord D. Stuart) had publicly in that House reminded his noble Friend of his promise, that it was fulfilled, and the noble Lord laid on the table two sets of despatches. The object of his Motion, was, that this correspondence, which only extended to April, 1850, should now be brought down to the liberation of the refugees, that was, to the 1st of September in last year, and should thus be completed. He really had no idea that any objection would have been felt by the Government to this Motion, which appeared to him a very simple one, and one that he expected would have been granted as a matter of course, as an unopposed return. He brought forward the Motion with a  bonâ fide 944 945 Mississippi 946
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  wished to put a question to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, respecting some outrages alleged to have been committed on British subjects in Tuscany, and particularly on a non-commissioned officer, named Baggs, belonging to one of Her Majesty's ships at Leghorn. Mr. Baggs was a corporal of Marine Artillery, belonging to Her Majesty's ship  Firebrand 893 894 Charge d' Affaires Firebrand
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that if he had been correctly informed, no imprisonment whatever had been inflicted on the superintendent of police. It was a subordinate officer of police, a constable, he believed, who had been punished.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  would also be glad to learn whether the Government were in a position to give any additional information respecting the case of Mr. Mather?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I am very glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman say that the Government will accede to the Motion of my noble Friend the Member for Marylebone. In my opinion, it is only right as regards the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, who was the organ of the Government by whom those representations were made to Turkey, that the papers should be published, and that the grounds upon which he acted, and the representations he made, should be put forward. We did not think it consistent with our duty, or the policy we pursued, to take any part in the war with Hungary; but when these persons took refuge and had received the hospitality of Turkey, and when the Government of Turkey was disposed to extend to them that hospitality, and after a proper time to allow them to proceed to other countries, I must say I think the late Government was justified in giving its support—in extending all the power and weight of England—in order to enable the Turkish Government to accomplish that which was their desire; and I think the course then pursued redounds to the fame of this country. Therefore, Sir, I am of opinion that any documents which represent the remonstrances which the noble Lord made from time to time—the repeated remonstrances and assurances to the Turkish Government upon the subject of the refugees—ought to be produced, more especially considering that, in the present state of Europe, it is desirable that it should be shown that this country, at least, amid every discouragement, will maintain the principles of justice and hosiptality.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I trust that the statement that has been just made by the right hon. Gentleman the Colonial Secretary may be the means of relieving, if not the whole House, certainly some Members of the House, from very considerable embarassment. It is impossible to deny that this a subject on which the House has a right to demand explanation. I do not agree in the observation of my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis), for it appears to me he would exclude the House from any right to make inquiry with respect to matters of this kind. The House of Commons was a party to the passing the Act of Uniformity; and I believe that was passed when Protestant Dissenters were Members of the House, and, if I mistake not, at a time when Roman Catholics might sit in the House, and the Act of Uniformity being an Act of Parliament, the House has a right to inquire whether clergymen appointed to benefices are faithful Members of the Church of England, and whether, in fact, they don't belong to some other Christian community. Having thus, as I conceive, established the right of the House to interfere, I own I feel the greatest difficulty in exercising that right, I feel the greatest difficulty, both as to the mode in which that right may be exercised, and the consequences to which its exercise may lead. I cannot but feel that if a Commission is appointed that has not in fact greater powers than are allowed to be conferred by the Crown, and which cannot be had without an Act of Parliament, you may only provoke hostility and refusals to answer, and thus may create great dissensions between this branch of the Legislature, and a portion of the clergy of the Church of England. I cannot but feel also that if the House does interfere, it would be most unfortunate if the remedy they adopted, should be insufficient. I feel likewise with regard to this case, the want of those lights which we had at former times from Members of this House, who were peculiarly qualified to give opinions
 929 930
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that but for the promise which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) on behalf of the Government, he should have felt it to be his duty to vote for the Motion of the hon. Member far Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman); but after the promise had been made that the subject which had to-night been brought before the House should be thoroughly investigated, and in a friendly manner, by the Government, and that they would then come forward and state whether or not it was desirable that the law should be altered, he trusted the hon. Member would not press his Motion to a division.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he felt the force of what had been stated by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, namely, that the constitution of the Church would most likely have provided a remedy for the grievance complained of. At the same time, it was possible that in the lapse of years the powers conferred by the Constitution for the remedy of such abuses might have grown rusty. He was, however, quite certain that, the question having been raised, the country would demand that it should be fully investigated: this was a question, which having been raised, must be dealt with. And though he should wish to leave it in the hands of the Government to decide how the investigation should be made, so that they in the proper and due exercise of the privilege vested in them of advising Her Majesty, should indicate the course that ought to be taken, he would beg the Government not to imagine that the question could be passed over without satisfying the public by a full inquiry. Although he deprecated the interposition of the authority of that House, since that might be thought to trench upon the independence of the Church of England, for his own part he did not see any specific objection to the Commons of England addressing the Crown upon this subject; nevertheless, he ventured, as an independent Member, determinately attached to the Church of England, to beg of the Government not to ask the House to ignore the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cockermouth, without suggesting some practical means by which Her Majesty's authority, as temporal head of the Church, might be brought to bear upon this important question.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the noble Lord who has brought forward this Motion, alluded to the production of those papers at the commencement of the Session. I am quite free to admit that if the continuation of the correspondence with respect to these refugees were laid upon the table of the House, it would add to the completeness of the series of the diplomatic communications; and, viewing it in that light, I
 949 950
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the case of that gentleman being at present the subject of active communication, it was not in his power to enter into any details respecting it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that on referring to the despatch, which he had not as yet had an opportunity of reading, he found that the officer was described as  le Chef de Poste de la Gendarmerie
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I do not think that it is possible to exaggerate the importance of the ques-
 917 918 919 920 921
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that some misapprehension appeared to exist as to the precise nature of the inquiries addressed to the Government on a previous occasion, with respect to this unfortunate circumstance. On a former evening an hon. Member rose in his place and stated that he had been informed that an officer of Her Majesty's service, in full uniform, had been struck down and otherwise ill-treated by the police in Tuscany, and he inquired whether it was in the power of the Government to afford any authentic information on the subject. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) thereupon rose and stated, that the hon. Member had been inaccurate in stating that an officer in Her Majesty's service had been subjected to injurious treatment in Leghorn, but that the facts of the case were these—that a corporal of marines, who had been on shore upon leave, had got into a squabble with the police, that he had been very badly treated, and that the Tuscan Government had, in consequence, imprisoned the head of the police for a period of eight days. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had not given the hon. Member or the House to understand that this imprisonment was in consequence of any demand for redress on the part of Her Majesty's Government, for at the same time that they received information of the outrage they were also apprised of this conduct on the part of the Tuscan Government with respect to their agent of police. The only additional information that he could afford must be conveyed in the assurance that the punishment of arrest for eight days had never been accepted as
 895
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that the question which he was about to bring before the notice of the House was one of which the character and importance was not to be estimated merely by the terms of the Motion he had placed on the paper. If it had merely related to an omission on the part of an ecclesiastical dignitary of a purely administrative act, which might have arisen from carelessness or accident, it would have been superfluous and unnecessary for him to bring the matter under the consideration of Parliament; but the facts he was about to state to the House were so novel in
 896 897 "I have not found, even in the  Oxford Tracts "If Mr. Bennett be appointed to the church now erecting in this neighbourhood, I shall consider it my duty to expose his false doctrine through the medium of the press." "I wish to inform your Lordship that since that time it has been thought necessary by the Police Commissioners that our church and resi-
 898 "The Queen's peace must be preserved, and I am determined to preserve it in this district; but those persons have much to answer for, and undertake a serious responsibility, who provoke breaches of the peace by exciting the indignation of their fellow-subjects by the ceremonies of the Roman Church at such a time as the present, and exciting the indignation of those who hold the religion of the country." 899 "I have more than once expressed to you my fear that you were exciting or encouraging in the members of your congregation a taste for forms and observances which would lead them to seek for its fuller gratification in the Church of Rome. That this has been the actual result in some instances there can be no doubt. Whether others have occurred of persons retained in our communion by the partial concessions made to a morbid appetite, may well be questioned." "I dread becoming the occasion of any legal prosecution, or running the risk of ecclesiastical proceedings. I think it my bounden duty to sacrifice all that belongs to myself rather than place your Lordship under the necessity of appealing to any such means for correcting that which, in your opinion, is wrong. I would, then, put it to your Lordship in this way. I would say, if your Lordship should be of continued opinion, seeing and knowing me as now you do, that I am guilty of unfaithfulness to the Church of England and if your Lordship will after that signify your judgment as bishop that it would be for the peace and well-ordering of that portion of the Church which is under your episcopal charge that I should no longer serve in the living of St. Paul's, I would then, the very next day, send you a formal resignation." "In your recently published letter to Lord John Russell you declare that what your intention and mine was at the time of the consecration of St. Barnabas, 'in ceremonies and rituals, that it shall be now, please Rod, for ever the same, unchanged, unchangeable.' It is an unavoidable inference from this solemn declaration that the novelties of which I complained, and which I called upon you to lay aside, will not be given up, although I have forbidden them, as being contrary to the Church's order and intention. This leaves no choice as to the course to be pursued. It is
 900 901 Achill Herald "Achill, Jan. 12, 1852. "Dear Sir—A few days ago I met an English gentleman at Clifden, county of Galway, and he told me that during the last summer he spent several weeks at Kissengen, in Bavaria, for the benefit of his health. In the same hotel with him was staying the Rev. Mr. Bennett, late of St, Paul's, Knightsbridge. During the whole period of his residence at the place, Mr. Bennett never once attended the English service, but regularly went to mass, and his inseparable companion was a Capuchin friar. How comes it that such a man is instituted to a living in the Church of England?—Yours faithfully, "CHARLES O'N. PRATT, "Curate of Christ Church, Macclesfield." 902 "An English clergyman, whose name in the hotel-book was Bennett, wearing the peculiarly longitudinal vestment affected by the Puseyite clergy, and travelling in company with Sir John Harrington, churchwarden of St. Barnabas, lodged for three weeks at the Hotel de Russie, Kissengen, on the same floor with my rooms. My attention was called to him in the first instance by hearing the German waiters, &c., talking about him—his conduct, with that of his friend, being calculated to attract inquiry as to his religion, the general idea being that he was a Jesuit or Capuchin. I then found that he and his friend went every morning between seven and eight, as was said, to the Roman Catholic Church, to the morning service. I never myself saw him in the Roman Catholic Church, because I never went there; but I can testify as to the regularity of his morning excursions, and, as every one said that their object was to attend mass, I presume there is no reason to doubt the fact. If there be, any one at Kissengen can attest it. During the same period neither he nor any of his party were to be seen on Sundays in the English chapel. It is a single room, capable of holding, perhaps, 100 persons, and had he been there he must have been at once visible. But, as I believe, they remained considerably longer at Kissengen than myself, the English chaplain seems to me the person who could give the most convincing testimony on this point. I likewise heard him inquiring about a missal, and saw a Capuchin, or some such monk, going in and out of his room. But I cannot with truth asseverate that within my knowledge he was his inseparable companion. My rooms were, unluckily, next to Sir John Harrington's; unluckily, as I was very ill, and Sir John constantly talked in so loud a voice that nearly all his talk was forced upon me, the partitions between German rooms being, as you probably know, almost ventriloqual. I was therefore compelled to hear long details about Roman Catholic matters exclusively, in which Mr. Bennett was constantly implicated. The whole effect was to leave no doubt on my mind whatever that Mr. Bennett was a thorough Romanist, and I considered it so settled that I was never so astonished as at perceiving in the papers his appointment to Frome." 903 "Sandwich, April 14, 1852. "Sir—I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 12th inst., and in reply to your question respecting the present vicar of Frome and his attendance at public worship during last summer at Kissengen, I can only say that I believe he did not at any time form one of my congregation.—I have the honour to remain, Sir, your obedient servant, "F. LE GRIX WHITE, "Late British Chaplain at Kissengen. "E. Horsman, Esq., M.P." 904 "We owe it to God, to our flocks, to our children, to our servants, to ourselves, to protest against the confiding the cure of souls among us to one from whose writings, published but a year and a half ago, we cite the following passages, not by any means as exhibiting the whole of what we deem opposed to the Scriptural truthfulness of our beloved Church in his productions, but merely as exemplifications of the teaching which, as members of that Church, we solemnly repudiate." "Longleat, Jan. 3, 1852. "Rev. Sir—I have received with sincere regret a communication, signed by yourself and others, relating to the appointment of the Rev. W. J. E. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome, in my gift, fin reply I beg to inform you that the appointment is already made, and cannot be revoked.—I remain, Rev. Sir, yours faithfully, "H. BATH. "The Rev. W. B. Calvert, Vicarage, Frome." 905 906 "Unless a certain possibility (namely, as appears, the reversal of a recent decision of the Judicial Committee of Privy Council) be realised, the pastors who have as yet been enabled to adhere to the Church of England, finding that she denies herself, and forfeits her claim to catholicity, will, one by one, be rejected by the force of law from her communion; and, although not loving the peculiarities of Rome, will, in order to preserve any faith at all, either in their own hearts or in the hearts of those over whom they are set, be compelled to seek salvation within her bosom. This will probably happen within ten years. Then will come the end—Protestantism will sink into its proper place and die; and whatever was catholic in the Church of England will become Roman." "All ideas of the Bible, and the dispensing of the Bible, as in itself a means of propagating Christianity, are a fiction and absurdity." 907 "You will remember, I hope, for my justification, that in my proposal to him (the bishop) to resign the living of St. Paul's, I certainly said there were two conditions—two distinct conditions; not one combined with the other, but two distinct conditions, upon which my offer of resignation was to be fulfilled. 1. He was to say that he was 'of opinion that I was guilty of unfaithfulness to the English Church;' that unfaithfulness being gathered from the principles of duty in doctrine and in practice set forth in my letter of July 15 (see page 92); and, that being so, he was to pronounce thereupon his judgment, as bishop, to that effect. 2. He was in the same manner to say that my resignation would be, in his opinion, for the peace and better ordering of his diocese. Of course when an offer is made upon an hypothesis, and the offer accepted, the hypothesis is allowed. The bishop has therefore' pronounced me, in his judgment as a bishop, guilty of unfaithfulness to the English Church.' There can be no question whatever on this point." 908 "No bishop," said the law, "shall institute any to a benefice who hath been ordained by any other bishop, except he first show unto him his letters of orders, and bring him a sufficient testimony of his former good life and behaviour, if the bishop shall require it; and, lastly, shall appear on due examination, to be worthy of his ministry." "We, whose names are hereunder written, testify and make known that A. B., Clerk, A.M. (or other degree), presented (or to be collated, as the case may be) to the canonry (or to the rectory or vicarage, as the case may he) of—, in the county of—, in your Lordship's diocese, hath been personally known to us for the space of three years last past; that we have had opportunities of observing his conduct; that, during the whole of that time, we verily believe that he lived piously, soberly, and honestly; nor have we at any time heard anything to the contrary thereof; nor hath he at any time, as far as we know and believe, held, written, or taught anything contrary to the doctrine or discipline of the United Church of England and Ireland; and, moreover, we believe him in our consciences to be, as to his moral conduct, a person worthy to be admitted to the said
 909 910 "And the said curates and ministers, if they remove from one diocese to another, shall not be by any means admitted to serve without testimony of the bishop of the diocese, or ordinary of the place as aforesaid, whence they came, in writing, of their honesty, ability, and conformity to the ecclesiastical laws of the Church of England." 911 Ecclesiastical Law "It appears, then, that there is to be an examination by the bishop, which is to precede the admission of the curate; which duty of examination is cast upon him by the express terms of the canon; and, therefore, if the bishop either will not examine at all, or only in a mode altogether ineffectual for the purpose for which such an examination is required—if, in short, he should appear to refuse or elude the performance of this express duty, the Court will interfere by mandamus to compel such an examination to be made as appertains to his duty." "The word of the statute is 'approve,' and he must exercise that approbation according to his
 912 "Brighton, Jan. 12, 1852. "Rev. and Dear Sir—I have read and given my best attention to the memorial signed by yourself and some of the clergy, and other persons, forwarded to me from Frome, upon the recent appointment of Mr. Bennett to that living by the Marchioness of Bath. I can assure you, had I not been satisfied that Mr. Bennett was not attached to, or likely to be influenced by, the doctrines of the Church of Rome, or likely to influence in that direction others of any congregation committed to his care, I should have declined instituting him, from whatever quarter his nomination might have come; but as I am fully satisfied that Mr. Bennett has a firm and deep-rooted attachment to our own Church, and to all the doctrines of the Church of England, repudiating all Romish doctrines, I feel that I should be acting unjustly by him, and uncourteously as well as unfairly by the Marchioness of Bath (whose firm attachment to our Church is so well known), if I were to refuse him admission into my diocese. I shall, therefore, adhere as firmly to my intention of instituting Mr. Bennett (however respectable the signatures to any protest may be) as I should have objected to have done had my opinion of his attachment to the Church been otherwise. I will only add, in conclusion, that as you and all those who have signed the protest have done no more than they considered to be their duty in thus expressing their opinions to me, and I have myself as candidly stated my own feeling on the subject, which I trust will have the effect of allaying any fears which they have entertained, it is my earnest hope that there will be no unseemly opposition on the part of the clergy, or any of those who have signed the protest, and that Mr. Bennet will be received with kindly feeling.—I am, Rev. and dear Sir, your faithful servant, "R. BATH and WELLS. "The Rev. H. D. Wickham." 913 "Frome, Jan. 15, 1852. "My Lord—I am requested by those of the clergy and laity who presented the memorial to your Lordship, praying you not to institute the Rev. Mr. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome, to acknowledge the receipt of your reply, and to express their deep regret that you still intend to proceed with his institution, though he has not retracted, so far as we are aware, any of those doctrines and opinions cited in our memorial, which create in us so much alarm. "At the same time we beg to thank your Lordship for the credit which you give us of objecting to Mr. Bennett from a sense of duty; and, upon the recognition of this principle, we now trust that your Lordship will so far oblige us as to stay institution for the brief period of a fortnight, in order that we may deliberate calmly on a matter of such grave importance, and consider whether it may be our duty to take any further steps.—I am, my Lord, your very obedient humble servant. "HILL D. WICKHAM. "The Right Rev. the Bishop of Bath and Wells." "Jan. 19, 1852. "Rev. and Dear Sir—I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your letter containing the communication you were requested to forward to me, and remain, your faithful servant, "R. BATH AND WELLS." 914 "TO THE LORD BISHOP OF LONDON. "My Lord—We, the undersigned curates of the district church of St. Paul, Knightsbridge, and St. Barnabas, Pimlico, in your Lordship's diocese, having heard from the churchwardens that it is your Lordship's desire that the services in these churches should be performed in a manner different from that which we had the great privilege of enjoying hitherto, beg to resign our cures into your Lordship's hands.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he had not the slightest difficulty in deciding as to the course which he felt it was his duty to pursue, though he had certainly some difficulty in reconciling the various reasons which had been urged upon him for adopting a different course. Before noticing them, however, he must be permitted to gay one word with regard to the extraordinary attack, he might call it, which had been made against him by the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone). That right hon. Gentleman set out by observing, that at the proper time he would be prepared to impugn and disprove some of his (Mr. Horsman's) most important statements. Now, considering that these statements had been made in the presence of the assembled House of Commons, he thought the proper time for confuting them was the time at which they were made, and in the presence of the same Member who had listened to those statements. But the right hon. Gentleman did not think it a convenient time, and wished to postpone his confutation to a more appropriate season. He (Mr. Horsman) invited the right hon. Gentleman while speaking to confute his statements. Oh! said the right hon. Gentleman, "I will do so now;" and he thereupon proceeded to notice one of these statements, but left all the others
 938 939 940
 MR. AGLIONBY  hoped the opinions of those hon. Members who agreed, with his hon. Colleague (Mr. Horsman) in thinking that an inquiry was demanded in this matter, which was one certainly of great importance to the nation, would be shown to the public by a division upon the subject. He could not concur with the noble Lord
 937
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion. He said he considered it a matter of course that the papers asked for, should be conceded. The public felt that an attempt had been made to violate the law of nations in regard to these men. It would not be forgotten how this country was agitated from one end to the other—how meetings were held and resolutions passed calling upon the Government to protect these individuals. He believed the correspondence called for would show that the confidence which our people reposed in our Government was fully borne out, and that they had used the best arguments for the liberation of those refugees with the greatest effect. One half of this correspondence was produced last September—why not the other half now? It was only common justice to the late Government and to the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) that the correspondence should he laid before the public, who ought to be shown that the late Government had well and faithfully fulfilled its duty.
 MR. HUME  said, he would state clearly to the House the grounds upon which he would support the Motion. This House was no doubt the most improper tribunal for dealing with religious questions. But, then, the House had constituted itself such a tribunal. He never wished to hear such discussions in it, and had always deprecated them, but he did not see how they could be avoided so long as they had a Church established by law. The House
 924 925
 MR. SPOONER  thought that the case would be much worse, and the consequences most serious, if, when they were told the facts which were then disclosed, they, the Commons of England, were to say that these facts should not he entertained by them—they would meet the Motion at once with the Previous Question. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies that the inquiry was one that ought to be raised, and must be disposed of. But was it disposing of it to say that they would not entertain it? He said fearlessly that that was not the way the country would consent to have such an important question treated. The turn which the discussion had taken exhibited a tendency to leave out the main
 931 primâ facie
 MR. MANGLES  said, he considered, that the House of Commons was the proper tribunal before which such grievances as that now complained of should be brought; and the object of his hon. Friend (Mr. Horsman) was to induce the House respectfully to entreat Her Majesty, as head of the Church, to investigate the allegations which had been made, and ascertain how the case really stood. It seemed to be thought that inquiries of this nature were injurious to the Church; but he believed it was far more dangerous to the Church that such matters should be concealed, than that they should be inquired into, for he believed the real weakness of the Church consisted in concealment. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) had expressed his opinion that the main point at issue was the conduct of Mr. Bennett at Kissingen; but he (Mr. Mangles) thought the most important question was whether the Bishop of Bath and Wells had instituted Mr. Bennett to the living of Frome, knowing that he had been dismissed from the diocese of London for recorded unfaithfulness. The right hon. Gentleman opposite had objected to the weakness of the instrumentality proposed, and said that the bishop and the parties implicated might refuse to answer if there was a Commission of Inquiry. ["No!"] Well, it was so objected by some Gentleman on the opposite (the Ministerial) side of the House. But was that their notion of the loyalty of the bishops, that when called upon by the Queen, the temporal head of the Church, they would give no answer to charges such as these? He (Mr. Mangles) would not believe it till he saw it; but, if it were so, an Act of Parliament ought to be passed compelling them to answer. He would join in requesting his hon. Friend (Mr. Horsman) to withdraw the Motion, if the House had a plain, explicit, unmistakeable pledge from the Government that they would institute a real,  bonâ fide
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I beg to say a few words on what I cannot but term a very painful discussion. In my opinion all those questions which make the House of Commons an arena for theological discussion, are, except where there is an unavoidable necessity, very much to be regretted; at the same time I concur entirely in what the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has said, that a case has been made which not only invites but requires inquiry. If any individual professing to be a minister of the Church of England has obtained an institution to any benefice in that Church, when he is in fact, or is likely to become, a member of some other Christian communion, that is a state of things that ought not to be allowed; and if the law is not strong enough to meet his case, it ought to be made strong enough for that purpose. The hon. Gentlemen the Members for North Warwickshire have said that by moving the Previous Question we are shelving the discussion; but allow me to remind the hon. Gentlemen that such is not the case. If you adopt the Amendment of the Previous Question, you are simply stating that the question ought not now to be put. Now, that is a very important consideration. In reference to the Motion of the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman), which he has now brought forward, let me call the attention of the House to a fact connected with it. The Motion stood on the Notice-book for a fortnight in this form, namely, that the hon. Member was going to call the attention of the House to the circumstances attending the presentation and "institution of the Rev. Mr. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome;" but until yesterday evening the House was not really aware of the way in which the Motion was going to be put. I have asked the question of several of my hon. Friends in the House, and we were not aware that the discussion would take the turn which it has taken in consequence of the manner in which the notice has been brought forward. I mention this fact, in common fairness and justice, for the purpose of showing that those individuals who are referred to in the very able speech of the hon. Gentleman, should have a proper opportunity of explaining the circumstances of the case as far as relates to them: I mean the Bishop of London, the Bishop of Bath and Wells, and the patroness of the living. The subject has
 936
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he thought the House would feel that some explanation was due from him after what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat. The hon. Gentleman said that he (Mr. Gladstone) charged him with not having honestly quoted a document to which he had referred. His (Mr. Gladstone's) memory might err, like that of others, but his recollection was strong that he had never used any word so improper or offensive. If he had used such a word, he would be the first to apologise for having done so; but he was quite certain that he did not use it. The hon. Gentleman charged him with using the word "honestly," and he (Mr. Gladstone) would appeal to the House whether he had used such a term?
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I can assure the House that if they give me their atten-
 933 934 935
 MR. EWART  said, that the same fallacy with respect to the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman) had pervaded the speeches both of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer and of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis). His (Mr. Ewart's) hon. Friend had not called upon that House to constitute itself a tribunal for the investigation of this matter, but merely to interpose—to ask the proper authorities in whom the power was vested to conduct such an investigation. Now this, he maintained, was a perfectly constitutional course, and one which was constantly adopted in the cases of Addresses to the Crown. Nothing could be more absurd or impolitic than for that House to constitute itself a tribunal for the settlement of theological questions; but it had the power both of making laws and of putting the laws in motion, by appealing to the proper authorities who were charged with that duty: that was all that his hon. Friend had asked them to do.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  hoped that his hon. Friend would not accept the advice which had just been given him by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer. It must be evident to the House that this question was one of considerable embarrassment to the right hon. Gentleman, because, in spite of the command of language which he usually possessed, it was most evident to every individual present, that from the beginning to the end of his address he was at a greater loss for some means to answer the able speech of the hon. Gentleman who had brought this question forward, than he (Sir H. Verney) believed he had ever been before. The right hon. Gentleman, indeed, had found himself utterly unable to parry the attack which had been made upon a portion of the conduct of the Establishment to which they all belonged, and which they were all anxious, if possible, to defend. Did the right hon. Gentleman mean to stand there, as the First Minister of the Crown in that House, to tell them that the Queen, as "Defender of the Faith," had no power to institute an inquiry into circumstances of a most important nature connected with the Church? He (Sir H. Verney) could not believe that such was the fact. Was it to be stated in that House that a prelate had instituted a clergyman who had been guilty of the practices of which the Rev. Mr. Bennett had been guilty, and no answer was to be given to these allegations? There was far greater danger to the country from the abuse of their power by the dignitaries of the Church, than in the attacks of foreign foes, or of those who might seek to impair our institutions, greatness, and power. He therefore hoped that his hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth would persevere with his Motion; that nothing would induce him to allow the question to be shelved, but that he would afford the House an opportunity of fairly and honestly expressing its opinion upon it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that his hon. Friend who had last spoken had said that as this question had been raised
 926 927 928
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the
 922 primâ facie brutum fulmen 923
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, As I am a party concerned in the production of the correspandence for which my noble Friend moves, I take the earliest opportunity of stating that, so far as I am concerned, and I believe I may say also for the late Government of which I was a Member, that there can be no objection to compliance with the Motion. It is a notorious fact, known to all the world, that those refugees were detained in Turkey for a considerable portion of time, much against the natural wish of the Turkish Government, but in deference to the apprehensions and to the wishes of the Government of Austria. I am not here to blame or to find fault with the Government of Austria, or with the feelings they entertained with respect to those persons. They did entertain feelings of alarm—no doubt sincere feelings. But, assuming such were the feelings and opinions of Austria, Her Majesty's Government thought that Austria had no right to dictate to the Porte as to the manner in which the Sultan
 948
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that the Bill contained so far a new principle that it proposed to make it imperative upon every county to appoint a superintending constable for every petty sessional division. At present it was optional. To the other objects of the Bill he was decidedly favourable, inasmuch as he believed that, for a rural population, parochial constables were far preferable to a rural police; and he sincerely hoped that the clause respecting the superintending constables was not intended to be made a stepping-stone to the imperative imposition upon the counties of a rural police, or of anything similar under a different name. He would suggest to the hon. Mover of the Bill to consider whether he had sufficiently encouraged the system of parochial constables by offering more inducements to get persons to serve permanently in the force—that is, for four or five years. His great object was to have the Parochial Constables Bill made as perfect as possible, which might render unnecessary the formation of a general rural police.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he observed that the Bill proposed that the salary and allowance of the chief superintending constable for each county should be paid out of the county rate, which, as the House was aware, was collected along with the poor-rate. By a subsequent clause, it was proposed that the salary of the paid constables should be "paid by the overseers out of the moneys in their hands collected for the relief of the poor." Now, he begged to say that he could not agree to those proposals. It had been the custom of late years to throw charges upon the poor-rate which were quite foreign to the original object of that impost, and he must say it was a custom which was exceedingly objectionable. If it was necessary to have a rate in this case, let it be a separate rate—a constable or police rate, or whatever they might choose to call it, but let it not be mixed up with a rate for the relief of the poor. He made these observations, not with the view of opposing the Bill, but trusting that some mode would he found of remedying his objection to those portions of the measure when the Bill was in Committee.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking it
 964
 MR. PACKE  said, he could bear testimony to the great advantages which the county with which he was connected (Leicestershire) had derived from the institution of a rural police.
 MR. DEEDES,  in reply, said, that his only object was to introduce the measure into such counties as were willing to receive it. With respect to the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board, he begged to say that when the Bill was in Committee he should be perfectly ready to listen to any suggestion that might be made with respect to the best mode of raising the salaries and allowances to be paid under the Bill; but, in the meantime, he must remind the right hon. Gentleman that the Acts which he now sought by this Bill to consolidate and amend, gave power, at the present moment, to throw the expenses upon the county rates and poor-rates.
 LORD NAAS  could only deal with the Bill as he found it, and must contend that the effect of the clause would be what he had stated. The opinion of the stake-net owners was, that their rights were in all cases guaranteed by the Act of 1842, and that they had as good a right to take the fish in their stake nets as his hon. Friend who held a fishery granted by charter. They said that they possessed a Parliamentary right to their fishery; and he could not conceive that the proprietors of stake-nets were prepared to sacrifice their rights for any compromise with the upper proprietors; and it would be inflicting a great injury upon them if in any measure brought forward, those rights were infringed. The hon. Gentleman proposed, then, to increase the supply of fish by sweeping away one interest altogether from the rivers of Ireland. He (Lord Naas) must express his belief that it would be necessary for the Government to deal with this question, and to propose a measure which would have the effect of increasing the supply of fish; but he believed that Government would inflict a great injustice were they to propose any measure which would have the effect of destroying rights that existed by Act of Parliament. Since the passing of the Act establishing those rights, they had been in many cases sold and resold, and a proposal to touch them involved grave questions of property. The titles of proprietors were dear to them as establishing those rights, and he could conceive no greater infringement of the rights of property than an Act of Parliament to sweep them away altogether. He believed, however, that a measure was required affecting the interests concerned, and that it would be necessary for any gentleman holding the situation which he had now the honour to fill, should the diminution of supply continue and be aggravoted, to propose a measure considerably reducing the period of the fishing season, with the view of limiting the power of capture. His hon. Friend proposed to create a new fishery board in Dublin, and
 956
 LORD NAAS  said, no one could be more ready than himself to bear testimony to the diligence exhibited by his hon. Friend in getting up this subject, and the intimate knowledge he had exhibited of it in all its details; neither did any Member of the House feel more deeply than he did the great importance of the question. It was a question of immense difficulty, involving complicated interests, which had from time to time, more than any similar question, occupied the attention of Parliament, and had been in Ireland a most fruitful source of litigation. But he must confess that the remarks of his hon.
 954 955
 MR. FREWEN  said, that great injury had been done in consequence of the Act of 1842 fixing one close season for the whole of Ireland, whereas previously each
 960
 MR. FREWEN  said, in moving the Second Reading of the Bill, he had been induced to bring forward the measure because it appeared from a Return made on the subject that there were several parishes in the kingdom where at present there were no churches. Even that Return was an imperfect one, for he knew of a great number of parishes without churches that were not included in it. Towards the close of the last Session he proposed to insert, in a measure which then occupied the attention of the House, a clause to remedy the present want of accommodation in many parts of the country. The majority of the House voted in favour of its insertion; but, in consequence of a misunderstanding on the part of the late Government, the clause was afterwards withdrawn. By returns to which he had previously alluded, it appeared that there were about 150 districts in England, in which, owing to the want of churches, no divine service was performed, although these districts were endowed with church livings. He was acquainted with a parish in Kent, the clergyman of which regularly received his income of 150 l. 961 l. l., l 962 l
 MR. FREWEN : It appears to me that a clause of a similar nature has been introduced into the 1st and 2nd Victoria.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Gentleman may, on the report, or on the third reading, bring up such a clause, and it may then be inserted; but the hon. Member cannot introduce a Bill containing such a clause as that to which I have called his attention.
 MR. SPEAKER : Certainly this other clause of the Bill is equally beyond its title.
 MR. SPEAKER : I beg to call the hon. Gentleman's attention to the fact that the second clause of this Bill, relating to private chapels, is not within the title of the Bill.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he willingly expressed his satisfaction that the Govern-
 957 l.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he would take that occasion to say that the Amendments proposed to be moved by the hon. Member for Cirencester (Mr. Mullings) would receive his acquiescence.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, his original Bill did not give any compulsory process as against persons in that position; but the Committee after receiving evidence determined that after a given period the plan of the tithe commutation should be followed, and the enfranchisement should then he compulsory, so as to assimilate all the tenures in the Kingdom.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he never would consent to have any appeal from the first decision. He would rather, for his part, submit to an unjust decision than be driven about from pillar to post in the manner in which people were treated in the Court of Chancery and the Courts of Common Law, in appealing from one tribunal to another.
 MR. AGLIONBY  begged to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman would not be disposed to limit the power of deciding when there ought to be an appeal to the Court above, without reference to the wishes of any of the parties interested that there should be such appeal? To the parties having any such power of demanding an appeal on any frivolous objection, he most decidedly objected. He thought, in the matter of an enfranchisement under the Bill, it was necessary that
 966
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, it was only his Bill because he had taken a more lively interest in it than any other person; but it was really the Bill of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cirencester (Mr. Mullings). Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) might think it worth his while to prepare some Amendment that would be likely to carry out his wishes between that and the bringing up of the Report, and he (Mr. Aglionby) would then give it his consideration.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, the clause in question was not his, but was one which had been introduced by some other person.
 967
 MR. AGLIONBY  suggested that the word "capabilities" should be substituted for "facilities."
 MR. H. HERBERT  wished to impress upon the Government the importance of dealing with the subject, because it was an undoubted fact that since the last legislation, and in consequence of that legislation, there had been a great decrease in the produce of the Irish fisheries. He hoped, therefore, that some sound measure would be passed upon this subject, for he believed that no step could be taken which would be attended with greater advantage to the country. He believed that the arbitrary and ill-judged interference with private rights which had been exercised by the present Board of Works had led to no public advantages, but had, on the contrary, been one of the causes of the decline in the number of fish. He trusted that the pretest Bill would be withdrawn.
 MR. H. HOPE  said, that every thing might in a sense be said to be capable of improvement; and he would rather see the word "probability" substituted.
 MR. JACOB BELL  thought the omission of the words "facilities for improvement" would be a great improvement to the clause.
 MR. WHITESIDE  thought the legislation which had taken place upon the subject of Irish fisheries furnished a very instructive lesson to the House. A considerable number of Acts of Parliament had already been passed, and the present Bill, which was proposed to consolidate former statutes, contained no less than 169 clauses. He admitted that previous legislation had not been very successful, but he doubted whether any legislation could be devised which could assist the operations of nature in producing more salmon. It was impossible that a measure of such great magnitude could be perfectly discussed and passed in the present Session. His hon. Friend proposed that there should be two boards of Commissioners. That, in his opinion, was a matter for the consideration of the Government. His hon. Friend proposed to protect the navigation of the Irish rivers; but the existing Acts gave sufficient power to prevent obstructions to the navigation. There were clauses in the Bill which would interfere with existing rights, and he thought the House ought to pause before they consented to sweep away rights which were created by Act of Parliament. No doubt it was expedient that an inquiry should be instituted to ascertain the causes of the diminution of salmon in Ireland; and the hon. Member (Mr. Conolly) must admit, from the statement of the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, that there was a disposition on the part of the Government to do everything that was necessary for that purpose. His surprise was, not that there had been a diminution of salmon, but that a single salmon was to be found in Ireland. It was impossible for salmon to grow large when they were killed young, or to multiply before they were married. If any legislative measure could be devised to remedy the evil, he was certain the Government would consider it their duty to propose it to the House.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was extremely glad that this subject had been brought under the consideration of the House, because a very great number of people were interested in it. He hoped sincerely that the object which the hon. Member had in view in bringing forward the Bill might be realised. He (Mr. Henley) thought it desirable that the Bill should go before a Select Committee, in order that it might be the better adapted to carry out that object.
 MR. MULLINGS  thought it very desirable to have some appeal, as serious questions of law might arise to render it in the highest degree necessary. But this was the hon. Member for Cockermouth's Bill, and he (Mr. Mullings) only meant to coincide in the suggestion made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole).
 MR. SLANEY , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, it came before the House on the recommendation of two successive Committees, and he might describe its purpose almost in a word, which was to enable poor people with small sums invested in partnership transactions to have recourse when necessary to a cheap tribunal, and to bring those small partnerships within the meaning of the Friendly Societies' Act. He would not further detain the House, as he had found the principle of the Bill had met with general assent.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, there might be cases in which land had got a capacity for improvement, particularly when situate in the vicinity of large towns, and his proposition was not to leave out the clause altogether, but to put it in some other shape.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the suggestion he wished to make was, that either party might apply to the Commissioners, and if the Commissioners certified that it was a proper case for an appeal, that a case should then be drawn and submitted to the Court of Common Pleas.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the wording of the Clause, by which the valuers were directed to take particular cases into consideration, in valuing the land about to be enfranchised, and, among others, "the facilities for improvement." He did not know what the term facilities for improvement might mean, and the Commissioners might be called on to go into an unlimited inquiry as to its interpretation. He would suggest that the point he taken into consideration by the hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Bill.
 MR. WALPOLE  was not aware that that House had ever yet dispensed with an appeal with reference to matters in which nice questions of law might be involved. He certainly thought the decisions of the Commissioners should not in all cases be final; and it occurred to him that the best way perhaps of remedying the difficulties that might occur, would be, that in certain cases the Commissioners should have the power of certifying that there was cause for an appeal, and that the matter should then be referred to a Court of Common Law. In that case the question of law would be decided by a competent tribunal.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought cases might arise in which an appeal ought to lie from the decision of the Commissioners to a Court of Common Law, similar to that which lay from the decisions of the revising barristers to the Court of Common Pleas.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was glad to find that the principle of compulsory enfranchisement was not to be persevered in at present. He had felt that if they had compulsory enfranchisement, after the year 1855, of every copyhold in the Kingdom, it would press hardly on poor people if they were required to pay down a sum of money for their enfranchisement—they not desiring any enfranchisement to take place
 965
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, that he believed that every fish that came into the rivers might be taken during the open season, but he believed that that season was at present too long. He did not think that the proper remedy for the present state of things was to allow some to fish and to prevent others, but to lengthen the close season, and to protect the fish in the upper waters during the spawning season. He approved of the attempt to consolidate the law and to establish a fishery board; but he thought that the subject should be left in the hands of the Government. He had hoped that the hon. Member for Donegal would, after the general expression of opinion, have consented to withdraw his Bill; but as he had not done so, he would move that the Bill should be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. CONOLLY  said, that in withdrawing the Bill, he did so, relying on the assurance that the noble Lord (Lord Naas) would take up the subject as soon as possible, with the  bonâ fide
 MR. CONOLLY  said, the 66th Clause laid the foundation of a fairc ompromise, by prohibiting stake-nets at the points where they were calculated to be most prejudicial, and allowing the upper proprietors a fair share of the fishery. He did not propose to interfere further.
 MR. CONOLLY  said, that in moving that this Bill be read a Second Time, he
 951 952 953 "So blest by God—so cursed by man!"
 MR. GLADSTONE : I shall take the liberty, Sir, of calling your attention to another clause of the Bill. If you direct your eye to the fourth clause, you will see that it is also beyond the title of the Bill. It is a clause with respect to non-residence. With regard to the second clause, the hon. Member (Mr. Frewen) should have moved for a preliminary Committee. It is a clause relating to religion, altering the Act of Uniformity, and requires a preliminary Committee by the rules of this House.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he was glad to hear that it was the intention of Government to oppose this Bill. He could corroborate the statements which had been made by the hon. Member (Mr. Conolly) with respect to the decrease of fish, which, in the part of the country where he (Mr. Monsell) resided, had taken place chiefly since the House had begun to legislate upon the subject. In order to show the impossibility of this question being dealt with by a private Member, he might mention that one of the provisions of this Bill went to prevent the erection of stake weirs within a certain distance of the mouth of a navigable river; the mouth of a river being defined to be, when it began to be two miles wide. Great injury would be inflicted upon the proprietors of the river Shannon by this clause, as the weirs for a very considerable distance up the river must then be destroyed. He mentioned this to show the necessity of the subject being taken up by Government, who would consider the interests of the whole country.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  hoped that his hon. Friend (Mr. Conolly) would not press the Motion to a division, as he did not think that he would benefit the Irish fisheries by forcing this measure on a reluctant House of Commons at the present moment. He was glad to hear that the Government were about to enter upon the consideration of this subject, for the annual decrease in the produce of the Irish salmon fisheries was a most serious thing for that country, and was a point which called for the most anxious attention of every one interested in that country. He believed that the noble Lord (Lord Naas) was mistaken in the belief that great benefit would be derived from an extension of the close season. In his inquiry he hoped that the noble Lord would not lose sight of the vested interests created by the Bill of 1842. If the noble Lord determined upon doing anything on this subject, he would suggest that he should begin to do it with as little delay as possible. It was difficult to resist the impression that the falling-off in the produce of the fisheries was in some degree owing to the recent legislation on that subject. The noble Lord had properly remarked, that the difficulty of dealing with the subject was increased by the opposite interests which existed. It was difficult to persuade the owner of a stake net not to avail himself of it to the greatest possible extent for his own private advan-
 959
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : I wish to make one or two remarks in explanation of my conduct, which has been spoken of by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Gibson) in reference to the  Household Words. Household Narrative. Household Narrative
 MR. COWAN  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the event of the adjournment being carried, whether the objection for-
 1024
 MR. FREWEN  thought the present was not the proper time to call upon the Government to repeal a tax of any description, and no Member of the House was more justified in saying so than he was. A month ago he had a notice upon the paper, which had stood there from the commencement of the Session, with regard to the Hop Duty, a tax which pressed heavily upon his constituents. But what was the course he felt bound to take upon that question? Just before coming down to the House to bring it forward, he received a copy of a resolution which had been unanimously agreed to by an influential committee of gentlemen in Sussex, formed to promote the repeal of the Hop Duty, in which they stated that however anxious they might be to get rid of the tax, yet considering that Ministers had but recently come into office, and had not had time to mature their financial arrangements, it would not be fair to press that subject upon the attention of Parliament then. He (Mr. Frewen) hesitated not to act upon the recommendation, and withdrew his Motion accordingly; and he thought it would be
 1027
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am sorry there should be any misunderstanding on the part of the right hon. Gentleman with respect to anything I said. So long as I have the conduct of the House, I should be very much annoyed if any deception had taken place. I should not wish the right hon. Gentleman, or any of his Friends, to think that the question is under the consideration of the Government at all with reference to his Motion, or more specifically than it is the duty of the Government to consider the taxation of the country on all its branches; in that way the consideration of those taxes of course is not omitted. No statement has been made by me to lead him to suppose that it is under more particular consideration; the proposition for adjournment did not come from this side. I proposed no terms. I merely stated that on to-morrow week I shall make the financial statement.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : If the hon. Gentleman wishes me to tell him what I intend to do on Friday next, I beg to say that I cannot do so.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in the few observations that I have to make upon this Motion, I can assure the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Gibson) that neither I nor my Colleagues are at all influenced by those sinister feelings which he has ascribed to the originators of these duties. I can say frankly for myself and my Colleagues that we have no fear or apprehension of the influence of the press; and in a country like this— in a country long established in the enjoyment of political liberty—in a country eminently religious—I cannot admit for a moment that experience drawn from the instances of other lands, where the existence of an unrestricted press has resulted in circumstances which we all deplore—I cannot, I say, for one moment admit that these instances should be brought forward as any warning to a country like our own. But, Sir, I fear I must consider this case in a view much less interesting, much less philosophical, much less adapted to charm the House, than that which has been pursued by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester. It is only in a financial point of view that I can afford to view it at present. Sir, we have before us three propositions, each of which, if carried, affects the finances of this country, and which, if carried all together, would very materially affect our finances. The right hon. Gentleman, in an able and temperate address, first calls upon this House, if not immediately to express an opinion that the duty on paper should be abolished or repealed, yet to express such an opinion as must influence the course of the Minister responsible for the finances of the country. I do not wish to contest the
 1015 1016 1017 1018 1019 l. 1020
 MR. MOWATT  understood that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) had accepted the Amendment which had been moved by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley). If so, it was not for him (Mr. Mowatt) to interfere between the right hon. Gentleman and such a proposition. He would, however, say that he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman had adopted that course. He thought it would have been better if the right hon. Gentleman had gone to a division, because, if he might judge from what had taken place on former discussions on this subject, he thought that the hands of the Government would, in fact, have been strengthened by giving them an opportunity to put an end to this injurious tax. His chief object in rising, however, was to express a hope that this adjournment had not been moved with the view of getting rid of the question. He wanted a clear understanding upon that subject. He hoped it was clearly understood that if this tax should not be disposed of by the Budget, this debate would be really resumed on the day to which it had been proposed to adjourn it.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought it would not have been in accordance with custom if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given any particular pledges on the subject of taxation; but he (Mr. Hume) hoped and trusted that the Government would seriously consider this question. He had attended the noble Lord late at the head of the Government as one of a numerous deputation—composed of fifty or sixty individuals—of men engaged in the manufacture of paper and its uses for all purposes, all of whom desired the abolition of the Act by which these duties were imposed. To that deputation the noble Lord replied that he did not regard the Act of Parliament as means of providing punishment for blasphemous publications, but in a financial
 1025 1026
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I beg to second that Motion. That I consider will be the best course to take. But I do not see that there is any reason why we still should not enforce the points of this question upon the attention of the House. I have been sitting upstairs upon a Select Committee of this House to inquire into the state of education; and from the evidence there
 1021 d. Popular Educator Working Man's Friend d. Library for the Working Classes; l. d. l. 1022 Amazon Amazon 1023
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had been informed, not having been in the House at the time, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that the advertisement and stamp duties were under the consideration of the Government. Under these circum-stances he freely consented to the adjournment of the debate until Wednesday, the 12th of May next.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in moving the Resolution of which he had given notice for the repeal of these duties, said: In bringing under the notice of the House a proposal for the repeal of any portion of taxation, and for lessening thereby the public income of the country, a Member labours under considerable difficulties, for there naturally arises in the minds of hon. Gentlemen, upon such a proposition being made, the feeling that it proceeds out of what has been termed "an ignorant impatience of taxation," and that the Motion is dictated by some clamour out of doors, arising from an indisposition to pay any tax whatever. I admit that there are persons who are rather indiscriminating in the course that they take in reference to the repeal of taxes. I, for one, have always endeavoured to avoid supporting any Motion, or encouraging any views, for the repeal of a tax, without I had first satisfied myself as to the
 984 985 986 987 Illus- 988 trated London News "I yesterday did myself the honour to forward for your acceptance a copy of the  Illustrated London News Illustrated London News s. d. 989 "Were it not for the operation of the excise duty I could print at my paper mill educational books, bibles, testaments, &c, and indeed every description of books, at the cost of the ink, added simply to that of the paper; a fact which, with others equally important, I think I could satisfactorily prove to you if you would grant me the honour of an interview. You must, Sir, in your youth, have wandered along the beautiful streams of Buckinghamshire, and listened to the busy sounds of the water wheel tearing to pieces an otherwise useless article to manufacture it into valuable paper; and it must have given you pleasure to reflect that this gave healthful, pleasant, and remunerative employment to great numbers of the rural population. Most of the Buckinghamshire mills have, I grieve to remind you, been swept away under the operation of the excise duty, and transferred to barren but populous coal districts, leaving the population of Buckinghamshire unemployed, and, to a great extent, pauperised. I have no hesitation in saying, that if this excise duty upon paper were abolished, these mills would be again prosperous, and employ large numbers of people. Nor is this the only evil result of the tax upon agricultural districts. One article, straw, which is produced by the farmer, is no sooner employed in paper making, for which it is well adapted, than it is taxed 300 per cent. I need not dwell at further length upon such a positive injury to agriculture as that is." 990 "As a manufacturer I give constant employment and full wages to 300 individuals, all of this locality—most of them instructed by myself—[this gentleman writes from Dripsey-mills, near Cork], and I am told by the clergymen of the parish, both Protestant and Roman Catholic (for I enjoy the friendship of both), that I keep more than twice that number out of the workhouse. I devote my time and attention to my business, with the exception only of one day in the week, the best portion of which is given to my duties as Poor Law Guardian of this union." 991 Dictionary s. Commercial Dictionary s. Dictionary; 992 Popular Educator. l. l. l. Popular Educator Working Man's Friend l. l. The Struggles of a Book The Case of the Authors against the Paper Duty. "It is difficult to add anything new to the arguments which have been urged in the House of Commons, and by other modes, for the abolition of the paper duty. A few points have struck me in addition to what I have written on the subject. Amid much which is injurious or frivolous in cheap publications, I think there is a manifest
 993 l. s. d. d. s. Imperial Penny Cyclopœdia. l. l. 994 Cyclopœdia l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. l. s. l. l. s. Household Words Quarterly Review; Chambers's Papers for the People. Review s. l. s. Papers d. l. s. ad valorem Review l. l. s. d. l. ad valorem s. d. 995 l. l. 996 l. Times l. 997 Daily News 998 Amazon 999 Times Times 1000 "Mr. Secretary St. John informed the House he had a Message. Her Majesty finds it necessary to observe how great license is taken in publishing false and scandalous libels, such as are a reproach to any Government. This evil seems to be grown too strong for the laws now in force; it is, therefore, recommended to you to find a remedy equal to the mischief." "We are very sensible how much the liberty of the press is abused, by turning it into such licentiousness as is a reproach to the nation, since not only false and scandalous libels are printed and published against your Majesty's Government, but the most horrid blasphemies against God and religion; and we beg leave humbly to assure your Majesty that we will do our utmost to find out a remedy equal to the mischief, and that may effectually cure it." "Some Members were so exasperated at the Dutch memorial being published in a newspaper, that on the 12th, the House being resolved into a grand Committee to consider of that part of the Queen's Message to the House, the 17th of January last, which relates to the great license taken in publishing false and scandalous libels, Sir Gilbert Dolben being the chairman, they came to these two resolutions:— '1. That the liberty taken in printing and publishing scandalous and impious libels creates divisions among Her Majesty's subjects, tends to the disturbance of the public peace, is highly prejudicial to Her Majesty's Government, and is occasioned for want of due regulating the press. 2. That all printing presses be registered, with the names of the owners, and places of abode; and that the author, printer, and publisher of every book set his name and place of abode thereto.' These resolutions were ordered to be reported the Tuesday following; but the said report was then put off till that day se'nnight, and afterwards further adjourned from time to time; some Members having, in the grand Committee on Ways and Means, suggested a more effectual way for suppressing libels, viz., by laying a great duty on all newspapers and pamphlets." 1001 "Among the matters of importance during this Session, we may justly number the proceedings of the House of Commons with relation to the press, since Her Majesty's message to the House of January 17, concludes with a paragraph representing the great licenses taken in publishing false and scandalous libels, such as are a reproach to any Government, and recommending them to find a remedy equal to the mischief. The meaning of these words in the message seems to be confined to those weekly and daily papers and pamphlets reflecting upon the persons and the management of the Ministry. But the House of Commons in their address which answers this message, make an addition of the blasphemies against God and religion; and it is certain that nothing would be more for the honour of the Legislature than some effectual law for putting a stop to this universal mischief; but as the person who advised the Queen on that part of her message had only these in his thoughts, the redressing of the political and factious libels, I think he ought to have taken care by his great credit in the House to have proposed some way by which that evil might be removed; the law for taxing single papers having produced a quite contrary effect, as was then foreseen by many persons, and has since been found true by experience. Those who would draw their pens by the side of their princes and country, are discouraged by this tax, which exceeds the intrinsic value both of the materials and the work: and this, if I be not mistaken, without example." "Whereas pamphlets and printed papers containing observations upon public events and occurrences, tending to excite hatred and contempt of the Government and constitution of these realms as by law established, and also vilifying our holy religion, have lately been published in
 1002 1003 English Republic, or God and the People Notes for the People 1004 l. l. l. Times Morning Advertiser. Times 1005 Morning Chronicle Morning Herald Daily News The Daily News Morning Advertiser Times. History of the Newspaper Press Daily News Morning Advertiser Times Times Times Times 1006 Household Narrative of Current Events Household Narrative of Current Events 1007 Poor Man's Guardian Household Narrative of Current Events Household Narrative of Current Events 1008 in terrorem Racing Times; Racing Telegraph 1009 Times Racing Telegraph Legal Observer Builder Home "I should have left you to have taken your chance in your own 'tumult,' had you not, since you declared war, ventured, in the House of Commons, to utter the most extravagant, impertinent nonsense that ever escaped from the lips of mortal. At a time when all our military and naval authorities, supported by the voice of the public, demand that this nation shall be put in a better state of defence against foreign invasion, and when both the last and the present Government had determined that that most constitutional force, the militia, shall once more be organised, and that the men shall be trained a few weeks every year, to enable be to resist any invading force, you are ready to oppose that necessary and constitutional proposition. Not from any love of peace—that is impossible; for, but a few days before, you had proved that you were animated, from the soles of your feet to the crown of your head, with the martial spirit—the spirit of war, and were prepared to take the field, to engage in civil war, in defence of what you call free trade, which, no man knows better than yourself, means the ascendancy of the cotton lords, low wages, and long hours of factory toil." Legal Observer. 1010 "We observe that several petitions for the repeal of this tax have been presented from individual members of the profession, and a few from particular towns; and we presume there can be no objection to these occasional notes of preparation for the renewed contest; but we understand the preferable course will be to procure the attendance of Members on the day fixed for the debate, in order that they may present the petitions to the House just before the Motion of Lord Robert Grosvenor." Lamp "Be it known unto all whom it may concern, that the Russell and Durham Ministry has paid the debt of nature. Long before these lines meet the eyes of our readers, all the world will have learned the fact, and all the world—save the paltry, place-loving family clique—will rejoice at it. What a singular turnout! And by what singular instrumentality! 'Old Pam' has had his revenge, and no doubt he chuckles o'er the downfall of him who so lately and so unceremoniously requested him to vacate his chair in the Foreign Office." "But, after all, what is our present duty? Why, to take every means in our power to thwart the Tories; to put them out of office as soon as possible. Give them not an hour's security. What, then! let the Whigs reassume power? Not so. The Whigs, as they are, can never again take office. There must be no family compact. There shall be none; or, if there be, the 'Brigade' will drum them out of their quarters." 1011
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he would not detain the House at any length. He had always taken a deep interest in this question, and was anxious as to the conclusion to which the House would come. He had heard all the previous discussions on the subject, except one; and he would do his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson) the justice to say, that a clearer or more unanswerable statement than that which he had made that evening, he (Mr. Wakley) had never had the good fortune to listen to. He must also say, that the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had treated the Motion, had also afforded him infinite satisfaction. The right hon. Gentleman had made the right hon. Member for Manchester a kind and reasonable proposal. He had asked that this subject should not be considered until after he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had made his financial statement. Under such circumstances, he (Mr. Wakley) did not think that this debate could be prolonged with advantage to any one. He trusted, therefore, that his right hon. Friend would at once agree to the proposal of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, and that the House would assent to the adjournment of the debate until that day fortnight.
 MR. EWART  said, he most earnestly seconded the Motion of his right hon. Friend. He did so, because he believed that this was a question intimately connected with the practical education of the people of this country. The people of this country were justly deemed a practical people; and in his opinion the House could not more effectually promote their practical education than by adopting the present Motion. He objected to all the taxes included in the Motion: first, because he deemed the stamp duty to be a tax upon the raw material of thought; and, secondly, that the advertisement duty was a tax upon the intercourse of mankind. There was another reason why he objected to these taxes. He maintained that the great advantage of modern times was, that the people formed their judgment of public affairs by the deliberations of the press, and not by the agitation of popular assemblies. In the Greek and Roman times it was easy to mislead the people, because they were addressed through the ear; whereas the people of the present day were addressed by the press through their understanding. Now, he held that it was in accordance with the principles of peace, good order, and the security of property and society, that the people should have every means of solemnly and deliberately forming their judgments. On what ground were they asked to continue these taxes? Some Gentlemen seemed to think that they were part of the ancient institutions of the country, whereas the fact was that they were modern innovations. He maintained that those taxes were in every respect indefensible. The paper duty dated from the wars of Marlborough; the stamp duty was one of recent origin; and the advertisement duty was first imposed by Mr. Pitt. The paper duty, for instance, had been proved to be most adverse to the literature of the country. He would not accumulate cases in proof of this, but would simply refer to the fact stated by the Messrs. Chambers before a Committee of that House, that one of their popular publications had been discontinued, in consequence of this duty; and to another fact
 1012 Penny Cyclopœdia Times Times Times d. d. Times Daily News 1013 l. 1014
 MR. RICH  said, he had great pleasure in seconding the Amendment of the hon. and gallant General, who had, he thought, most effectually disposed of the statement of the right hon. Gentleman who moved the second reading of the Bill, that in the event of an enemy's landing we could not bring more than 25,000 men to bear against him. He could only account for that statement by concluding that the right hon. Gentleman had thrown Ireland entirely out of the question: but, considering the facilities of communication between the two countries, it was absurd to suppose that men in Ireland were not as available as any in England. It was upon these one-sided and incomplete statements that the alarm which pervaded the nation had been created. Upon the showing, however, of the right hon. Gentleman himself there was no particular urgency for this measure; and the noble Lord at the head of the Government had in another place alleged the very amicable state of our foreign relations, as affording the most fit opportunity for increasing our defences without creating in foreign countries feelings of alarm or jealousy. There was no immediate necessity, then, which could justify an expiring Parliament in imposing upon the country so large an expenditure, when the approaching dissolution afforded so appropriate an opportunity of testing public opinion upon the subject. In the absence of this urgency, the right hon. Gentleman alluded to hidden dangers from the smouldering embers of democracy, and, at the same time, with some inconsistency I dwelt on the large standing armies of the despotic Powers as a cause of alarm. With reference to these apprehensions
 1043 1044 l. l. 1045 1046 History of the Peninsular War, 1047 1048 1049 1050 l. l. 1051
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he must congratulate the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken on the prodigious relief he must have experienced by the dissolution of the late Government, as that otherwise unhappy circumstance had relieved him from the painful necessity of being obliged to support a proposition to which, though brought forward by the Government with which he was connected, he was at heart opposed; for it appeared to him (Sir J. Walsh) that the very long and copious objections urged by the hon. Member would have applied with as much propriety to the Bill of the late Government, of which he was a member, as to the present measure. The whole of the hon. Gentleman's objections might be said to be comprised in this one—that any militia embodied for a short period was an inefficient and objectionable force. The great difference between the present Bill and that of the former Government is, that in the present instance there is an alternative given to parties to volunteer; and only in case of the number offering being insufficient was the ballot to be resorted to; both measures, however, contemplated a militia embodied for a short period as the nucleus of a force to be called upon in case of necessity. The description of force suggested by the hon. Gentleman would be of course much more valuable; for if they could secure 80,000 men, fully armed, accoutred, disciplined, drilled, and officered by Her Majesty's Army, of course such a force in the nature of things must be more efficient than they could hope this militia would prove. But they must consider what was possible and practicable in the existing state of things. He was quite certain that the House would never consent to so expensive a proceeding as a large increase of the regular Army. The hon. Member had shadowed forth many of the sources from which a regular and disciplined force might be obtained. But all such measures would involve a considerable period of time; whereas the necessity for the force proposed was, that it must be organised immediately. The principle of a militia, as he understood, had been conceded from all sides of the House at an early period of the Session. When the proposition was made by the noble Lord lately at the head of the Government, the principle was advocated by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), and was supported by those who now sat upon the Opposition benches. But now it appears that an opposition was
 1053 1054 Vixen, 1055 Caroline Nolens volens, 1056 1057 1058 matériel
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  thought, from the observations with which the hon. Baronet who had just sat down had commenced his speech, that he would be surprised to learn that he (Mr. Peel), although a Member of the late Government, and although not an advocate of the views of
 1059 l. l. 1060 . l. l. 1061 l. l. l. 1062 1063 1064 1065
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, they could no longer doubt upon which side of the House the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. F. Peel) sat. While he listened to the speech of the hon Gentleman, he could scarcely believe his senses, recollecting, as he did, that the hon. Gentleman was Under Secretary to the Colonies to the late Ministry, at the head of which was the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) who had introduced the Militia Bill this Session. [Mr. F. PEEL observed that he believed he had not voted for the measure.] He should have been unwilling to make that assertion trusting only to his memory, but his hon. Friend behind him (Mr. Gwyn) had examined the list of the division, and had found the name of Mr. Frederick Peel recorded as having voted for the measure. The speech of the hon. Gentleman on the present occasion was not so much against the particular measure before the House, as against the militia force altogether. But there was another circumstance which enhanced his surprise, at the opposition to this measure intended by the hon. Member. During the debate on the introduction of the measure by the noble Lord the late Prime Minister, the right hon. Member for Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert) spoke as follows:—
 "He could bear testimony to the foot stated by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Lord Palmerston), that the opinion which he had ex-
 1066 "Some days have elapsed, indeed a fortnight has, since I received your note, with a copy of your observations on the possible results of a war with France, under our present system of military preparation. "You are aware that I have for years been sensible of the alteration produced in maritime warfare and operations by the application of steam to the propelling of ships at sea. "This discovery immediately exposed all parts of the coasts of these islands, which a vessel could approach at all, to be approached at all times of tide and in all seasons, by vessels so propelled, from all quarters. We are in fact assailable, and at least liable to insult, and to have contributions levied upon us on all parts of our coast; that is, the coast of these, including the Channel Islands, which to this time, from the period of the Norman Conquest, have never been successfully invaded. "I have in vain endeavoured to awaken the attention of different Administrations to this state of things, as well known to our neighbours (rivals in power, at least former adversaries and enemies) as it is to ourselves. 1067 "I hope that your paper may be attended with more success than my representations have been. "I have above, in few words, represented our danger. We have no defence, or hope of defence, excepting in our fleet." en masse "We hear a great deal of the spirit of the people of England, for which no man entertains higher respect than I do. But unorganised, undisciplined, without systematic subordination established and well understood, this spirit, opposed to the fire of musketry and cannon, and to sabres and bayonets of disciplined troops, would only expose those animated by such spirit to confusion and destruction." "The measure upon which I have earnestly entreated different Administrations to decide, which is constitutional, and has been invariably adopted in time of peace for the last 80 years, is to raise, embody, organise, and discipline the militia, of the same numbers for each of the three kingdoms united as during the late war." "This would give a mass of organised force amounting to about 150,000 men, which we might immediately set to work to discipline. This alone would enable us to establish the strength of our army. This, with an augmentation of the force of the regular army, which would not cost 400,000 l "But as we stand now, and if it be true that the exertions of the fleet alone are not sufficient to provide for our defence, we are not safe for a week after the declaration of war. "Let any man examine our maps and road-books, consider of the matter, and judge for himself. 1068 "I know of no mode of resistance, much less of protection from this danger, excepting by an army in the field, capable of meeting and contending with its formidable enemy, aided by all the means of fortification which experience in war and science can suggest. "I shall be deemed foolhardy in engaging for the defence of the empire with an army composed of such a force of militia. I may be so. I confess it, I should infinitely prefer, and should feel more confidence in, an army of regular troops. But I know that I shall not have these. I may have the others, and if an addition is made to the existing regular army allotted for home defence of a force which will cost 400,000 l. "This is my view of our danger and our resources. I was aware that our magazines and arsenals were very inadequately supplied with ordnance and carriages, arms, stores, of all denominations, and ammunition. "I quite concur in all your views of the danger of our position, and of the magnitude of the stake at issue. I am especially sensible of the certainty of failure if we do not, at an early moment, attend to the measures necessary to be taken for our defence, and of the disgrace—the indelible disgrace, of such failure. "Putting out of view all the other unfortunate consequences, such as the loss of the political and social position of this country among the nations of Europe, of all its allies, in concert with and in aid of whom it has in our own times contended successfully in arms for its own honour and safety, and the independence and freedom of the world. "When did any man hear of allies of a country unable to defend itself? "Views of economy of some, and I admit that the high views of national finance of others, induce them to postpone those measures absolutely necessary for mere defence and safety under existing circumstances, forgetting altogether the common practice of successful armies in modern times, imposing upon the conquered enormous pecuniary contributions, as well as other valuable and ornamental property. "France having been in possession of nearly every capital in Europe, and having levied contributions in each, and having had in its possession or under its influence the whole of Italy, Germany, and Poland, is reduced to its territorial limits as they stood in 1792. "Do we suppose that we should be allowed to keep—could we advance a pretension to keep—more than the islands composing the United Kingdom, ceding disgracefully the Channel Islands, on which an invader had never established himself since the period of the Norman Conquest?" "I am bordering upon seventy-seven years of age passed in honour. I hope that the Almighty may protect me from being the witness of the tragedy which I cannot persuade my contemporaries to take measures to avert.—Believe me ever yours sincerely, "WELLINGTON." 1069 1070 "With respect to the opinions expressed a few evening's since on this subject by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), it appears to me that they do not differ in any essential respects from those to which I gave utterance, and that they are conclusive as to the wisdom, and indeed as to the necessity, of having, irrespectively of our regular army, a force on which we could depend in the unfortunate event of a war or a foreign invasion. It is necessary for this country, having a limited number of men which it has for the regular army, there being no prospect that this House will ever adopt any proposition for an increase of 30,000 or 40,000 men to the regular army, to be kept in the United Kingdom—it is necessary that there should be some force of militia which should enable the country to have at command a sufficient number of men partly trained and ready for employment, and that this force should be ready to be sent to any part of the Kingdom." [3  Hansard, 1071
 MR. LAW HODGES  would not have risen to take part in the debate did he not feel that from his own knowledge he could give some corroboration to the principal objections raised against the provisions of the Bill; but, more than that, from being convinced by the great number of petitions presented against the measure, that it was obnoxious to the wishes and feelings of the country. He was quite convinced that the objections to a Militia Bill did not arise from any abatement of the loyalty of the people, or of any indifference on the part of the people towards the welfare, honour, and national security of England; but from their recollection of the severity of the ballot system practised during the last war. He would confine himself to what passed within his own knowledge, for he had been in the militia service in 1798. The regiment in which he served was sent to Ireland during the troubles that prevailed there in 1798; and in 1799, when they returned to England, an order was sent down to send 500 men from the regiment to join the line. The consequence was that the commanding officer wrote immediately to the clerk of the peace for the county that 500 vacancies had occurred, to supply which a ballot was requisite. Now, the bounty to be given at that time was 10 l. 1. l. 1072
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, with the particular views which I entertain on this important subject, and believing, as I firmly do, that my particular views are of no singular character, but are shared, as they ought to be, by the great majority of the people of this country, I ask the attention of he House while I make a few observations. I have listened with much attention to the observations which hon. Gentlemen have addressed to the House during the course of this discussion; and at once, without any
 1073 1074 l. 1075 l. l. 1076 1077 1078 1079 "What is the advantage of one Power greatly increasing its army or navy? Does it not see, that if it proposes such increase for self-protection and defence, the other Powers would follow its example? The consequence of this state of things must be, that no increase of relative strength will accrue to any one Power, but that there must be an universal consumption of the resources of every country in military preparations. They are, in fact, depriving peace of half its advantages, and anticipating the energies of war, whenever they may be required. I do not mean to advocate any romantic notion of each nation trusting with security the professions of its neighbour; but if each country were to commune with itself, and ask, 'What is at present the danger of foreign invasion, compared to the danger of producing dissatisfaction and discontent, and curtailing the comforts of the people by undue taxation?' the answer must be this—that the danger of aggression is infinitely less than the danger of those sufferings to which the present exorbitant expenditure must give rise." 1080 1081
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : Sir, as a military man, and in a military point of view, I beg to offer a few observations upon the matter now under our consideration. I am quite aware of the diversity of opinion existing, as to the expediency of augmenting the regular Army, or embodying the regular militia. I am also more aware of the unpopularity of the
 1082 1083 l. de novo "Resigned their lives amidst the joys of conquest, And, filled with England's glory, smiled in death." en route 1084
 MR. P. HOWARD  wished to explain his reasons for supporting a measure of a similar nature, when it was proposed by the noble Lord the Member for London, Considering that the responsibility of the defence of the country ought to rest upon the Executive Government, he was an humble follower of the now fallen banner, and having so far maintained that principle, he considered that he could not pursue a different course with anything like consistency. He quite agreed, if it were consonant with the general feelings of the country, that an increase of the regular Army would perhaps be a more effectual method of meeting any danger which might exist; but he also agreed with preceding speakers in thinking that the difficulty was, after all, to maintain that addition to our forces. The hon. Baronet who had just spoken alleged that considerable jealousy existed between the Prussian landwehr and the Prussian army; but he begged to remind the hon. Baronet that it was undoubtedly an historical fact, that to the landwehr Prussia owed her safety, and was enabled to recover her unparalleled disasters which weighed down her patriotic sons. Nor could he (Mr. P. Howard) forget that, in 1780, at the time of Lord George Gordon's riots, it was not to the regular army, but mainly to the Northumberland militia, that this metropolis owed its safety. He was ready to let the responsibility of the proposed measure rest upon the Executive Government, and to incur any popular odium which night accrue to himself for supporting it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I entirely agree with the hon. Member for Carlisle (Mr. P. Howard) that the course which he is about to take is far more consistent than that which has been announced by some of the hon. Members who preceded him. Amid the various rival schemes on the paper to-day, and among the different
 1085 1086 1087 1088 1089
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, if I were one of those who think that the country requires no additional defences, I should probably be ready to consent to the second reading of this Bill. I might say that although the measure was not required—although it would cause a waste of money — although it was a needless effort—yet as no great mischief can arise from it, and as the Government had brought it forward on their responsibility, I was willing that it should be read a second
 1090 1091 1092 1093 1094 1095 l. l. 1096 l. s. d. 1097 l. 1098 1099 1100 1101
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I had hoped that when this House was called upon to consider a measure which had been admitted in its principle at least, if not in its details—in its object, if not in its provisions—by all parties, by both sides of the House—by the Government that was, and by the Government that is, to be essential for the best interests of the country, that that measure would have been discussed solely with a view to the defence and security of the realm, and that no party feeling would have mixed itself up with the discussion of the present night. I confess, then, Sir, it is with much surprise, and with still greater pain, that I have witnessed the line which the noble Lord and those of his followers who have spoken, have thought it their duty to take on the present occasion. The noble Lord, indeed, more practised in Parliamentary warfare, has stated his objections with much greater discretion and skill. But his intended rejection of the measure is not the less positive and pronounced. But the two hon. Gentlemen (Members of the former Government) who spoke in the early part of this debate, advanced arguments and stated objections which went as strongly against that measure which no doubt they would have supported if the last Government had continued in power, as they could possibly apply to the measure which is now under discussion; and I must say I wonder the noble Lord should have finished the statement he made without reproaching his hon. Friends for their desertion of that standard under which they had fought under his command. I must beg to set right at once an assertion which the noble Lord has repeated to-night, and which he has often stated before—that he was prevented by the Motion I made and carried from bringing in the Bill which he had stated his intention to propose. Sir, my Motion produced no such effect, except in so far as it determined the noble Lord to resign. If I had proposed that his Resolution should be read that day six months—if I had proposed a negative to the Resolution—that no Bill should be brought in—then it would have been true I had opposed and prevented the bringing in of the Bill. But the object and effect of my Motion was simply to make the title of the Bill in harmony with the provisions the noble Lord himself had stated; and therefore I deny the assertion that the Motion I made prevented the noble Lord and his Government from bringing in his Bill. The late Government, after ma-
 1103 1104 1105 1106 1107 1108 1109
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that after the able speech of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton he should not have presumed to trespass for one moment on the on the Masters, or to convey an impression attention of the House; but the noble Lord the Member for London had done him the honour of making his conduct the subject of comment, and he could not allow his remarks to pass altogether unnoticed. He would tell the noble Lord that, in giving notice of the Motions which he had done on this question, he (Colonel Sibthorp) had done so with no intention of opposing the principle of this Bill, with which he entirely agreed, but rather with the desire to introduce certain amendments into its details that would render the measure more effective. He must be allowed to observe that the noble Lord appeared to him like the dog in the manger, or the old fish woman who, not being able to sell her own fish, cried "stinking fish" to her neigh-hours'.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  complained of the non-existence of a compendious account of the tariffs of foreign countries. He wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade whether the Government were in possession of information derived from the Consuls or diplomatic agents of this country on service abroad, or had from other reliable sources, and would furnish to that House, information, in continuation of that afforded by a
 1030
 MR. NEWDEGATE  inquired if the Board of Trade would furnish him with returns of foreign traffic in a similar form to two other returns which he had before obtained?
 MR. HENLEY  was understood to say that there could be no difficulty in complying with the request of the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the question which had been put to him was one of considerable extent, and of no less importance. There had been collected in the Office of the Board of Trade a great mass of information relating to the tariffs of foreign countries, and the officers of that department were now engaged in putting it into an available form. These returns had been received from the United States, Prussia, Portugal, Greece, Spain, Sicily, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Belgium, and other countries; and they formed so considerable a bulk that he had thought it necessary to give directions to have some estimate made of the probable expense of publishing them. When the estimate had been made, it would be for the House to say whether it would be more advisable that those documents should remain in the offices of the Board of Trade for any one who pleased to examine them there; or whether they should be printed for the use of the public?
 MR. SPOONER  observed, that the hon. Member was totally mistaken if he supposed that he (Mr. Spooner) had ever expressed an intention to move for the repeal of the grant to Maynooth. The facts of the ease were these: Early in February he had given notice that he should bring forward a Motion relative to Maynooth College, and he had stated that the precise nature of that Motion he would enter on the books before the Motion came on. He had fulfilled his promise by stating that his Motion would be one to inquire into the system of education carried on at Maynooth. How the original entry came to be continued on the list, he really did not know; it was not done by his direction, and he had nothing to do with it. When he had observed it, he called the attention of the officer of the House to it, and he thought that it had been by this time removed. But he never did intend to move for the repeal of the grant to Maynooth until the subject had been inquired into, because the grant being ratified by Act of Parliament, he had thought it incumbent on him to make out a case before proposing that it should be withdrawn, and he could not do so before moving for a Select Committee of Inquiry. To that object he adhered, and he had no intention of making any Motion at present relative to the repeal of the grant to Maynooth.
 MR. SPOONER  thanked his hon. Friend the Member for Exeter for giving him the opportunity of stating his reason for postponing his Motion from the 4th to the 11th of May. That Motion now stood first on the list for the latter day; and he had been induced to postpone it in order to put an end to any uncertainty that might exist about his being able to bring it forward on the earlier day, owing to its not occupying the first place on the list of Motions. So far as anything human was certain, his hon. Friend might be, assured that he would bring forward his Motion on the 11th of May.
 MR. ANSTEY  wished to put a question to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire on the same subject. The Motion of the hon. Member, which was now fixed for the 11th of May, was for a Committee of Inquiry into the course of education at the College of Maynooth. On the 10th of February the hon. Member had given notice that he would move the House on the subject of the grant to Maynooth, as distinct from that of the system of education carried on there. No day had been fixed for that Motion before Easter; but
 1029
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that the concluding observations of the hon. Baronet precluded the necessity of his stating that he (Mr. Anstey) was the person alluded to in the ambiguous passage referring to Colonel Outram. In the first place, he (Mr. Anstey) did not know by what right anybody could call upon him to disavow what he had never said. He had never said, and had never meant to say, that Colonel Outram had directed or requested him to make any accusation whatever. He (Mr. Anstey) was not the man to shrink from his own responsibility. He had made the allegation on his own responsibility, and on the responsibility of nobody else; and as to Colonel Outram, he had expressly stated that in this matter that gallant officer had not acted as an accuser or even as a volunteer. He (Mr. Anstey) had read the circular which Colonel Outram received from the Bombay Government, calling upon him to institute that inquiry which he did institute, and for instituting which he was removed. He (Mr. Anstey) had said that the gallant officer had acted in complete subordination to the officer he served under; and indeed his complaint had always been that Colonel Outram had been dismissed for obeying orders. But if it were intended that he (Mr. Anstey) should disavow all communication whatever with Colonel Outram, then he had letters to read to the House which rendered it impossible that he could make such a disavowal. He (Mr. Anstey) had1 not acted
 1033 "Mr. Hamilton Browne has the honour to present his compliments to Mr. Anstey. Captain Osborne has just told H. B. that he might make use of his name in writing to Mr. Anstey. Colonel Outram, C.B., late political resident at Baroda, who has just come home, for exposing a very flagrant case of corruption has been superseded. H. B. would feel greatly obliged by Mr. Anstey moving immediately, if possible, for the production of the papers in this difference between Colonel O. and the Bombay Government; and the public, when they are produced, can then form its judgment on the merits of the matter. H. B. has written to Lord Brougham, begging him to do the same in the House of Lords." "Mr. Hamilton Browne applied to Captain Osborne to move for the production of the papers in the case of 'Colonel Outram, C.B.,  v. 1034 "Mr. Hamilton Browne has the honour to present his compliments to Mr. Anstey, and again to return him his best thanks for bringing forward the Motion for the production of the papers in Colonel Outram's case. H. B. asked this favour to oblige his brother, Brigadier W. J. Browne, C.B., who commands the troops at Baroda. All that Colonel O. required was, H. B. presumes, that the papers should be moved for, and that the case should then rest with the public, after their production, on its own merits. H. B. begs leave confidentially to enclose a note from Colonel 0., just received, which will explain the matter, which he begs Mr. Anstey will have the goodness to return."
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, the letter which the hon. Baronet had just read was not written in answer to any offer of his (Mr. Anstey's), but in answer to Mr. Browne's offer to procure an interview between hint and Colonel Outram; and his (Mr. Anstey's) letter was to the effect that he would save Colonel Outram the trouble of seeking him, for he would call on that gallant officer himself.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the hon. Baronet seemed to be sorry that the hon. and learned Member for Youghal had not, for his own sake, withdrawn what he had stated; but he begged to ask whether Colonel Outram did in any respect deny the accuracy of the allegations which the hon. and learned Gentleman made in his statement to the House; and, if not, he should like to know Whether the hon. Baronet considered he had gained anything by bringing this question before the House?
 SIR JAMES HOGG  said, he held in his hand a letter addressed by Colonel
 1035 "My dear Sir—I was absent from home all day yesterday, and when I got your note on my return it was too late to communicate with you. From the tenour of Mr. Anstey's note, which you enclosed, I fear he must have supposed that I desired personally to intrude on him; but I hope you will recollect that though I expressed that I should be gratified if the papers relating to my affair were called for and obtained, I at the same time said I could not myself take any steps to cause their production, and that I was particularly anxious to avoid personally agitating in the matter. Under these circumstances, I should have caused unnecessary trouble to Mr. Anstey in seeking a meeting with that gentleman; but under the circumstances the delay in receiving your note prevented the possibility of my responding to his invitation. I am greatly obliged to you for the trouble you have kindly taken on my behalf, and hope, if you have an opportunity, you will kindly add to my obligations by explaining to Mr. Anstey how I was prevented from attending to his summons yesterday.—Yours very sincerely, "J. OUTEAM. "Tuesday."
 SIR JAMES HOGG  craved the indulgence of the House, in order that he might give a personal explanation in respect to something which passed in the India debate on Monday last. He craved this indulgence, not merely on his own behalf,
 1031 "On perusing a speech delivered in a discussion on Monday last, I observe that my name is brought forward in apparent connexion with certain statements impugning the honour and integrity of high official personages in the Bombay Government. Although I do not believe that those who are acquainted with my public or private character will imagine that such statements could have emanated from me, yet, at the same time, in my peculiar position, I deem it right to state most explicitly that no person had any authority from me to make such statements, and that I have had no personal communication with any one. On my arrival in England, I was informed by a friend that notice had been given for the production of the papers connected with my dismissal from office. In reply, I declared that I should be very glad to see all the documents laid before the public, as I was anxious that the facts of the case should be publicly known; but that, as a servant of the East India Company, I had forwarded a memorial to the Court of Directors through the proper channel, and relied on them to afford me the redress to which I considered myself entitled; that I could not therefore take any part in bringing the question before the public. I need scarcely explain to you, Sir, who have had access to all the official documents, that the statements made, casting imputations on the personal honour and integrity of Members of the Bombay Government, have no foundation in anything I have written. I was made aware, during my official career at Baroda, that a belief existed that the high officers of Government were open to corruption, and that such belief was promoted by the native subordinates for their own interested purposes. Fully convinced there were no grounds for such dishonouring imputations, I laboured earnestly to trace out and bring to punishment the delinquents through whose corruption the good name of the British Government was tarnished. But it is not necessary to enter into any further particulars, my only object being to disclaim any participation in or connexion with the statements to which I have alluded." 1032
 SIR JOHN DUCKWORTH  wished to put a question to his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), who had given notice of Motion in reference to an inquiry into the system of education pursued at Maynooth College. That Motion had been postponed from time to time for reasons which had been stated by his hon. Friend. It had been fixed to be brought forward on the 4th of May; but he (Sir J. Duckworth) observed by the notice paper that it was again postponed for a few days. He begged to ask his hon. Friend why he had postponed his Motion on a subject on which so strong a feeling existed throughout the country, and whether or not it was positively his intention to bring it forward on the day for which it was now fixed?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for giving him an opportunity of stating, for the information of the public, a few facts upon a matter of certainly much interest. The benchers of the four Inns of Court had, for a considerable time, devoted the most anxious attention to the subject of legal education, and they had at length unanimously agreed upon a plan which they believed would be highly beneficial both to the profession as well as the public. Professorships or readerships were to be established in the different societies, to be liberally endowed, and lectures were to be given, and classes formed for the purpose of instructing students before they were called to the Bar. It would be necessary hereafter for a student to obtain a certificate of having attended a course of lectures, or to be in a position to prove that he had satisfactorily passed a public examination before he could be called to the Bar; and, for the purpose of encouraging the students to submit themselves to these examinations, testimonials were to be given to those who were found to be the most proficient, and had passed the most satisfactory examination. He need not enter into any minute details of the proposed change in the system, but he hoped that the explanation he had given would convince the hon. Gentleman and the public that the benchers of the Inns of Court were evincing a laudable desire to promote legal education, and that for the future some test of proficiency would be required as the condition of being called to the Bar.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  begged to ask the right hon. Secretary at War whether there was any ground for hope that Her Majesty's Ministers would recommend to Her Majesty to grant any compensation, by promotion or otherwise, to the officers who survived in the  Birkenhead l. 1113 Birkenhead l.
 MR. LAW HODGES  said, that, previous to the House renewing the discussion on this Bill, he wished to take the opportunity of explaining a statement which he had made to the House on Friday night, which was received with incredulity, as though it were an exaggeration. That statement was, that 500 men had deserted from the regiment of militia to which he had belonged. Since the House last met he had written to the adjutant of the regiment, who had served in it for fifty-five years, and from the reply he had received, he must acknowledge that he had fallen into a very considerable error. He had also stated that 500 men had volunteered from that regiment to the line; but he found that the real number who volunteered out of a battalion of 800 men— whoso enlistment extended over a considerable period of years—was 2,144. The adjutant also told him that instead of 500 having deserted from the regiment, the actual number amounted to 881.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he had been requested by his constituents to record their strong opinion, that the measure before the House would be one of extreme disadvantage to them. It was not his wish to resume the tone in which the debate had closed on Friday night, as he considered
 1115 l. l. l. 1116 1117 l. l. l. "Britannia needs no bulwark, No towers along the steep, Her march is on the mountain wave, Her home is on the deep."
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he was anxious to occupy the attention of the House a very few minutes, whilst he stated the grounds on which he should give his vote, and the course he intended to pursue on the question before them. He believed it to be the opinion of the majority of that House, that some measure for the increase of our national defences was necessary. He took that to be generally admitted; and it must be clear to both the House and the country, that knowing the inconvenience at this time of increasing the taxation of the country, and the financial pressure that existed, two Governments would not have proposed an increase in our defences, had they not felt the absolute necessity of such a measure. It was on that ground he had concurred in the former Bill proposed to be brought in by his noble Friend the Member for London. The Administration of which he (Lord Seymour) had formed a part, well considered all the objections that would be brought against the step, on the ground of its inconvenience and unpopularity; but they did think it necessary, even in the face of all those inconveniences, to take on themselves the responsibility of reposing such a measure. His noble Friend's measure having fallen to the ground, a change of Administration subsequently took place, and then came another Bill, under another Government. It could not be supposed that the present Government, knowing the great difficulty into which the question had brought the late
 1118 1119 1120 1121
 MR. ELLICE  said, that if he was called upon to vote upon the principles enunciated by the hon. and gallant Member who had just resumed his seat, he should have no hesitation in coming to that vote, reserving to himself the right of supporting in Committee such modifications of detail as he thought a Bill of this description might require. But he was now called upon to vote for the second reading of a Bill which was called a Militia Bill. Now, such a Bill had hitherto been understood to be a Bill to raise a force entirely by the ballot; the present Bill, however, was for the raising of a subsidiary force—not a militia force—by bounty, in the same manner as the regular Army; and not only so, but it was proposed to give a larger bounty for that force than was now given for the regular troops, in the confidence that persons who had received the bounty of 6 l. 1124 l. l. 1125 l. l. l. 1126 1127
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, it was generally agreed upon that the defences of this country were not in a satisfactory state. The noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) said that there were two measures open to the House to adopt: one was an increase of the Standing Army—the other was the calling out of the militia. But he was rather surprised to find it never struck the noble Lord that there was another plan which might be resorted to—namely, an increase to the naval resources of the country. This might be done at one-half the expense of either of the other plans, and would prove much more effective for the object they had in view. The noble Lord spoke of the French being enabled to raise 50,000 or 60,000 men in Cherbourg; but he did not tell the House how these men were to be transported across the Channel. Now there were, no doubt, a great many difficulties in the way of increasing the defences of the country. Every Gentleman who had spoken on the subject appeared to have a favourite nostrum of his own to propose. An hon. Gentleman connected with the railway interest of the country had just proposed his nostrum, which he, no doubt, thought the most valuable that they had as yet considered. Nothing was more ridiculous than to magnify the resources at our command. It was quite as absurd as the panic that had lately ran through the country. The proposition he was about to submit was one that would not cost the country 200,000 l. 1137 1138
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE  said, that as he chanced to be the only Member of the present Board of Admiralty in the House, he had to ask its indulgence whilst he addressed to it a few observations relative to the present Bill. It was admitted on all hands that the defences of the country were not in either a satisfactory or safe state—indeed, they had had that admission on Friday night from the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), though, strangely enough, the noble Lord adduced that fact as a reason for not supporting the Bill. It appeared to him (Captain Duncombe), therefore, that the noble Lord, when in power, had proposed and supported a Militia Bill from a sense of duty; but that he now opposed it for the sake of party. Still, however that might be, he could have wished that the noble Lord—powerful as he was both in this House and in the country—had not, for the moment, at all events, obtruded party principles into the consideration of a measure like this, but have left it to be calmly and dispassionately considered in Committee. He believed that by following the two pilot balloons, which the noble Lord sent up in the early part of Friday evening, he would soon find himself in shoal water. And he (Captain Duncombe) was sorry to observe that the hon. and gallant Member for Gloucester (Admiral Berkeley) was going to shape his course in the same manner; though none could be less desirous than the hon. and gallant Admiral to get into
 1139
 MR. BERNAL  said, he abhorred inconsistency as much as any man, but could not see the consistency of the argument that those who voted for allowing the Bill of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) to be brought in, or for a first reading, ought to vote for the second reading of this Bill. He was sorry to hear his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool (Mr. Cardwell) make use of a great  argumentum in terrorem 1143 argumentum ad crumenam, 1144
 MR. THORNELY  thought that a measure of this kind would be most objectionable, and would tend to demoralise the Electors.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, that in his own county of Essex, at the present time, there were actually two lawyers going about canvassing the electors on the strength of this proposition. He was sure that the hon. Baronet who wished to introduce the Bill was in ignorance of this fact,
 1189
 MR. ADDERLEY  could not see any reason for postponing this measure, which the prospect of an early election rendered all the more necessary. Several Committees of that House had recommended that some such law should be passed; and it was an insult to electors to suppose that their votes would be influenced by the small allowance which it was proposed to grant them under the present Bill.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he did not hesitate to say that he should give this proposition every opposition in his power, and at every stage. It was said that it was only sought to give reasonable refreshment to voters; but what was reasonable refreshment, and where would they draw the line of distinction?
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, he must appeal to the House not to condemn the Bill before they saw it, and had an opportunity of discussing its merits. Every one knew that persons in the humbler classes of life could not be expected to come a considerable distance to the poll if they were then placed in a worse position than they would be in if they remained at home. All that the hon. Member for South Essex asked for was, power to grant refreshment to be tendered by the presiding officer at the poll booth to a very limited extent, all other refreshments being considered illegal, and the parties offering them to be liable to penalties.
 SIR EDWARD BUXTON  begged to state that the object of his Bill was to permit candidates at county elections to grant permission either to the officer who had the arrangement Of the elections, or to persons appointed by him, and in his sight to give a ticket for refreshment, not exceeding in amount half-a-crown, with a provision that no voter should under any circumstances receive more than one such ticket. He would not enter into the reasons which might be stated in favour of such a law; but he would state his belief that a provision for such moderate refreshment would tend, not to the increase, but very much to the decrease of bribery at elections.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, that if the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby) divided the House on this question, he should vote along with him, for he strongly objected to any such Bill. His principal objection was this, that refreshment given to voters was not the real
 1190
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  thought that if this measure passed, it should not be confined to counties, but should also be extended to boroughs.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he must object to proceeding with the discussion of this measure at that late hour of the evening. Suppose this Bill passed into a law, it would, in the case of the West Riding of Yorkshire, where there were 37,000 electors, authorise the expenditure of no less a sum than 4,500 l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  seconded the Motion. If this Bill passed, it would certainly be the herald of a similar measure with respect to boroughs, for he did not see why the convenience (as it was called) of the poor voter should not be as much consulted in boroughs as in counties. It would open the widest door to corruption, for if the issue of as many half-crown refreshment tickets as there were voters were allowed, it would be impossible to prevent their being accumulated by a skilful agent in the hands of that portion of the electors who were corruptible.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  hoped that the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) would not press his Motion for the adjournment of the debate, because the House would be in the same position when the debate was resumed that they were then: that hon. Members would rise and make speeches upon a Bill which they had never seen. This was a subject which had never been
 1191
 MR STUART WORTLEY  said, that the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall) could not have selected a worse illustration in support of his argument than the West Riding of Yorkshire, because on every occurrence of a contested election in that district refreshment tickets had been given by mutual consent. If refreshment was not given when a man was brought thirty, forty, or fifty miles to the poll, it would virtually disfranchise the poor voters, and those who were less willing to come to the poll. He thought that the Bill should be permitted to be introduced.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that in some elections with which he had been connected, he had found that the issue of tickets such as were contemplated by this Bill, had had the effect of reducing the expenditure for refreshments to voters from 1.400 l. l. l.
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, that the question was not whether treating should take place or not, but whether it should take place in a sneaking and underhand, or in an open, legal, and legitimate way. This Bill would enable the candidate to keep in his own hands the control of the expenses which every one knew took place for this purpose; whereas, at present, it was obliged to be left to others, and he then lost all control whatever over it. Whether this Bill passed or not, refreshments would be given; and he thought, therefore, that it was impossible to contend that Members who were opposing its introduction were standing up for purity of election.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he would
 1192
 MR. H. BERKELEY  entreated the indulgence of the House whilst he explained the vote he was about to give. He was one of those who thought that it was wise that they should take precautions in the present state of Europe for the protection of the country. He agreed in the principle of more adequate protection to the country, whether propounded by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), whether propounded by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), or whether propounded by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston). But he totally disagreed with them all as to the necessity of calling out the militia, because he disbelieved in its furnishing the protection required. He knew it was a measure received with alarm and jealousy by a very large part of the community. He knew that the people would infinitely prefer to pay for an increase of the regular Army than to pay for calling out a force op which no dependence could be placed. He was satisfied it would be more agreeable to the majority of the people to increase the Army, to man the Navy, to send out their numerous ships, and, instead of calling out the militia, to rely on those voluntary forces which would be forthcoming if Government were pleased to give them any encouragement. He also objected to calling out the militia, upon social and moral grounds. He conceived that if they took a man from his usual occupation at the barn's door or the plough's tail, they changed his ideas, they changed the colour of his mind; they placed him in a new
 1169 Birkenhead, 1170
 GENERAL REID  said, that although reluctant to rise, he felt that he could not remain silent on a subject of which he must necessarily have some practical knowledge, and on which he certainly entertained a very strong feeling. He confessed that he: viewed this measure, as a military man, with very little satisfaction. If he were to consult his own feelings and judgment only, he should be disposed to record his vote against it; but when he reflected that the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, in introducing the measure, gave the House the assurance that Government had most anxiously consulted the highest military authorities of the Kingdom, and that it was on their advice, and after duly weighing the political as well as military bearings of the subject, that this course had been adopted, he felt he must defer to their superior judgment and experience, and he should therefore vote, though reluctantly, for the measure, but qualified by the expression of his own sentiments regarding it. He would not waste the time of the House by making any observations of a speculative kind on the possibilities or pro-
 1122 1123 l. l. l. l. l.
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, it seemed to be generally admitted that it was necessary we should have an increase of force in this country of some kind or another—one important proof of which was to be found in the fact that two Governments in succession had brought in Bills for the enrolment of a militia—and, although numerous plans had been mentioned in the course of the debate for the purpose of supplying the acknowledged deficiency in a better manner than by a militia force, he felt bound to conclude that all those plans had been previously under the consideration of both Cabinets, and had been rejected in consequence of some insurmountable defect. The responsible opinions of two Administrations, most solemnly declared to the House of Commons, ought, he thought, to outweigh the suggested doubts of various parties as to the reality of the danger. For his own part, he believed in the possible danger; and he looked with considerable distrust upon that species of argument offered against the proposal of a militia, which went to show that, because no previous modern attempt at the invasion of Great Britain had succeeded, therefore any attempt at any future time must be a failure. But, in consequence of the introduction of steam, the base of operation had been very much enlarged since the late war, and now extended from the harbour of Brest to Boulogne and Calais, and this very much altered the state of affairs. The question as to whether or not our present resources were adequate for our defence was not an abstract question. It was easily settled by reference to the Military Estimates; and those statistics seemed to him to put beyond all manner of doubt the fact that it was necessary to create an entirely new reserve defensive force. It had been stated in previous debates by the hon. Members for Montrose and Lambeth, that we had at our command a force of from 150,000 to 160,000 men for the defence of this country; and on Friday evening last it was stated in broad terms by the hon. and gallant General the Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans), that we had a force of from 85,000 to 100,000 men. He thought he (Colonel Lindsay) could show the House
 1128 1129 l. 1130 l. l. "We hear a great deal of the spirit of the people of England, for which no man entertains higher respect than I do. But, unorganised, undisciplined; without systematic subordination established and well understood; this spirit, opposed to the fire of musketry and cannon, and to sabres and bayonets of disciplined troops, would only expose those animated by such spirit to confusion and destruction. Let any man only make the attempt to turn to some use this spirit in a case of partial local disturbance. The want of previous systematic organisation and subordination will prevent him from communicating with more than his own menial servants and dependents; and, while mobs are in movement through the country, the most powerful will find that he can scarcely move from his own door." 1131 "The enthusiasm of the people is very fine, and looks well in print, but I have never know it produce anything but confusion. In France it was power and tyranny, acting through the medium of popular societies, which have ended by overturning Europe and establishing the most powerful and dreadful tyranny that ever existed. In Spain the enthusiasm of the people spent itself in  vivas 1132
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he apprehended that they were now assembled for the purpose of discussing the principle of a militia as an element of a peace establishment. He thought he might consider that among the various opponents of the present measure, those Gentlemen who had brought forward a substitute for a militia, or rather alternative plans in lieu of a militia, as admitting, like himself, that the present state of the country's defences were not satisfactory, and that some additional steps for the protection of the Realm were required. Others there were who, like the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, took higher ground—more distinct, but not more difficult to grapple with. That right hon. Gentleman said, "I am for no militia—I am for no alternative—I am far no increase of our force, because our present force is ample, and because there is every prospect of the continuance of permanent peace, and no apprehension of external danger." Then again the right hon. Gentleman looked upon the militia as an aggressive force, and stated that all the Bills for the enrolment of a militia had been introduced with a view to an aggressive
 1159 1160 1161 A laugh. Times, 1162 1163 1164 l. 1165 1166 1167
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I can have no hesitation in saying that the fact referred to by the Rev. Gentleman in Dublin, and now repeated here by the hon. Baronet the Member for the County of Armagh, is substantially correct. I should not certainly use the word "solicited;" but it is a fact, that during the Lord Lieutenancy of the Earl of Bessborough it was proposed to Archbishop Murray to take a seat at Her Majesty's Privy Council in Ireland, and that the Archbishop declined to accept that distinction. I can only add, that it gave me great satisfaction to make that proposal, and that I very much regret that it was not accepted by a prelate whose character I esteemed, and whose memory I venerate.
 MR. CARDWELL : I think, Sir, it is our duty to support the second reading of the Bill. I think that under any circumstances, when the Executive Government ask the House of Commons to consider dispassionately and carefully a proposal which, on their responsibility, they declare to be necessary in order to preserve the shores of this country from foreign invasion, it is assuming a very solemn responsibility to offer any opposition to that measure. I think so the more decidedly on this occasion, because there has been, as far as I can collect from what I hear, a great concurrence of opinion in the belief that we need to examine our national defences carefully in order to put them in that position in which the Crown and the people of this great Empire have a right to expect our national defences should be placed. Many proposals have been made in the course of the debate, of a very interesting nature, as substitutes for this measure for establishing a militia. It has been proposed to increase our standing Army; and I dare say that the proposal and plan of the hon. and gallant General (General Reid) will receive that attention which, as far as I could form a judgment while listening to him, it so well de-
 1133 "Crowned by a military conscription, which, besides the other sacrifices imposed by it on the French people, must be regarded as a pecuniary tax of a large, though unascertained, magnitude, England is totally free from a military conscription." 1134 Geo. Geo. 1135
 MR. RICH  said, he was anxious to explain, that in the proposal he made, he referred to drawing pensioners, not from the existing body, but from the Army, according to modifications which he explained at the time.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, as the representative of a manufacturing town, he was desirous of expressing his opinion on the question before the House. Two points presented themselves for consideration— first, was there a necessity for increasing the national defences; and, secondly, if the necessity existed, what was the best mode of effecting that increase? Great unanimity of opinion prevailed with respect to the first point. Until a very recent period he thought the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord John Russell) shared in that opinion. The Members of the present Government were of that opinion. They thought, as he understood, that there was an immediate necessity for adding to our defences—that there was something abroad which rendered it necessary for us to take immediate steps for that purpose; and that, too, he imagined, had been the opinion of the noble Lord the Member for London, when he proposed his Militia Bill. The noble Lord, however, left office, and now, when another Militia Bill was proposed by the present Government, he found the noble
 1171 1172 1173 Cries of 1174 l. 1175
 MR. STANFORD  said, he had listened to the able and eloquent speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, but he wished he had explained to the House what was the species of danger which they were called on to guard against. It was out of the question to believe that the French could ever meditate the conquest of England, with the view of permanently settling themselves in it. The danger apprehended, therefore, was some sort of incursion for the purpose of mischief and plunder. Every man would admit that we should take steps to guard the country against such a danger; and the question was whether a militia force was the one best calculated to meet the emergency. His own opinion was rather in favour of increasing the regular Army; but as no proposal of that kind had been made, and, not wishing to throw obstacles in the way of the present measure, he should not refuse giving it his humble support.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he could not record his vote on this question without taking into consideration the peculiar circumstances under which this Bill came before the House. He found this Bill brought under the notice of the House by a Government lately established in office, and shortly about to "appeal to the Country" at a general election. He found the Government pressing that measure forward, knowing as they did that it was not popular in the country, and he thought it
 1140 1141 1142
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just addressed the House, that there are two objections raised to this measure, one of which has been argued more faintly, while the other has been argued much more boldly; but both of them, I think, most unsuccessfully. In the first place, it has been denied that there is any necessity for such a measure as this, in order that you may put this great Kingdom in a proper state of defence; and, secondly, it is contended, that, even assuming such a necessity to exist, this is not the mode nor is this the time in which that object can be best accomplished. Now I think the necessity is proved; not, indeed, because there is in a neighbouring country the assumed possibility, if not probability, according to the hon. and learned Gentleman, of direct invasion upon us; for the hon. and learned
 1176 1177 1178 1179 1180
 MR. WALPOLE : I shall now proceed to the proposition which has been suggested with regard to volunteers. The main, object which you ought to have in view with reference to the defence of the country, is to obtain a force which you can permanently rely on. You ought to be able to secure to yourselves a body of men for the whole period during which they should be trained and disciplined; otherwise, when the time came, and their services were required, instead of having them so trained and disciplined, you would find that yet would only have recourse to a fluctuating body of men who had not served in the same ranks, or under the same commanders. You could not have men properly trained and disciplined under the volunteer system; because, at any time, according to the very principle upon which they enlist, the men may go away when they please from the service. You may rely on them as long as their enthusiasm was excited by the sense of immediate danger; but when that passed away, I will not say their patriotism would pass away, but the necessity of continuing to volunteer their services would be felt to be gone, and, consequently, if they returned, as they probably would in the course of time, you could not rely on such a body as a permanent force. It is always, a popular topic to talk of the spirit and enthusiasm of the people, and to say that on those you can rely against any enemy who should be bold enough to invade our shores. We all agree in that; but let the House remember the words of
 1181 "We hear a great deal of the spirit of the people of England, for which no man entertains a higher respect than I do. But, unorganised, undisciplined, without systematic subordination established and well understood, this spirit, opposed to the fire of musketry and cannon, and to sabres and bayonets of disciplined troops, would only expose those animated by such spirit to confusion and destruction." 1182 Hansard l. l. 1183 l. l. l. 1184 1185
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the interest taken in the Bill by those whom he represented must be his excuse for offering the few observations which he felt it his duty to address to the House. The measure, he could assure hon. Gentlemen opposite, was viewed as one of no ordinary importance in the manufacturing districts of the country, and more particularly amongst the great, industrial community in the Manchester district. He would, in the first place, beg to call the attention of the hon. and learned Attorney General to the manner in which the Bill was presented to the House; and he would ask the hon. and learned Gentleman whether it ought to have come before them in such a form? In the 28th Clause he found that all persons chosen to serve under the Bill were to be subjected to all the provisions of the Act of the 46th of  Geo. 1147 Geo. v. 1148 1149 1150 "I do not wish to exaggerate the relative means of France for attack, as compared with England, and still less do I wish to imply that the continuance of these or any other works of the same kind on the part of the French Government and people is to be considered by this country as an indication of any existing hostile feeling on the part of France. I entirely disclaim any such belief on my own part. I am convinced that the greater intercourse which has taken place of late years between the people of the two countries has dispelled many prejudices, and has removed many foolish hostile feelings which have long survived the causes that gave them rise. It is one of the most gratifying circumstances of the times in which we live to see two great nations, situated close to each other, each gifted by nature with various qualities entitling them to the esteem, to the friendship, and I will say to the admiration, of each other, capable of rendering each other the most important services, capable also—if actuated by fatal passions—of inflicting upon each other the greatest calamities—it is most gratifying to see that every day, every month, and every year brings these two nations into more general and friendly contact, and that feelings of mutual friendship and esteem are rapidly succeeding those antiquated notions of national antipathy of which I trust there will very soon remain no trace except the records which former histories may contain."— [3  Hansard, 1151 1152 1153 "A free nation, like ours, full of activity and boldness, and yet full of order, has all the elements and habits of an Army prepared by the happy frame of its society. We require no military establishments to nurse our martial spirit. It is our distinction that we hare ever proved ourselves in time of need a nation of warriors, and that we never have been a people of soldiers. It is no refinement to say, that the national courage and intellect have acted with more vigour on the approach of hostility, because we are not teazed and worried into petty activity, because a proud and serious people have not been degraded in their own eyes, by acting their awkward part in holiday parade." "Freemen are brave because they rely on themselves. Liberty is our national point of honour. The pride of liberty is the spring of our national courage. The independent spirit, the high feeling of personal dignity, and the consequent sensibility to national honour, the true sources of that valour for which this nation has been renowned for ages, have been in a great measure created and preserved by their being accustomed to trust to themselves for defence against invasion from abroad, or tyranny, at home. If they lean on an Army for safety, they will soon look to it with awe, and thus gradually lose those sentiments of self-respect and self-dependence, that pride of liberty, which are the peculiar and the most solid defences of this country." 1154 "After the panic which prevailed in this country about a month since, I am glad to find the tide has ebbed so fast, and that the alarm on the subject of invasion has visibly abated. I was afraid the Government might have been unduly influenced by that alarm; and I am relieved I when I learn that it is not intended to make any increase in the military or naval force."— [3  Hansard, "I have heard much—perhaps more than the public have heard—of the insufficiency of our forces, and that we had never made any preparation for sudden hostilities. Now, I wished to show that, so far from this being the case, that we had already made the very preparations which persons wished us to make; that we had year after year been increasing our forces; that we were therefore in a situation of as great strength as we were required to be; and that we had nothing to fear from a sudden outbreak of hostilities, however unexpected it might be." 1155 l. 1156 1157 "Pennsylvania. — General Cadwallader: I do not consider frequent musters as advantageous to the great body of the militia. No correct instruction is received at such musters, and their effect on the morals of the people is positively injurious. "Colonel Watmonk: Nothing can be more entirely inefficient than the militia under the existing organisation. Attend a militia muster under its most favourable circumstances, in a retired country situation, and riot, drunkenness, and every species of immorality, are the order of the day. "Colonel Williams: All the musters at which I have been present, so far from being advantageous, were always scenes of the lowest and most destructive dissipation, where nothing was to be acquired but the most pernicious habits. Our militia are worse than useless. "General Cooke: They are, instead of schools of
 1158 "General Harwood, Maryland: My experience of musters is considerable, having attended them as commander of the 22nd Regt. for many years, and I am decidedly of opinion that they are disadvantageous to the militia. They tend to corrupt the morals of the people, and no information can be derived at them."
 MR. BERESFORD  said, he would gladly take that opportunity of expressing his approbation of the heroic conduct of the men who suffered by the unfortunate catastrophe to which the hon. Gentleman's question referred, and the more especially as the troops who displayed such heroic devotion were not old soldiers, but recent raw levies, who were going to join their several regiments at the Cape. This showed that the discipline which made them so heroic in the field, also qualified them to act a noble part in any other circumstances of danger. The question of the hon. Gentleman resolved itself into two points: the first with regard to compensation, and the second with regard to promotion. The War Office would he most happy to receive applications for compensation, and to entertain them in a liberal spirit. According to the regulations and Her Majesty's warrant for compensation, all these losses must be brought before a board of officers. The hon. Member was perfectly correct in stating that the maximum allowed in such cases was 80 l. 1114 Birkenhead.
 MR. CHAPLIN  begged to call the attention of the House to the great facility which must be afforded by railways for the movement of troops from one locality to another. He understood that the French Government were arranging the construction of a line of railway from Rouen to Caen, and thence 100 miles further to Cherbourg, by means of which troops and military stores could readily be conveyed to the coast. To that enterprise the French Government had given considerable pecuniary aid. There was now in this country a coast line of railway communication extending from the North Foreland, by Brighton and Southampton, to Salisbury, and the communication might be completed to Plymouth, if a projected line of railway from Salisbury to Exeter, a distance of 90 miles, and for which an Act of Parliament was obtained in 1848, was carried out. The landowners along the line were most anxious for its completion, half the required capital was already forthcoming, and if the Government would advance 550,000 l. 1136
 MR. DEEDES  said, the hon. Member who last spoke had told the House that he did not for a moment doubt, that if an invasion of this country took place, there would be men enough found ready, willing, and able to defend its shores. He (Mr. Deedes) had an equal confidence with the hon. Gentleman in the readiness, willingness, and gallantry of his countrymen; but he had every reason to believe, and history confirmed the belief, that those good qualities which they possessed would be made more valuable if they had the advantage of some military training and discipline. He believed that one of the main advantages of this Bill would be, that it would to a great extent drive away from the minds of the people of the Continent the idea of invading England, because it would show them that we were prepared to meet them, and that would be a great step gained towards preventing the possibility of an invasion. He observed that the tone of the debate this evening had differed very materially from that of Friday night. On Friday the objections to the; measure of the Government were very varied in their character, generally small in their matter, and did not present any real or substantial opposition to the principle of the Bill. In the first place, they had the hon. and gallant General (Sir De L. Evans) telling the House that he had no objection to the principle of the Bill; that he admitted it was necessary to do something with the view of putting the country into a proper state of defence; but then, he added, he did not think the measure of the Government would accomplish that object. On the present occasion no one had ventured to offer any real and substantial opposition to the principle of the' Bill; hon. Gentlemen had confined themselves simply to objecting to its details With respect to what had been said as to the number of petitions presented against the measure, they should remember that
 1145 argumentum ad pocket 1146
 MR. EWART  begged to ask the hon.
 1112
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  said, he had obtained permission to ask the noble Lord the Member for the City of London a question in that House with reference to a matter that had been noticed in the public journals. A sermon had been preached in a Roman Catholic Church in Dublin—the Church of the Conception—a short time since, on occasion of what was termed the "commemoration" of the late Archbishop Murray, and the preacher was reported to have stated that the deceased prelate had been solicited by the Government of the day to accept the honour of a seat at Her Majesty's Privy Council in Ireland, as the reward of his unblemished life and his high reputation for wisdom, but that he had declined the honour. He wished now to ask the noble Lord the Member for London, whether he was aware of any such offer having been made by the late Government?
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  was of opinion that the militia would at the present time be the best organised and least expensive force. Therefore he should support the Bill.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he was aware he had no right to reply, but there were some explanations which he would make on other stages of the Bill.
 MR. CAMPBELL  said, lie must deprecate the introduction of this Bill, for the state of public business and the temper of the House were alike unfavourable to it. That such a measure would occasion prolonged discussions, and give rise to a determined struggle in that House, no one whose opinion on such a subject was of any value, would be disposed to question. Would there be no discussion on the second reading? Would not arguments be used in the Committee? And if read a third time, even without a struggle in that House, would it meet a ready acquiescence in the other House of Parliament? He would record his vote against the Motion, not only because it was ill-timed, but because he could not approve of the principle of such a measure as that proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for East Surrey. He (Mr. Campbell) could have no hesitation in basing his opposition to such a Bill on the arguments which had been so effectively adduced against it, from time to time, by the noble Lord the Member for London. However great might be the variations of opinion which might be attributed to his noble Friend on other topics, his consistency on this question was beyond impeachment, for on no occasion that the Motion had been submitted to the consideration of the House had his noble Friend ever abstained from voting against it. When the question was first mooted by the hon. Member for East Surrey, on the 9th July, 1850, the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) did not, owing to the lateness of the Session, dilate at any great length upon the merits of the Bill; but he sedulously refrained from uttering one word in approval of it. And when the subject was again introduced by the same hon. Gentleman, on the 20th February, 1851, the noble Lord again called upon the House to reject it, and entered into a long and elaborate explanation of the reasons which induced him to believe that a franchise founded upon tenure ought not to be abolished, and that the assimilation of the franchise in boroughs and counties could not be regarded as an improvement in our electoral system. Nor was there any alteration in the views of the noble Lord when the Bill came on for second reading, on the 2nd April, 1851; for on that occasion also he expressed his strong aversion to the
 1206 l. 
 
 Electors registered. Polled. 
 In Aberdeen 4,150 1,348 
 In Aylesbury 1,405 646 
 In Cardigan 650 590 
 In Cheltenham 2,278 1,820 
 In Chester 2,529 1,630 l. l. 1207
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, he had been for twenty years striving to get an extension of the county franchise, and he could not let an opportunity pass without in some way attempting to carry forward that extension. He admitted that the noble Lord the Member for Colchester (Lord J. Manners) had given a valid reason why he objected to the introduction of the measure this Session; but unfortunately that reason came too late, inasmuch as the House had not merely consented to the Bill referred to by the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Lord R. Grosvenor), but had given its assent, without debate, to a Motion which would fill that House with absolute paupers. ["No, no!"] Yes, yes, yes. A Bill had been introduced to take away every particle of qualification for Members of that House. Having admitted this Bill, how could the Government turn round and say it was too late to extend the franchise of the counties? It was excessively mortifying to be obliged to admit that nobody had listened to remarks which had been made upon this question. On a former occasion he had gone into the origin of voting, and had shown that it had its origin in service to the Crown; and he had then contended that in the olden time the lowest person who owed service to the Sovereign was the 40 s. Laughter. 1212
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the House would excuse him if, after the appeal that had been made, he rose to express in a few sentences the view which Her Majesty's Government took of the Motion of the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. L. King). The hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had asked them to say aye or no to the present proposition, and they assuredly felt no difficulty whatever in saying no. He owned that he should think that to Gentlemen who, like the hon. Member, had been for several weeks calling out for an immediate dissolution of Parliament, the proposal of an unnecessary Motion like the present must seem a useless impertinence and absurdity. A Bill of this nature, effecting a perfect revolution in the county constituencies, would occupy in its discussion a period which he was afraid would not be acceptable to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. L. King) himself. It was evident that any proposal for changing the county constituencies offered two alternatives. The hon. Member proposed to assimilate the county franchise to that of the boroughs in one way by let-
 1209
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I certainly cannot vote against the proposition before the House on the ground stated by the noble Lord the Member for Colchester (Lord J. Manners); because, if the Government were to say that on any particular Tuesday they wished to supersede private Motions in order to promote the business of the Government, and thus accelerate a dissolution, I do not believe that any Member would insist upon bringing forward his Motion upon that Tuesday. But as the Government not only do not ask for the Tuesdays, but seem reluctantly to accept the Thursdays, I do not see that there is any objection to discussing Motions of an important public nature upon the Tuesdays. Then, with respect to the nature of the question itself. I must say it appears to me to be a fair matter for consideration with the House what should be the amount of the occupation franchise that should be allowed in the counties. The Reform Act contains a Clause which was introduced by the Marquess of Chandos, but which was, perhaps, originally suggested by the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Lincoln (Col. Sibthorp), and by which an occupation franchise of 501. was given to the counties. Subsequently we proposed that in Ireland there should be an 8 l. 1217 l. l. l. 1218
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : What I said was, that I understood the noble Lord the Member for Colchester to say, that the Government would concur in or take into their consideration a well-considered measure for reform.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that had he been consulted, he should not have recommended the bringing forward of this Motion at the present time, and he
 1210 1211
 MR. PACKE  said, he should vote against the Motion, but should not have risen to
 1215
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he was as anxious as anybody to extend the elective franchise as far as he could. He would give the vote to the 5 l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I think it is evident that to "consider" and to "concur" are two very different things. I should be sorry that any Government would be permitted to exist who was not prepared to consider a measure of such importance as affected the arrangement and construction of this House. I have so recently addressed this House on the subject of Reform, that, even if the sacred hour of the evening was not at hand, I would hesitate to trespass again upon its attention. But I am induced to do so now in order that it may not be considered I am desirous of evading the giving of an opinion upon the question before us, in consequence of the peculiar circumstances of the present Session of Parliament. I object to the measure proposed to be I brought in by the hon. Member for East Surrey for various reasons: in the first j place, because it is partial. I entirely agree with the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell)
 1219 1220 1221 1222
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I have been anxious to say a few words in this debate, the more especially as the noble Lord who has just addressed you seems to have greatly misapprehended what was said by the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners). I certainly did not understand my noble Friend to say that Her Majesty's Government was prepared to "concur in any measure" for the reform of this House.
 MR. BAILLIE  rose to order; he said he thought he might save the time of the House if he mentioned that those papers, which had been moved for on several former occasions, had only arrived in this country by the last mail a day or two ago, and that they were at this moment under consideration by the India Board. He begged to suggest to the hon. and learned Member, therefore, the propriety of postponing his Motion.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he wished to protest against the observations of the noble Lord the Member for Colchester (Lord J. Manners), that by bringing forward measures of that kind, Members were obstructing the progress of public business, and delaying the wished-for dissolution. Had that Motion, however, not been brought forward, Government business could not have gone forward that night, for there was no Government business on the notice papers. An offer was, some weeks ago, made to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that if he chose he might have the Thursdays in each week for the transaction of public business, and he believed the feeling in the House was so strong that he might have had every day in the week if the Government had shown any disposition to facilitate the transaction of public business. The noble Lord the Member for Colchester addressed the House as if he felt that this subject was so hackneyed that he was almost disgusted in having to approach it. The fact was, that he (Mr. Bright) believed every great question that had been carried in that House had been deemed hackneyed by hon. Gentlemen opposite before it was carried. But, notwithstanding that, there was a large body of opinion, both in that House and out of doors, in favour of the Motion now before them; and he had, therefore, no doubt that some advantage would arise from that debate. The proposition was, that the county franchise, instead of being confined to a very restricted class, should be extended to all those who occupied land or houses, or both, of the value of 10 l. 1213 l. l. l. l. 1214 l.
 MR. HUME  rose and said, that the ominous silence which prevailed on both sides of the House really surprised him. When he proposed a Motion which comprised two or three branches of reform, Gentlemen said that they were too many to bring forward at once, and that one should be introduced. Now, one subject was brought forward, and no hon. Member seemed to care to speak upon it. This was trifling with the people, who were kept like slaves instead of freemen. On what ground were the occupiers of 10 l. l. 1208
 MR. BUCK  said, he should oppose the Motion. In the county which he represented (North Devonshire), there were 4,000 freeholders; but he found from inquiries he had made, that if this Motion were carried into effect, they would be overbalanced by the 10 l.
 MR. LOCKE KING,  in reply, said, that it had been stated the measure he proposed would introduce a very great constitutional change. It would, however, do an act of simple justice, by giving to the inhabitants of certain localities the right of voting possessed by persons occupying property of the same value in other localities; and so far he thought it was desirable that a constitutional change should take place. It had been also said that the object of his measure was merely to secure representation to property; but what he contended for was, that if property was represented in one locality it should be represented fairly in another.
 MR. LOCKE KING  begged to move for leave to bring in a Bill to enlarge the Franchise in the Counties in England and Wales, and to limit the time of taking the poll to one day. The Bill which he now asked leave to introduce was the same as that which he obtained leave to bring in last year, with an addition respecting polling places and the duration of elections, it having been thought desirable that the opinion of the House should be expressed on the question of limiting the polling in counties to one day, and shortening the proceedings at county elections generally to the same standard as in boroughs. When this Bill had been brought forward in the previous year, many hon. Members voted against it, not because they objected to the principle, but solely because the noble Lord then at the head of the Government promised to introduce a measure of reform early in the present Session. The noble Lord had performed his promise by introducing the Bill; but in consequence of his retirement from office, there was now no measure before the
 1201 s. s., l. l., 1202 "Now, I am exceedingly well acquainted with the West Riding of Yorkshire, and I have no doubt that many of you know it well also. Let us, then, look at what Mr. Disraeli says: 'The population of the West Riding is 1,300,000. The boroughs represented in Parliament contain a population of 500,000, and the rural population of 800,000.' Now, what is the meaning of that? How much of the West Riding is really rural? Take a glance of the country from Leeds to Bradford, and what do you see? Stacks, certainly; stacks, not of wheat, but of chimneys; you see a manufacturing population right and left. Between the towns of Leeds and Bradford there is scarcely a blade of wheat to be seen. Let us proceed from Bradford to Skipton, and thence back to Leeds by a triangular route, and we come to several places of great population, all of them seats of manufacturing industry. Again, proceeding along the valley of the Calder, we come to Wakefield, where Mr. Sandars, the protectionist Member, has struck his flag, and is now coming out a free-trader. Leaving Wakefield and proceeding up the valley of the Calder, we come to Dewsbury, with its immense population, all engaged in manufacturing pursuits. Thence we go in another direction to Barnsley—Black Barnsley, as it is called—the seat of the linen trade, a town containing a great population and no representation. Throughout the whole of the West Riding you have essentially, in fact, a manufacturing interest and a manufacturing population." "I take ten counties, each of them agricultural. I add up the population and obtain the total inhabitants. I then take the total number of Members, and by dividing the population by the Members, I see how many persons there are for each Member of Parliament. In this way I get a fair view of the state of the agricultural representation. The counties that I have taken are Bedford, Berks, Bucks, Dorset, Essex, Norfolk, Suffolk, Sussex, and Wilts. Those counties contain 2,514,603 in-
 1203 in pari passu. 1204 "But things not always changing equally, and private interest often keeping up customs and privileges when the reasons of them ceased, it often comes to pass in governments, where part of the legislature consists of representatives chosen by the people, that in time this representation becomes very unequal and disproportionate to the reasons it was at first established upon. It is not a change from the present state, which perhaps corruption or decay has introduced, that makes an inroad upon the government, but the tendency of it to injure or oppress the people, and to set up one part or party with a distinction from and an unequal subjection of the rest." "Maintenant le principe a disparu; il y a des Bourgs sans importance et dont les habitans n'ont ni fortune ni indépendance; 1a capacityé n'est plus 1°, et pourtant le droit y est resté. On disait que le nom du Bourg, sa position materielle, ses murailles sont les signes d'une capacityé electorale qui doit y resider à jamais, un privelege appartient à des pierres."
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  rose to more for copies of the papers and correspondence concerning the investigations made by Colonel Outram, into the existence of corrupt relations between the Guieowar or his subjects and certain officers pf the Bombay Government; and also concerning the removal of the said officer from his post of resident at Baroda.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, notwithstanding he should press the Motion to a division. There was no doubt about the facts. They were admitted, and the only question had been the propriety and prudence of their being brought before the notice of Parliament by him, as they had long since been brought before the notice of the, public, and particularly the natives of India, by the servants of the Company themselves. The existence of corruption at Baroda was not denied. The participation of officers high in the, confidence of the Bombay Government could no longer be concealed; but the question yet remained to be decided whether or not it was fitting, when so much was already known, that the Government in this country or in India, or the Court of Directors in Leadenhall-street, should be permitted to come forward and obstruct as far as they could the process of inquiry
 1228
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that although it might be uncommonly convenient for hon. Gentlemen opposite to appeal to the electors at the coming elections upon the single point of "confidence in Lord Derby," and to merge all other questions into that, he thought it was the duty of the Opposition to bring forward as many subjects as possible, in order that the electors might know what really were the opinions of the candidates. He did not think, therefore, that the Motion had been brought before the House at an improper time. He quite agreed with the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Lord R. Grosvenor), that the poll at county elections should terminate in one day, for every one conversant with the facts knew that the bribery, corruption, and intimidation took place at the end of the first day's polling—that they were continued during the ensuing night, and that the electors were driven to the poll in a state of intoxication on the subsequent morning. The noble Lord the Member for Colchester (Lord J. Manners) said, that if they wished to find purity of election, they must go to the counties. Why, then, if the electors were such honest men, did they refuse them the protection of the ballot? The Bill, for the introduction of which the House gave leave on the previous evening, was one for the encouragement of treating and bribery, and yet, notwithstanding the expense it would entail on candidates, it was supported by the country party, who were suffering so much from free trade. A Militia Bill had been introduced too, and the people were to have muskets if not votes. He trusted, however, that the people would feel that if they were not allowed to vote, muskets should not be placed in their hands by a forcible ballot; and he thought that both the feeling and the intelligence of the country were
 1216
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, at the commencement of the Session they read in the papers a statement made by Lord Derby, immediately on his taking office, to the effect that there should be no further reform in the representation of the people; and, therefore, he (Sir B. Hall) was not surprised at the opposition which had been made to the Motion before the House. But, he would ask, what was the extension of the franchise which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had just shadowed forth? Was it to be a reality, or was it only a miserable claptrap for the hustings? Was the right hon. Gentleman sincere in what he had stated, or was he not? The right hon. Gentleman said the great deficiency in the Act of 1832 was the want of proper attention to the rights of the working classes. Was the House to collect from that voluntary admission on the part of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that when Parliament assembled again, Ministers would bring in a measure for the purpose of extending the suffrage to the working classes? If the right hon. Gentleman was sincere, and really intended to do that which he had hinted at, let him say so at once. Let him say, in reference to this question—as in reference to protection, which he gave up six months ago—that he would once more come forward a radical reformer, as in days of yore, when he cast an eye on the representation of Marylebone, and bring in a Bill for conferring the franchise on the working classes. But when the right hon. Gentleman talked of tampering with the franchise year after year, he (Sir B. Hall) would remind him that no alteration whatever had taken place in the franchise from the time of the Reform Bill to the present day. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had recently, however, made a strange proposition in refer-
 1223 l. l. Much Ado about Nothing. 1224 l.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he had hoped that the hon. and learned Gentleman the late Lord Advocate, in making this Motion, would have stated the grounds upon which he asked the House to assent to it. This was no new question either to the House or the country, but yet it was not one in which the people of Scotland and England had so little interest that it might be allowed to pass  sub silentio 1229 Confession of Faith 1230 1231 1232 1233 "I, Victoria, Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, do faithfully promise and swear that I shall inviolably maintain and preserve the settlement of the true Protestant Religion with the government, worship, discipline, rights and privileges of the Church of Scotland as established by the laws made then in prosecution of the claim of right, and particularly by an Act entituled, 'An Act for Securing the Protestant Religion and Presbyterian Church Government,' and by the Acts in the Parliament of both Kingdoms for the Union of the two Kingdoms. So help me God! VICTORIA R." 1234
 MR. MONCREIFF  said, it would be recollected that as far back as 1845 this question had undergone a very full discussion, and from the indications of opinion then given by the late Sir Robert Peel, and the right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham), it looked as if after some lapse of time there would be no great objection in any quarter to passing a measure of this kind. Although he feared that anything he could urge would be but a feeble recapitulation of what the House had then heard from his predecessor in the situation he had lately the honour of filling (Mr. Rutherfurd), and from the right hon. Gentleman who then represented Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay), he would endeavour as shortly as possible to explain the grounds on which he thought this measure should be adopted by the House. He must fairly own he was rather disappointed that Her Majesty's Ministers did not see their way to consent to the second reading of this Bill. He had some hopes of this, because he recollected that the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury (Mr. F. Mackenzie), and the hon. Member for Stirlingshire (Mr. Forbes), suggested that time should be given to ascertain the opinions of the people of Scotland on the question. He did not find anything in the result of that appeal to render it incumbent on Ministers, if not otherwise inclined to do so, to repudiate this Bill. Fifty-two petitions had been presented in its favour, and, including fifteen presented that day, forty-eight against it; the signatures to the fifty-two petitions were upwards of 5,000, whereas those to
 1235 1236 History of the Union, "It happened then, as it had happened before, that the cry of security to the Church of Scotland was made the stalking-horse of all parties, even those who did not care for the Church. This brought the Jacobites to cry out for the Church,
 1237 1238 1239
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, showed that the existence of the tests did not practically prevent the youth in the Scottish Universities from the benefits of the highest professorial ability; and in this point of view the tests could not, therefore, be said to operate injuriously; while, on the other hand, they must certainly operate for the security of the Church of Scotland, since professors such as those who had been named by the hon. and learned Gentleman, though they might not actually belong to the Church of Scotland, afforded a guarantee, in their general characters, that they would do nothing to injure that Church, or the general cause of religion. Those who might be misled into giving their assent to the Bill, because a clause was introduced providing that the theological chair was not to be filled, except by a member of the Established Church, ought to be aware of the very slight nature of the security offered; for in such another speech as he had just delivered, the hon. and learned Member for Leith would probably propose to abolish in the ensuing year that last remaining test. At least, the legal ground on which the present system rested, would have been removed. The ground on which he (Sir R. Inglis) resisted the measure, had no reference to any question whether the majority of the Scotch people objected or not to the imposition of tests—neither did he take into his consideration whether the members of the Established Church consisted of one-third, the ad-
 1240 1241
 MR. BETHELL  said, that the existence of these tests, if they were not imposed, could be no security that professors would do nothing to injure the Church of Scotland, for if they were not taken at the time of election, and the professor was once in possession of his chair, there was no power by which he could be deprived of his office, or be compelled afterwards to submit to the imposition of these tests. The hon. Baronet who had just resumed his seat had also objected to the repeal of these tests, on the ground that they gave a security for the moral and religious education of the people of Scotland. He (Mr. Bethell) thought, however, that that argument was derived from a knowledge of the working rather of the English than of the Scottish Universities. The Scotch Universities were formed on the old model, while in England the collegiate system had altogether usurped university education. In English Universities the young men were subject to surveillance, and the result was that their education was conducted on what he might call the domestic principle, which was in direct opposition to the old university system; while in Universities conducted on that old system, as in Scotland, no attention was paid to the habits of the students, nor was any test or discipline required. Why, then, should they require the professors to be subject to a test from which the students were exempt; why should they require in the former a particular religious belief, which they did not require from, and took no particular pains to inculcate upon, the latter? The fact was, that this Statute remained a dead letter, unless when it was raked up to become a weapon in the hands of religious animosity. To the petitions which had been presented against the measure, he would oppose the intrinsic reasonableness and necessity of that to which the House was now called upon to
 1242
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the hon. and learned Member for Leith (Mr. Moncreiff) in his able speech, had remarked, and before any Member of the Government had spoken, that they were going to oppose this Bill. It was perfectly true that they felt it their duty to do so; and considering the objections which this Bill was open to, he thought that no Government could take any other course. In the first place, the measure was a direct violation of a national compact, made at the time of the Union between England and Scotland; and no national compact ought to be broken through, except upon cogent and satisfactory reasons. In the second place, its principle, if it were recognised, must necessarily undermine the principle upon which our ecclesiastical institutions, not only in Scotland, but in other parts of the Kingdom, were founded and endowed as establishments for the national education and instruction of youth. Now, supposing that this Bill was open to those objections, and no strong or urgent case had been made out for the proposed alteration, it was surely not only the duty of the Government, but also of Parliament, to take care that existing rights and principles were not hastily violated. His first objection ap-
 1243 Confession of Faith, Confesssion of Faith, pro con 1244 Cheers. 1245 1246
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis) had asked whether Roman Catholics and Nonconformists would agree to send their children to Roman Catholic and Nonconformist colleges, if offices in them were held by persons of a different creed? That Roman Catholics had no objection that their children should be instructed by professors of another religion was shown by the progressive increase in the number of students at the four colleges in Ireland which the hon. Baronet had styled "godless colleges," and this, too, notwithstanding the late excitement and the opposition of the priests. And yet Roman Catholics held scarcely any of those chairs which were said to be theological by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, who seemed on this occasion to have borrowed his arguments from the Vatican. The hon. Baronet (Sir R. Inglis) should not, however, have asked whether Roman Catholics would have confidence in colleges endowed with their own funds, in which others than Roman Catholics held office; but whether great national institutions like the Universities of Scotland were so essentially sectarian that every chair (even the most secular) must be filled by persons holding the same faith, and whether Roman Catholics thought it just that the benefits of bodies enjoying
 1247
 MR. EWART  said, he had listened with attention to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department; but he must say he was not at all satisfied with the arguments which the right hon. Gentleman had adduced against the present Bill. The right hon. Gentleman had said that the object of the Bill was contrary to the Treaty of Union; but his (Mr. Ewart's) hon. and learned Friend the Member for Leith (Mr. Moncreiff) had shown that the Articles of Union had already been altered in several instances, and he might mention another, for the Reform Bill of 1832 was in conflict with the Articles of Union, which provided that the number of Scotch Members should be forty-five, whereas the Reform Bill increased them to fifty-three. The second point insisted on by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary was, that the abolition of the tests would be an invasion of the religious safeguards and institutions of the country. But was not the abolition of the Test and Corporation Act described in similar terms? And yet the House of Commons did not hesitate to pass that measure. In the third place, the right hon. Gentleman said that the change was not required. On the contrary, he (Mr. Ewart) said that it was required, because the law was habitually violated, and it was necessary to make the law in conformity with the existing practice. But, said the right hon. Gentleman, "I admit that the strict letter of the law is violated, but that is because the parties who administer the tests (the Senatus
 1248
 SIR ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL  said, he would join issue with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down on the subject of the violation of the Treaty of the Union. The hon. Gentleman had alluded to the Reform Bill of 1832, which had added to the number of Members of Parliament for Scotland. In reply to the argument of the hon. Gentleman, he begged to remind the House that the 22nd Article of the Treaty of Union, establishing the number of Peers and Members of Parliament for Scotland, contained these words: "Until the Parliament of Great Britain shall make further provision therein." He denied also that the Treaty of Union had been broken by the Act of 1711, which altered the mode of exercising ecclesiastical patronage in Scotland. He did not find in the Treaty of Union a single word relating to patronage. With regard to the other point to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, there was a similar clause. The modifications of the Act to which, the hon. Gentleman had alluded, even supposing them to be alterations, stood upon quite a different basis from that which was now proposed to be made. The, Act of Security was passed in the Parliament of an independent country previous to its union with another independent country, and, therefore, any alteration made in it must be considered an infraction of the terms of that union. He believed that if, this Bill were to pass that and the other House of Parliament—a result which he; should deeply regret—Her Majesty would have great difficulty in giving the Royal Assent to it in consequence of its being a violation of her coronation oath. He would go further, and say that he greatly doubted whether the Judges of the Court of Session would not, if applied to, grant an in-
 1249
 MR. HUME  said, he did not rise for the purpose of replying to the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, for he really did not think it worth attention. The hon. Gentleman had told them that if Parliament were deliberately to alter the law with regard to any of the institutions of Scotland, he did not believe the Judges of the Court of Session would carry the alteration into effect. After such an allegation as that, he (Mr. Hume) did not think it necessary to trouble himself with replying to the arguments of the hon. Gentleman. The able speech of the hon. and learned Member for Leith (Mr.
 1250
 SIR GEORGE CLERK  would remind the House that the Parliament of Scotland had adopted those stringent enactments connecting the educational institutions of Scotland with the Established Church of that country, to guard against the designs of the Jacobite party, who wished to see the exiled family restored to the Throne of Scotland. It was a great mistake to suppose that the law had been in abeyance from the time of the Union, and had only just been revived under peculiar circumstances. The Royal Commission which was appointed in 1826 to inquire into the system of education in the Scotch Universities reported in 1830 that they had found in some Universities—alluding especially to Edinburgh—that subscription to a formula was not uniformly required on the appointment of professors, but that in most of the Universities it was required; and they recommended that in future the law should be strictly enforced in all cases. That Commission was composed of persons of various religious denominations of every shade of political opinion; and yet, with the exception, he believed, of Mr. Cranstoun, the members were unanimous in recommending that the
 1251 1252 Confession of Faith 1253 1254
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he was surprised at the observation of the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Clerk), that no case had been made out for interference; for he must say that he thought a more complete and convincing argument than that of the hon. and learned Member for Leith (Mr. Moncreiff) he had never heard. For his part, he thought it was so full and complete that if all the Members then in the House were present at the time that statement was made, he should hardly have said a word, and even now he should trespass upon the House but a very short time. The right hon. Baronet had alluded to a fact which he seemed to think ought to have great influence with the House—namely, that the Commissioners appointed to inquire with respect to the Scotch Universities had recommended that the tests should be enforced, and that among those Commissioners was the late Sir James Moncreiff. But the case upon which a practical grievance arose had occurred since the time when those Commissioners reported; and he believed that Sir James Moncreiff himself would have been excluded from office in the Universities by the very test now in operation in Scotland. It was true that the tests were reqnired by the existing law of Scotland, and such being the case, he considered that they ought to be enforced; but it had been urged that this was a law which was not obeyed, which was constantly violated, and the House was asked what was the need of repealing a law which was so systematically broken? He had been surprised to hear the right hon. Home Secretary say that this was a convenient state of things, when a relaxation of the law depended upon the
 1255 Confession of Faith, Confession of Faith, 1256 Confession of Faith.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, that no practical inconvenience arose from the existence of those tests, was clearly proved by the circumstance that persons were from time to time elected to the highest offices in the Scotch Universities, who were not called upon to subscribe to them; and a memorable example of that was found in the case of the late Sir Robert Peel on his election to the rectorship of the University of Glasgow. Sir Robert Peel knew well he might be called on to take that test, and he must also have been
 1257 1258
 MR. OSWALD  said, he quite agreed with his hon. Friend who had just sat down that this was a momentous subject. But it was because the House neglected the crisis of 1843, that they now had in Scotland the Free Church, which had taken from the Established Church one-half the people of the country; he, therefore, did not for a moment doubt that the subject was a momentous one, and one which called on that House for a most deliberate discussion. He confessed when he came down to the House, he was by no means decided as to the course he should take; but he must say that, after listening to the arguments of hon. Members on the Treasury bench, he had been totally unable to find in their arguments a reason for rejecting this Bill. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had urged two reasons for rejecting the Bill: one, that it was a violation of the Act of Union; and the other, that it would endanger the established religion of Scotland. He (Mr. Oswald) was not, like the right hon. Gentleman, a lawyer; but he could not help saying, he thought that every atom of that ground was cut from under the right hon. Gentleman's feet by the speech of the late Lord Advocate (Mr. Moncreiff), who had brought to the discussion of this subject abilities so striking and pre-eminent. With regard to the Act of Union, he had in private brought the question under the notice of persons who had since risen to the most exalted stations in Scotland, and the answer he had received from them had uniformly been that the Act of Union must never interfere with anything that was for the welfare of the people of Scotland; and indeed the very words of that Act told them as much. English Members, no doubt, very much misunderstood the meaning of the word "University" as applied to Scotland, and thought that the Universities of Scotland bore some analogy to those of England. There was, however, scarcely a single point in which such analogy could be established. The Universities of Scotland were neither more nor less than Colleges similar to those which
 1259 1260 Confession of Faith,
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he had only to submit that it would be matter of considerable public inconvenience, if the statement which the right hon. Gentleman was about to make should go forth without the possibility of there being any reply from the other side of the House. [ Cries of
 MR. GLADSTONE : I shall endeavour, Sir, to make my statement without unnecessarily detaining the House, and with as much brevity as is consistent with the importance and the comparative novelty of the subject I am about to bring under its attention. Now, I am anxious, before I say anything else, to define in the clearest and the most explicit terms the object of the Bill which I have obtained leave to introduce, and of which I now rise to more the second reading. The object of that Bill is, that in the colonies which are included in the schedule attached to it, and in such other colonies as Her Majesty by an Order in Council shall think fit to declare, what is called the Church of England in the Colonies—I say what is called in the colonies the Church of England, because I am not sure whether that is the precise legal definition or not—shall be put in a condition of managing on a footing of perfect equality its own ecclesiastical affairs—that is to say, that it shall be put upon a footing of equality with those unprivileged and unestablished denominations of religion which at present enjoy in that respect a great advantage over it, of which I trust nothing will be done to deprive them. But when I say such is the object of the Bill, I ought to add that I propose that this freedom should be enjoyed, subject to such restraint as Parliament should think fit to impose. I entirely and freely grant that in prescribing the relations of the bishops, clergy, and laity, in the colonies to the Established Church and the legal system at home, it is right that the entire religious freedom which I should otherwise think it fair to grant them, should be limited in certain particulars What those particulars are to be is a matter of much importance, and requiring grave consideration. I have inserted in this Bill clauses which I believe would keep in existence and in operation every practical restraint, without a single exception—every practical restraint of a legal character which is at present operating on the churches in the colonies. At the same time, I am not so vain as to hope that, in regard to matters of that kind, I have succeeded in finding the very best arrangements that
 1265 1266 1267 "Whereas, the recognition of legal equality among all religious denominations is an admitted principle of colonial legislation; and whereas in the state and condition of this province, to which such a principle is peculiarly applicable, it is desirable that the same should receive the sanction of direct legislative authority, recognising and declaring the same as a fundamental principle of our civil polity; be it therefore declared and enacted;"— 1268 1269 1270 1271 1272 1273 "We, the undersigned Metropolitan and Bishops of the province of Australasia, in consequence of doubts existing how far we are inhibited by the Queen's supremacy from exercising the powers of an ecclesiastical synod, resolve not to exercise such powers on the present occasion. But we desire to consult together upon the various difficulties in which we are at present placed by the doubtful application to the Church in this province of the Ecclesiastical Laws which are now in force in England, and to suggest such measures as may seem to be most suitable for removing our present embarrassments." 1274 "In consequence of the anomalous state of the Church of England In these colonies with reference to its general government, and the doubts entertained as to its validity of any code of Ecclesiastical Law, the bishops of these dioceses experience great difficulty in acting in accordance with their episcopal commission and prerogatives; and their decisions are liable to misconstruction, as if emanating from their individual will, and not from the general body of the Church." "We, therefore, consider it desirable, in the first place, that the bishops, clergy, and laity of the Church of England in each diocese should meet together in synod at such times and in such manner as may be agreed." "We are of opinion that one assembly, called a diocesan synod or convention, should be duly constituted; that it should be presided over by the bishop of the diocese, and should consist of all the presbyters of the Church having cure of souls, or licensed by the bishop, and of lay representatives from the ecclesiastical parishes or districts." 1275 "Your committee, therefore, propose for consideration the following draft of a constitution for the Church in this diocese—to consist of the bishop, synod of clergy, and convention of laity, together forming a general diocesan assembly." "For the management of Church affairs in that Colony a general convocation shall be assembled of persons representing the bishops, clergy, and laity, who shall constitute an upper and a lower house." "Resolved—That it is the opinion of this meeting, that in consequence of the want of any law ecclesiastical for the government of the United Church of England and Ireland in this colony, and the acknowledged difficulty of carrying into effect any efficient system of Church discipline, it is imperatively necessary that a body should be formed with power and authority to frame and enforce laws and regulations for the government, discipline, and internal management of the Church; such powers, however, in no manner to extend to matters of truth, or in any way interfere with or alter doctrines or forms of worship; and that such body shall consist of bishops, clergy, and laity, meeting together in such manner, and exercising such functions and duties as may be hereafter by law authorised." 1276 1277 1278
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he should be very reluctant to decline acceding to any request that appeared reasonable; but at the same time he should be glad to have an opportunity of stating the purport of the Bill before the House rose. If his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Pakington) was in a position to give him any specific promise that an early day would be assigned for proceeding with the Bill, undoubtedly he (Mr. Gladstone) would comply with his request; but he was not prepared to ask the right hon. Gentleman to do that in the present circumstances of the Session. The Bill was not one involving party considerations; and he trusted the opinion of the House would be that he had better then make, his statement, and then leave it to their judgment.
 MR. GLADSTONE  presented a petition from the Bishop of Cape Town, and another from the Committee for promoting the Canterbury Settlement in New Zealand, in favour of this Bill.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, as it was impossible to overrate the importance of this subject, and as no doubt the right hon. Gentleman would occupy a considerable time in addressing the House upon it, which would render it impossible for him (Sir J. Pakington) at that hour (5 o'clock) to make any reply, some considerable time would elapse after the right hon. Gentleman's speech had been given to the public through the ordinary channels, before the debate could be resumed: he had, therefore, to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether, under those circumstances, it would not be desirable to postpone the Motion for the second reading until a future day?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that after the very able speech of the right hon. Member, and the lateness of the hour, it would be impossible for him to reply to it, and he should therefore move the adjournment of the Debate.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  was obliged to the hon. Gentleman for giving
 1316 Household
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought the latter part of the question called for the expression of a legal opinion whether such publications were liable to the stamp duty or not; which he must, at all events at present, decline answering. But in reply to the first part of the question, he bad recommended to the authorities that proceedings should be instituted in the way he had stated, for the purpose of obtaining the decision of a Court of Error; and he had no doubt that in a very short time they would be taken.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought that was rather a question for his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer but he should think until the law was finally settled, no interference would take place.
 The MARQUESS of BLANDFORD  rose and said: Sir, I rise in accordance with the notice on the paper of this House, which has for some time been standing in my name, for the purpose of moving for leave to introduce a Bill to enable Her Majesty further to regulate the duties of ecclesiastical personages, and to make better provision for the management and distribution of episcopal and capitular revenues. And, Sir, if ever there was an occasion when it was necessary for the House to extend its accustomed patience and indulgence, it is not only while I detail the provisions of the measure which I am about to ask for permission to introduce, but also while I state the motives and the reasons which induce me now to undertake a task which might well be committed to older, abler, and more experienced hands. My path is laid in the region of possible mistake on my part; but, Sir, in spite of the many difficulties which may well be supposed to wait upon the steps of a private Member of this House in bringing forward a measure which ought to have emanated from a Government, rather than from an individual, there are some circumstances which contribute to make me feel that, although it cannot be the lot of any one, however disinterested
 1318 1319 1320 1321 l. 1322 1323 l. l. l. l. l. 1324 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1325 l. 
 
 Dioceses. Benefices. Clergy. Acres. 
 Norwich 909 1,237 2,211,060 
 Lincoln 794 1,103 2,182,650 
 Exeter 658 916 2,491,220 
 Winton 516 807 1,493,030 
 
 Existing parishes. Existing churches. Churches required. Church Accommodation. 
 Lichfield 55 163 75 1–3 to 1–16 
 Llandaff 28 44 33 1–3–1–50 
 Oxford 23 40 24 1–3–1–6 
 Ripon 34 223 62 1–5–1–14 
 Worcester 32 75 22 1–4–1–15 
 Winchester. 49 149 34 1–3–1–12 
 Gloucester and Bristol 28 69 23 1–3–1–7 
 Chester 43 254 23 1–4–1–10 
 Exeter 46 86 19 1–4–1–14 
 York 31 101 20 1–3–1–17 
 St. David's 11 34 19 1–4–1–18 
 Durham 41 104 26 1–4–1–20 
 London 67 280 53 1–4–1–15 
 Manchester. 21 249 80 1–4–1–11 Clergy List, 1326 "The population are chiefly colliers, quarrymen, and small factory operatives, in number 2,711, only one gentleman resident, who is a member of the Church of Scotland. It was not without the most persevering effort during the last seven years that a church and school had been provided for this people, and benevolent persona in different parts of England, Wales, and America have contributed towards the objects, without which the case was hopeless; yet the sum of 350 l. 
 
 Great Tithes. For the Incmbnt. 
 Bristol Chautdown 1,022 88 
 Norwich Aldeby 735 64 
 Sporuston 735 64 
 St. Paul's Lingsbury 500 46 
 Westminster Malton 528 93 
 Worcester Bedwanline 422 90 
 York Hornby 640 98 
 Southwell Kneesall-with-Boughton 974 100 
 Kirklington 500 49 
 Windsor South Courtney 1,475 148 
 St. Germans 1,615 150 
 Froxfield 742 122 1327 "The surrender of the lands and possessions of the dean and chapter doth not dissolve the corporation. This was declared in the case of the dean and chapter of Norwich, who, having conveyed their lands to King Edward VI., and being incorporated anew, had their lands re-granted, and made a lease by their own name, and it was adjudged to be a good lease, because, notwithstanding the said conveyance of lands, the old corporation of King Henry VIII. remained, the reason of which was that the two principal ends for which the deans and chapters were instituted (the first to advise the bishop in spiritualities, and the second to restrain him in temporalities), might be well answered by them, though they had no temporal possessions." "By degrees the dependence of the dean and chapter on the bishop, and their relation to him, grew less and less, till at last the bishop hath little more left to him than the power of visiting them, and that very much limited. And he is now scarcely allowed to nominate half of them to their prebends who were all originally of his family." l. 1328 l. l. 1329 "They were likewise called  Decani Christiantatis, l. l. 1330 l. l. 1331 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1332 "The prebend of Tettenhall, in the cathedral of St. Paul's, had leased the estate under his trust for three lives, at the nominal rent of 46 l. Letters of Junius l. l. l. 1333 "'Why do you go through the process of granting a new lease upon three fresh lives in the first instance? Mr. Elsley replied, 'I am supposing that to be done which I know was done in the case of Patrick Brompton by the Bishop of Chester. The Bishop of Chester, before he would allow that to be sold to redeem the land-tax, made my uncle surrender the old lease, and pay a very large price for the new lease; and I cannot conceive that there was any motive for that, except that the Bishop might put a certain sum into his own pocket, because if that had not been done, the difference would have been much greater, and a much larger sum would have come to the Commissioners for redeeming the land tax; but he took care to provide against that by having granted, before the Commissioners were dealt with, one of the best leases possible, and thereby taking care that the difference between the existing lease and the freehold should be as little as possible, he having received the benefit of the exchange of the old lease with the new lease.'" 1334 l. 1335 l. l. 1336 "The privileges of the people were sought, not in the violation of present, but in the restitution of ancient rights; not in the work of destruction, but in that of preservation. The progress of the Constitution was marked not by successive change, but by repeated confirmations of existing rights." 1337 1338
 MR. COWPER  said: I must dissent from the observations that have been made by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis), for I believe the speech of the noble Lord (the Marquess of Blandford) has met with the general concurrence of the House, and will have a wider and larger concurrence in the country. There is a large party in the country who feel the necessity for some further reform in the arrangements of the Church. There has been a marvellous awakening of energy and zeal in the Church of England of late years; and many, both of laity and clergy, are striving, in their respective spheres, to relieve the sad spiritual condition of masses of its poorer members; but to the Legislature only can they look for improvement in the external machinery of the Church, and a better adaptation of its resources. This House has entertained the subject, but has hitherto done little. Commissions have reported, and Committees have inquired. Returns have been framed, and we have an accumulation of facts and opinions; but little action has resulted from those preparations. The time has now come for the attention of the House to be given to
 1344
 The MARQUESS of BLANDFORD  re-
 1348 Burn's Justice,
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that he was
 1377 l. 1378 1379 l. l. 1380
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, when he undertook that inquiry the question of good faith was not at all included. It was entirely at the wish of the House that he undertook that inquiry.
 MR. HERRIES  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman was entirely mistaken, if he believed that the Board of Directors and the President of the Board of Control were in possession of all the documents relating to this question. Not only had he (Mr. Herries) not had an opportunity of forming a judgment of those documents, but they had never yet come into his possession; and he doubted very much whether the Board of Directors, before whom they would have to be laid in the first instance, had yet had time to consider the case, and judge of its importance. Under these circumstances he thought that the hon. and learned Member was premature in moving for those papers; but he might rest assured that, whenever they should be in a fit state to be presented to the House, there would not be the slightest indisposition on the part of the Government to produce them. The charge of corruption against public officers could not be passed over.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  trusted, that after What had follon from the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey) would not press his Motion. He thought that the mode in which this Motion had been brought before the House, was hardly fair to Colonel Outram. The question was one which deserved the serious consideration of Her Majesty's Government when the papers were before them, for it was one on which the honour of our Indian Government was deeply implicated, and in which the natives were deeply interested. A charge of corruption had been made against a subordinate of the Bombay Government, and an inquiry having been instituted, he thought it was
 1387
 SIR JAMES HOGG  said, he must complain of the course which had been pursued by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, in reiterating his accusations against the officers of the Bombay Government, and in again pressing this Motion upon the House, although he was informed by the Secretary of the Board of Control, when he brought it forward a few nights ago, that some of the papers which had arrived a short time ago were under consideration, but that the most material, including the memorial of Colonel Outram, had only reached England two or three days previously. He (Sir J. Hogg) could give the most positive and absolute denial to the statements which the hon. and learned Gentleman had made on a former evening, and repeated that evening. He (Sir J. Hogg) denied that any officers high in the service of the Bombay Government, if by that was meant civil and military servants of the East India Company, had ever been convicted of corruption, or had ever had it imputed to them. And the hon. and learned Member should know this, because he (Sir J. Hogg) had on a former evening read an extract from a letter of Colonel Outram's, stating distinctly not only that no such imputation had ever escaped him, but that he did not believe in its justice. Colonel Outram said—
 "I was made aware, during my official career at Baroda, that a belief existed that high officers of the Government were open to corruption, and that such belief was promoted by the native subordinates for their own interested purposes. Fully convinced there were no grounds for such dishonouring imputations, I laboured earnestly to trace out and bring to punishment the delinquents through whose corruption the good name of the British Government was tarnished." 1388
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, that, in justice to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Youghal, he should state that he had himself on a previous evening understood the Secretary to the Board of Control to say, not only that the documents in question had arrived, but that they were before the Board.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that he had then most assuredly been misunderstood, for he certainly stated that the papers had not reached the Board of Control, and that they had only reached the Court of Directors upon the day on which he spoke.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, he must express a hope that, as soon as the public business would allow, these papers would be laid before the House, in order that they might be able to form a judgment for themselves upon the transactions to which they related.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that after the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, he would not press the Motion, relying on the promise that the papers would be produced.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he concurred with the hon. Member for Hertford (Mr. Cowper) in thinking that his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis) treated the noble Lord (the Marquess of Blandford) unfairly in asserting that it required a general and thorough agreement on all points with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) before one could give a hearty assent to the proposal and to the spirit in which it was made by the noble Lord. For his (Mr. S. Herbert's) part, he had long felt that the abolition of ecclesiastical abuses and the reform of ecclesiastical duties were becoming every day more necessary, not only for the safety of the Church, but for the support of real Christianity in this country. He had on one or two occasions taken an opportunity of discussing those points, and was not then going to enter into them. He understood, the restoration to the episcopal office of the duties long attached to it, and which by the lapse of time had been separated from it, was one of the main objects of the Bill. It also proposed an addition to the episcopate proportionate to the increase of parochial subdivisions, which every day was more necessary. He was glad to hear, from the statement of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), that in 1837 he proposed a similar measure to that which was now proposed by the noble Lord, for it would consequently appear that the hon. Member had proposed the addition of seventeen bishops to the episcopate. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department had stated that it it was more necessary to increase the parochial clergy—[Mr. WALPOLE: Not more necessary—equally necessary.] The right hon. Gentleman had said it was equally necessary to increase the parochial clergy, and he would find that it was assumed that the existing system of applying the accruing surplus to the increase of the parochial cures should be continued. A redistribu-
 1347
 MR. G. CAVENDISH  said, that the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Manners) had very much misrepresented Sir Joseph Paxton. It was never the intention of that gentleman that the Crystal Palace should be applied to one-half the purposes which he had so glibly enumerated. Sir Joseph Paxton's view was, that it should be converted into a winter garden; and if he had the opportunity granted to him he would lay it out in such a manner that it should
 1375
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that, although the hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down had passed some severe strictures as to the utility of what had taken place in the Crystal Palace, the fate of which was then under consideration, yet he must decline upon the present occasion to enter upon the question of the merits of that great Exhibition. Neither did he think that the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) ought to be offended by his (Lord J. Manners) declining to refer to the earlier acts of the life of that hon. Member, in which he endeavoured to call the attention of the House to measures calculated to promote the education as well as the innocent recreations of the people. The House well knew the services which the hon. Member had rendered in that respect, and those services he (Lord J. Manners) was quite convinced were duly appreciated by every one. But his present object was to state, as shortly as he could, the reasons which induced Her
 1360 "That the said buildings and erections which may be erected on the said site or piece of ground hereinbefore described as aforesaid, and all the materials and contents thereof, shall be completely removed and carried away by and at the sole expense of the said Commissioners on or before the 1st day of June, 1852; and that on or before the said 1st day of June, 1852, the said Commissioners for the Exhibition of 1851 shall, to the satisfaction of the Commissioners for the tune being of our Woods, Forests, Land Revenues, Works, and Buildings, restore the soil and surface of the park to its form before any part thereof was enclosed by the said Commissioners, ready for sowing with grass seeds, and to sow the same." "All and every the directions in respect of the premises which shall from time to time be given to them by the said Commissioners for the time being of Her Majesty's Woods, Forests, Land
 1361 "That the Exhibition shall be closed on or before the 1st day of November, 1851, immediately after which all possible despatch will be used in clearing out the contents of the buildings, taking them down, and removing the materials and reinstating the ground, &c., within seven months from the time of closing the Exhibition; and, in the event of failure in the fulfilment of this engagement, that it shall be competent for the Commissioners of Woods, &c., to remove the same, to dispose of the materials, and to apply the produce in reimbursement of the expenses incurred in such removal." "With regard to the condition that the Exhibition shall be closed on or before the 1st of November, 1851, and that the whole building shall be removed and the ground reinstated within seven months afterwards, the commissioners cannot but express their regret that it should have been thought necessary to require a stipulation of so minute a character after the public assurances which they have already given, that the building should be of a strictly temporary character, and should be removed immediately after the close of
 1362 1363 "Then, supposing the building could be purchased at an expense of 45,000 l., "Then, if it were converted into a winter garden, there would be large alterations in the floors and galleries, and the timber that would come out of those floorings might be sold for a considerable sum, for a credit against other expenses." "A further sum of 20,000 l. l. 1364 "If I understand your Lordship to ask whether I could make a better building, if I had to make another for the purpose, I tell you distinctly I could—very much." "Suppose you were asked by the Government to give them a plan for a covered garden for the parks on a large scale, you would make it with a wooden roof?—Oh, most undoubtedly; not exactly like the Great Exhibition building, because my notion of the stability of one of these great buildings is this, and what I intended for the Great Exhibition building is this, namely, that all the sinews and everything connected with strength, should be iron or metal; that, in fact, the outline of the building should be like this table, and the covering of glass and wood like the table cloth spread upon it, so that you could renew it at any time and in any manner you liked, and go that when anything happened to it, you could repeat and constantly keep it up; that is my notion of it. Now, in the Great Exhibition building they did not carry that out to the extent of my wishes; there is wood in some places where there should be iron. "There is a great deal in the building that might have been better done otherwise, but there is nothing there but what was done to get it completed in the time?—In my plan I made metal gutters underneath to parry the wafer a way from the other gutters. That is essentially carrying out the principle of making the whole stability of the building and the connexion of it of metal; and then the other wooden gutters were to carry the water into these; and that is the way I should execute a building of this extent if I had to do it to-morrow morning. "You would have the skeleton of iron?—Yes. "The skeleton of the roof should be of metal? —Yes, that part that carries off the water." "I think for 25,000 l. l. "Upon the whole, you think the Exhibition building could not be adapted, without a total alteration of its character, for the purpose of receiving antiquities?—I cannot myself believe it would save one single sixpence in expense in the adaptation; in fact, it would be as costly as an entirely new building." 1365 "Assuming it were advisable to have a depository in which there should be collections of machinery, collections of mineral products, and collections of articles which are matters of trade and commerce between one country and another, do you not suppose that wherever these are collected there must be rooms for attendants to stay with them, and give information to persons who came there for the purpose?—Unquestionably; and I would not have it supposed that I think the present building is by any means the most suitable place; but you have got the present building, and the sympathy of the people with the subject; you have got the covered space; and temporarily I would take all the advantage I could of those circumstances." "Then, if I understand, you would establish it in the present Exhibition building, with such a consciousness that it is unfitted for it, and that the outcry of the public would lead to a better?—That is a little stronger than I put the case; but I am prepared to say that the present building is a great deal better than none; and the more its imperfections were seen, and the public interested in the subject, the more eager they would be to support the preparation of a better building." 1366 "If well lit up, it would be an enchanting place at night; all the statuary and plants would show off extremely well; it would be most perfect; it would become an illusion almost. I only wish you would let me have the building to give a ball or two in it for the charities of London; you would see how I would light it up." 1367 1368 "As an indication of the number which the park would benefit, it may be stated that the passengers carried by one steamboat company only, between London Bridge and Kew, amounted last year to 6,000,000, of which about 500,000 were passengers to and from Kew, and the rest were passengers to and from the several piers between London Bridge and Battersea Bridge." 1369
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  could assure the House that the unmitigated nonsense which the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) had been obliging enough to put into his mouth, with regard to "geographical immorality" had never entered into his mind. [The noble Lord, in explanation, then quoted a document, stating that the Exhibition building was about to be sold, and that an offer had been made for its purchase.]
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR , in seconding the Motion, said that his noble
 1339
 MR. TENNYSON D'EYNCOURT  said, he could not avoid saying that he felt considerable surprise in listening to the speech of the noble Lord in reply to the stringent arguments advanced by the lion. Gentleman who had brought forward this Motion. The noble Lord having stated that he did not meet the Motion in a hostile spirit, expressed every objection, not only of his own, but of others, against the continuance of the building on its present site, alleging, amongst other things, that it would be injurious to public morals. Yet, nevertheless, the noble Lord was in favour of placing this building in another part of the metropolis, where the poor would herd by themselves, and not have the advantage of meeting the upper classes, in
 1370 1371 Times "The destruction of the Crystal Palace would be as perverse and senseless an act of Vandalism as could be perpetrated; when it was capable of affording enjoyment to such large masses of the people it would be a very wise and ungracious act on the part of the Government and the aristocracy to insist upon it." 1372
 MR. GEACH  said, that was perfectly correct, but the bargain was made contingent on that House not sanctioning its continuance in Hyde Park.
 MR. GEACH  said, he should support the Motion, and repudiated, on the part of the promoters of the movement for retaining the building, any desire to usurp powers not legally and fairly conferred upon them.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had formerly on several occasions expressed his opinion upon this so-called Crystal Palace, and he believed his conduct had been in strict conformity with those declarations. He had never entered it. If anybody offered him a thousand guineas—and even in those times of Californian gold a thousand guineas was no small sum—he would not enter the place. No; upon principle, he would not, he dared not
 1358 1359
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : As a general rule, I am sorry to say that I cannot sanction any indulgence that might endanger Her Majesty's Revenue.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he wished to thank the noble Lord (the Marquess of Blandford) for the manner in which he had
 1345 1346
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he did not object to the increase of the episcopal body, but wished to call the attention of the House to an Act of Parliament by which the rights of lessees of the Church were distinctly recognised, and he trusted there was no provision in the Bill that would destroy those rights. If there was anything in the Bill that would set aside the intention of Parliament with respect to the rights of those lessees, he (Mr. Aglionby) would, of course, object to that particular part of it.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that he did not wish to detain the House from coming to that division which they seemed so anxiously to desire; but he felt, from the position which he formerly held, he ought not to give a completely silent vote upon this subject. It was said that the Government were incurring a certain degree of unpopularity by the course they were pursuing upon this subject. Now, he wished to gay that he was willing to take his share in that unpopularity. The question presented itself to his mind as one of good faith. His right hon. Friend (Mr. D'Eyncourt) had asked when and where the pledge had been given to remove the building. His (Mr. Labouchere's) reply was, that the pledge was given to the public when permission to erect the building was sought, that it was only for a temporary object, and that when that temporary object was accomplished it should be pulled down and the Park restored to its original condition. That pledge was given at a time when there was much unwillingness upon the part of the House to allow the appropriation of the Park to the purpose. It was upon the strength of that most solemn pledge that leave was ultimately granted. He was one of the Members of the Government who gave at that time the assurance to the House, and he felt that he was only redeeming that pledge by resisting the present Motion. Now he did not mean to say that the pledge thus given to the public might, should the public so desire it, be held as never given. Nor did he pretend to the absurdity that any Government or any
 1373 1374
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he regretted that he had not been able to bring forward this subject at an earlier period of the
 1349 l. 1350 1351 1352
 MR. HEYWOOD , in reply, said, he would adopt the words of the Earl of Carlisle as expressive of the true state of the case, and say that nothing could be more unwise than for the aristocracy to insist upon the removal of the Crystal Palace. With respect to any injury that might be inflicted on private property by the retention of the Crystal Palace, he had no doubt that ample compensation would be given for it, if necessary; for there was nothing which Members of that House were more jealous of than injury to private property. The noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour) had spoken of Sir Joseph Paxton as having nominated trustees to take charge of the building. The fact was, that all that he had done was to call upon certain eminent individuals who, at his request, had consented to act as trustees, if Parliament should choose to appoint them. Under all the circumstances, he (Mr. Heywood) must persist in dividing the House upon his Motion.
 MR. WYLD  said, he believed no one could deny that it was desirable that there should exist hi this metropolis a large edifice devoted to the reception of objects of art and of models of our mechanical skill. He hoped that, if even that Motion were rejected, the erection of such an edifice would not be lost sight of.
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to know if instructions had been given to the authorities at Somerset House to take the necessary steps for proceeding with the writ of error immediately; and, if not, whether other publications, similar to the  Household
 MR. J. EVANS  said, that he must maintain that it would be no violation of good faith to vote for the present Motion. The contract was made by the Royal Commissioners on behalf of the public, and if the public declared that the contract should not be carried out, it would be no breach of faith to follow its wishes. He must say he was surprised to hear the noble Lord the Member for Totness (Lord Seymour) speak of this Motion being tantamount to a breach of faith, seeing the noble Lord was at the head of a Commission the very object of which was to see whether the building should be retained or not.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, that the unanimous feeling of the public was that the Crystal Palace should not be pulled down. The pledge to dostroy the building was given under circumstances which were quite different from the present, and the feeling of the country absolved them from any necessity in adhering to it. To construct the building in the Park without the consent of the people was a trespass upon their rights; to pull it down without their consent was also a trespass. He implored the House not to act in open hostility to the wishes of the people, who would consider it an act of social exclusion were they to destroy this beautiful building. [ Cries of
 MR. HUME , in seconding the Motion; said, he differed in many respects from the opinions expressed on this important question by parties who had interested themselves in discussion as to the permanence of the building in question. For his part
 1353 1354 s. d. 1355 1356 l. d. "Three modes of appropriating the Crystal Palace may be at present specified with sufficient distinctness to show how it is intended to combine the instruction and recreation of the people with the advancement of the arts, sciences, and manufactures. In the first place, a portion of the space may be allotted to a winter garden, avoiding extremes of temperature, embellished with fountains, statuary, geological specimens, and a great variety of other interesting objects." "Another portion might be appropriated for the reception of new inventions, and of a collection in illustration of the commerce of the world. Lastly, the building might contain a gallery of design, for the promotion of taste among manufacturers and the public, and lecture-rooms and museums, which would relieve the already over-crowded state of many of our greatest scientific institutions." 1357 "No more is asked for, in carrying out this plan for the preservation of the Crystal Palace, than has already been conceded to the Zoological and Botanical Societies in the Regent's Park. The self-supporting principle upon which it is proposed to effect the preservation of the palace, is the same as that upon which the Great Exhibition was so successfully carried out. No better proof can be given of the confidence felt in the soundness of that principle than by mentioning the fact, that some of the first capitalists in the country are prepared to guarantee the funds required upon the basis of this statement, and to submit their guarantee to Her Majesty's Government."
 MR. HUME  begged to say, with respect to the observations of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. Inglis), that if be gave him (Mr. Hume) credit for his consistency in his desire to reform the abuses of the Church, he (Mr. Hume) could give the hon. Baronet credit for being as consistent tit his wish to support them. He was sure that the noble Lord (the Marquess el Blandford) was acting as the best friend the Church of England had in attempting thus boldly to reform her; and it was to him (Mr. flume) a most consolatory reflection that the work he had begun twenty-five years ago was now being taken up in earnest by the members of the Church of England, who could not be accused, as he had been, of ill-will towards her. His (Mr. Hume's) object was to place the Church of England on a footing which would enable it to afford religious instruction in the best form, for the advantage of the people and of the country. He should think himself unworthy of the good opinion of any person if he did not say that
 1343
 MR. HUME  had put the question to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer. The law had decided that the publication in question was legal, and it was a quibble worthy of the Government—["Order, order!"] Yes, he said it was a quibble worthy of them to interfere to prevent the circulation of publications declared by the Court of Law to be legal until that decision was set aside. He wished to know from the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he would allow such publications to continue until the final decision was obtained?
 MR. HUME  would remind the hon. and learned Gentleman that a decision had already been given in favour of the publication—and what he wanted to know was, whether until the point of law was settled on appeal in error from that decision, publications of the same nature as the  Household Narrative
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, the noble Lord who has asked for leave to bring in this Bill has taken such pains with the subject—he entertains, I know, so friendly a disposition towards the Church—and he has shown himself so desirous of promoting the improvement and spiritual instruction of the people of this country, that I should feel I was indeed ungrateful towards him if I were, on the part of the Government, to decline to allow this Bill to be introduced. But, independently of these considerations, which have induced me to give my assent to the introduction of the Bill, I think there is so much in the arguments and observations which the noble Lord has advanced, so much of truth in what he has said, and so much of justice in some of the propositions which he has submitted to us, that I think the House and the country ought to have an opportunity of considering this large and comprehensive subject. At the same time, with regard to a measure so large and comprehensive, I cannot say that I am prepared to adopt it; and I think
 1340 1341
 MR. WALPOLE  explained that he had never used the word "Church" without meaning the clergy and laity united together; and he thought the House would not satisfactorily legislate upon this subject without the joint co-operation of the clergy and laity of the Established Church.
 MR. ALCOCK , seeing that the present and the late Government were both opposed
 1382
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the noble Lord who had just spoken appeared to be influenced by a very strong feeling. He (Mr. Wakley) had also a very strong feeling, but he had made no pledges; and if the noble Lord had made a pledge which he could not maintain, in consequence of the power of Parliament, morally he would commit no sin. ["Oh, oh!"] This was a pledge for destruction; but suppose it had been a pledge for protection, would the article "good faith" then be so worthy of admiration? The noble Lord the First Commissioner of Works stated that the edifice would be the scene of much immorality if it were retained in Hyde Park, but that it might be removed to Battersea. Was morality a matter of geography? What kind of animal did the noble Lord suppose existed at Battersea? Some extraordinary monstrosity, he supposed, because the noble Lord said Government would give them their countenance. If it were a zoological collection, he admitted that the Government might supply them with some countenances curious enough. But, if it were to be an immoral thing in Hyde Park, and a moral thing at Battersea, that was a circumstance for the noble Lord to explain. What harm could such a structure as the Crystal Palace do anywhere? He assured the aristocracy that they had risen wonderfully in the estimation of the people since they had mingled with them at the Crystal Palace, and they
 1381
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  was anxious to put a question to the hon. and learned Attorney General in reference to the prosecution instituted by the Board of Inland Revenue against the  Household Narrative,
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he merely rose to express the anxiety he felt that the abuses of the Church should be reformed, and that ecclesiastical property should be placed under better management. He was of opinion that sinecures of all descriptions connected with the establishment of the Church should be abolished; while, at the same time, he was desirous that those who performed duty in the Church should be adequately remunerated for it. He should postpone the expression of his opinions in detail, until the period when the Bill came before the House for a second reading.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he held that the Church of England should be the great bulwark of Christianity and Protestantism throughout the world. If it ceased to be so, it would cease to perform that high mission for which he conceived it was established, and would be swept away from the face of the earth by the united feelings of all classes of Protestants in this country. He united in the testimony of gratitude that had been offered to the noble Lord for the spirit and feeling with which he had brought forward this measure. He wished to ask whether the right hon. Home Secretary, when he said that he desired to obtain the opinion of "the Church" on this subject, meant that term to apply to the clergy exclusively, or to the clergy combined with the laity?
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he had not been prepared for the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), and as little had he been prepared for the speech of the noble Lord (the Marquess of Bland-ford). He confessed that if the speech of the noble Lord had been delivered upon the highest mountain of the House, he could better have understood it. It was true that the noble Lord had received one or two faint cheers from the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), and at the close of his speech several generous cheers from those beside whom he (Sir R. Inglis) was sitting; but the largest proportion of the cheers had come from hon. Gentlemen who could not claim to be called the friends of the Church. No person, for instance, could deny the consistency of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) on this question. Five and twenty years ago the hon. Gentleman brought forward the measure of which the noble Lord (the Marquess of Blandford) was now the eulogist. He (Sir R. Inglis) did not deny the consistency of the hon. Member for Montrose; but he deprecated with all his heart the principles which the noble Lord had enunciated; and when the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department talked of the great knowledge which the noble Lord had accumulated, he (Sir R. Inglis) could pay him no such compliment, since he must equally deny the conclusions at which the noble Lord had arrived, and the premises from which they were taken. The noble Lord said that deaneries and canonries were sinecures. It was true, that they had not, distinctly as such, the cure of souls; but they had their useful and important part in the ecclesiastical system of England; and that they were sinecures was a statement which any one who knew the working of that system ought to be prepared to deny. As he
 1342
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the impressions which he originally entertained as, the advisability of retaining the Crystal Palace had been entirely changed. A short time ago he desired to see the Crystal Palace abolished, on the ground that the perishable material of which it was constructed might not be adequate to its preservation in this changeable climate, and that it might not ensure the permanency and durability of a public edifice. He should also dislike to see a building which had answered, and successfully answered, the magnificent purposes to which it was originally dedicated, desecrated to the ordinary purposes of gain, or given over to the hazardous intentions of speculators. He thought that, having fulfilled its mission, it might be abolished, and that it would be no act of Vandalism so to do; that, on the contrary, the fame and the reputation of the men who were engaged in it would not be affected by its removal. True, it would not exist in Hyde-park, recalling by association the splendours of the past, but it would exist in all their recollections as an imperishable monument, and these distinguished men might say—
 "Exegi monumentum ære perennius Regalique situ pyramidum altiun."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he wished in a few words to state the reason why he should vote for the Motion of his hon. Friend. He thought that no man who went to see the Great Exhibition of last year could have failed to be struck with the reflection that, however wonderful and worthy of admiration were the multitude of productions in industry and art which were contained in that Exhibition, there was nothing within the building to compare with the building itself as an object of admiration to all who saw it, or help regretting that a building so extraordinary in itself, of which it might be truly said that there was nothing like it in the whole world, or to compare with it, should be pulled down when the temporary purpose for which it had been erected should be accomplished. He thought this same sentiment must also have inspired every man who, since the
 1376
 The, CHAIRMAN  then read the following Resolutions:—
 "That, towards making good the Supply granted to Her Majesty, there be issued and applied to the Service of the year 1852 the sum of 1,015,625 l. s. d., "2. That, towards raising the Supply granted to Her Majesty, the respective Duties in Great Britain on Profits arising from Property, Professions, Trades, and Offices, and the Stamp Duties in Ireland, granted by two Acts passed in the sixth year of Her present Majesty, and which have been continued and amended by several subsequent Acts, shall be further continued for a time to be limited."
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, he, too, had heard with unusual satisfaction the statement that had been made by the right hon. Gentleman. In reference to the speech made by the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Bright), and his remarks upon sugar, he (Alderman Thompson) was convinced the increased consumption of that article had arisen solely, not from the lowering of the duties, but from the great depreciation of the price consequent upon the increased importation of it from foreign countries. The importers had sustained a loss upon an average of from 5 l. l. 74 l.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  would be sorry to mar the concord of this pleasant evening by any unkind criticisms, but he felt it his duty to state that there were some in the House, and more in the country, who absolutely called for an income tax, because they thought it was only an act of justice under actual circumstances to the poor and the operative classes. Was it or was it not the fact, that the poorer classes paid by indirect taxation at a higher rate than their richer fellow citizens, he did not mean by any small or fractional difference, but in some instances by as much as ten or eleven times the rate at which the rich were paying? The operative classes had a firm conviction that for this they had a right to what in the Army was called an "overslaugh." He knew that in this he did not concur with some friends on his side of the House; but he thought if hon. Gentlemen would put themselves in the place of the working classes and the holders of small incomes, they would be of the same opinion. On another point, too, he was at issue with the same friends. He was himself a holder of temporary income, and therefore spoke with feeling; but for his life he could not see in what manner, supposing the income tax to be perpetual, he was taxed unjustly. He paid the tax during his own life, and those who should get the property after him would pay during theirs. After great and habitual attention to arithmetical and mathematical questions, he had been utterly unable to discover that this was not as it ought to be. If it was intended to urge, that incomes arising from present industry ought not to he taxed at the same rate as incomes arising from past industry, let this ground be fairly stated, and all be made of it that could. But do not let the question be fought under false colours. On both the points stated, he believed the friends alluded to, to be entirely in the wrong. It was not for him to compliment the
 75
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he had listened to the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with unmitigated satisfaction, and it was not his intention to revert to the disagreeable reminiscences of bygone times, when the right hon. Gentleman held different opinions. If he had ever heard a speech illustrating in the strongest light the value of the policy pursued from 1842 up to the present moment, that speech was the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. He was delighted
 77 l. s. 78
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that having been so pointedly alluded to by the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Hudson), he wished to be allowed to explain. He freely admitted that the inhabitants of Middlesex had been opposed to the increase of the income tax, as stated by the hon. Member; but surely there was all the difference in the world between objection to the principle of direct taxation altogether, and opposing an addition to any particular direct tax, which was believed to be quite unnecessary, and which belief, as the result of the withdrawal of the measure showed, was demonstrably proved to have been well founded. He had made an omission in his former speech which he wished to correct, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give him his attention while he did so. It was to state his regret that the right hon. Gentleman had not expressed his willingness to consider the claim of the attorneys and solicitors to relief from the certificate duty, and to announce that, in consequence of his refusal, he (Lord R. Grosvenor) must give notice that on the 25th of next month he would himself move for leave to bring in a Bill to deal with that subject.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  had listened with admiration to the speech of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer; hut throughout the whole of it he had not heard any expression of preference for a system of direct over indirect taxation, which some hon. Members had endeavoured to fasten upon it. His financial statement was perfectly in accordance with the promise which had been given by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that no change would be made in our commercial or financial policy. His right hon. Friend had simply stated the difficulties with which he had to contend in raising the income of the country. He had stated that some interests of the country were suffering; and the late Government itself, at the opening of the present Parliament, admitted, in the Queen's Speech, that the agricultural classes were in a state of distress, but they forgot to propose a remedy. His right hon. Friend would suggest one. Whatever it might be, it would give equal justice to every great interest in the country.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had dwelt on the beneficial effects of free trade; but he could state that in a district with which he was connected—a district fifteen miles round Hastings—large tracts of land had been thrown on the hands of the landlords by the effects of those measures of which the hon. Gentleman so much approved. He thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would find that one of his statements was not quite correct. The right hon. Gentleman said the amount he expected to receive from the hop duty for this year was 150,000 l. l. l. l. l. 84
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed that what he meant to say was of a purely personal nature. He did not mean to allude to the able statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He intended merely to reply to the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax (Sir C. Wood), who had repeated a taunt which he had uttered on a former occasion against him (Mr. Newdegate). The right hon. Gentleman stated that he (Mr. Newdegate) had year after year printed, published, and circulated that which the right hon. Gentleman termed a justification of an exploded fallacy. He presumed the right hon. Gentleman alluded to the calculations he had published with respect to the balance of trade. He begged to tell the right hon. Gentleman, that he (Mr. Newdegate) adherred to those calculations, and to the accuracy of the results deduced from them, and that he had made similar calculations for the last year. The balance of trade against this country, as shown by calculations made on the same system, and verified in the same manner, as those which he had published with respect to the trade of each of the preceding six years, amounted to 13,000,000 l. l. l. l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  confessed, that however he admired the prudence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the ability which the right hon. Gentleman had shown, he had experienced considerable disappointment in the statement which the right hon. Gentleman had made; and he thought he was justified in cherishing that disappointment by the cheers which had come from the Opposition benches.  Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes. Rusticus expectat dum defluat amnis
 MR. C.P. VILLIERS  complimented the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the ability which he had displayed in making his financial statement, out of which had arisen a most interesting discusion, which was, in fact, that of the connexion between the mode of providing for the burdens of the State, and the prosperity of the community. For years he had been endeavouring to establish a close connexion between them; and he well recollected that in 1842 he had been met with derisive laughter when in his place in that House he stated that the fall of the revenue was occasioned by artificially keeping up the price of food, which prevented a larger consumption of exciseable and other articles of general demand. He was glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer make the admission he had made that evening; and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would think he was rewarded by the general meed of approbation which the expression of his sentiments had drawn forth. On that (the Opposition) side of the House, the right hon. Gentleman could not complain; but, indeed, Governments had little to fear from their opponents—the greatest danger usually proceeded from their friends. Such, he might say, had been the case of the right hon. Gentleman; for after the right hon. Gentleman had given a glowing description of the prosperity of the country, and after he had stated that nothing remained to be done, and that he would do nothing—that he could hold out no better prospect for the country than to leave things as they were—after such a statement his hon. Friend (Mr. T. Baring) rose in his place, and proclaimed to the House that the year 1851 had been a most disastrous year. Though their poor-rates were low, though their finances were flourishing, and though their trade was good, the hon. Gentleman asserted that 1851 had been a most disastrous year. He thought, however, that people were too apt to form on such general questions opinions tainted by private views; and the hon. Gentleman, holding a distinguished
 82 l. 83
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am sorry to have received from the noble Lord an intimation that the campaign against direct taxation is again to be opened under his auspices; and certainly, after having made two previous statements this evening, to close at midnight
 86
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply to a statement of the hon. Member for Westmoreland, that he had given no orders to surcharge the house duty, of London. The sum produced by the tax was within 13,000 l.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  was not aware that he had used the words "exploded fallacy" as applied to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate); he could, however, assure the hon. Member that in whatever expressions he had used, he did not intend any discourtesy towards him. The hon. Member had published pamphlets showing that the trade of the country was carried on at an annual loss; and he (Sir C. Wood) thought that that was completely disproved by the facts which had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, it has often, in the course of the last five years, been my duty to follow the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down when I differed from him in most of the observations which he addressed to the House; but on the present occasion I have the more pleasing duty in following him of
 37 38 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 39 40 l. l. l. l. 41 l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Bernal, an important branch of the revenue having ceased by lapse of
 10 11 l. 12 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 13 l. l. l 14 15 16 17 18 Cries of" 19 l. Cries of and Cheers. l. l. l. 20 21 l. l. Cheers. l. l, l. l. l. l. l. l. 22 d. d. d. l. l. s. s. d. s. s. l. l. l 23 l. l l. l. l. l. 24 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. A laugh l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 25 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 26 l. l. 27 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 28 l. l. l. 29 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 30 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 31 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 32 l. l. l. l. l. l. 33 l. l. l. l. 34 l. l. l. l. l. l. 35 36
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: Sir, I shall not follow the hon. and learned Gentleman in his invective against General Rosas. Whatever may be the character or the exploits of General Rosas, he is, at least, an individual with whom this country has often been in negotiation, and, if I am not incorrectly informed, one with whom our gracious Sovereign has entered into treaty. Therefore, it must be obvious to the House that General Rosas occupied a very important position, and has been placed in very important relations with the Crown and the people of England. With regard to the Treasury Order to which the hon. and learned Gentleman has referred, I have no hesitation in saying that that order was sent down. It was sent down as a matter of course; and although neither myself nor any other Member of Her Majesty's Government shrink from the responsibility of sanctioning that order, still I may say it was a simple matter of form, the exercise of which I do not for a moment regret. I have just this moment received the order, and I will read it to the House. I think it right, however, to mention that it invests the person in whose favour it was directed with no privilege whatever. It does not exempt his goods or chattels from any duty to which they were liable. It is merely an instruction given to the officers of Customs directing them to extend to a distinguished foreigner about to arrive in this country that courtesy in the exercise of their duties, and that ordinary hospitality to which his position entitled him. That is the nature of the Treasury Order, which I will read to the House to enable it to judge of the character of the proceedings:
 "Treasury Chambers, March 22, 1852. "Gentlemen—General Rosas, the late ruler of the Argentine Confederation, being daily expected to arrive in England, accompanied by his daughter, on board Her Majesty's steamer  Conflict, 7 "G. A. HAMILTON. "The Commissioners of Customs."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have stated most distinctly that there was no order of that kind sent; but that at the same time we entirely approve of the conduct of the officers at the station.
 MR. HUDSON  said, that the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Lord Robert Grosvenor) had stated that the general feeling of his constituents was in favour of a system of direct taxation. He was a little astonished at that remark, especially when he remembered that on the late Government a few years ago proposing to increase the income tax from 3 to 5 per cent, large assemblages were held all over the metropolis, and so great was the excitement that the then Chancellor of the Exchequer was obliged to abandon the proposal. This fact also clearly illustrated how dangerous it would be in a country with a very large debt to rely upon direct taxation as the chief source of our revenue; because, in times of depression, when public excitement prevailed, there would be great difficulty in collecting the taxes, and in obtaining the enactment of the measures by which they were to be raised. The hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers) had stated that the Chancellor of the Exchequer admitted that the classes who were now suffering were the classes who derived their incomes from rent; but surely, if one schedule of the income tax was referred to as evidencing the prosperity of the country, it was only fair to point to another schedule which showed that one important interest at least had sustained a large diminution in their incomes, amounting, he believed, to 5,000,000 l. l. 85 l.
 MR. MUNTZ  listened with the deepest attention to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he must say that, during the twelve years that he had sat in Parliament, he never heard anything more able or lucid. There was one remark in the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that he (Mr. Muntz) could not feel satisfied was quite correct; but he was not going to act so absurdly as to deny the truth of what had been stated by the last as well as the present Chancellor of the Exchequer, with regard to the general prosperity of the country. He would, however, venture to say that he had as ample opportunities as most men of judging of the commercial state of the country, and he could not altogether concur in the glowing accounts given by those two right hon. Gentlemen to whom he had alluded. But his object in rising was to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the unjust mode in which the tax on income was levied. From what he knew of the workings of that tax, he knew that the country at large would be extremely opposed to its renewal, particularly if they should find that it was attempted to be renewed on its present basis. He was acquainted with frequent instances of the injustice of its operation, particularly as regarded the small manufacturers. And the people so unjustly dealt with had no means of redress. They had no resource
 88
 MR. G. SANDARS  rose to bear a willing testimony to the able, lucid, and satisfactory statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which he believed would give great satisfaction throughout the country, and especially in that part with which he was more intimately connected—the mercantile and manufacturing districts. The right hon. Gentleman had expressed his belief that the falling-off in Schedule D had been chiefly owing to the losses in 1847; but he (Mr. Sandars) was sorry to say the losses on imports the last two years on corn, cotton, sugar, tea, and coffee, were also very large. On corn the losses had been so continuous and serious that he believed that was partly the cause of the great decrease in the imports this year in comparison with the preceding ones; and the right hon. Gentleman must bear in mind that these losses would influence the returns under Schedule D for the three following years. He (Mr. Sandars) should support the Resolution for continuing the property and income tax for another year on its present unequal basis; but he begged to tell the right hon. Gentleman that he would not, nor would the country, consent to renew it for a longer period, unless it were placed on a sound and equitable basis of justice to all parties. It was clearly unjust to levy the same amount of percentage from the uncertain incomes of trades and professions as from that of realised property. If it were to become a permanent tax, and from the opinions which had been from time to time expressed in that House in favour of direct taxation, it would appear as if such a course of legislation was more than probable, these anomalies must be rectified, and the return of incomes should be ascertained by affidavit, which would get rid of that objectionable and inquisitorial system of compelling respectable tradesmen to produce their books. Many consented unjustly to pay the surcharge rather than thus expose their dealings and circumstances to their neighbours. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, the tax, if continued, ought to be made as general as possible. If this were to be the case, if direct taxation was to take the place of indirect taxation, so as to reduce the duty on articles of consumption, then he (Mr. Sandars) could see no objection to incomes of a smaller amount than 150 l. 81
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat had, in stating the extent to which the revenue had recovered, notwithstanding the reductions of taxes which had taken place, attributed this entirely to increased consumption, arising from a diminution of duties; hut he had entirely forgotten to take into consideration that during that time the population of the country had increased somewhere about three millions, and therefore that this must of itself have caused an enormous increase of consumption without any reduction of taxation having taken place. That was exemplified by what had taken place with respect to the consumption of tea, which had increased at least one-third in the last ten years, although no reduction of the duty had taken place.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that the subject of the sugar duties well deserved discussion by itself; and thinking, as he did, that the language of the right hon. Baronet was calculated to do great injury by keeping up a feeling of uncertainty in the Colonies, in holding out to them hopes of protection which were doomed to be disappointed, and which were calculated to check the efforts they were now, as he believed successfully, making to meet the altered circumstances of the times, he could not refrain from offering a few observations to the House. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington) had said, that there was nothing in the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to indicate that he considered that the recent commercial policy of this country was not fatal to the interests of the Colonies. Now, he (Mr. Labouchere denied that. What was it that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer said? He pointed out, as was his duty, the beneficial result of the reduction of these duties, and he then expressed his satisfaction that that policy had not been attended with a diminution of the importation of sugar from those Colonies. But, said the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington), the importation of foreign sugar had increased. Why, to be sure it had. That was the necessary consequence of the measures adopted by Parliament—it was the natural result of throwing open their ports. The only question the House had to consider was, whether those advantages had been purchased entirely at the expense of the Colonies. Now it was an established fact, that a greater quantity of sugar had been imported last year than in the year before:—but then, says the right hon. Baronet, the price is greatly diminished. No doubt the price of sugar was lower. No doubt the consumption of beetroot sugar on the continent of
 72 73
 MR. JAMES WILSON  was quite ready to admit that the amount of the exports from this country was not, under all circumstances, or at any one particular time, to be taken as an infallible evidence of prosperity; but he believed that the steady increase of our exports since 1846 had, under the circumstances of the country, afforded abundant evidence, as stated in the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the general state of the nation was a prosperous one; and certainly they would arrive at a wrong conclusion if they took particular statements from Mincing-lane and Liverpool as proofs that the country generally was not prosperous. The losses of the last year arose in a great degree from speculative transactions based upon the unusual profits of the preceding year; and in consequence of these losses the price of produce abroad had fallen so much that trade was likely to be more profitable in the present year than even in 1850, which was admitted to have been the most profitable year for some time. If there were any truth in the theory which had been propounded by the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring), with respect to the decrease in the returns under Schedule D, these returns ought still to have continued to decrease; but a turn had already taken place which accorded with the theory of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the disastrous years 1847 and 1848 had diminished the returns of the last year, and even to some extent those of the present year. If we did not take the amount of the exports of the country as being an infallible evidence of the prosperity of the country, we might at least take the general amount of the revenue derived from consumption through the Excise and Customs as a satisfactory evidence. Now, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had himself shown that although 9,000,000 l. l. l. 51
 MR. BRIGHT  would say honestly that he participated most largely in the satisfaction generally expressed, not with the manner only, but with the matter, of the right hon. Gentleman's speech. He thought, though, that he had, after being, as he said, six weeks in the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer, fallen into an error from which his predecessor was by no means free—that of charging the people of this country with an impatience of taxation. The first part of his speech was devoted to an exposition of the difficulties which a Chancellor of the Exchequer found in dealing with the three great branches of taxation. He said it was impossible—he did not quote the right hon. Gentleman's exact words, but such were their effect—he confessed it was not possible to revert to a system of increased taxation on imports. He entirely agreed with the right hon. Gentleman in that opinion; but
 62 l. 63 64 65 66 l. l. l. l. 67 l. l. l. l. 68 l. Times
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, that on comparing the speech of the hon. and gallant Gentleman who last addressed the House with the speech of the hon. Baronet the Member for Essex (Sir J. Tyrell), it did appear to him that perfect harmony did not exist over the way. He was particularly struck by an observation that had been made by the hon. Baronet at the commencement of his speech. That hon. Baronet had declared that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not cast a gloom upon his countenance; and to any person who witnessed his constant flow of good humour, as he (Mr. Reynolds) had done for the last five years, it was unnecessary to give that assurance. He
 59 60 l. 61
 MR. REYNOLDS  wished to put the question of which he had given notice to the Attorney General of Ireland. It was generally understood that Lord Clarendon, during his administration in Ireland, had employed Major Brownrigg, one of the chiefs of the constabulary force of that country, to make a tour through the north
 8 Weekly Telegraph
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he would take that opportunity of putting the question of which be had given notice, because he did not wish to stand between the House and the Chancellor of the Exchequer's financial statement. To what Member of the Government he should address his question he did not know, but he hoped that some one amongst them would be prepared to give him an answer. It had been stated in the public papers that a Treasury Order was sent from London to Portsmouth with respect to the mode in which a reception should be given to M. Rosas; and whether the fact was so or not, it was further stated that on his arrival at Plymouth he was waited upon so soon as he reached that town by the Port Admiral, Sir John Ommanney, and the other heads of departments; that by a Treasury Order his luggage was allowed to pass through the Custom House without the usual mode of examination, and that facilities were afforded him of a very peculiar nature, in consequence of the position that he was supposed to hold. He (Mr. Roebuck) did not wish to be understood as being in the slightest degree opposed to the extension of the most complete protection and hospitality to every political refugee, no matter whatever might be his opinions. But protection and hospitality were one thing, and the courtesy of England was quite another. M. Rosas was a man in misfortune, and he had lost his power—a power which for twenty years he had exercised in a manner that was a disgrace to human nature. He (Mr. Roebuck) would not now enter into what would become matter of history; but those who knew anything of M. Rosas's history knew that there was no atrocity of which man could be guilty that this man had not committed—that there was no evil which could be inflicted on a people that he had not inflicted—that there was no mischief that could be created that he had not visited upon the comity and the commerce of nations; he had been no friend to good government, and no friend to humanity. What he (Mr. Roebuck) desired to ask the Government, as represented
 6
 MR. HUME  said, that the point the public would look. to was, whether the Port Admiral and other officers on this station had not stepped out of the usual course, and offered marks of attention that had never been paid in any other instance of a foreigner coming to seek refuge in this country. The most distinguished foreign refugees who had defended liberty and liberal institutions had never received anything beyond the barest civility on the part of the Government officials. He therefore wished to ask if the Government had issued any order to Admiral Ommanney and the other authorities, directing them to receive General Rosas with the unusual honours they had paid him?
 MR. HUME  said, if the Budget of the
 42 43 l. 44 s. s. l. l. 45 46
 MR. NAPIER  said, that when the Select Committee was appointed to inquire into crime and outrage in Ireland, he had thought it his duty to ascertain what officers had been sent down by the late Government into the disturbed districts, with a view to their examination before that Committee. He had thought it due to the late Government to refer to those gentlemen, and, knowing that they were men of great experience and capacity, he could have no hesitation in taking Major Brownrigg amongst others as a witness. Major Brownrigg appeared to have very largely inquired into the state of the various districts he was directed to examine, and had prepared a report in writing. He (the Attorney General) had never continued that gentleman, or had any communication with him since his own accession to office; but Major Brownrigg came over and gave his evidence before the Committee in question. Having prepared a statement of his views in writing, he was asked by the Committee whether he had any objection to produce it, and accordingly it was given in. He might observe that in consequence of certain evidence before the Committee having been very injuriously paraphrased in a number of the same paper to which allusion had been made upon the very same day, the attention of the Committee was drawn to it, and a special order was made that no further publication of any evidence should take place, and an order was posted outside that no stranger should be admitted. With respect to the intentions of the Government as to any Bill, he could only say that, not having yet heard the whole of the evidence, as Chairman of the Committee it would be a gross breach of duty on his part to form any opinion or to make any declaration with reference to the measure which might result from the inquiries of the Committee. All he could say on the part of the Government was this, that when they had heard the whole of the evidence, and the Committee had reported to the House, he should endeavour to prepare and bring in such a measure as might be satisfactory.
 MR. HEYWORTH  advocated a system of direct taxation in preference to indirect, as being; best calculated to promote the illimitable expansion of commerce. The working classes were now beginning to understand that they were paying by indirect taxation 10, 12, and 15 per cent on their incomes, while the middle classes were dissatisfied at having to pay 3 per cent in direct taxation. There had been a great outcry against the income tax, and it might be that it was open to some objections in its present shape; but if it were continued for a sufficiently long time it would become popular throughout the country; and if they would only reduce still further the amount of indirect taxation they might safely extend the income tax until it should reach the incomes of the working classes. He begged to thank the Chancellor of the Exchequer for having brought forward the budget in the manner in which he had done, and he was certain that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman would carry with it the approval of the country.
 MR. ALCOCK  quite agreed with the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz) that the income tax was highly objectionable. If continued, he thought it ought to be applied more generally than at present—that it should be extended to all incomes throughout the country generally. He maintained that if the duty on articles of daily consumption, such as tea, tobacco, & c, were lowered, the revenue would not suffer the slightest diminution. He looked upon the duty on tobacco as a monstrous grievance; it encouraged smuggling to a great extent; in fact, about half the tobacco consumed in this country did not pay duty. The income tax was, of course, unpopular. He did not believe that more than 420,000 out of the whole population of the United Kingdom paid the tax; but he was convinced that if a regular system of direct taxation were adopted, it might be levied on 6,000,000 persons, and would yield, instead of 5,500,000 l. l.
 MR. T. BARING  said, that amongst the reasons which would induce him to support the Motion of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, were the very considerations which had been urged by the hon. Member for Montrose against it. So far was he from thinking it a demerit in the Government to stand still when they were not sure what might be the future expenditure, and when they might anticipate a reduction in the revenue, that he confessed it seemed to him a great reason for the expression of praise and satisfaction with respect to the course which they had pursued. He knew that there was great popularity to be derived from taking off taxes; but he also knew that if there was any duty more incumbent than another upon a Minister, it was not to endanger the future for any momentary purposes of the present. He should be very sorry, even if he had the power, to throw any doubt or gloom upon the generally encouraging prospect which the future held out; and, before he proceeded further, he must say, that there was one thing in which he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), in admiration of the motives of the late Sir Robert Peel. He had never doubted the purity of that great statesman's motives. He had ever felt the greatest admiration for his talents, nor had anything ever given him greater pain than the necessity under which he felt himself placed of opposing the measures of 1846. His opinions, however, remained unchanged, that in dealing with great commercial questions, and with great interests, sudden revolutions were the worst and most dangerous experiments. He thought his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken rather too bright a view of the results of our late commercial legislation; and, for his own part, he was bound to say, that from all he could gather, the year 1851 had been a
 48 l. l. l. l. 49 l. d.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  begged to state that his opinion and the opinion of commercial men, was opposed to the hon. Member for Bradford (Colonel Thompson), inasmuch as they viewed the income tax as a most unjust and oppressive tax. He did not deny that direct taxation for the purposes of raising revenue was a preferable mode to indirect taxation. He assented to the statement of the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley), that, by indirect taxation, the people were less aware of the amount of taxes they paid, and only found it out by the poverty to which they were reduced. But though he would willingly support direct taxation, he required that it should be levied upon fair and just principles. The income tax was introduced as a temporary tax; and Sir Robert Peel offered that as the only defence of the inequalities which he admitted did exist. But, under different circumstances, he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would direct his attention to the oppressive mode in which it was at present assessed, not only upon the tradesmen in London, but in many provincial towns. Parties who had suffered large losses for many years, and made no profit under Schedule D, went before the Commissioners and stated the truth; but the Commissioners, instead of believing them, inquired the amount of their returns, and then assessed the income tax upon the profits which they said ought to have been made with such returns. Consequently it was a matter of common occurrence to find persons in the bankruptcy courts, figuring as having been assessed at hundreds a year to the income tax, who could only pay their creditors 5 s. s. l. l. 76 l. l. 20 l. l.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had shown how admirably the commercial policy of the country had worked since 1842, and he admitted he deserved credit for having done so. But there wore Members on his side of the House who had, through much abuse, consistently, zealously, and honestly supported that policy. There was another party, no doubt as sincere and as honest, which had vehemently condemned that policy; and first and foremost among that party, and the most eloquent of them all, he placed the right hon. Gentleman. They had now brought the right hon. Gentleman to acknowledge, with a candour that did him infinite credit, that all that they had been doing had been right, and that all that he and his party had
 55 56
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he had heard some remarks from the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) upon a point so vitally important that he was unwilling to allow them to pass without notice. He should have been otherwise perfectly satisfied to have allowed the case of the commercial policy of the last few years to remain on the very able statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had in a manner highly honourable to him, and in a manner peculiarly his own, laid before the House the results of that policy. He would venture to say that the speech which the right hon. Gentleman had that night delivered, constituted an epoch in the history of that policy which would not be forgotten. But his hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) had grappled with a statement which was made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and which was repeated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member Halifax (Sir Charles Wood); but he must say that he did not think that the attempt to impair that statement was a successful one. According to the right hon. Member for Halifax, reductions in taxation to the amount of 12,200,000 l. l. 52 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 53 l. l 54
 MR. EWART  said, it had been asserted that extensive losses had been inflicted on the importers this year of sugar, coffee, indigo, and various other articles; but if the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) had consulted the best authorities on those subjects—if he had looked into the trade circulars of London and Liverpool, he would find that the real cause of that depression arose from overtrading. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would excuse one observation which he (Mr. Ewart) wished to make. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that the great object of Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House was to have nothing but a reduction of Customs duties, and that it was the privilege of hon. Gentlemen opposite to take upon themselves the care of the duties of Excise. But if the right hon. Gentleman consulted the records of the past, he would find that all those reductions had been made by liberal Governments, from Earl Spencer to Sir Robert Peel, the latter having reduced the duty on glass and the auction duty. Therefore, he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would not consider that the free-traders on that side of the House were not quite as much against the Excise as the Customs duties. It had been said that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not proclaimed free-trade doctrines openly. He (Mr. Ewart) did not certainly see him unfurl the standard of free trade, nor hear him quote the device which might adorn that banner; but he stated facts more forcible than all his eloquence, from which the public would draw an inevitable inference, and more in favour of free trade than all the arguments of its supporters. Let those facts go to the country, and he (Mr. Ewart) was convinced
 80
 MR. HODGSON  said, though the House had heard, that evening, so much congratulation on the general prosperity of the country, he had been entrusted with a petition which did not bear out those statements.
 79 s. d. s. d.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  concurred in many of the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. But he had reduced the surplus of 2,172,000 l. l. l l. s. d., l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  did not intend to follow the hon. Gentleman into all the subjects which he had discussed, and should not have said a word had he not been pointedly referred to on the subject of the sugar duties. In referring to the
 69 70 71
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  wished to notice a statement which had been made on the opposite side, that the Members on his had listened with long gloomy countenances to the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He could assure the House that whatever the operation of his right hon. Friend's speech might have been upon other Gentlemen, it had had no such effect upon him. His interpretation of what fell from his right hon. Friend was, that this statement was altogether a provisional statement, and his budget a provisional budget. He admitted there was enough in it to encourage hon. Gentlemen opposite to say in a tone of triumph that their principles had prevailed, and that the finances of the country were in a satisfactory state under free trade. But it did not follow that, because the finances of the country were in a satisfactory state, the commerce and trade of the country were in an equally satisfactory condition. His hon. Friend (Mr. T. Baring) had proved, on the contrary, that the trade of the country was in anything but a healthy state. The hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) had involuntarily done the highest possible homage to indirect taxation
 57 58
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman need not have been so precipitate in introducing his Bill, especially as he had only on that day laid the papers on the table of the House which had been received in the course of last year. He hoped that if the House allowed this measure to be laid on the table, they would not be precluded from discussing on a future day the question as to whether this was a measure which it was absolutely necessary to pass in the present Session of Parliament. The right hon Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) had said that all they had to consider was whether the measure would be received in the light of a boon by the colonists. He (Mr. V. Smith) was, however, of opinion that the House had much more to consider. Before the House adopted this Bill, they must consider whether the proposal to give the management of the Crown lands in New Zealand to the Government of that Colony, whilst at the same time no step was taken to confer a similar advantage upon the Colonies of Australia, would not produce much dissatisfaction and discontent. In his opinion the Parliament of this country ought to extend that advantage to every one of the Australian Colonies. That and the other important principles in the proposed Bill, hon. Gentlemen should consider well before they permitted the right hon. Gentleman to proceed further with it. He did not hear the right hon. Baronet say anything with regard to the qualifications which would be required to the Members of the provincial Councils or of the general Legislatures. That question had already been discussed in the House, and he only mentioned it with the view of learning from the right hon. Baronet whether he proposed to make any difference between the qualifications required of natives, and those required of European settlers. On another question, too, he should like to be furnished with some information—he alluded to the differences which had existed between the Now Zealand Company and the Government. He wished to know whether they had been arranged. That question was left in some
 123
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said: I cannot resist the temptation of attempting to offer to the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies a warmer congratulation than any he has yet received. Does the right hon. Gentleman know—I am certain he does know—that a principle has fallen into his hands which is capable of carrying this country to as much of the empire of the world as an honest man can wish? The questions of a first and second chamber shall be left to the professionals in that line; for there is another question which by its magnitude reduces them to comparative insignificance. The bane and injury of our colonial establishments has always been the differences of race. Of those differences the right hon. Baronet has announced the beginning of the end.
 136 l.
 MR. CORRY  said, he concurred with the hon. Member (Mr. Cobden) in thinking that the question of the military defence of the country was so interwoven with that of the naval, that it was hardly possible to separate the one from the other; hut he did not concur with him in thinking that the House ought to postpone the consideration of the Militia Bill until he had obtained the Returns for which he had moved. There were three reasons why he agreed with his hon. Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty in resisting the Motion. The first was, that the detailed information which was required ought not to be given by the Admiralty. The second was, that if it were given, it would throw very little light on the subject, because all power was relative, and it would be of little use to know the amount of our own force, unaccompanied by a return of the amount of the naval force it might be called upon to resist; and the third was, that there were official sources—the  Navy List, Navy List, 163 164 165 166 167 168
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, that if hon. Gentlemen opposite would obstruct the progress of business, let them not say in future that they were anxious for an early and immediate dissolution.
 MR. CLAY  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had moved the adjournment of the House, had three or four times endeavoured to catch the Speaker's eye, and no doubt he would withdraw his Motion, if the debate were adjourned. He (Mr. Clay) was not open to the charge of having lost his anxiety for expediting public business, because he was so anxious for a dissolution of Parliament, that he was strongly of opinion that they should not pass the measure before the dissolution, but take the opinion of the country upon it. The people were desirous to express their opinions, as appeared from the multitude of petitions that were pouring in respecting it.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, it was very essential that they should know the position of the naval force of the country, which formed the front rank of her defences—a rank which he hoped never to see broken through; but the question which the House was now called upon to discuss was, how they were to have a military force sufficient to check any enemy that might attack them. Everybody was aware that, whenever a Militia Bill should be introduced, it would be certain to meet with considerable opposition, particularly from the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), and those who acted with him. That party had laid down their political creed, and they acted up to it—they opposed all Estimates, and particularly Estimates for the military defences of the country; but he would do them the justice to say that, if the Bill of the noble Lord
 171 Cries of 172 "We have already made that preparation which persons wished us to make. We have, year, after year, been increasing our force, and we are, therefore, in a situation of as great strength as we were required to be, and we have nothing to fear from the sudden outbreak of hostilities, however unexpectedly they may come."[3  Hansard, f., f. 173
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he was greatly satisfied with the course taken by the Government in regard to this measure, which was
 126
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he thought that Her Majesty's Government would have been fully justified if they had said, that this being a subject of great importance, and one which required considerable investigation, they proposed to suspend the Constitution of the Colony for another year; but having fully investigated the subject and proposed a measure, he thought they were not only justified but entitled to the greatest commendation for having introduced it at so early a period to the notice of the House. With respect to the measure itself, not having yet seen it, he wished to say as little as possible. He trusted that there would be no considerable opposition to its progress through the House, and
 133 134
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The plan as proposed by Earl Grey in the document referred to, is one which has not been maturely considered.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I have no objection to its being laid before the House.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he was one of those who had voted against the adjournment of the debate; but hearing so many Gentlemen saying they wished to express their opinions, he did not think that anything would be gained by a further division upon it. The Bill was now in the position that it could be taken continuously; and he thought the right hon. Gentleman might agree to the adjournment of the debate to the next day, or some future day.
 MR. ANDERSON,  in rising to second the Amendment, begged to assure the House he did so from no factious feelings or party motives. While the hon. Gentlemen opposite sat on the Treasury benches he was quite willing to support them in any good measures which they might propose, while he was equally prepared to oppose all their obnoxious propositions. For this reason he had opposed the second reading of this Bill, as he should have done that of the late Government, as well as the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston). The House, however, had resolved to consider the Bill, and therefore it was of the utmost importance that they should have the largest possible amount of information before them, to enable them to decide on the requirements of the measure. For that reason, he believed that the returns moved for by his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) were highly necessary for the proper consideration of the Bill in Committee. He could not help confessing his surprise at the whole tone of the last debate on this subject. It really seemed to him that they wished to ignore England's being a maritime nation at all. It appeared to him as if this was a Parliament in Poland, meditating in what way an incursion from Russia was to be resisted, quite forgetting that we had a moat around us called the British Channel. Two eminent Members of the House, the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), and the Right Hon. Gentleman the Member for North Wilts, and formerly Secretary of the Admiralty (Mr. Sidney Herbert) had taken part in the discussion on the second reading of the Bill; and, without questioning their superior abilities generally, he felt it to be his (Mr. Anderson's) duty to show that they approached a most important part of the question with a surprisingly small amount of practical knowledge of it.
 153 154 Etat Generate de la Marine, 155
 MR. STAFFORD  said, the hon. Gentleman who had seconded the Amendment seemed animated with a far different spirit from that of the hon. Mover of it; for while the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) expressed himself dissatisfied with the amount of knowledge in possession of the House with reference to the Navy, the hon. Member for the Orkneys (Mr. Anderson) having got all he wished for in the Return which he had lately obtained, amplified, commented upon, rejoiced at, and refreshed himself with that Return, but made not the slightest allusion to, or expressed the smallest wish for, any further information. Therefore, resisting, as he must, the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, he might strengthen himself by reminding the House that the present Government, in granting that Return, showed no reluctance in giving all it safely could give of the information it possessed. The House must have observed with astonishment, and the public would read with wonder, the amazing nautical lore displayed by the hon. Member for the West Riding, not only with regard to the mercantile marine,
 158 159 l. l. 160 Ironical cheers from the Opposition. 161 162
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that one thing in the statement of the right hon. Gentlemen the Secretary for the Colonies had greatly surprised him, namely, that he should have thought it necessary to adduce figures, showing the increase of the population and commerce of New Zealand, in order to persude the House that the Colony was fit for a Representative Government. He (Mr. Adderley) asserted that if, had been fit for years; and the fact had been admitted over and over again by different Ministers of the Crown. He confessed that he had listened with astonithment to the speeches of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith), and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), asking for more time to consider this proposition; especially when he knew how conversant
 129 130 131 The Six Colonies of New Zealand, l. 132
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it appeared to him that this
 188
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was ready to consent to the adjournment of the debate to the following day, if the Gentlemen who had notices of Motion on the paper would allow it to take precedence.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that was a Motion which, under any circumstances, he would feel bound to oppose, because it would not only ensure the adjournment of the debate, but stop the progress of the business altogether. He therefore must take the opinion of the House upon it.
 MR. RICE  said, he was prepared to deny that the authorities quoted by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down were any authorities at all for the position which he took with regard to the militia. First, the militia erected by Mr. Pitt was a regular militia. Then, as to the authority of the Duke of Wellington, the letter which had been referred to contained a recommendation for a militia raised in war, and which was a regular militia. With respect to the militia reviewed by Sir John Moore, he (Mr. Rice) had witnessed that review, and he maintained that there never was a finer force; but it certainly bore no resemblance to the force that would be raised under the Government measure. His principal object in rising, however, was to appeal to the hon. Member for the West Riding not to divide the House. If he did so, he (Mr. Rice), for one, could not vote for his Motion. He had voted against the second reading of the Bill, but it was because he believed that the militia proposed to be raised would be perfectly inefficient, and because he objected to the compulsory clauses contained in the Bill.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  moved the adjournment of the House.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he rose to thank the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Colonial Department for the care, attention, and zeal with which he had considered the important subject to which the Bill related. He (Mr. Aglionby) felt greatly interested in the subject of the proposed Constitution of New Zealand, he having been instrumental in introducing a large proportion of the colonists to that country. He differed from the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) in his opinion that the present measure was not one of importance; as, "on the contrary, he believed it to be of the highest possible importance, and calculated to be productive of great and lasting benefits to the Colony. There was only one point on which he (Mr. Aglionby) wished to make an observation—he meant the land question. He agreed generally in the remark of the hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley), that the management should be placed, with a qualification, in the hands of the Colonists. It ought to be recollected that the land fund had been given by the Imperial Government as a security; and the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Colonial Department had intimated, that in placing the fund in the hands of the Central Legislature it would be necessary to provide some security for those who had claims on that fund. A lien had been given to the New Zealand Company, which was to take effect in July, 1850, in the contingency of the Company's not being able to continue its colonising operations; so that the land fund was the only statutable security which the New Zealand Company
 135
 MR. WHITESIDE : Well, who was to pronounce upon that subject? Who was to decide upon the necessity of an addition to the armed force of the country? Was it the triumphant majority of that House which had already pronounced an opinion? or was the minority, however respectable, however influential, still at liberty to insist that the measure was unconstitutional, when the question had been settled by the only tribunal known to the Constitution? It was asserted by the hon. Gentleman that the militia was an expensive force. True, it was expensive; but what was so expensive—what so dangerous to industry —as invasion or revolution? What was more necessary to enable the works of industry to prosper, than the preservation of a country in tranquillity and peace? And was not every apprehension of war or invasion almost as injurious—indeed, he might quote Tacitus to prove it—as war itself? The hon. Gentleman had said that the danger was altogether visionary, and that if there were danger, it could not arise from anything that had taken place in France. Now, he (Mr. Whiteside) did not desire to imitate the language he had heard in that House, or to say one disrespectful word of the ruler of France. He respected every form of government that existed, provided it was conducted upon
 186 187
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to address the House for a few minutes in reference to the speeches of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), and of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright): and he felt he ought to apologise for so doing, as he did not happen to come from that centre of intelligence referred to by the hon. Member for the West Riding. It was, however, some consolation to reflect that the hon. Gentleman and the hon. Member for Manchester would occasionally descend from their high position to illuminate and instruct other Members who moved in a humbler sphere. Since he had had a seat in that House, he had learned much useful information from the hon. Member for the West Riding. To-night that hon. Member had informed the House that every ship in our Navy was in the wrong place; and the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bright) stated that every eminent statesman in the House was wrong, in his opinion. The hon. Member for the West Riding had observed on the impropriety of interfering with other nations, or of commenting on their conduct in the administration of their affairs; but had there been any man more unsparing in his denunciations of other countries
 183 184 quietus 185
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had misunderstood him. He did not say that the militia or an armed force was unconstitutional, but that the existence of a military force was contrary to the spirit of representative institutions, and that any military force beyond that which could be demonstrated to be absolutely necessary was antagonistic to the Constitution.
 MR. BRIGHT  was quite sure, if the right hon. Gentleman consented to the adjournment of the debate, the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Scobell) would with-
 189
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he could not understand why the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Admiralty had taken upon him almost to lecture, or at least to sneer at, his (Mr. Bright's) hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), on account of the remarkable accuracy of the information which his hon. Friend had obtained as to our naval force. Now, seeing that the hon. Secretary had only been in
 174 Geo. 175 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 176 177 coup d'etat 178 179 "Britannia needs no bulwark, No towers along the steep; Her path is on the mountain wave, Her home is on the deep." 180 181 182
 MR. MACGREGOR  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. HUME  said, he was not satisfied with the course which had been taken by the right hon. Baronet the Colonial Secretary. This, in his (Mr. Hume's) opinion, was not a question of urgency, and he, therefore, thought that the Government ought to have postponed it till the next Parliament. Whatever decision might be come to with regard to the disposal of the Crown lands in New Zealand, ought to prevail with regard to the rest of our Colonies. If the privileges which we might give to New Zealand were not at the same time extended to the other Colonies of Great Britain, discontent would prevail amongst them. If the Government should determine on persevering with the nominee system with regard to the composition of the colonial councils, the privilege of colonial legislation would be perfectly useless. The proceedings of the Cape of Good Hope would satisfy hon. Gentlemen on that point. Every man who had visited the Cape would confirm his statement. Similar testimony could be had from New South Wales, Van Diemen's Land, and every other place where the mockery existed. Unless, therefore, the Government could make up their mind to do away with the nominee system, they need not expect to see contentment in our Colonies. He expected to have heard something said by the right hon. Baronet as to relieving the mother country from the expense of administering the affairs of the Colonies; but not a word had been said on that subject. They were told by Earl Grey two or three years ago that measures were in progress which would make the Colonies pay their own expenses, and relieve England of the burthen which she had too long borne for them. He confessed he was very much disappointed at not having heard a word said by the right hon. Baronet as to how far the Colonies were to be dependent upon the mother country. The right hon. Baronet had stated that he would reserve a certain
 124 l.
 MR. P. HOWARD  thought his hon. Friend who had just sat down was mistaken in supposing that any hon. Member had stated his intention to oppose the introduction of this Bill. His (Mr. P. Howard's) hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had, no doubt, made some general strictures upon it; but neither he nor any other hon. Member had expressed his intention to oppose its introduction. The hope that had been held out in Her Majesty's Speech at the commencement of the Session, that representative institutions would be granted to the Colonies, had naturally strengthened that earnest desire for the establishment of such institutions which already existed in those colonies where such did not exist. He had confidence in the fulfilment of that hope. He was quite sure that the unsettled state of the Government in New Zealand materially tended to retard the progress of emigration to that colony, which was so favoured by climate, and so calculated in every way to give ample scope to the enterprising spirit of our fellow-countrymen. He partially agreed with what had fallen from the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark (Sir W. Molesworth) and the hon. Member for Montrose as to the constitution of the upper house of assembly; he agreed with them, that that was one of the main difficulties with which we had to contend. Unless the representative element were in some measure infused into the upper assembly, he did not think it was likely that we could give permanent satisfaction to New Zealand. It might be necessary that certain official Members of the Government should hold seats in the upper assembly in virtue of their offices; but as a general principle it would be well that the elective system should as much as possible be in-
 127
 MR. COBDEN : Mr. Speaker—Had the majority in the division on the second reading of this Bill fairly represented either the population or the wealth of this country, I should not have ventured to offer one word more, either to resist or delay the progress of the measure. But I have the sanction of the First Minister of the Crown for the course I have taken on this question. I have taken the division lists and analysed them; and, amongst that large majority of two to one who voted in favour of the Militia Bill, I find not the representatives of any of the large centres of intelligence, industry, and wealth, of any of our large city populations. In the minority I find the representatives of Edinburgh, Glasgow, Manchester, Birmingham, Westminster, Southwark, Marylebone, Lambeth, Tower Hamlets, Finsbury, Greenwich— the largest of our borough constituencies; also, Newcastle, Hull, Southampton, Oxford, York, Stockport, Worcester, Sheffield, Northampton, Huddersfield, Aberdeen, Canterbury, Montrose, Bath, Dundee, Coventry, Leicester, Preston. The City of London and Liverpool were divided on this question. Leeds and Bristol
 139 "On a sudden the land seemed converted to an immense camp, the whole nation into soldiers, and the good old King himself into a general-in-chief. All peaceful considerations appeared for a time to he thrown aside, and the voice calling the nation to defend their dearest rights sounded, not Only in Parliament, and in meetings convoked to second the measures of defence, but was heard in the places of public amusement, and mingled even with the voice of devotion." 140 l. l. l. l. l. l. 141 "Ships of the line in commission were 13: advanced and ordinary, 58; building 15, of which 3 were ready to be launched. There were frigates in commission, 9; advanced and ordinary, 58; building 8, of which three were ready to be launched. Vessels of a lower grade than frigates in commission, 92; advanced and ordinary, 79; building 4, of which there were ready to be launched I. Of steam vessels there were in commission, 88; advanced and in ordinary, 68; building 11; and of which there was I ready to be launched. So that there were 202 ships in commission; 263 advanced and in ordinary, and 38 building, and 6 of these ships were ready to be launched."— [3  Hansard, 142 "Your ships in commission on the home station at this moment are, 9 line-of-battle ships, 5 frigates, 1 sloop, 9 steamers propelled by screw, and 8 propelled by paddle."—[3  Hansard, "There were at Woolwich 9 vessels with 530 men; Sheerness, 7, with 1,544 men; Portsmouth, 16, with 6,642 men; Devonport, 11, with 2,822 men; Cork, 5, with 368 men; in all, 48 vessels and 11,906 men. To these add the  Hecate Pluto, Antelope, Vulcan, Simoom Vulcan, Hansard, "The whole of Her Majesty's ships in commission were, East Indies and China, 19; Cape of Good Hope, 9; coast of Africa, 22; on the southeast coast of America the number of ships was 8; west coast of America, 9; North America and West Indies, 13; Mediterranean, 19."—[ 3 Hansard, 143 l. 144 145 "At the first outbreak all depended on our naval supremacy in the narrow seas. Naval defence was requisite for our arsenals. The Channel Islands were, now without any vessel of war."—[3  Hansard, 146 l. 147 couleur de rose 148 149 "The Executive Government of England had it in their power, at little or no expense, to have a fleet of steamers equal not only to France, but to the whole world. Let them look at the ports of London, Liverpool, Glasgow, and all our out-ports, and they would see what a vast number of
 150 "That we possessed 1,000 merchant steamers, 280 of which were large enough to carry 32-pounders, a force which is sufficient to overcome the combined fleet of the rest of the world." "In case of war we were able to command ten times the force of any country on the Continent, and that three months after a declaration of war-not one of the merchant vessels could be found at sea." "I should say that this mode of railway conveyance has enabled the Army—comparatively to the demands made upon it a very small one—to do the work of a very large one. You send a battalion of 1,000 men from London to Manchester in nine hours—that same battalion, marching, would take seventeen days; and they arrive at the end of nine hours just as fresh, or nearly so, as when they started." 151 152
 MR. S. CARTER  said, that if this were the commencement of a new Parliament
 169 170
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would reconsider his determination. When the Government put up the Irish Solicitor General to make a declamatory speech on a subject not relating to Ireland, he (Mr. M. Gibson) did not think that it was intended to press for a division that night.
 MR. MITCHELL  seconded the Motion.
 MR. MITCHELL  did not think that so grave a question as the Militia Bill had been sufficiently discussed.
 MR. WAKLEY  thought the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer could not mean to say, that they should expedite the progress of a Bill from which they conscientiously dissented. The Bill was most unpopular out of doors, and he (Mr. Wakley) should feel it to be his duty to obstruct it in every way in his power at every stage. He wished to see the Bill defeated, because he conceived it was an unconstitutional and prejudicial measure.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Colonial Department had adverted to the plan of a Constitution for New Zealand, which had been proposed by the late Colonial Minister, and embodied in a public document. There would, perhaps, be no objection to laying that plan before the House. It would be useful when they came to discuss the Bill in Committee.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I was one of those who on a former occasion expressed my opinion in strong terms that it was the duty of Her Majesty's Government, in the position in which they stand, and from the state of opinion in this House, to confine themselves, in the introduction of measures for the consideration of Parliament, to questions that were urgent in reference to the circumstances of the present time; and it is on that account that I feel it is no more than just that on this occasion, and without waiting for any future discussion of the subject, I should state that with the feelings which I entertain upon colonial liberties, and with the respect which I wish to pay to the sentiments and opinions of our fellow-subjects in the colonies, I think my right hon. Friend the Colonial Secretary has done no more than his duty—notwithstanding the state of Parliament and the great issue we are awaiting at home—in submitting to the House of Commons the plan he has just explained. It appears to me that, after all that has taken place in regard to New Zealand—after Parliament in 1846 had professed to confer on that Colony the benefits of free institutions, and still more suddenly withdrew the institutions, that
 121 122
 SIR EDWARD BUXTON  said, he had listened with great satisfaction to the plan
 128
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that if the noble Lord had any objection to his doing so, he would not consent to its production. He would leave the matter between the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must acknowledge the favourable and indulgent spirit with which the House had received his proposal, and felt, in consequence, more sanguine than ever that, notwithstanding the lateness of the Session, and his desire to meet any fair objection to the measure, that it might become the law of the land before the close of the Session. With regard to the exception which the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) made to the general tone of the reception given by the House to his plan, he should have thought that a Bill for conferring the blessings of self-government on his fellow-subjects would not have been treated by the hon. Member as unworthy their attention this Session. He was glad that his attention had been called to a subject which he had overlooked in his statement, namely, the great expense of the Colony to this country. He found that, from the year 1845 to 1851, the annual expenditure of this
 137 l l. l. l. l l l. 138
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to grant a Representative Constitution to the Colony of New Zealand. He begged, in the first place, to move that the passage from Her Majesty's most gracious Speech from the Throne relating to the Government of New Zealand be read. "The Act of 1848 for suspending the operation of a previous Act conferring representative institutions on New Zealand will expire early in the next year. I am happy to believe that there is no necessity for its renewal, and that no obstacle any longer exists to the enjoyment of Representative Institutions by New Zealand. The form of these Institutions will, however, require your consideration; and the additional information which has been obtained since the passing of the Acts in question, will, I trust, enable you to arrive at a decision beneficial to that important Colony."
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he could assure the House that in bringing forward this measure, he did so under the impression of very great personal anxiety, and if he should fail in making his explanation of the subject as clear as he could wish, he hoped he should receive the indulgence of the House. He was so sensible of the importance, the difficulty, and the great responsibility of moving the grant of a new constitution for a Colony so peculiar in many respects as that of New Zealand, that he confessed he should
 103 104 105 "Then it must be borne in mind that the great majority of the native population can read and write their own language fluently; that they are a people quite equal in natural sense and ability to the mass of the European population; that they are jealous and suspicious; that they now own many vessels, horses, and cattle; that they have in some instances considerable sums of money at their disposal, and are altogether possessed of a great amount of wealth and property in the country, of the value of which they are fully aware; that there is no nation in the world more sensitive upon the subject of money matters, or the disposal of their property; and no people that I am acquainted with less likely to sit down quietly under what they regard as injustice." "The natives are, at present, certainly not fitted to take a share in a representative form of government; but each year they will become more fitted to do so, and each year the numerical difference between the two races will become less striking; so that a great advantage would he gained by delaying even for a few years the introduction of the proposed Constitution into the northern parts of New Zealand." 106 l. l. l. l. "From an analysis of the returns connected with the revenue and expenditure of both provinces, it would be found that the ordinary revenues of the islands for 1860 had, in comparison with the year 1849, increased by no less a sum than 9,154 l. s. d, l. s. l. d. d. l. l. l. s. d. l. d. 107 "The whole of these islands are now in a state of complete tranquillity. Every settlement is in a prosperous condition; the native race are loyal, and are daily increasing in wealth; and the local government now possesses very considerable influence over them." 108 "With these characteristics of courage and warlike vagrancy, the Maories present, however, other remarkable traits of character. Nearly the whole nation has now been converted to Christianity. They are fond of agriculture, take great pleasure in cattle and horses; like the sea, and form good sailors; have now many coasting vessels of their own, manned with Maori crews; are attached to Europeans, and admire their customs and manners; are extremely ambitious of rising in civilisation and becoming skilled in European arts; they are apt at learning; in many respects extremely conscientious and observant of their
 109 l. l. "It would appear that a race such as has been described could be easily incorporated into any British settlement, with mutual advantage to both races, the natives supplying agricultural produce, poultry, pigs, and a constant supply of labour (although yet for the most part rude and unskilled); while, upon the other hand, the Europeans would supply the various manufactured goods required by the natives, and provide for the manifold wants created by their increased civilisation. Such a class of settlements might easily grow into prosperous communities, into which the natives, with characters softened by Christianity, civilisation, and a taste for previously unknown luxuries, would readily be absorbed. This process of the incorporation of the native population into the Europeans' settlements has, accordingly, for the last few years, been taking place with a rapidity unexampled in history. Unless some sudden and unforeseen cause of interruption should occur, it will still proceed, and a very few years of continued peace and prosperity would suffice for the entire fusion of the two races into one nation." 110 111 112 l. l 113 l. l l. l. l. l, 114 115 116 l. l. 117 l. l. 118 119 "Her Majesty's Government, however, on a consideration of the various despatches you have addressed to me, have come to the conclusion that it would be inexpedient to allow the Act of 1846 to come again into force, because we are of opinion, from the changes that have taken place in the state of affairs in New Zealand, and from the additional information that we have obtained, that it will require various modifications both in substance and form, although the essential principles must be kept in view."
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that his apprehension that he had failed to make his statement clear, was unfounded. He appealed to his right hon. Friend, however, to deny the proposition which he (Sir R. H. Inglis) had repeatedly urged in
 120
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that unless some such measure as the one now proposed were passed, they must pass an Act of Parliament for the purpose of suspending the constitution of New Zealand for at least another year. Now, to the passing of such an Act he would offer all the opposition in his power, because in his opinion almost any form of representative government would be better for New Zealand than the continuation of the present state of things in that colony. He was excessively anxious that the settlers in New Zealand should have as speedily as possible the management of their own local business, both for their own sakes and also for the sake of the people in this country. He felt certain that until they had obtained such a privilege, no step that could be taken would relieve us from the vast expenditure to which we were put on account of them. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies had said that the Colony of New Zealand was a very interesting and remarkable Colony. In one respect the Colony of New Zealand had been one of the most remarkable colonies which this country had ever planted; because in proportion to the numbers of its European population, and in proportion to the period of its existence, it had cost us a larger sum of money than any other Colony which Great Britain had ever possessed. He found that in the course of the last eleven years we had spent on this
 125 l.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  was anxious to state why he should vote against the Amendment of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden). He objected to it, because he objected to the return for which he asked. The Secretary of the Admiralty had stated, that he considered it inconvenient for the public service to furnish the information called for by the hon. Member; and his (Sir F. Baring's)
 223 224 225 226
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE  was sorry to have raised the indignation of the right hon. Gentleman by his observations on a former occasion with respect to the legacy left to their successors by the late Board of Admiralty, in the shape of the proposal for a reserve force for the Navy; and he could only account for it by the somewhat amphibious position in which the right hon. Baronet now found himself, and to which must no doubt be attributed the fact, that, though he ought more properly to have confined himself to the subject before the House, he had principally referred to what he was pleased to term the free-trade speech of the right hon. Gentleman the present Chancellor of the Exchequer—a speech than which none more fair or candid had ever been made in that House. The House, however, would remember that those observations, made in the course of a preceding debate, had been called forth by the speech of a gallant Admiral (Admiral Berkeley), one of the right hon. Gentleman's Colleagues, who evidently condemned the plan himself. The present Board saw very great difficulty in carrying out the scheme as proposed by the late Admiralty, seeing that the proposition was not sanctioned by any officers employed in the service. No one subject, however, had had greater consideration than this, or had been more maturely weighed; and the Board had perceived that there would
 227
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  was not aware that he had used, and did not intend to use, any words the effect of which was to throw any imputation upon the honour of those who were now in office at the Admiralty. He thought it hardly necessary to make this explanation, which must have been rendered necessary by a mistake on the part of the hon. Gentleman opposite.
 MR. COWPER  said, that as he was one of those who had been accused by the hon. Member for Montrose of being under a panic, he could not be silent. That hon. Member treated invasion as impossible. Some confusion might be escaped by distinguishing between two modes of impossibility. Invasion might be physically impossible, so that if attempted it could not succeed. That was to be decided on military and naval grounds by those who made war peculiarly their profession; or it might be impossible that it should be attempted in the present state of Europe. Of this the general information within the reach of politicians should guide them, rather than the technical considerations of military art. On this point the hon. Members for Montrose and the West Riding might speak without getting beyond their depth. The hon. Member for Montrose seemed
 236 237 238
 MR. CLAY  was told, that as a civilian, he had no right to an opinion in a military matter. But the real question was the danger of invasion. This was a civilian's question. He would not go back, with one hon. Member, to the invasions of the Danes and the Saxons; but the hon. and learned Solicitor General for Ireland had reminded the House that the various questions raised in this debate had been put in the time of Mr. Pitt, and answered by that great man. It was interesting to observe that the hon. and learned Gentleman had not got beyond the days of Mr. Pitt; but he (Mr. Clay) would rather be answered by the good sense of 1852, than by the good sense of 1802. Good sense, it might be said, was eternal. True; but circumstances changed. In 1802; and for many years after, there was an understood necessity that we should mix ourselves in every European broil; and
 239
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, there was another question yet, on the subject of the pamphlet quoted by the noble Lord. Was it quite certain, that the House had not fallen into the jaws of a burlesque? Were hon. Gentlemen who had expressed such violent delight, sure that the joke was not against them, and that the authors of  Punch 247
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, that if it was true that the author of the pamphlet which had been quoted by the noble Lord was indeed a new  Punch, 248 249 "I believe that the physical gain will be the smallest gain to humanity from its success. I see in free trade that which shall act on the moral world as the law of gravitation in the universe, drawing men together, thrusting aside the antagonism of race, and creed, and language, and uniting us in the bonds of eternal peace. I have looked even further—" 250 "—ay, into the dim future, a thousand years hence, and have speculated on the results of this principle, when it shall have been long in operation. I believe that the effect will be to change the face of the world, so as to introduce a system of government entirely distinct from that which now prevails. I believe that the desire and motive for large and mighty empires, for gigantic armies and great navies, for those materials which are used for the destruction of life and the desolation of the rewards of labour, will die away. I believe that such things will cease to be necessary or to be used when man becomes one family, and freely exchanges the fruits of his labour with his brother man. I believe that if we could be allowed to reappear on this sublunary scene, we should sec, at a far distant period, the governing system of this world revert to something like the municipal system; and that the speculative philosopher of a thousand years hence will date the greatest revolution that over happened in the world's history from the triumph of the principle which we have met here to advocate."
 MR. BERNAL  explained that the only question was, whether he should leave the chair.
 MR. CHARTERIS : I do not wish, Sir, to enter into any controversy upon the statements of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down; but I must express my astonishment at the self-confident tone in which the hon. Gentleman and his Friends enunciate their opinions upon military matters. Any person who has attended here to-night, or who may have heard the preceding debates upon this subject, may naturally suppose that not only do those Gentlemen monopolise all the intelligence, but all the professional knowledge of the country. Why, if we want a correct opinion as to the state of the national defences, it is not to the Commander-in-Chief, or the Master-General of the Ordnance that we must apply, but to the hon. Member for Montrose, or to the hon. Member for the West Riding. But, Sir, this is not the first time that discussions have taken place upon a similar subject. On referring to a time gone by, I fell in with a speech of Mr. Windham's, in 1803, delivered during a debate upon the Military Service Bill, in which there is a passage by no means inapplicable to the present state of things. Mr. Windham said—
 "We were told daily of the impracticability of invasion, by eminent lawyers, by many sound divines, by many worthy country gentlemen, by many respectable merchants, by many intelligent manufacturers, and by many very handsome women. The only persons from whom we did not hear those opinions were our soldiers and sailors. Ask a sailor whether with any superiority of naval force he could ensure the country against an invading army. He would tell you that he could not engage that an enemy should not effect a debarcation on various points even in considerable force. But put the question to the landsman, to the man who never saw the sea but from Ramsgate or Brighton, and who never embarked in anything but a bathing machine, he would say that to talk of invading a country in the face of a superior navy, was the idlest of all follies; and so long as we had our wooden walls—or more properly he (Mr. Wyndham) should say, our wooden heads—we should never treat invasion as other than a threat to frighten children."—[ Hansard's Parl. Hist, 233
 MR. GRANTLEY BERKELEY  said, he never saw the Opposition benches so chapfallen as they then were. The only appearance of gaiety among them in the proceedings of last night was that displayed by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley), who, with a  naiveté 207
 LORD JOHN MANNERS,  who rose amid continued cries for a division, said, that when the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) introduced the Bill for establishing a local militia, he stated that the noble Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) had more than once pressed upon the attention of the late Government the necessity of organising a militia force. The hon. Member for Finsbury had, however, taunted the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) with not having had the courage and patriotism—though he was sensible of the importance of such a step—to recommend to his Colleagues or to that House the adoption of such a measure as that now under consideration. He (Lord J. Manners) thought it right that a statement of that nature should not go forth to the public without some contradiction. So notorious, indeed, was the reverse of that statement, that the hon. Member for Manchester had acquitted the noble Lord of
 251
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I shall detain the House but a very few minutes. I wish to state, in the first place, that I cannot vote for this Amendment, because I think it desirable, the House having decided by a very large majority in favour of the second reading of this Bill, that it should proceed in Committee to discuss its various clauses and provisions. But I cannot speak upon this subject without saying that, while I do not agree in the statements made in the very able speech of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), I must at the same time protest against the formula which has been put forward by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmer-
 252 Laughter. 253 254
 MR. NEWDEGATE  was of opinion that the delay was only asked for purposes of agitation. If the measure was a had one, before it came into operation another Parliament would be able to repeal it.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that he was delighted to hear the course which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to take; and as to whether the militiamen were to be subjected to the Mutiny Act, he would advise the hon. Members for Manchester and the West Riding of Yorkshire to enrol themselves, and then they would discover whether they would be subjected to the lash or not.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am sure, Sir, that the hon. Member for Manchester is quite conscious that he has made a most preposterous proposition to the House; and therefore I do not think it necessary to argue upon it. We have been pressed night after night to expedite the necessary business of the House. There have been several opinions as to what were necessary measures. One Gentleman said that Chancery reform was not necessary; some others said that some other measures were not necessary; but there was not the slightest doubt that a measure for the defence of the country, that a Militia Bill, was necessary. In deference to the universal sentiment of this House, we lost no time in bringing in a measure for the defence of the country. Now, will any person pretend that the discussion upon this measure has not been ample? It has arrived at the present stage when every Gentleman has addressed "Mr. Speaker" once; indeed, very many have addressed "Mr. Speaker" more than once. And now the hon. Member rises to propose that we should fix a very distant day for the settlement of this question. After night after night has been spent in discussion, he asks us to arrive at this practical point. For what purpose, then, is postponement asked? For the sake of agitation; not to examine the provisions of the Bill, what is its form, what are its details—they are already known; not with the hope that he can influence the opinion of this House, hut really that he should go to the country. Now, I think this is a very unconstitutional course of proceeding. I say, then, instead of fixing a very distant day, I shall, with the leave of the House, take the liberty of saying that we shall proceed with the Committee on Thursday next.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the hon. Member for Montrose would not divide.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not wish to enter into any argument upon the matter. If the hon. Member for Manchester had made a preposterous request, he was very sorry for it. The Bill had been read before Easter a first time, and had then been postponed until after the recess. It was read a second time last Monday week, having been postponed from before Easter in deference to the opinions of Gentlemen opposite. There was a sincere desire on the part of a majority of the House that the Bill should pass into a law, and every opportunity had been afforded to Gentlemen to make themselves masters of the question. He, therefore, did not see what reasonable ground there could be for asking for a postponement.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  reminded the House that the phrase "agitating the country" was originally applied to the proposition made by the hon. Member for Manchester, that this Bill should be postponed for six months, in order, as the hon. Member gratuitously avowed, that the country might be appealed to. He wanted to know what that meant but agitation? The hon. Member for the West Riding said that he (Mr. Disraeli) ought to feel grateful for the forbearance with which he had been received—
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Well, if the statement be recalled—
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is expedient when there has been a long discussion to remember its origin. When the hon. Member (Mr. Bright) spoke of delay for the purpose of appealing to the country, what he meant was, that the country should be agitated. [Mr. BRIGHT: I never said so.] As to the charge brought forward by the hon. Member (Mr. Cobden) of obtaining power by the assertion of principles which, when in power, we did not carry out, I beg to inform him that that is a charge which does not apply to me. I am here, Sir, to put in practice, as far as I am able, the policy I advocated when on the other side of the House, and I say so without the slightest hesitation. Notwithstanding the complaints of my demeanour, which are perfectly unjustified as I think—and if I used any expression or exhibited a manner calculated to give offence, which it is neither my habit nor disposition to do—I must say I feel it is the duty of Government, and I think we are only acting with regard to the opinions of the vast majority of the House and of the public out of doors, by calling on you to proceed with this Bill.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  proposed that the Bill be again considered in Committee on Thursday next.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  wished to explain that his having moved the adjournment on the previous evening was not from any want of deference to the House, but he knew that several Gentlemen on his side were desirous of addressing it, and he himself had risen five or six times without having had the good fortune to catch the Speaker's eye. He himself wished to make a few observations on behalf of the city he represented (Bath), which had sent a petition against the Bill, signed by 1,500 persons. Upwards of a thousand petitions had been presented, of which 99 in every 100 were against the principle of the Bill, and not against the ballot. The hon. Gentleman the Solicitor General for Ireland had alluded to the circumstance that a French fleet had reached Killala, on the Irish coast, during the late war; but the hon. Gentleman forgot to state that that fleet was entirely dispersed, and the greater number of the vessels captured. It was with great astonishment that he had listened to two nights' long debates on this subject, and had scarcely heard the Navy spoken of; or, if it was spoken of, it was only to say that under present circumstances, and with the advance of science, the utility of the Navy had passed away.
 200 201 Leander Arethusa 202 203
 MR. RICH : The force I stated is what might have been made available, if the suggestions which I had previously made had been acted upon.
 MR. BRIGHT  complained that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not met his request in the most courteous manner. It was not very preposterous to ask that more than a day should intervene. Why, Thursday was but to-morrow. It was in vain to tell them that the compulsory clauses did not mean anything. If they meant nothing, why insert them? It was equally vain to say that they did not subject themselves to the tyranny of the lash because those who enrolled themselves in the yeomanry were never subjected to it.
 MR. BRIGHT  must protest against the course which had been taken by the right hon. Gentleman. It was an imputation to say that he, and those who were acting with him, wanted delay for the purposes of agitation. He could quite well understand whence that argument was brought forward; for he recollected that in 1846 the debates were adjourned night after night, for the purpose, as it was openly avowed, of allowing some county Member to take his seat and vote in the minority. The idea of agitation never entered his head. The hon. Member for Montrose had given good advice to the Government, and they would act wisely in deferring to any reasonable request of a minority. There never was a greater tactician than the late Sir Robert Peel, who had been pronounced to be the greatest Member of Parliament that the country had ever had, and yet he was a man who deferred very much to the wishes of a minority. He believed that the noble Lord at the head of the Government did not fail in that respect. Let right hon. Gentlemen on the Treasury benches place themselves in the position of a minority, which they had been in for five years, and let them be in a minority on a question in which they took considerable interest, and would they not consider it very unreasonable that so small a delay should be granted to them if they asked for it? No argument would induce him to assent to this measure for the purpose of expediting business. He believed it was a bad measure, and had rather Parliament should sit till August than that it should be passed.
 MR. BRIGHT  rose for the purpose of stating that he thought it was the duty of the Government to fix what was called a long day for going into Committee, and proceeding with the clauses of the Bill. During the course of the debate he had observed that no two military men who had spoken had agreed in scarcely one single point in regard to the Bill. If they had agreed at all it was in disapproving of the main portion of the Bill. He thought that on a subject of this nature the Government would not disregard the testimony which had been given that night with so much intelligence by the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Westminster; and the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), in his responsible position, had stated that this was not the Bill which ought to be carried. It was not desirable that they should proceed with a measure of this nature, unless the urgency of it could be demonstrated; and if its urgency had been demonstrated, which he believed it had not, they had not demonstrated that this was the particular measure proper for the urgency. He implored the Government not to pass this Bill under the present circumstances of Parliament, but to allow it to remain over to be discussed in another Parliament. He did not ask the House to agree with him as to the necessity of a militia; but he thought that they would agree with him that it would be better to postpone the consideration of this Bill for six months, than to pass a Bill which would be inefficient, and which would produce great dissatisfaction. Postponements of important questions took place in every Session, even where all parties were agreed on the principle of a measure. They were told that all the statesmen of that House were against them; but he had known a good many questions on which all the statesmen had taken one view; and he had seen in the course of a very short time those who held leading positions converted, and those who had been in a small minority found themselves the members of a large majority. The noble Lord the Member for London was in favour of some measure; the Government had taken up
 260
 MR. BRIGHT  rose to ask the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) a question, which he said was of great interest to the community at large—namely, whether Clause 89 of 42  Geo.
 MR. BRIGHT  again rose amidst loud
 256
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, the statements of the hon. and gallant Member (Sir De L. Evans) would be credited generally, not only in this country but on the Continent. It was well known that all the great Continental Powers had, since 1850, been reducing their forces. No country was more insecure internally, both from her financial condition and other causes, than Austria, and yet she was about to reduce her army by one-third. This reduction has arisen from financial necessity. He therefore could see no reason why we should commence augmenting our forces at the present time. He did not believe the French people had the slightest disposition to engage in war against England; and a report of Marshal Soult, which stated that nobody who had served as a conscript would serve as a substitute subsequently, and that conscripts in the army were continually sending home money from their small savings, in order to keep up their connexion with the village or place in which they were born, showed that the French nation had become averse to war and military service. He (Mr. Macgregor) thought that if any course would lead more to excite the French to declare war against us, it would be some of the debates which had taken place in the House for the purpose of increasing our military force, in which our Army was declared so weak, and our Navy so inefficient. He believed we might bring 12,000 men from our Colonies for the purpose of serving in home defence
 221 222
 MR. HUME  said, when the Militia Bill was first proposed by the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) he had stated his objection to the principle of the Bill, as not being consonant to the feelings and ideas of the age, and to the experience of the Militia Bill of 1801. Since then he intended to have contented himself with that opposition, and with voting against the Bill in all its stages; but there had been such extraordinary statements, and such a number of preposterous allegations made, that he felt bound to state the view he took of the question. The hon. Member for the West Riding had moved for returns to show our naval strength in all its details, contending that until those returns were granted the House ought to defer the discussion on the Militia Bill. He was astonished how any hon. Member of the House, or any Member of the Government, could call those returns unnecessary, and merely asked for the purpose of postponing the debate. Doubtless it was intended to postpone the Bill till this information was obtained; and, for his part, he would be for postponing it until the present panic had wholly passed over. There were only two classes of persons who were affected by the present mania of invasion; the rest of the people were uninfected. Let them look at the many petitions that had been presented from various parts of the country, praying that the Bill might not pass. He thought it was important the House should have before it the information now sought for; and he was surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman opposite the late Secretary for the Admiralty (Sir
 228 Nautical Almanack 229 230 231 232
 MR. HUME  protested against the course taken by the noble Lord the Member for London. The noble Lord had admitted that the Bill under consideration was inadequate for the purpose for which it was introduced, and that it would not satisfy the wants of the country; and yet he counselled the House not to amend it, but to pass it. But would the House stultify itself by acting upon the advice of the
 255
 MR. HUME  would certainly do so, more especially after the conduct of the Government.
 MR. HUME  said, he only asked for a
 263
 MR. HUME  moved, as an Amendment, that the recommitment be fixed for Monday.
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, that as the Bill concerned deeply the interests of the working classes, it was desirable that the consideration of the Bill should not be fixed earlier than Monday.
 MR. BASS  said, that he had voted with the noble Lord late at the head of the Government, and he was of opinion that additional forces were required in the present state of the country. But he was also of opinion that the proposition for delay was very reasonable. He had become aware that a very strong feeling on the subject of the Bill existed in the country. This was the fourth Session that he had served in that House, yet it was the first time he had received a remonstrance for the votes which he had given, and for his absence on the occasion of the second reading of the Bill. He still, however, adhered to the opinion that some measure of defence was necessary.
 MR. COBDEN : The statement is not recalled, for it was never uttered.
 MR. COBDEN : No, no!
 MR. COBDEN  said, that the imputation that they wanted to get up an agitation in the country came with a very bad grace from the right hon. Gentleman, who had been treated with the greatest forbearance upon that side of the House. But he would ask who had been the greatest agitators for the last four or five years? There was not a platform or a theatre in that metropolis on which the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) had not figured. If it was imputed to them that they wanted to get up an agitation in the country in order to transfer themselves to the Treasury bench, there to repudiate the principles which brought them into office, that was an insinuation which could hardly fall with a good grace from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He repeated that the tone which the right hon. Gentleman had adopted was most unbecoming, and that it was one which he (Mr. Cobden) would advise him not to repeat. The grounds on which this request was made, were perfectly reasonable. There was not at present a full conviction on the public mind that after thirty-seven years of peace they were about to have a militia, and still less that it was to be as they had been informed to-night, that the militia were to be placed under the provisions of the Mutiny Act, and that they would be out of the protection of the civil law. Was it not reasonable then that the constituencies
 265
 MR. COBDEN : What I ask is, in plain terms, will these men be subject to the lash?
 MR. COBDEN  rose amidst loud cries. He humbly submitted that no reason had yet been alleged why the question put by his hon. Friend should not be answered. There was nothing in the question itself informal or unparliamentary. This was an important Bill, and a very important stage of the Bill. He thought his hon. Friend had a right to ask whether those who came under the provisions of the measure, volunteers or substitutes, came within the provisions of the 42  Geo. Cries of
 MR. WALPOLE : The hon. Gentleman has put the same question as the hon. Member for Manchester. His belief was that the provisions of the 42nd  Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that if he answered this question, fifty others of a similar kind would be started. The proper time to answer such questions Was when the House went into Committee.
 MR. WALPOLE,  in answer to a question of the right hon. Gentleman, would first ask the House to go into Committee, when the right hon. Gentleman, or any other hon. Member, would have opportunities of proposing such Amendments as he thought proper. He must say that he was totally unacquainted with any rule of the House which would enable it to go into Committee on a Bill  pro formâ,
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the hon. Member for Oldham had stated that the Bill was regarded with great abhorrence in consequence of the compulsory clauses, and its subjecting the militiamen to the Mutiny Act. Now, the Government believed that the compulsory clauses would never be necessary; therefore that abhorrence was founded in a mistake. With regard to the Mutiny Act, the House was well aware that every yeoman subjected himself to it—it was necessary for the purposes of discipline—yet nobody ever heard that the power which was created under it had been enforced.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that this measure had already been frequently postponed. The first reading had taken place before the recess, and the second reading had been postponed until after the recess. It had again been postponed from last Monday week, on the suggestion of the minority, and the Government had then expected to go into Committee on Monday last, when, however, the debate was adjourned. He appealed to the experience of the House whether, when the first and second readings of a Bill had been agreed
 264
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the simple reason why he proceeded was, that the clauses of the Bill should be very well understood. A variety of opinions had been expressed with regard to them, which was a proof that hon. Gentlemen were perfectly conversant with them; and if the House was not prepared to go into it now, he did not know when it would be.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that what he found fault with was the total disregard of precedent in the mode in which this measure had been drawn up. There was no Gentleman on the Treasury bench who could point out an instance, where, on the request of a considerable minority—not inconsiderable, indeed, when they recollected the constituencies whom they represented—a reasonable application had been refused. He wanted a precedent in which, when a minority asked, not with any factious spirit, but with a sincere desire that the country might have time clearly to understand its position, for a delay of more than one day, the favour had been refused. He could confidently say that no such precedent existed.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  asked the right hon. Gentlemon the Home Secretary whether it would not be possible to go into Committee  pro formâ
 MR. MITCHELL  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had last night charged him with attempting to delay the progress of this Bill by moving the adjournment of the debate. He believed that during the twelve years he had been in Parliament he had not voted more than three times for the adjournment of a debate. But in the progress of a Bill there were three points at which the principle of it could be discussed—on the second reading, on the going into Committee in the first instance, and on the third reading. If the Amendment of the hon. Member for Manchester had been negatived last night, no other Amendment could have been proposed, and he did not think that the right hon. Gentleman was entitled to charge him with delay for seeking for farther discussion upon the question. He would not go into the military part of the subject, which he did not understand. But the right hon. Baronet the late First Lord of the Admiralty (Sir P. Baring) stated that our Navy was kept up chiefly for the protection of our commerce. It was quite possible that when some new island was discovered, where a little guano was to be found, there was an application made to the Admiralty to send a ship of war to protect a trade that was not worth protecting; but that was not the case in
 234 l. 235 l. Times, l. l. s. l.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat commenced his speech by stating, in replying to the observations which had been made by his (Mr. Wakley's) hon. Friends relative to this measure, that all he would do would be to answer assertion by assertion; and he had kept his word, for he had not adduced one argument, fact, or statement to prove the policy, the expediency, or the necessity of enacting this measure. He was astonished that with his gigantic talents the noble Lord should have fallen into the unfortunate position of quoting such despicable trash as he had addressed to the House. The noble Lord had not informed them who was the publisher or the author of the pamphlet from which he had quoted; but he (Mr. Wakley) strongly suspected that it was published at High-gate, where there was an admirable asylum for lunatics and idiots. He recommended the noble Lord to visit it; he was sure the noble Lord would admire it, and the kind of intellect he would find there. To quote such trash as that! He did not wonder the late Cabinet fell to pieces—he only wondered it held together so long,
 245 246
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had not told them whether, if this Bill passed, there would be a dissolution of Parliament. It was not likely that those who were opposed to the Bill would facilitate its progress. The noble Lord at the head of the Government professed to be influenced by public opinion. Let them, therefore, wait and see how public opinion would pronounce upon this question. For his own part he thought that the proposition for adjournment was quite reasonable.
 MR. WAKLEY  understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say that he was prepared to carry out on that side of the House the principles he had advocated on the other. Then he ought to know that persons professing to be his friends and supporters were asking for the suffrages of the people in different counties and boroughs, and stating that they were Conservative Freetraders, and that Protection was thrown to the winds. He (Mr. Wakley) therefore wished to know whether those persons were guilty of gross misrepresentation or not?
 MR. BERESFORD  would admit that the militia would be useless if such a force could be produced; but if they were, as he had proved, "men in buckram"—an ideal army—it was absurd to talk about them. There were various branches
 217 Birkenhead 218 l. l. l. 219 220
 MR. BERESFORD  said, that, as to the mass of figures which had been adduced by the hon. and gallant Member with respect to the number and disposal of the French Army, he should not attempt to reply, for he owned that he did not possess the necessary documents which would enable him to do so, but he should confine himself to the statement which the gallant General had made respecting our own forces and their efficiency for national defence, and in so doing he should quote a few statistics from official returns which he did possess. With regard to the efficiency of the available force which we were in a position to bring into the field, the original statement upon that subject was made by his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary, and was not made without due consideration. His right hon. Friend stated that the utmost force which could be brought into the field was 25,000; the hon. and gallant Member impugned that statement, and declared that the sum total of the Army which could be efficiently brought into the field was 85,000, and this assertion he had put forth again to-night. In making out that number he (Mr. Beresford) was prepared to admit that the hon. and gallant Member had included the officers in his calculation, and that in the official returns the rank and file only were given, which was the ordinary way in which these returns were made up. But he had no objection to give the hon. and gallant Gentleman the officers. He would not say that the officers of the British Army were not as brave and as available for the field as any set of men who ever entered it; and he should be sorry to except them, therefore, from the number of those who would be ready in an emergency to draw their swords in defence of their country. In calculating the number of infantry which could be brought into the field, however, the hon. and gallant Member included the army in Ireland, which he (Mr. Beresford) entirely omitted; and he not only maintained that he had a fair and just right to except it, but he could appeal to the high
 214 215 216
 MR. W. J. FOX  rose to repudiate the imputation cast upon his side of the House by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that they sought delay for the purpose of getting up an agitation against the Bill. He knew little, indeed, of the feelings of the country if he thought agitation necessary to excite the strongest antagonism against this measure. It was regarded with dread and abhorrence by the great body of the working people; and those feelings would not be diminished when they learned that they would be brought into compulsory service and put under the lash. There had been in his borough a perfectly spontaneous exhibition of feeling against the Bill; and the House would do well for its own sake to give time for further consideration, particularly when there were scarcely two military men who were agreed on the Bill.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  wished to take that opportunity of saying a few words in explanation of a statement he had made on a former occasion, about which there had been some misapprehension, in consequence, he believed, of the noise that prevailed in the House at the time, and which he was precluded by the forms of the House from explaining in reply. What he then stated was, that there were 80 field guns that might be made available for the defence of the metropolis; and he also went on to say that there were four companies out of ten of the marine artillery on shore, as fine troops as any in the world, and that he saw no difficulty in their being provided with horses in case of emergency, though they might not be fit for field service. Now that statement, in so far as there being 80 pieces of artillery
 208 209 210 gendarmerie enfans de corps: 211 212 213
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that it was the opinion of the greatest military authorities that the defences of the country required strengthening. If a foe were seen on our shores, the question would not he, what was the opinion of Members of that House, but what were the dispositions of the Duke of Wellington—where did Hardinge command—or to what part of the coast was Napier going? It was therefore their duty now to listen to the opinion of these men, who had at all times given good counsel to the nation; and then this peril would never arise. He did not mean to underrate the power and efficiency of the Royal Navy, for which noble service he had the most sincere admiration and respect; hut he thought that we ought not to rely wholly on our Navy, but that we should take such measures as would enable this country to resist her enemies with equal effect on land or on sea. The most practical work that had been published on the state of our defences, and one which had attracted more attention than any other, was that written by a foreign officer, Baron Maurice, an independent gentleman, who was assuredly actuated by no feeling of hostility to this country. In this work Baron Maurice clearly showed that the proper way to attack this country would not he by endeavouring to land a single large army, but by sending out from the opposite coast several detachments of 10,000, or 15,000, or 20,000 men, who should endeavour to reach different parts of the coast of this island, and should have a common rendezvous. That was the sort of attack that we must prepare to meet, and not an invasion by a force of 50,000 or 60,000 men. It was worthy of remark that no statesman of any distinction had ventured to dispute the positions taken up by Baron Maurice, and amongst distinguished politicians of all parties there seemed to he absolutely unanimity on the necessity of strengthening, by some means or another, our military establishments.
 204 205 l., l., l., l. 206 l., l. l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I can assure the House I shall detain them but a very few moments; and I should not have presumed to address them again on this subject in this stage of the debate, but as I have been alluded to so frequently by hon. Gentlemen in my immediate vicinity, I really cannot but reconcile myself to saying a few words in reference—I can scarcely say in answer—to what has fallen from them. Sir, the only answer I can make to the assertions of my hon. Friends is, to meet assertion by counter assertion—their
 240 241 242 The Rifle Club, or the Manual of Duty for Soldiers l. 243 Code Napoleon "Sic vos non vobis nidificates aves, Sic vos non vobis vellera fertis oves;" Laughter 244
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had begun by complaining that the speech of the late Chief Secretary was not a practical speech; but though the hon. Member himself had addressed the House for more than half an hour, yet he had scarcely alluded to the Bill under discussion, or ventured to show that the principles which he assumed to be in the Bill were really there; but he avoided the question altogether, confining himself to an endeavour to influence by fears those Members whom he could not hope to persuade by argument. He had not attempted to show that the Bill was calculated to meet any one of the evils that existed in Ireland; but he held out a threat that he would raise a cry in Ireland on the subject. But the British Parliament was not to be influenced by such an appeal to their fears. The hon. Member then talked of the people being led on by their clergy, and all who knew Ireland knew that was too much the case; but still he believed there was more independence among the laity of Ireland than most people imagined, and he trusted they would not be led by their clerical agitators to make so absurd a measure as this the foundation of their support or opposition to candidates at the coming elections. He had threatened the hon. Member for Donegal (Mr. Conolly)—the only threat, he believed, which the hon. Member was capable of carrying out—with being stopped by the shouts of a mob if he attempted to express his opinions in Ireland. He could only say, that, though the hon. Member might thus lend himself to a vindictive and a selfish agitation, yet he trusted that neither he nor any other man would so be able to submerge the principles of liberty and fair dealing as to prevent his hon. Friend from fairly and manfully expressing his convictions. He might also allude to the speech of the hon. Member for Mayo (Mr. Moore), whose talents few would deny, but who had, in his speech on the question, shirked both the principle and the details of the measure. The only reference he made to the Bill was to say, that he was prepared in Committee to alter every line and every syllable. This proved that his good sense fully appreciated the absurdity of its contents. He said he would vote for its princi-
 292 293 294 Cries of 295 rechauffé l. 296
 LORD NAAS : Well, then, I will refer to a speech of the hon. Gentleman himself: the hon. Member for Rochdale says, "From a consideration of all the circumstances, I have come to the conclusion that any attempt to secure the tenant-right, unless accompanied by a measure for the adjustment of rent, is now hopeless." After the declaration of that sentiment at a public meeting, the hon. Member, in now taking exception to his (Lord Naas's) opinion on that part of the Bill, was only attempting to blind the House. The truth was, that the effect of this Bill would be to make the landlord a mere rent-charger on his estate; and if it became the law of the land, they would never find a landlord who would lay out a shilling on his own property, and by "one fell swoop" every source of improvement would be shut up throughout the country. The hon. Gentleman said Ireland was ruined by absenteeism: he (Lord Naas) most sincerely regretted that he must admit that a great many proprietors did not reside on their estates; but he would ask, was there ever a measure so eminently calculated to produce absenteeism as that, seeing that it went to deprive the landlord of almost all motive for taking an interest in his estate? The landlord would then have neither power nor incentive to discharge those duties so neces-
 277 278 279
 LORD NAAS  said, before the House came to a division he was anxious to offer a few observations on this important question. In the first place, he must remark upon the strange fact, that every one of those who had advocated the measure had carefully avoided any allusion to its de-
 272 273 "The nationalisation of the land he considered to be the proper solution of the question. He denied the claim of the landlord to the soil or the rent for his own purposes. The landlord was merely a public steward, and when he failed to discharge his duty faithfully, he should be deprived of his trust, and the nation should put another in his place. That should be the prime aim of that League." 274 "It was an outrage against the bounty of the Most High, and a blasphemy against the mercy and justice of the Omnipotent, for any man to say that the right over the soil was unreservedly his, or that he could do what he liked with the and." "We will assert, though it be with our last breath, that landlords were tolerated for the benefit of the people; and when they cease to serve the purpose for which they were formed, the exigencies of the times require that the institution should be abolished—that the right of the people to the creations of their own industry is a better right than that by which the landlords hold their estates. I believe it would be an unspeakable blessing to the community, did each individual hold his property in fee-simple under the Crown."
 LORD NAAS  said, he thought there was. Now, on these false recitals, the
 275 "In ascertaining the value of the tenant-right of any land, or the value to be allowed a tenant for improvements, it shall be presumed that all improvements have been made by the occupying tenant, or those from whom he has derived, save so far as it shall be proved on the landlord's part that such improvements were actually made by himself, or by those from whom he has derived his estate, or by those from whom the tenant has not derived; and the tenant shall be held entitled to be paid for the value of all improvements made by himself, or by those from whom he has derived, according to the rules hereinafter enacted." "The landlord's property is the barren soil; the tenant's property is all the additional value. This principle is the touchstone of tenant-right, and the foundation on which to rest the argument in favour of the tenant-farmer." s. s. The Catechism of Tenant Bight, 276
 MR. MOORE  said, the noble Lord who had just addressed the House complained that the supporters of the Bill had not gone into its details so much as he could have wished; but the promoters complained that those who opposed the Bill had done nothing else than go into its details. The noble Lord (Lord Naas) decried the details of the measure from beginning to end, but shirked its principle, and touched as he would have touched red hot iron the subject which he (Mr. Moore) thought of the most vital importance to Ireland. The noble Lord admitted, however, that he was in favour of compensation for improvements, though he objected to this Bill. That being so, let the House come at once to a decision on the principle of the Bill, and afterwards amend its details in any way they might think fit in Committee. Last year they went into Committee on the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, with the solemn agreement that they were to alter in Committee every single word of that measure. The noble Lord said, if they passed this Bill it would leave untouched a mass of incongruous legislation having reference to this subject; but that was an argument which would equally apply to every attempt at legislation in that House. He (Mr. Moore) had the greatest respect for the right hon. Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland (Mr. Napier), but he could not but think he was guilty of disingenuous treatment towards his countrymen who took a deep interest in this question. If the right hon. Gentleman had really agreed to the principle of his Bill, as he said he had, it would save the Irish Members great trouble and the people of Ireland great anxiety if he would state what were the modifications of the existing law which he was prepared to embody in his Bill. But the right hon. Gentleman had not even given an inkling that the Bill he had to introduce was likely to be less evasive and delusive than the promises which Irish Members had so often received on this subject from successive Governments. The antecedents of the right hon. Gentleman were not calculated to encourage such a hope. He had too high an opinion of the right hon. Gentle-
 280 281 282 l 283
 MR. REYNOLDS  regretted that an experience of five years in office as Chief Secretary for Ireland had not enabled the right hon. Baronet who had just spoken to make a more practical speech on this subject. Though he (Mr. Reynolds) had not the honour to represent an agricultural community, he represented a constituency which felt anxious for the passing of a measure to settle the vexed question of the relations between landlord and tenant; and he referred in proof to a petition agreed to by a public meeting held in Dublin, and presided over by the Lord Mayor. The question was one that had agitated Ireland, not for one year, nor for two years, but for hundreds of years, during which period, he was sorry to say, the existence of the feelings which led to the present agitation, could be traced in Ireland in characters of blood. Was the late Secretary for Ireland prepared to leave the country in that condition? He objected to the principle of this Bill; but the fact was, that in the Bill which the right hon. Baronet introduced some years ago, the same principle was contained, for provision was made for retrospective compensation on the understanding that it was not to exceed three years rent. Was he now prepared to leave Ireland in its present state? The right hon. Baronet had referred the House to the measures promised by the right hon. the Attorney General for Ireland; but what security had he that the right hon. Gentleman would not be on the bench before he could bring one of his Bills into Parliament? The right hon. and learned Gentleman had already passed more promissory notes of a political character than any other learned Gentleman in his position had ever done before, and he doubted if he would be able to pay them when "at maturity." It had oozed out that the witnesses before the Crime and Outrage Committee, of which the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General for Ireland) was chairman, declared in substance that the agrarian outrages in some northern.
 289 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 290 l. Derisive cheers. 291
 MR. NAPIER  wished to say, as some observations had been made respecting the course he had pursued, by the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Reynolds), that for the last two years, as an independent Member of the House, he had endeavoured to produce a good Landlord and Tenant Bill, believing such a measure to be essential to the welfare of Ireland, and he had therefore sat upon the Commission which had been alluded to, though little good had resulted from its labours, beyond those which arose from the continual discussion of an important subject. He had placed in the hands of two friends of his all the papers in his possession which bore upon the matter, and they had produced a book which he thought extremely useful, though he did not agree in all the views it set forth. As long as he thought the late Parliament would take up a Bill founded on the views enunciated in the book, he had not brought forward any measure in reference to the state of landlord and tenant in Ireland; but when he found they did not intend to propose any satisfactory Bill, he set to work to embody in some Bills the substance of the work to which he alluded, and he had at the present moment the draughts of three Bills prepared on the subject. The first was a consolidation of nearly 70 statutes relating to the law between landlord and tenant. The second had reference to the consolidation of leasing powers, and arranged the terms of letting land, so far as a contract between two parties was concerned; and the third Bill was to provide compensation for improvements to the industrious tenant, though the difficulty of arranging machinery sufficiently simple to be useful, and not conflicting with those fixed principles which he never would consent to disturb, was not to be lightly regarded. He had brought forward these Bills with no view to landlord interest, but rather with a sympathy for the industrious tenant; and he had framed them, he sincerely and unaffectedly declared, with every desire to do good to the Irish tenantry. These three Bills were now under the considera-
 297
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he was resolved to use all legitimate means to stay the fur-
 267 268 vexata qucestio 269
 MR. MONSELL  said, that he should pass by the unjust imputations which the hon. Gentleman had cast upon the portion of the country to which he (Mr. Monsell) belonged, with the single remark, that if tenant-right had in the north of Ireland produced the beneficial effects which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Conolly) attributed to it, that was one of the strongest possible arguments for attempting an alteration in the state of the law in those parts of Ireland where it did not exist. The mutual confidence alluded to by the hon. Gentleman did not exist where tenant-right did not prevail. Many of the objections which the hon. Gentleman had urged against the Bill, would, he thought, have
 270 271
 MR. S. CRAWFORD  complained that the noble Lord had misrepresented the provisions of the measure.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, there was no compulsory valuation of rent under the Bill.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  replied, and complained he had been rather unfairly treated by hon. Members, who supposed that he was the tool of any man or of any body of men. For whatever good or evil there was in the Bill, he alone was responsible. There was no Bill without defects; and if the House went into Committee upon the Bill, he would gladly yield to any suggestions to improve it in detail.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, he was anxious before the House came to a division to address a few observations upon the subject of the Bill, the more especially as he had taken some part in this question. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down would pardon him for saying that, in the very eloquent speech which he had delivered, he had carefully
 284 bonâ fide 285 "Whereas, it has long been the practice in Ireland, that lands are let to the tenants occupying the same on determinable tenures, or at will, or from year to year, without written agreement, and without any suitable buildings or other neces-
 286 287 l. l. l., 288
 COLONEL ESTCOURT  said, that, if the qualification of these officers were removed, some regulations ought to made with respect to promotions.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he believed that the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) was not in the House when a question upon the subject was asked by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith). His right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Home Department gave such an answer at the time as seemed to satisfy the right hon. Member for Northampton. He (the Attorney General) was aware that in the Index there were three folio pages of Militia Bills, but he believed that most of those Acts to which the hon. Member for Montrose referred were passed prior to the 42  Geo. Geo. Geo. Geo. 306 Geo. Geo. Geo.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in the case referred to by the hon. Member, there were seventy or eighty Acts to be considered, but in the present there was virtually only one.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he regretted that the supporters of this Amendment were not to have the assistance of his noble Friend the Member for Tiverton. The law was on all sides admitted to be unpopular in its working. It was, therefore, the more desirable that every man should know the full amount of the grievance to be experienced. He hoped the House would stand by its own order, and help the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) in his endeavour to amend and consolidate the law. It was by no means likely that the people to be enrolled under this Act, could be acquainted with the law on the subject, when the most experienced Members in the House were in ignorance of it. To consolidate the laws would be a matter of great difficulty to a private Member of Parliament, while it would be an easy and simple task for the Government to undertake. It seemed to him that the promoters of the Bill were really anxious to conceal from the public the stringency of the law. Now, for instance, there were clauses in the Militia Laws making it necessary for Quakers to find substitutes if they objected to serve themselves, and, in default of substitutes, rendering their goods liable to seizure. If this Bill were to become law at all, it would, of course, be advisable to make it as efficient, intelligible, and useful as possible. He believed that the Motion of his hon. Friend the Mem-
 308
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) had been good enough to favour the Committee with all the benefit of his understanding upon this subject, and had endeavoured to ascertain what the real state of the law was, he would know that from time to time Acts of Parliament had been passed suspending the ballot sanctioned by the 42  Geo. 314
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that it was desirable to understand, in order that there might be no mistake, that while the Government were willing to adopt the principle of the right hon. Gentleman's Amendment, they still intended to propose a different scale of qualifications for the different ranks, and not to have one qualification for all the different ranks.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, there was a difficulty in the proposition of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright). The son of a person who had landed property was well recognised by law, and had a certain  status, 324
 LORD SEYMOUR  hoped that the principle was not wholly shut out, that a man who had distinguished himself as an officer in a lower rank, might, without reference to property or pecuniary qualification, be promoted to a higher.
 MR. MILES  thanked the hon. Member (Mr. Hume) for one statement in which he fully concurred—the distress of the agricultural body; and he hoped, when the time came, the hon. Gentleman would be willing to relieve, as much as he could, that body whose distress he now admitted. He (Mr. Miles) was perfectly astonished that men of peace—Gentlemen who professed to wish heartily for a dissolution—who asked the Government to name the very day they would dissolve—should get up now, and upon a simple proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, deliver themselves of speeches evidently intended for the second reading of the Bill. It had been the practice for hon. Members to address themselves to the particular clause under discussion, and when he thought what that clause was, he was the more astonished at the course hon. Gentlemen opposite were taking; he had not the least objection to discuss the clauses one by one, but let them stick to that, instead of making digressive speeches,  de omnibus rebus et quibusdam aliis, de die in diem.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, as it appeared to be agreed that the compulsory clauses were not to come into operation till the beginning of the new year, he saw nothing the Government would lose by leaving them to be settled by the new Parliament. On the other hand, what the Government would gain, would be that they would get rid of the most unpalatable portion of their measure, and in fact quash half of the popular resistance to their Bill. He therefore hoped they would be induced to give up the compulsory clauses.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he hoped and believed there was as little probability of the cessation of the Income Tax as of the restoration of the Corn Laws. The struggle was between the holders of property and the working classes, who paid at an enormously increased rate on articles of indirect taxation. An effort was made to engage the holders of temporary incomes on a false track, with the effect only of increasing the perplexities of the question. If the holders of temporary incomes knew what hurt them, they would be aware that the injustice consisted in taxing them for a limited period, as for instance three years, and taking no more from the holder of perpetual property, which, instead of three, was worth thirty years' purchase in the market. As a holder of life property himself, he had his eyes open to the injustice done him by any temporary income tax.
 350
 MR. MILES  begged to ask if benefit had been conferred on the consumers by this new policy, what benefit had accrued to the producers? Look at the state of the agricultural classes, and at the state of the money market. Did that show that trade was prosperous? Though a large trade had been carried on, it had been with very small profits. He had the greatest confidence in the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman had never, since 1846, swerved from the principles he advocated; and they might depend upon it that the principles he supported in opposition, he would, as a Minister, honestly act upon.
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, that he would not have ventured, without consulting military authorities, to have brought before the attention of the Committee the proposition of which he had given notice, and more especially after the lecture he had presumed to give to his friends on his right the other night. Yet the practical men to whom he submitted his Motion strongly approved of it, and agreed in thinking that a force of 40,000 men effectually trained, would be better than 80,000 militiamen. It had not been his intention to press his Motion to a division—he merely brought it
 345
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, that if the Motion of the right hon. Member for Manchester were carried, the blank would not be filled up by"80,000,"but it would be competent for any one to propose that the blank should be filled up with whatever number he might think fit.
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, he had placed a notice on the paper with regard to the number of men, but, as that notice depended on Clause 21, regulating the days of drill, perhaps the Committee would allow him in the meantime to state the general grounds on which he proposed to make his Motion. The House had agreed that some measure of defence was required, but great diversity of opinion prevailed as to the nature of the measure which they ought to adopt, and various schemes had been brought forward—some being in favour of an addition to the Army, others advocating the measure proposed by the noble Lord the Member for London, while one Gentleman, the chairman of a railway company, recommended the formation of a railway from Salisbury to Exeter. In order to come at a sound conclusion on this subject, they should have a close understanding as to the nature and character of the danger to be apprehended. He need hardly remind the Committee that with respect to a neighbouring country we were not now in the position in which we were at the commencement of the century. Steam had undoubtedly facilitated the concentration of troops and attack, and he believed that in proportion to the facility of attack would be its probability. They ought, therefore, to consider whether the measure would provide a force capable of resisting an invading army of regular troops. The opinion of most military men was, that a militia, drilled only for twenty-one days in the year, was a force utterly incompetent to repel the attack of regular troops. The Bill proposed that 80,000 men should be called out and drilled twenty-one days in each year; but he thought that if they were to limit the number to a smaller amount—say 40,000 or 50,000—and drill them efficiently, a much more available force would be obtained. He therefore suggested that they should call out not more than 40,000 or 50,000 men, drill them for fifty-six days in the first year, and in each of the four succeeding years drill them ten days. By this means he believed they would have a far better force than under the system proposed in the Bill, and that in the course of the five years there would be a saving of one-third of the expense. It was urged as an objection to this proposal, that they could not ask men to leave their occupations for so long a period as fifty-six days, nor compel them to do so by the operation of the ballot. But what he was anxious
 327
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Gibson) had great objections to this Bill, as calling men from their peaceful homes to defend their country, and he had told them that Englishmen would receive the bounty money, and, as soon as they had got it leave the country undefended. But he (Mr. F. Scott) wished to know whether any foreigner, reading the speeches delivered in this House, would not—if he believed the representatives of the centres of intelligence, the concentrated intelligence, those who represented themselves to be the very essence of intelligence, and the  beau ideal 333
 MR. F. SCOTT  would remind the Committee, that one object sought to be attained by the property qualification was, that the deputy lieutenants should be persons of  status
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Mr. Bernal, I do not think that the right hon. Gentleman has at all answered the speech of my right hon. Friend (Sir G. Grey). My right hon. Friend did not complain that, when the Cabinet had the question before them, whether they would consolidate or not consolidate, they had determined not to consolidate, but that, having determined not to consolidate, they should bring in a Bill entitled, "A Bill to Consolidate and Amend the Laws relating to the Militia," and had therefore not acted up to the title of that Bill. Now, as to speaking of consolidation by reference, who was to know the meaning of that? It is quite impos-
 312
 MR. OSWALD  said, he had not hitherto taken part in the discussions on this Bill; and when the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, instead of turning the other cheek, smote the noble Lord the Member for the City of London under the fifth rib, he (Mr. Oswald) did not vote on the second reading. He thought it would be better to have 15,000 soldiers instead of 80,000 militia. But the House of Commons had said, by a majority of 150, that there should be a militia. He bowed to that decision, and he came down to-night prepared to support Her Majesty's Government, for whom he had neither love nor affection, in carrying this Bill, because the Commons of England had said that such a Bill ought to be carried. He would ask the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) what he meant to fill up the blank with'? If he meant to fill it up with nothing, then the Chairman ought not to be sitting in that chair, but Mr. Speaker ought to be sitting a little above the Chairman, for that involved the principle of the Bill, and he (Mr. Oswald) could not vote with the right hon. Gentleman against the principle of the Bill. Every one who went into the lobby with
 346
 MR. PACKE  said, the reason why landed property formed the best qualification was, that Gentlemen who owned it were sure to be found when wanted, while the possessor of personal property might be in America when his services were most required.
 MR. PACKE  begged to express his thanks to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer for the statement he had made with respect to the most suffering class in the country. The statement could not fail to give satisfaction to the agriculturists.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  regretted that this measure should have been renewed, and hoped that the Government would give some assurance that it would not be continued beyond the year for which it was now asked. He almost looked upon it as a breach of faith on the part of the Government that they should have again exposed the country to the infliction of a tax of this kind.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, it was evident that the hon. Member for the West Riding was ready to wheel about and march back again. The hon. Member had retracted his imputation upon the people of England, and he (Colonel Sibthorp) supposed, therefore, that he was ashamed of himself. He only hoped that those who had sent the hon. Gentleman to that House would recollect the terms in which he had described them. Vagabonds! Would the hon. Gentleman venture to say that upon the hustings? No, no. The hon. Member might apply such terms to the people of the West Riding; but he (Colonel Sibthorp) would challenge the hon. Gentleman to go down to the county of Lincoln and use the same language there. So much for the liberal way in which that hon. Member dealt with the people when it was convenient to him. He rose to relieve the
 341
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that one moiety of the property must be within the county.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he would not press his Amendment.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he now begged to move the Amendments of which he had given notice. Although he approved of the introduction of the Bill, and greatly preferred it to the measure submitted by the late Government, he objected to any alteration in the condition of the militia force, as it had been fixed by former Acts of Parliament, and he was especially hostile to any provision having for its object the taking of the appointment of the officers out of the hands of the Lord Lieutenants of counties, and vesting it in those of the Secretary of State. He was also decidedly averse to the abolition of those landed qualifications which were provided by former Acts, and which were absolutely necessary for maintaining the efficiency and respectability of the body, and for preserving its constitutional character as a county force. He did not see why these alterations should be made when no dereliction of duty had been or could be alleged on the part either of the Lord Lieutenants of counties, or of the militia officers. It was more likely that men would readily enrol themselves, and more cheerfully endure hardships, in a force commanded by those who resided amongst them, and between whom and themselves there existed feelings of mutual attachment, than if the force were officered by other gentlemen, however respectable or distinguished they might be. To alter the constitution of the force in the manner proposed, would be to
 301 302 l.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not concur with the hon. Gentleman that the militia was a purely military service. He was not prepared to agree with him that no qualification should be required in those who held command in this force. He saw a great difference between the army in this country and the army in other countries. And when he saw the respect that was paid by the army in this country to the law and the constitution, and the great reluctance the army exhibited to interfere with the social system of the country, he attributed it to the manner in which the army was officered. He was glad that they had a class of officers in this country very different from the military adventurers in Continental countries, who exercised so pernicious an influence in the public affairs of those countries.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to know whether
 338 339 340
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he agreed with his hon. Friend (Sir C. Burrell) that it was of great importance that the deputy lieutenants should be locally connected with the county. But the deputy lieutenant at present was not by law necessarily connected with the county. He must have a certain amount of property qualification, but it need not be within the county, A deputy lieutenant who might have his property in the county of Kent might act, by virtue of that qualification, as deputy lieutenant for Devonshire. Now, he did not interfere with the question of local connexion. He left it exactly as he found it, and did not make an exception in the case of deputy lieute-
 325
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the observation of the right hon. Gentleman who has just spoken calls for one remark from me. It is certainly very true that the course we have taken
 311
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would request the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) not to divide; and he would appeal to the Committee to listen to the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart), from whose speeches they always derived instruction and amusement. He was sure that the good feeling of that hon. Gentleman, and the very sensible remarks that he always made, entitled him to be heard. He trusted the hon. Gentleman would proceed, and when
 319
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  must really be allowed to notice the very singular observation of the hon. Gentleman. It was very difficult for anybody to ascertain what degree of attention any hon. Member was paying. He had, for instance, heard the noble Lord lately at the head of the Government complained of for his supposed inattention and charged with being asleep; and yet the noble Lord had risen and proved that he was perfectly conscious of what was going on, by replying to those who had preceded him. Some hon. Gentlemen indulged in abstraction, and when they were supposed to be inattentive, they were, in fact, studying over what was taking place. He never liked to speak of himself, but he really did not think that he was open to the charge.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I hope my hon. and gallant
 351 352 353
 MR. RICH  said, he thought it a difficult thing to raise so large a force by means of a bounty, because, by that means, they would draw upon that class who furnish the regular troops, and would starve the regular Army of its usual supply of men. This year they had voted 3,000 additional men for the Army. The bounty they gave to the regular soldier was nominally 4 l., l.
 MR. RICH  said, he objected that, as the Bill stood, if a man deserted—say from the Dorsetshire militia, and was found in Northumberland, he would then have to be handed over to the Colonel of the Northumberland militia, and so from county to county, until he arrived in the county from whose militia he had deserted. Such a provision as that, he granted, might have been very desirable when there were no railways in existence; but he put it to the Committee whether it was not altogether inexpedient and unnecessary in the present state of locomotion in this country? By another Clause it appeared that the 6 l. d.
 MR. WYLD  said, he must assert that the danger of invasion was purely imaginary. He could easily understand, however, how the Government were so anxious to press the present measure, because the appointments it involved would give them a large amount of patronage and power.
 MR. WYLD  hoped the result of the inquiry by the Committee on the Income Tax would be the readjustment of that impost on a more equitable basis,
 MR. BRIGHT  had an Amendment to propose, to exempt these militiamen from the punishment of the lash; but at that hour of the morning, a quarter to one o'clock, it was scarcely to he expected that he should now go on with it. He would move that the Chairman do report progress.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to consider that an unnecessary discussion had been raised upon this subject, and he complained of the violence of the speech of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden). The right hon. Gentleman said that it was quite a mistake to suppose that the Government had made any change of importance in the Bill. He (Mr. Bright) did not quite understand what the right hon. Gentleman meant by "making a change." Last Friday night the right hon. Gentleman delivered a speech, which led every body who sat behind him to think that he had made a great change. [ Cries of "No, 342 343
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he considered that if there was anything less justifiable than another in this matter, it was the requiring of a different qualification for different ranks in military service. It should be their object to advance the best and most efficient men to the highest posts; but they prevented this by requiring a money qualification. He hoped, therefore, that the Government would consider the propriety of abolishing these different qualifications, by which the interest and object of the service were sacrificed to those who possessed riches.
 MR. BRIGHT  would suggest that the eldest son of a person possessed of personal property should be placed on the same footing as the eldest son of a landed proprietor with regard to qualification.
 MR. BRIGHT  thought that, whatever the amount of qualification might be, it ought to be indifferent as to whether it consisted of personal or of real property. If you wanted to have officers of prudence, foresight, self-command, valour, and those other qualities which went to make good soldiers, it would be very unadvisable to limit your choice to those possessed of land, unless, indeed, it was considered that that description of property gave its possessors peculiar military qualities. Had he understood the right hon. Gentleman to say, that he entirely gave up the distinction between the two descriptions of property?
 MR. BRIGHT  did not see very much the weight of the argument of the right hon. Gentleman. He tried to make out that there was some essential difference between the Act of 1802 and that of 1852,
 309 in extremis, 310
 MR. J. EVANS  could understand, if danger of an invasion were imminent, that a Government should say, "We must have 50,000 militiamen to be raised either by voluntary enlistment or by force, but the men we must have." The effect of the Amendment, however, which had that evening been proposed by the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department was, that if they could not get 50,000 men this year by means of voluntary enlistment, they would not have them at all. But had the Government received any assurance from the other side of the water that they would not come and attack us before Christmas, and were there any means by which we were to be defended during the fogs of October and November? The fact was, that if the Government really apprehended any danger, they were most culpable to leave us in this position. If the country was really in danger, let there be an effective force to meet it; but as the compulsory part of the measure was to be put off till next year, why not put off the whole matter till next year?
 MR. J. EVANS  thought that, if the effect of the proposal made by the right hon. Member for Manchester was to omit the word "eighty," and not to substitute anything in its place, such a proposal was against the principle of the Bill; and, the principle having been affirmed by that House, however opposed he (Mr, J. Evans) might be to the Bill, he would not vote for the omission of the word.
 MR. HUME  said, he expected, when the hon. Gentleman (Mr. F. Scott) had risen, he would have grappled with the arguments of his (Mr. Hume's) right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson), but he believed that common sense had left that (the Government) side of the House. Talk of the speeches of hon. Gentlemen on his (Mr. Hume's) side of the House placing them in danger of war! Let hon. Gentlemen opposite look to the letter of the Duke of Wellington, who told them they had no troops to defend them. Why, he (Mr. Hume) thought that the language—he had almost said the cowardly language—of men high in office, tended more to induce foreigners to invade us, than any speeches made on his side of the House. The difference of opinion among hon. Gentlemen opposite as to the number of militia they required was striking. Originally the number proposed was 150,000, then it was reduced to 80,000, another hon. Gentleman proposed 40,000; but he had not heard one argument yet in favour even of the smaller number. He could not agree with some of the hon. Gentlemen near him that the compulsory clauses alone were to be objected to; he thought that by the expense of embodying a militia at all they were adding to the embarrassments of the country, and particularly of the agricultural classes; and he was quite surprised at the course taken by the agricultural Gentlemen on this question. [The hon. Member then read an extract from a speech of Lord John Russell's, in 1822, against military establishments, as not sanctioned by the Constitution.] He would ask who were the parties who were hurrying on the House and the country to this extravagance? It was the county Gentlemen, as would be seen by analysing the votes in the late divisions. He said, therefore, that the protectors of the public purse in this matter were not the county Members, but the borough Members. The present Government could not keep their seats if they did not give relief to the county Gentlemen; they wanted relief, and he wished they might get it.
 MR. HUME  said, the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had misinterpreted what had fallen from him. He did not complain of the right hon. Gentleman's inattention, but of the general inattention of the Committee at the moment. He referred to the noise and crowding of hon. Members at the bar, and to the inattention of the officer whose duty it was to prevent the confusion. If one Serjeant at Arms was not enough, let them have two or three. He would not press his Motion for reporting progress.
 MR. HUME  said, that if anything were necessary to justify his Motion that the Chairman report progress, in order that he (Mr. Hume) might report to Mr. Speaker what had occurred, it was the right hon. Gentleman himself who had paid so little attention to what was going on.
 MR. HUME  rose to order. Such was the disorderly and noisy state of the House, and such the want of inclination shown to maintain the discipline of the House, that he should move that the Chairman do report progress. He would then appeal to Mr. Speaker, and endeavour to have the business conducted as it ought to be.
 MR. HUME  moved the insertion of words to the effect, that all the Acts now in existence respecting the militia should be repealed, with the view of consolidating the law to be in force for the future regulation or government of the militia. At present it was almost impossible to ascertain with accuracy what Acts or portions of Acts were in force, and what had been repealed. He had gone into the library the other day along with a friend well acquainted with the subject, and he (Mr. Hume) had asked him to tell him what were the laws actually in force with respect to the militia. His friend produced a book which proved to be an index of the public and general statutes, and showed him three folio pages all filled with the titles of Acts relating to the militia; eight of which, it appeared, were Acts amending the first Act mentioned in the Preamble of the present Bill, namely, 42  Geo. 305
 MR. HUME  would remind the hon. and learned Gentleman, that the late Sir Robert Peel, when Prime Minister, had in one of his greatest and most important measures consolidated seventy or eighty Acts of Parliament connected with Customs; and he frequently took pains to lay it down as his principle, that the old laws should be repealed, consolidated, or brought into one Act. He did not think that the hon. and learned Gentleman had made out a case for departing from that principle on the present occasion. The course he proposed might no doubt entail some trouble upon the Government; but he hoped it would not be considered offensive if he told them that they were well paid for their trouble.
 MR. HEYWORTH  begged to remind the Committee of a statement made by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, that there was no immediate danger; and he would also refer to the argument of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans) to show that there was full occupation for the French army within its own territories, for of that army 70,000 men wore in Algeria. What was said of the French coming to invade this country was a mere pretence; there was no danger; and the object was to raise a large army to keep the people under.
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he believed that the feeling of the people was in favour of direct taxation. He admitted that the Income Tax, as now imposed, was by no means perfect, and he hoped the basis would be extended to include all incomes.
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, he meant to oppose the Bill under all circumstances, not from any factious motive, but because he had a most unmitigated aversion to the measure. Had any real urgency existed when it was brought forward by the late Government, the whole House would have united for the defence of the country; but instead of that, the opportunity was taken for party discussions, and for bringing about a change in the Government. He thought this was a demonstration justly calculated to excite complaint from our neighbours abroad. It had not been shown that there was any real danger of aggression from the other side of the Channel. It might with greater truth be said that the danger of aggression was on this side only, for certainly we had committed every description of aggression which could be effected by words. He was not alluding to the public papers merely, which everybody knew were apt to take up any topic calculated to create a little excitement in the public mind, but to the speeches made in that House, which had been of such a description that, if any aggression should really be made from across the Channel, it Could hardly be called spontaneous. These
 300
 MR. BASS  said, he had been anxious to discuss the 7th Clause before now; but considerable difficulty had been thrown in the way by the Amendment of the hon. Member for Haddingtonshire (Mr. Charteris), which he regretted had been withdrawn. He (Mr. Bass) had high military authority for believing that a well-drilled force of 20,000 men would be preferable to the proposed militia.
 MR. COBDEN  repelled with indignation the imputation of the right hon. Gentleman, who had charged him with describing the people of this country as vagabonds. What he (Mr. Cobden) had really said, ought to have protected him from such a misrepresentation. He had too much respect for the people of England to suppose that they would accept the proposed bounty to turn soldiers for twenty-one days. He had said that the people of Lancashire, of Yorkshire, and of Middlesex, with whom he was particularly acquainted, were too profitably employed to do so. He was satisfied that mechanics and artisans would not accept the bounty to turn soldiers for twenty-one days; and he repeated, that the men they were likely to get as volunteers in this way would be the vagabondage of the country.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that notwithstanding the clamours of hon. Members at the other end of the House in favour of proceeding to a division upon this clause, he
 336 l. l., l. l., 337 l. s. s.
 MR. COBDEN  rose, and was greeted with loud cries of "Divide!" He said, if hon. Gentlemen wished to go to dinner, let them go. The question that was raised was, why had they not the details of the Acts which they were going to re-enact placed before them? They did not ask for those details merely that they might have an opportunity of reading them. They wished them brought into that House and actually proposed, because they wanted to discuss a portion of them. He believed the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer let the secret out when he intimated
 313 Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  had said that he did not see any objections himself, though he should like to ascertain the feeling of the Committee upon the subject, to allow a personal property qualification as well as one dependent on land, providing the qualification arising out of personal estate was equivalent to that provided by the Act of 42  Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could not agree to the first proposition of the right hon. Member (Mr. M. Gibson), the effect of which was to abolish all property qualifications whatever. There was, however, a good deal in what he had said as to personal property forming a qualification, and he (Mr. Walpole) was prepared to assent to this, provided the amount of personal property possessed by the officer was equivalent to the real estate required by the Act. He would suggest that the qualification should be made "real or personal estate of 200 l.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, this was already
 323
 MR. WALPOLE  thought it would excite jealousy if the House should dispense with the qualification altogether. It might give rise to appointments by the Crown or the Lord Lieutenant, the fitness of which might be a good deal questioned. He wished to state, in order to avoid misunderstanding, that Clause 3 was to stand unaltered, and that a provision was to be drawn up by the Government that the qualification for officers of militia must be similar in amount to the qualification provided by the statute of 42  Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was not surprised at the annoyance hon. Gentlemen opposite felt at the announcement he had made. The reason was that it deprived them of one pretext for opposing the Motion, and also of the opportunity of stating in that House what they had been saying in the country about the intentions of the Government, although the Government had declared from the commencement that they intended to rely mainly upon voluntary, and not upon compulsory, enlistment. The Government were now practically convincing the country of this by offering in the clauses and details of the Bill to preclude themselves from doing otherwise than they had intended from the outset—namely, giving an assurance that the ballot was not to be put into operation until they ascertained that voluntary enlistment would fail. How would the matter have stood as originally intended? They would have tried to raise the men by voluntary enlistment, and then, if they failed, they would have had recourse to the old provisions of the statute of the 42  Geo. 344
 MR. WALPOLE  moved that 50,000 men be raised for the year 1852.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the suggestion was a very valuable one, and that he and his Colleagues would give it their best consideration. The effect of the system
 335
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that, whatever was the old law as regarded qualification by real property, the Government would accept personal property of the same amount as such qualification. The Lord Lieutenant would have the power also of appointing a field officer from the army without reference to qualification.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the point to which his hon. Friend had adverted was one of great importance, and, as he had referred to the 16th Clause, which provided for the enforcement of the ballot, in connexion with the 7th, now under discussion, it would perhaps be as well that he (Mr. Walpole) should now state what were the intentions of the Government with regard to the former. The Committee would bear in mind that the 7th Clause related entirely to the number of men, and the 16th to what were called the compulsory clauses, namely, to those provisions that empowered them to fall back upon the ballot in case voluntary enlistment should not succeed. With regard to the compulsory clauses, he would repeat what had been often stated before, that their object was to raise the men by voluntary enlistment, if they possibly could do so. He looked upon this as a great experiment; and, looking at it as such, and seeing that they ought not to have recourse to the compulsory clauses if they could possibly avoid it, he thought it would be reasonable to fill up the blank with which the 16th section commenced, by saying that the permissive power given to the Crown to put in force the operation of the ballot should not commence till the 31st of December, 1852. The effect of that would be to give a period of six or eight months, to see how far they could raise the men by voluntary enlistment, and Parliament and the country would then be able to judge of the experiment, and the results to which it might lead. The new Parliament would meet before the machinery of the ballot had been put in operation; the result of the experiment would be actually known, and a full opportunity of stopping that machinery would be given, if it should be found necessary to have recourse to it. He hoped this proposal would be satisfactory to the Committee. The Government were most anxious not to have recourse to the ballot; and he might remind the Com-
 328 Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the remarks that had fallen from his hon. and gallant Friend appeared to him to have reference to two points—the appointment of militia officers, and their qualifications. With respect to the appointment of officers, he begged to remind his hon. and gallant Friend that no change whatever was contemplated by the present Bill. The right of appointment was still to remain, as was the case under the old Acts of Parliament, in the hands of the Lord Lieutenants of counties, subject of course to the approval of the Crown; and there was an express provision in the Bill that in the event of the approval of the Crown not being signified within fourteen days, the appointment of the Lord Lieutenant was to be considered as final. As to the question of qualification he would remind the hon. and gallant Member that the provisions of the old Act were, that the colonel should have not less than 1,000 l. l.; l.; l.; Geo. 303 l.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had considered that point, but had found great difficulties in it, and he feared that if the principle of progressive promotion were to be admitted beyond the rank of captain, there would be an end to the land qualification. After the best consideration they could give to the subject, the Government had come to the conclusion that it would be better to attach the old land qualification (unless in the exceptional eases he had mentioned) to the ranks of colonel, lieutenant colonel, and major.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had mentioned on a former evening that there were two ways of consolidating. If the seven or eight Acts relating to the militia were Acts containing different provisions, there would be much stronger reason for uniting them in one law than if (which he believed to be the case) the provisions of those Acts were contained, in fact, in the 42  Geo. Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had been charged with disrespect to the House, because he had not proposed in this Bill the consolidation of the Militia Laws. He could assure the Committee, however, that he had not meant to treat the House with any disrespect when he brought in the Bill in its present form. The subject had been very maturely considered, and the Government came to the conclusion that as the present Bill was, in fact, intended to render voluntary enlistment a substitute for compulsory conscription, it would be better to bring forward a new measure instead of simply re-enacting the numerous Clauses of the 42  Geo.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he saw nothing in the statement now made by the right hon. Gentleman to qualify what he was understood to have said in making his financial statement, that a return to protection, or the reimposition of Customs or Excise duties, was impossible.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he understood the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary to be, that the words "it shall be lawful to raise" should be inserted in the clause, instead of the words "there shall be raised," and that he proposed that Amendment, because it was not intended to pass the clause relating to the ballot as it now stood, but that it should come into force at a future period, probably in December, 1852. As the Government proposed to postpone the operation of the ballot until after the meeting of the new Parliament, it was of no use to ask the House to vote for it now. Why enact the ballot if it was not intended to put it in force until then? Why should the House commit itself to a principle without a necessity? They would be in no worse position if it was withdrawn altogether, because if the operation of the ballot was postponed till then, why should not the enactment be postponed as well? They were absolutely to prevent the ballot being made use of, and it was absurd to connect the present Parliament to a principle which would not be acted on until the new Parliament met. He was always satisfied the more this measure was discussed, the more it would be seen that it would be judicious to postpone it entirely for the consideration of a new Parliament. Why not postpone the whole measure, and go to the country on the entire principle of the Bill? It had been proposed to raise 80,000 men, and it was shown that there were 67,000 regular troops in the United Kingdom. Now, the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) had informed them that in January, 1814, during the height of the French war, there were in the United Kingdom 80,000 militia and 56,000 regular troops, so that now, in time of peace, it was proposed to have a larger force in the United Kingdom than existed at the hottest period of the war with France. He asked the Committee to pause before doing this. Much was
 330 331
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  accepted the correction of the noble Lord respecting the 89,000 militia. But the noble Lord had said that in 1814 we had 56,000 regular troops, while now we had 67,000 regular troops; and as 1814 was a year of war, and this was a period of peace, invasion therefore being now even still more improbable than in 1814, the greater force now maintained was altogether unjustifiable. The noble Lord said this was not to be an embodied force of 80,000 men. What was it to be then? A militia on paper? Certainly nothing else; for, as a matter of course, the 6 l.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he proposed that "eighty" should not stand part of the clause. He left it for others to deal with the number as they might see fit.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  understood the right hon. Gentleman to admit the principle of the proviso which he intended to move; but he (Mr. M. Gibson) still objected to the amount of the qualification. A major was required to have 400 l. l.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  moved an Amendment to insert after the word "appointed," in Clause 3, line 20, the words "deputy lieutenant or." His object was, that as they were dealing with the qualifications of various officers appointed under the Militia Act, 42  Geo. l. 321
 MR. EWART  rose to second the Motion. He must appeal to Mr. Bernal as the Chairman of the Committee to maintain order in the House. Those hon. Gentlemen who were making these interruptions, were not doing their duty to their constituents. He might apply to each of those hon. Gentlemen the words of the ballad:
 "I see a form thou canst not see, Who bids thee not to stay; I hear a voice thou canst not hear, That hurries thee away?"—
 MR. EWART  rose to address the Committee, amidst loud cries of "Divide, divide!"
 MR. EWART  said, that this Bill particularly applied to poor men, who would not understand the law unless it were consolidated. He called upon the Government to prove that they required additional defences, and then come to the House for a regular increase of the armed force of the country. He thought the militia not sufficient for purposes of defence, but sufficient to cause great annoyance and complaint throughout the country; and he objected to the favour shown to real over personal property in this measure. He contended, therefore, until the requisite consolidation was effected, they were justified in opposing by every legitimate means the passing of the Bill.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, he thought that the noble Lord's memory was a little treacherous. The expression was not that the Bills were "identical," but "similar." Those hon. Gentlemen were inconsistent who, having supported by their speeches or votes the measure of the late Government, now supported this very dissimilar Bill. He (Mr. T. M'Cullagh) entirely concurred in the objection which had been taken; and he considered the Bill of the late Government much preferable to the present measure, inasmuch as it dealt even justice to all classes of the community. He considered that they ought, at all events, to make the Bill intelligible for those whom it was intended to affect.
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, he understood the Committee would vote on the question whether the word "eighty" should be inserted in the blank. He thought it was perfectly competent for hon. Members to vote for the Motion of his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson), for he conceived that he did not change any essential principle of the Bill by his proposition.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, he must complain that the supporters of this measure had endeavoured to divert the attention of the Committee from a discussion of its principles and details by constant attacks upon the conduct of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London. That course was begun, and as he thought most unadvisably, by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), who upon the first introduction of this Bill, had called upon the House to throw away all considerations of
 315 316 uno flatu,
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, he rose to explain. He did not complain of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, that he had not convinced him; but that instead of arguing upon the measure, he had confined himself to attacks upon others. As to the charge of inconsistency, the noble Lord had just unconsciously admitted that the two Bills were identical.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD : Well, then, similar. And yet the noble Lord, who charged him with inconsistency, having admitted that the two Bills were similar, successfully opposed that brought in by his noble Friend the Member for London, and supported that brought in by the present Government. The noble Lord had the satisfaction of defeating the late Minister and those who had been his Colleagues, and in assisting in the victory of his new allies.
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  said, the deputy lieutenants were appointed by the Lords Lieutenants. The duties were purely military, for they had to lead the  posse comitatus.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought there would be the greatest possible confusion in ascertaining what the law was if the Bill were adopted in the shape proposed by the Government. It would be almost impossible to discover what clauses of the Act of 1802 were repealed expressly or by implication. He thought the observations of the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken entitled to great weight. He heard with great surprise the statement of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) that the course now pursued by him was recommended by the Government after grave deliberation upon the subject. The Committee would remember that the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton had moved an Amendment to insert the word "consolidate" in the title of the Bill proposed to he brought in by the late Government. The House adopted that Amendment. A change of Government took place. He (Sir G. Grey) would not then refer to the circumstances connected with that event; but he must express his surprise that the right hon. Gentleman should come down to the House, and without giving the House the slightest reason to suppose that the present Government were not of opinion, with the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, as to the desirableness of consolidating the laws, ask them to agree to a Bill which did not profess to consolidate the Militia Acts, and that course he said was the result of grave deliberation upon the part of the Government. Without giving the slightest reason to justify such a course, the right hon. Gentleman now asked the Committee to sanction it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not mean that officers who had served in the lower grades should be entitled to promotion to the higher, but merely that they should not be precluded from it on account of their not having a qualification. He thought that the question was well worthy the serious attention of the Government.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  understood that the qualification was dispensed with in all cases under the rank of major. [Mr. WALPOLE: Yes.] Then, would the right hon. Gentleman consider this case: An ensign being appointed without a qualification might prove himself a first-rate officer, and rise to the successive grades of lieutenant and captain. Was he then, if he continued to serve with distinction, to be precluded from rising to the rank of major, unless, in the meantime, he acquired the landed qualification? Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would consider whether he might not dispense with that qualification in the case of officers who had passed through the inferior grades.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not surprised at the alarm which seemed to have taken possession of hon. Gentlemen opposite in consequence of the able and satisfactory statement delivered by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer in introducing his Budget. It was evident, from the scene which had been enacted that night, that hon. Gentlemen were anxious to extort from the right hon. Gentleman some declaration on which they might found a distant hope that the Members of the Government, in their Ministerial career, would act on the opinions which they maintained on the other side of the House when they led what used to be called the Protectionist party. The right hon. Gentleman had now declared, in language similar to that employed by him on former occasions, that the Government would first appeal to the country, and then bring forward the measures which they deemed necessary. But he had given them no distinct idea as to what those measures were likely to be; nor did he (Sir G. Grey) think it was very material at the present time to know. He did not think it at all necessary that they should cross-examine the right hon. Gentleman in the way some of his supporters had done, in order to get at the opinions of the Government. The right hon. Gentleman told them that he had not on Friday evening said anything whatever with respect to our commercial policy. He had been equally discreet tonight. But it was not, after all, a matter of very great consequence. They relied
 354
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  considered the Income Tax essentially unequal, and he only voted for it as it now stood on the ground that if they did not continue it for another year there would be a deficiency created in the public finances. It was, in fact, "Hobson's choice;" for, under existing circumstances, there was nothing left for them, for the present, but the temporary renewal of that tax, inquisitorial and grossly unequal as it must be admitted to be. He knew many persons who by means of its operation were paying 12 or 14 per cent on their income. He believed that abroad some misconception existed upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer's speech on the Budget, an opinion prevailing that the right hon. Gentleman was opposed to direct taxation and favourable to Customs duties as a means of raising revenue. He wished to call the attention of the Government to the lax way in which the documents connected with the Income Tax were preserved. In one town the returns had been sold to grocers, and the accounts of the chief tradesmen were sold with the articles vended in those shops. If the tax were preserved, some means should be taken to preserve the returns. If a landlord let a farm upon a lease at, say, 300 l. l. l. bonâ fide
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, he could not understand these repeated attacks of the Manchester Gentlemen on the landed interest. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Gibson) was a landed proprietor, but ever since he had been put forward as a great orator of the peace party, he had opposed the landed interest. If hon. Gentlemen would suggest how many bales of cotton they wished to qualify a man as deputy lieutenant, he would be happy to enter into a commercial treaty with them; but he must say he objected to these absurd Motions, which were defeated night
 322
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  thought the question of qualification was one to be left entirely to the discretion of the Lord Lieutenant. It was most desirable that gentlemen of station and property connected with the neighbourhood should take commissions in a regiment, not upon constitutional grounds, but simply because it would be the means of securing better service.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, in the early part of the evening he had made a suggestion to the Government, and he should be glad to know what the decision of the Government was upon that point?
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he was certainly surprised at the proposal made by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Charteris), as only two nights ago he took to task the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) for having presumed to take up the position of a great military authority. He must say that on this question he could not give more weight to the opinion of the hon. Member than he did to that of the hon. Member for Montrose. His hon. Friend proposed a reduction from 80,000 militia to 40,000, increasing at the same time the number of the days for drill; but it was not to be expected even in the number of days' drill proposed by the hon. Member that the militiamen could be made equal to the regular troops. For that purpose they must have a longer and severer training; but the important point was for the Government to have a large body of men on whom they could place their hands in case of necessity. He would suggest to the Government whether they might not render the militia force they proposed to raise more efficient, without great expense, in the following manner: Under the Queen's warrant soldiers were allowed to purchase their discharge, graduated according to a certain scale, in reference to the amount of service they had performed. It appeared to him, that if the men who wished to purchase their discharge were
 329
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am not going to discuss the question whose speeches in this House have been most calculated to provoke hostility on the part of foreign countries, and to encourage or invite invasion; that question, Sir, I will, leave to public decision. But the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has entirely misquoted that which I stated on a former occasion. He says that I said in 1814—[Mr. M. GIBSON: January, 1814]—in January, 1814, we had 80,000 militia—[Mr. M. GIBSON: 82,000]—and 56,000 regular troops in the United Kingdom, and that, therefore, calculating that we have now 67,000 regular troops, the proposal made to enrol 80,000 militia would place this country in precisely the same situation now in which I stated that it was in 1814. The right hon. Gentleman seems totally ignorant of the distinction between militia embodied and militia enrolled merely for twenty-one days' service in the year. What I stated was, that in 1814 we had, not 80,000, as he said, nor 82,000, as he now corrects me, but 89,000 militia, not enrolled and trained for twenty-one days only, but embodied and paid all the year round, and for home service, identical with troops of the line. It is not now proposed to have 80,000 embodied for the whole year round; and therefore the parallel which the right hon. Gentleman draws totally fails. The cases are entirely different: that which is now proposed is to have 80,000 militia enrolled for twenty-one days, and not 89,000 permanently embodied and kept in pay like regular troops, from the 1st of January to the last day of December. It must be remembered, also, that the year 1814 was a year
 332
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  considered it would be very essential to the efficiency of the militia force, that in every regiment one field officer should be an officer who had served in the line; and he apprehended, therefore, that it would be advantageous to include the rank of major in the list of appointments for which the qualification in land or other property was not required. It ought to be considered that the fact of being on half-pay, or of having served in the Army, should be tantamount to a qualification.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I rise for a moment to explain. I did not say that the two Bills were identical; they arc only identical so far that they create a militia force, but not an identical militia. I never said the two Bills were identical. [An Hon. MEMBER: You said, "similar."] But whether the Bills are similar or identi-
 318
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No, no; I did not say they were identical. I said they were similar.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said: My hon. and learned Friend has made such pointed allusion to me, that I trust the Committee will indulge me whilst I utter one or two sentences. My hon. and learned Friend complains that he was not convinced. No; he complains that he did not comprehend any arguments that I used in favour of a militia force. Sir, I did not address myself to my hon. and learned Friend. I never preach to the converted. I took it for granted that my hon. and learned Friend, having supported the Bill brought in by the late Government at the beginning of the Session—that Bill having been brought in by the Government of which he was a Member—I took it for granted, I say, that the hon. and learned Gentleman was fully
 317
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he perfectly agreed in principle with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) in thinking it most desirable that the several Acts passed upon this subject should be consolidated into one. It was entirely in accordance with this view that he took the liberty of suggesting, when the Bill was first brought in, that it should consolidate all the previous Acts passed; they were, however, on the occasion referred to in the month of February, when the House had ample time to act upon the suggestion which he threw out. He would remind
 307
 MR. MILES  said, he had no desire to prolong that discussion, but as he had been appealed to by the hon. Member for Manchester, he merely rose to state that whatever the hon. Member's interpretation of the mystery might be, his (Mr. Miles's) was very different; and he would assure the hon. Member that Gentlemen on his (Mr. Miles's) side of the House had the utmost confidence in Her Majesty's Ministers; and that whether protective duties might be brought forward in the next Parliament, or justice sought to be done in some other way to the agriculturists, Gentlemen on his side of the House felt certain that they would endeavour to carry out the principles which his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer so nobly upheld while in opposition. The hon. Member for Manchester said that he spoke in the most friendly spirit. Perhaps he did: but his actions were not in keeping with his intentions; for all that he did was to impede and obstruct the business of the Government. He (Mr. Miles) could not make out what the present debate was about. The only result was to enable hon. Gentlemen opposite to stop business and make speeches. He hoped the Government was in earnest with this Militia Bill, and that they would continue to press it; and he thought if hon. Gentlemen opposite were really as impatient as they professed to be for a dissolution, they would discontinue their speeches and get on with the business of the House. The country could only be disgusted with the proceedings of those hon. Gentlemen.
 MR. ADDBRLEY  said, it was well known to the hon. Baronet and those who had cheered him that the gentlemen whose names he had read as being members of the association had been connected with the society for a great number of years. Many of those gentlemen had been connected with the association since 1846, when they were struggling for protective duties, and they have remained upon the society to this day, when—although they perhaps saw the impossibility of reviving those protective duties—they acknowledged the hardship to which the farmers were subjected; and there was not, therefore, anything very inconsistent in finding such names now upon the list. Hon. Gentlemen opposite seemed to have discovered a wonderful mare's nest in the financial statement of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer the other night. They seemed to suppose that the right hon. Gentleman had recanted his former opinions. What did that financial statement amount to? To a statement of facts. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer stated the success of Sir Robert Peel's financial measures, and therefore it was concluded that he withdrew from his former position on the part of the agricultural interest, because that interest had been, as they always said they should be, hit hard. The inference hon. Gentlemen sought to deduce from it was simply ridiculous. The same
 371
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  expressed his decided opinion that the Bill would certainly postpone the ballot to the 31st of December, according to the rule of law, by which, when two Acts were inconsistent with each other, the latter virtually repealed the former, although no words were actually inserted for that purpose.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought that the expectations of the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) were rather unreasonable. The hon. Member stated that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had deserted him; hut, at the same time, he said that he had stuck to the noble Lord as long as he was squeezable. If the hon. Gentleman had stuck to the noble Lord as long as he was squeezable, it was clear he would not have deserted the noble Lord on the present occasion, unless he had been fully saturated. If the hon. Gentleman had chosen to act the part of a leech,
 "Non missura cutem, nisi plena cruoris hirudo," 382 383
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the hon. Gentleman was perhaps the only person in the House who could have believed that he meant to attribute improper motives to him. He certainly never had the slightest intention to do so, and he did not think that the expressions he used could possibly bear that construction.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  wished to say one word as to the conduct of the officer in the command of the  Prometheus.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. CLAY  said, that there were two answers to the question which had been put several times in the course of the debate—whether Parliament was prepared to make a distinction between the militiaman and the regular soldier in this particular? One was to subject both to, and the other to except both equally from, this degrading punishment. As he was in favour of the latter proposition, he should certainly vote for the Amendment.
 COLONEL PENNANT,  having been for many years in the same brigade as the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just spoken, and having acted as adjutant of a regiment, begged to say that he never remembered an instance of a commanding officer who expressed a wish to the members of a Court-martial on the subject of the punishment to be inflicted. The community and the civilian profited most by the strict discipline preserved in the Army. He did not agree that corporal punishment had a humiliating effect on soldiers. He did not believe there was any humiliating feeling in their minds on the subject; and for this reason, that the good and well-conducted soldier had no fear of it, and the bad one knew it was only inflicted as the last resort.
 COLONEL KNOX  could add his testimony to that of the hon. and gallant Officer (Colonel Pennant), with regard to the independence of members of Courts-martial; and he was surprised that the hon. and gallant Member for Ludlow (Colonel Salwey) should make such an accusation against the service. He had served in the same brigade as those hon. and gallant Members, and he never knew a commanding officer attempt to bias the sentence of a Court-martial. He confidently denied the assertion of the hon. and gallant Member for Ludlow. He disapproved of the suggestion of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Viscount Jocelyn) that there should be one rule with regard to punishment in time of war, and another in time of peace. If discipline was to be kept up,
 405
 COLONEL PENNANT : What I said was, that I did not believe it was considered a humiliating punishment, because the good soldier had no fear of being subject to the lash.
 COLONEL PEEL  said, if the hon. Member had read the whole of the evidence, he must know as well as possible that that was not the crime for which the man was published, and the hon. Member knew it as well as he did. It was quite untrue as a representation of the facts.
 The CHAIRMAN : I am sure the Committee will join with me in thinking that
 410
 COLONEL PEEL  said, the statement the hon. Member for Dumfries had read was perfectly true as to the evidence given, not before the Court-martial, but at a Coroner's inquest. [Mr. EWART: I know that.] The whole subject was fully discussed at the time in that House, and the hon. Gentleman must be aware that the offence he had mentioned was not that for which the man was punished. Surely the hon. Gentleman would not say that he had never read the debate which took place upon the subject; and he must be perfectly well aware it was distinctly proved that the man was not flogged for the crime he had
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, ever since he had a seat in that House, he had omitted no opportunity of stating his conviction that the practice of corporal punishment was in reality a great bane and injury to the discipline of the Army; and the ground on which his opinion rested, was, that the discipline built on this foundation failed when the Army came before an enemy. He appealed to officers who had been in a situation to judge, whether that was not the fact. The universal cry in the Army then
 411
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, the hon. Gentleman stated that there were a hundred offences for which a soldier could be punished; but he (Captain Boldero) repeated, that there were only two for which he could be flogged. This would always happen when hon. Gentlemen made speeches on subjects of which they knew little or nothing. An hon. Member (Mr. T. M'Cullagh) had drawn a comparison between the proposed militia and the Irish constabulary. If they could afford to place the soldier exactly on the same footing as the Irish constabulary, flogging might easily be abolished; but a soldier receiving a shilling a day was not the same kind of man, in moral character, in education, or in disposition, as the police-
 401 s.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, no man formerly took a more active part against corporal punishment than himself. His feelings were thoroughly enlisted, and though brought up in the army, he boldly stood up against the system. The hon. Member for Manchester had stated that there was a large number of offences which still subjected the soldier to this punishment. He enumerated several; but, in point of fact, he was in great error; there were only two offences for which a soldier could be flogged.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON : Sir, I beg to assure the Committee no person present, either civil or military, views with feelings of greater disgust and abhorrence the cruel, degrading, and inhuman punishment of corporal punishment than I do, and happily, I say, almost fallen into disuse in the Army. In the regiment I have had so many years the honour to command, it was never resorted to except in such extreme cases where every other means and every exertion had been tried to reclaim the delinquent, and not even then practised but for crime that in every other military service in Europe would be punished with leath. But, Sir, notwithstanding the detestation in which I hold it, I am convinced it is essentially necessary, for the preservation of discipline, to hold it  in terrorem
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, if any stranger entering the House had listened to the discussion which had taken place within the last hour, he would have thought the question was, whether the blank in this clause should be filled up with a certain number of sail of the line instead of so many militiamen. It was the opinion of the country at large that there was no necessity for this militia force. We had been unmolested now for a period of at least forty years, and repeated Governments had not thought it necessary to take any measures of defence until the late Ministry had come forward, and were followed in the same course by their successors in office. As to this particular clause, he was quite ready to follow the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) into the lobby against the number 30,000 with which it was proposed to fill up the blank; and he did not see why it should not be competent to the House to vote for 15,000 for the year 1853, leaving 15,000 to be raised in the following year, by which time he hoped the country would come to its senses, or rather would force the House to come to to its senses. He believed this militia
 393
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it had not been his intention to trouble the Committee on this occasion, or to do so, indeed, on any occasion on the Bill going through Committee. He had stated before the House went into Committee that he was ready to vote for the Bill going into Committee; but, entertaining objections to so many portions of the Bill, he could not possibly take part in it in Committee. Accordingly, as he did not wish to embarrass Her Majesty's Government, he had not given a single vote on any of the clauses. But the hon. Member for Finsbury asked him to state the general reasons he had for proposing a Militia Bill. [Mr. WAKLEY: The precise particular grounds showing the necessity for this force.] He thought the demand which the hon. Gentleman and which other hon. Gentlemen had made, was somewhat unreasonable, because if they alleged as a ground, that the Government of France was hostile to this country, that we might expect immediate hostilities, that those hostilities could not be delayed beyond a few weeks, and therefore we must have a great army—that was not a prudent course for the House of Commons or for any Government in this country to pursue. No doubt great armaments might be necessary if there was any danger; but he did not see such immediate prospects of danger at present, although he would say generally,
 377 378 379 380 l l 381 l
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he felt justified in complaining of the conduct of the hon. and learned Attorney General on this occasion. He (Lord John Russell) considered the distinction between a local and a regular militia sufficient to induce him not to proceed with his Bill; he had been confirmed in his view in that respect, because one great fault found with his measure was that he did not extend it to Scotland and Ireland. His answer to that objection was, that he did not know what might be required; but if he had contemplated a general militia, he certainly should have thought it necessary to frame a Bill for Scotland and Ireland. Besides that, every general Militia Bill contained a clause declaring that any person who enlisted must serve as a soldier embodied in time of war. Considering these differences between a local and a general Militia Bill to be so great, he said that he could not bring in a Bill of the latter description, and that he should oppose any such Bill if brought in by any other person. Such a Bill, however, was brought in by the present Government, and he opposed it, as he had said he should do if he thought proper. But, having been defeated on the second reading, he had taken no part in opposing any of the clauses of the Bill in Committee; and yet the hon. and learned Gentleman had accused him (Lord John Russell) of attempting to do that indirectly which he would not do directly. It might have been more prudent, perhaps, if he (Lord John Russell) had waited and opposed the clauses of the Bill in detail, but, having failed on the second reading, and then having refrained from opposing any of the clauses, he thought it was, at least, a course of which the Government had no reason to complain. He was still of opinion that these clauses were not sufficient to provide a good defence for the country, and he could not vote for them, but he should oppose no obstacle to their being passed.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said: I had understood that the ballot was to be suspended altogether; but the right hon. Gentleman has since stated that there will be reserved that power to the Crown which is usually reserved, namely, that of having recourse to the ballot, with the advice of the Privy Council.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, the effect of the Bill could be to stop litigation, and lessen the general expenses of elections.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he was of opinion that the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) and those with whom he was associated, were pursuing a very inconsistent course in urging the Government to press on the public business with all possible expedition, at the same time that they were continually throwing obstacles in their way. He could easily understand the bitterness of the hon. Member, for those who complained without cause always complained without temper. The hon. Gentleman opposite had given the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell) a horse to hold, and the noble Lord had mounted it and ridden away from them. He hoped the House would perceive the propriety of putting an end to this unprofitable discussion, and proceed with the Militia Bill without delay.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose had blamed the Government for having introduced a Bill which the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had conclusively proved to be
 358
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rose to order. The statement of the hon. Baronet was perfectly incorrect. It was a gross misrepresentation to say that he had ever read any prayer on the occasion referred to. He thought it right not to allow any such statement to pass uncontradicted, and, therefore, he hoped the hon. Baronet would make the only reparation in his power by reading the resolution.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would leave the country to judge of the conduct of the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall), and the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), in reference to the Government. Whatever might be the opinions of those hon. Members, they were a matter of perfect indifference to him. It was enough for him that the people out of doors were well aware of their gross misconduct. He had the honour to belong to the society to which the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone referred, but he did not belong to the Anti-Corn-Law League. The one carried on its business in an honest, straightforward manner; but the Anti-Corn-Law League had recourse to a low, dirty, sneaking, underhand, disgraceful mode of proceeding. He would tell the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester that it would do him more credit if he refrained altogether from addressing the House, for at present he was only interrupting the business.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was satisfied that there was no more honourable court than a Court-martial; and he would therefore feel it his duty, whether the course he took might be unpopular or not, to vote against the Motion of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright). He only hoped that if the hon. Member for Manchester should ever find himself in the militia, he might be summoned before a Court-martial of which he (Col. Sibthorp) should be president.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that although the hon. Member was unwilling to proceed with this Bill, that was no reason why they should adjourn the House; because there was other business to come on afterwards. At the same time he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would not have moved a stage of the Bill that night if he had understood that there would be the slightest opposition. No person could be compromised in allowing the Bill to pass, because it had been introduced provisionally, and accepted by the House provisionally, and he had understood that hon. Members would give every facility for the carrying of it. The hon. Gentleman had said he could not assent to the measure proceeding, unless he bad a distinct understanding from Her
 414
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then submitted a new clause providing that the assessments of the last year in the case of Schedules A and B be allowed to remain in force for the present year, so that there should be no new assessment.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes.
 MR. RICH  said, he was of opinion that if as many as 50,000 men were raised in the first year, it would materially interfere with the recruiting of the regular Army: 20,000 or 25,000 men would be fully adequate for the purpose of the Government, and if they attempted to gain more, they would probably defeat their own object, which, as far as he could gather from the debate of last night, was to avoid having recourse to the ballot.
 COLONEL SALWEY  said, the hon. and gallant Member for Marlow (Colonel Knox) might not have heard of such cases, but he (Colonel Salwey) had. He knew, however, that such cases had occurred, and they had produced a most painful impression on his mind.
 COLONEL SALWEY  said, he was glad once more to have the opportunity of lifting his voice against the humiliating, degrading, and inhuman punishment of flogging in the Army. He had for many years taken the deepest interest in the questions of enlistment and punishment in the Army, and considered there was nothing so degrading in the profession to which he had the honour to belong as the degrading punishment to which soldiers were subjected. He could not help feeling the utmost surprise at the course taken by the hon. and gallant Member for Chippenham (Captain Boldero). For many years it had been his pride and satisfaction to follow and support the hon. and gallant Member in his exertions for the abolition of this punishment. The hon. and gallant Gentleman afterwards became Clerk to the Ordnance under Sir
 404
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, at present no county Member's seat was safe. He believed, if the machinery of an election was conducted by a committee, and if any member of that committee happened to give to any of his own tenants or labourers refreshment at that election, the Member's seat, by that act of ordinary kindness, might afterwards be rendered vacant. He thought that was a state of things deserving the consideration of the House.
 MR. HEYWOOD  begged to ask the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis), if the trustees of the
 356
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was one of those who thought that as much public good resulted in that House from discussion as from legislation. Discussions succeeded occasionally in dispelling delusions; and one would perhaps be dispelled by the present discussion. As he thought, the Government was responsible to a serious extent for the maintenance of a deception calculated to inflict national injury. There were, indeed, two deceptions at present being practised by the party opposite. One hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) was answerable for one. The hon. Gentleman was going to move for a Committee to inquire into the management of Maynooth College. He was supported by a party anxious to
 363 364 365 366
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the hon. and gallant Member had misunderstood him. He read the exact words of the Act, from which it appeared that immorality, misbehaviour, and neglect of duty, were the offences for which flogging was to be applied; but, with regard to other portions of the Mutiny Act, he thought there were some scores, if not a hundred, offences for which the soldier might be punished. He had the highest authority for saying that, but he could not give the name.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought it was better to move the proviso of which he had given notice relative to corporal punishment in the militia to the clause then under discussion, than to introduce it in a separate clause at another stage of the Bill, in order that it might be seen what was the opinion of the Committee on the subject before coming to the compulsory clauses. He would, with the permission of the Committee, state how the Mutiny Act affected persons enrolled under the Militia Act. By the 5th Clause of the Mutiny Act, persons serving in the militia were exempted from the operation of that Act, except in cases where such exemption was removed by any special clause in the Militia Act. The 25th Clause of the Mutiny Act extended that Act to persons serving in the militia, in case they were not specially exempted, except as regarded punishments affecting life or limb. In the 42nd  Geo. 394 395 396
 MR. BRIGHT  explained, that his proviso only referred to the subject of flogging, and did not propose to remove the militia from the operation of the Mutiny Act.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he understood the proposition in fact to amount to the same as if the Bill had last time been renewed for two years instead of one.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department should bear in mind that the Mutiny Act contained a clause which expressly stated that its provisions were not in any case to be applied to the militia, unless the Act raising that force should specially place it under the provisions of the Mutiny Act. The principle was therefore admitted that there was a difference between the forces for which the Mutiny Act was passed, and those which were to
 413 Geo.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, he thought the Government were very apt to hurry through measures of great importance, and he fully agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) in thinking that the Income Tax Bill ought not to have been brought forward at Two o'clock that morning. He thought it the more important that that measure should not have been brought forward at that unseasonable hour, after the remarkable de-
 359
 MR. ROEBUCK  moved the adjournment of the House. His objection was to having a Bill of that kind discussed at that hour of the night [ten minutes before One o'clock].
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he was rather astonished at the speech of the hon. and gallant Gentleman. [Captain BOLDERO: I don't care if you are.] The boldness of that declaration does not remove my astonishment. The hon. and gallant Gentleman has been for years advocating the abolition of flogging in the Army. [Captain BOLDERO: I said abolition or mitigation.] Mitigation! What does that mean? It means that the thing is to be retained, and the infliction of the punishment made as unfrequent as possible. Flogging, then, was to be retained, and to be inflicted on the militia, who were to be invited voluntarily to enlist! The hon. and gallant Gentleman had been labouring to exempt the regular troops from the punishment, and not having succeeded, sought to subject the militia to it. He (Mr. Roebuck) contended that the militia were not a force which required such a punishment at all. Were honest and respectable men wanted in the force? If so, ought they to be liable to the degradation of flogging? Could any but the rabble and refuse be expected—if they were to be liable to the punishment? The voluntary enlistment would not succeed on such a system, and
 402 A laugh
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, it was stated that those persons ought to receive something for coming from a distance to vote. The question was—did they perform a public duty, or did they not? If they performed a public duty, let the public pay for it. If this Bill were carried, he would propose that the expense that might be incurred under it should be put upon the county rates, instead of being borne by candidates.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, that if it were intended to make the raising of 50,000 men in the first year compulsory, he should vote against the Motion. In his opinion 25,000 would be quite sufficient; but if the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary consented to reserve to the Government a discretion, and the 50,000 were not to be compulsory, he would not object to the insertion of the proposed words in the clause.
 MR. HUME  said, that although he did not leave the House on the previous evening until after half-past twelve o'clock, he saw to his great surprise by the Votes that after that late hour the Income Tax Bill was read a second time. Had he had the least idea that a Bill of so much consequence would have been brought on at that period of the night, although he had then been twelve hours within the walls of the House, he would have staid at any hazard to himself to have prevented it passing so important a stage. When Sir Robert Peel introduced the Income Tax in 1842, it would be recollected that he did not bring it forward merely for the sake of revenue, but in order to obtain a margin to effect salutary reforms in our fiscal system, including the removal of all prohibitions against the import of particular articles of consumption, and the reduction of taxation in many important points. His policy, as then stated
 357 l l l l l
 MR. HUME  said, the speech of the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Colebrooke), and of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, would lead the public to suppose that this force was requisite. Now he (Mr. Hume), for one, up to that hour had not heard a single reason showing the necessity for raising any force at all. He considered that the money which would be expended under this Bill would be an absolute waste of the national revenue. Instead of thinking that any additional force ought to be raised, he thought on the contrary, that our regular forces should be diminished by some 15,000 men.
 MR. HUME  thought it would he attended with great inconvenience if they were to raise 50,000 militiamen in the next year. It appeared from the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary that they were now not to have either a regular or a local militia, but an army of reserve. That was a very important matter for the consideration of the Committee. The noble Lord at the head of the Government read from a paper— where he got it it would be difficult to say —that the Army in this country was but 28,344 men. All he (Mr. Hume) knew was, that the House of Commons voted 102,000 infantry alone, and 161,000, including cavalry and artillery. These men must be somewhere. So long ago as the 25th of April, 1822, the noble Lord reproached the then House of Commons with maintaining a system of representation which led to an increase of the Army. He would suggest to his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson) that he should take the sense of the Committee on the whole clause.
 MR. HUME  was quite willing to allow those who enlisted in the militia voluntarily to remain liable to corporal punishment so long as that was applied to the Army generally; but he thought that this punishment should not be inflicted upon those who were compelled by the ballot to serve in the militia.
 MR. HUME  withdrew his Motion.
 MR. HUME  said, he must complain of the want of time for considering this measure, and said that he would move that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. HUME  would appeal to some Member of the Cabinet to state his opinion, and that of the Government, on a question of so much importance as that under discussion.
 MR. COBDEN  seconded the Motion for adjournment. This Bill had been introduced under peculiar circumstances. He thought he should be neglecting his duty to the electors of the West Riding if he did not oppose this Bill, which he considered as gross an insult as had ever been offered to the large county constituencies of this country. It said to them that once in seven years they should have half-a-crown given to them at an election. In a word, it was an offer to pauperise the freeholders of the country; and he was only astonished that an hon. Gentleman who was standing as a candidate for South Essex on the Liberal interest, should he found introducing a measure authorising corruption. He (Mr. Cobden) would ask if any man thought the refreshment to the
 415
 MR. SPOONER  said, that having been so pointedly alluded to by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), it was his intention to say a few words upon the present occasion. The hon. Member had given him the alternative of either confessing himself a dupe or a deceiver. He supposed that these were Parliamentary expressions, or otherwise Mr. Speaker would have stopped him. Now what he (Mr. Spooner) had to say he hoped the hon. Member for Manchester would take in a friendly spirit. Considering the quarter from whence the attack came, the hon. Member was perfectly at liberty to call him dupe or deceiver, or whatsoever other epithet he pleased. Of this fact he might rest assured—he would not be his dupe to
 367
 MR. SLANEY  was glad that the Government had determined to raise this body of men by bounty, and not by the ballot.
 373
 MR. S. CARTER  said, it was his opinion that preparations for defence sometimes led to frightful catastrophes. He had certainly been somewhat enlightened to-night by the noble Lord the Member for London, as to the best mode of expressing disapprobation of a Bill. The noble Lord expressed his disapprobation by absenting himself from the division. He thought it would be much better if the noble Lord would be oftener seen in the lobby dividing with the liberal party. With regard to a recommendation made by the hon. and learned Attorney General in the earlier part of the evening, that this Bill repealed another one by implication, he would advise the Committee not to accept that advice, but to repeal the former Act
 387
 MR. WALPOLE  said, one of the main principles of the measure was to maintain a permanent army of reserve.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the principle was a very plain and just one. The Committee had decided that a militia force of 80,000 men ought to be raised, and the Govern-
 375
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was afraid the right hon. Gentleman had not read the 16th Clause as amended, because it provided that the raising of the deficiency at the beginning of next year should be left to the discretion of the Crown. He had informed the Committee on the previous night that it was the intention of the Government to make the Bill permissive, and not compulsory. As the clause stood, it was not compulsory upon the Government to raise the full number; but it was necessary to reserve the power of raising the 50,000 if it were found that it could be conveniently done under the volunteer system. The machinery of the ballot would not be put in motion, if the number of volunteers did not amount to 50,000, except in case of danger of actual invasion.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, it was not the intention of the Government to introduce another Bill. In the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, such a step would be quite unnecessary.
 MR. WALPOLE  was very much obliged to the noble Lord for mentioning that subject. He proposed to alter the 16th Clause, so as to provide that the ballot should not be resorted to unless in case of actual invasion or imminent danger.
 MR. WALPOLE  moved that the second blank in the clause, for the number of militiamen to be raised in the first year, be filled up with the words "fifty thousand."
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that he could assure the Committee that he had not refrained from expressing his opinion upon the question under discussion from any disinclination to do so, but because he thought that this particular point was one which lay not so much in his province as in that of bis right hon. Friend the Secretary at War. If, however, his opinion was asked, he was quite ready to state it. He thought it was clear that during this debate hon. Members bad been arguing the
 412
 MR. LENNARD  said, he regretted that the right hon. Secretary at War had offered any defence to a mode of punishment which was universally looked upon by all classes with feelings of disgust and terror. It should be recollected that the punishment inflicted on the unfortunate man White was three times greater than the maximum punishment allowed by the present law under any circumstances. He was glad to hear the right hon. Member confirm what had often been foretold—that the character of military men had been greatly improved since the mitigation of corporal punishment; and he would go the length of saying that a respectable class of men would never be obtained by voluntary enlistment while this degrading infliction was continued. It would no doubt be inconsistent to abolish the lash in the militia while it was maintained in the regular Army; but he met the difficulty by suggesting the removal of the punishment altogether. No person with a proper feeling of self-respect would enter a body where so detestable and degrading a punishment was in force. The effect would be to drive the Government to a ballot, and then they would have a militia composed principally of persons of a superior class in life, who were indisposed to
 400
 MR. BOOKER  begged to offer his thanks to the hon. Baronet for the Bill. His constituency, many thousands in number, had to come from a distant mountainous country, and it would be cruelty to prevent them from obtaining refreshments. There would be no purity of election until Members made a solemn declaration to that effect at the bar of the House.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  thought the hon. and gallant Member (Col. Peel) was labouring under some misapprehension, and that there was a confusion between two cases. The hon. and gallant Member seemed to suppose that his hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) was speaking of White's case. [Col. PEEL: Not a bit.] Then be (Mr. Gibson) did not understand the matter. His hon. Friend (Mr. Ewart) had told them that a person had stated on oath before a jury that, for certain conduct, he had undergone the infliction of 100 lashes; and if the hon. and gallant Member, or any other hon. Member could show that that statement was not true, of course, they were at liberty to do so.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  having assented, blank filled up with "thirty thousand."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  did not deny that ships of war had rendered service to merchants occasionally, but he did not think that that service merited the unqualified praise bestowed on it by the gallant Admiral who had just sat down. It had
 390 Greyhound l Greyhound. Prometheus
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  wished to know whether there was to be another Militia Bill brought in besides the present one? The ballot for the Militia under 42  Geo. Geo.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  would admit that for those who had already voted for a militia force of 80,000 men, it might be rather awkward to adopt his views.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he must again object, on the ground of the proposed duration of the measure. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had said that when we voted the Army and Navy Estimates, we only provided for one year; and acting upon the principle that the circumstances of the time and the opinion of the House were to govern the numbers of men and the expenditure, he could see no reason why, in a Militia Bill, they should diverge from this wholesome rule, nor why they should now pledge themselves to the number of militia for future years, excluding all consideration of what the future circumstances might be.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, the hon. Member for Finsbury asserted that
 386
 MR. WAKLEY  said, if that was the case, he heartily begged the hon. and learned Gentleman's pardon, and was very sorry for what he had said; but he certainly thought at the time that no other construction could be put upon the hon. and learned Gentleman's words than that he had done.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, a majority of the House having voted that the number of the militia force should consist of 80,000 men, they who opposed it must of course submit; but still he thought it was their duty to oppose the Bill upon every point, at any stage, and by every means in their power; and, indeed, he entertained a very strong opinion that they would not be doing their duty to their constituents if they did not avail themselves of the forms of the House in order to prevent this Bill from passing into a law: and, for his own part, he believed it was the most preposterous measure that ever was proposed, and there was not a sensible person out of the House that was in favour of it. The noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord John Russell) now sat upon that side of the House. The noble Lord had fallen—his supporters had fallen—they were, in fact, a fallen host. They had stuck to the noble Lord as long as he was squeezable, and he now appealed to the noble Lord, and asked him what were the particular circumstances of the time which, in his opinion, rendered the raising of this force necessary. He had not heard any statement from the noble Lord, or from any Member of the Government, which satisfied any person out of that House that such a force was either necessary or required; and he had not heard anything said in that House, nor any one express any reasons, founded upon facts, which showed that it was expedient to make such an addition to the permanent forces of this country. He now asked the noble Lord if he would be so kind as to state, as he was now out of office, the precise particular grounds showing the necessity for this force. He believed the cost of this force would amount to 600,000 l 376
 MR. WAKLEY  could assure the noble Lord that whatever dissatisfaction he might have produced in the country with reference to his shortcomings on Parliamentary Reform, yet no one was guilty of the meanness of imputing to him treachery in the conduct of public affairs. The feeling was universal that he had always acted as a straightforward and honourable public man; and however reformers might deplore that he did not put himself in an attitude which would entitle him to their warm and generous and zealous support as the leader of the reform party—however much they might think that he had not come out as he ought to have done—still they felt that he had not been guilty of having broken any pledges. What the noble Lord had promised to do, that he had faithfully done; and he (Mr. Wakley) could assure the noble Lord that from one end of England to the other, he bore and sustained the character of an honourable and an upright man. He regretted that the noble Lord had not taken the lead in the reform movement when the ball was at his feet; but still it must not be forgotten that the noble Lord was a reformer when some men in that House were Tories. He was old enough to recollect what the noble Lord did in former times. He, in fact, broke the ice. He recollected what the noble Lord did with reference to Acts of Parliament which he would not now offend some hon. Gentlemen present by mentioning. He was old enough to recollect the spirit of Toryism—that dreadful spirit which sought to persecute every man holding liberal opinions, and which was constantly on the look-out for victims. The noble Lord stood up against that spirit— he was then a reformer; and he had established himself in the heart of every reformer as a man who was prepared to dare and to endure everything in the public cause. He only deplored now that the noble Lord had not gone on with the spirit of the times, and thus established a character which would have redounded to his credit through all the civilised world. The hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (the Attorney General) had commenced his observations by a simile which might have suited the Old Bailey or the Sessions House at Clerkenwell, hut which was hardly fit for the atmosphere of the House of Commons. The profession of an advocate—though lawyers were always extolling its merits—was not, perhaps, calculated to bring the mind to an exalted
 385
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he also concurred with the hon. Member for Montrose in thinking that it was most unfair and highly improper to bring forward such a Bill as that on the property and income tax at two o'clock in the morning. He (Mr. Wakley) was in the House till one o'clock, and had not had the least idea that any important measure would be brought forward after that hour. To-night, again, there were a great number of Orders on the Paper; and it appeared as if the Government had resolved to act as if legislation were a kind of lottery, and to take their chance, night after night, of finding a subservient House. He thought that nothing could be more unworthy of an English Administration, be their politics what they might, than to smuggle Bills of great national importance through the Legislature at a period of the night when they knew that they were surrounded only by their own hangers-on. It was a most discreditable practice: nothing could be more reprehensible than to introduce important Bills surreptitiously, and at hours when full and fair discussion was out of the question. He would do the late Government the justice to say they had never done anything of the kind. [ Cries of 360 361 362
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that both the hon.
 406
 MR. WAKLEY : Then the observation applied only to the bad soldier, and to him the hon. and gallant Member thought it would not be humiliating and degrading, and that it was well adapted to promote discipline. He (Mr. Waldey) wanted to know why the same punishment was not applied to bad officers. If the lash was-the readiest means of preventing bad conduct in a man, why not include bad officers in precisely the same discipline? ["Oh, oh!"] They felt the lash now. It appeared to him extraordinary that there could be two opinions on the subject. He was astonished that the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, not with standing what he heard in that debate, preserved so peculiar and ominous a silence. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman was now disapproving of the thing he had proposed, and had yielded to the pressure that had been put upon him. It was not necessary to use arguments to prove the degrading character of corporal punishment. The history of the Army furnished indisputable proofs of the propriety of the conduct of those who were opposed to it. Facts were more eloquent than anything that the tongue could utter on this subject. They had it from the best authority that the character of the Army had improved since that odious practice had almost fallen into desuetude. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War had spoken with great candour on the subject, and it was evident his convictions were with those who were opposed to it, although he expressed a wish to retain the practice. He (Mr. Wakley) did not know what had come over the spirit of the hon. and gallant Member for Chippenham (Capt. Boldero), for he used to speak on this subject with a sincerity and a feeling that could not be doubted. But it was when he was on that (the Opposition) side of the House. Confound the atmosphere of that (the Ministerial) side! Dr. Reid's attention ought to be called to it, for there must be something wrong in its ventilation. It was asserted that flogging was only applicable to two offences. He would read the 25th
 407 "A Court-martial shall have power to inflict corporal punishment for disgraceful conduct and neglect of duty, provided the number of fifty lashes is not exceeded." "His wilfully maiming or injuring himself, or any other soldier, at the instance of such soldier, with the intent to render himself, or such soldier, unfit for service. In tampering with his eyes. In malingering, feigning disease, absenting himself from hospital whilst under medical care, or other gross violation of the rules of any hospital, thereby wilfully producing or aggravating disease or infirmity, or wilfully delaying his cure." "In purloining or selling Government stores: in stealing any money or goods, the property of a comrade, of a military officer, or of any military or regimental mess: in producing false or fraudulent accounts or returns: in embezzling or fraudulently misapplying public money entrusted to him: or in committing any petty offence of a felonious or fraudulent nature, to the injury of or with intent to injure any person, civil or military: or for any other disgraceful conduct, being of a cruel, indecent, or unnatural kind." 408
 MR. BERESFORD  considered that if the punishments enjoined in the Mutiny Act were taken out, it would no longer remain the Mutiny Act, but would become perfectly useless. The hon. Gentleman said, cases of immorality and neglect of duty might be punished by the lash; but of late years the lash had been inflicted only for mutiny and serious and disgraceful offences. He also spoke of the lash being inflicted by officers merely because they had irascible tempers. But the hon. Member who knew so much about military affairs and the Army appeared not to be aware of the fact, that no man could receive a single lash except under the sentence of a Court-martial composed of officers acting upon their oaths. The temper or conduct of the commanding officer had nothing whatever to do with the punishment. All that he could do was to bring the man before a Court-martial for trial and punishment. With respect to the case of White, who the hon. Member stated had been murdered, the facts were, that it was not till after his partial recovery that he died; and the opinions of two medical officers, specially sent down by the Horse Guards previous to his death, was most distinct to the effect that the man did not die from corporal punishment but from a disease inherent in him. The hon. Member also stated that whenever cases of corporal punishment occurred, they arose from the incompetence or bad conduct of the officers. From this opinion of the hon. Member he (Mr. Beresford) appealed to the experience of one of the friends of the hon. Member, the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans), several cases of flogging having occurred in the army under his command in Spain; and he felt certain that that hon. and gallant Member was far too humane and too honourable a man to sanction the infliction of any such punishment if he had not considered it absolutely necessary to have done so. He did not consider that the hon. Member (Mr. Bright) had made a sufficiently strong case for putting the militia upon a different or more favoured footing than that of the regular Army, and should, therefore, oppose his Motion. In conclusion, he would say, that if this militia force was embodied, he believed the
 399
 MR. BERESFORD  said, he completely coincided with the hon. Member for Manchester in one observation. He hoped and trusted that he himself might live to see the day when corporal punishment would be entirely done away in the British Army.
 397 398
 MR. W. BROWN  was convinced that the effect of this Bill would be to legalise bribery, and he must protest against a measure which would have a tendency to corrupt a large body of the electors throughout the Kingdom.
 MR. EWART  said, that it had been proved by experience that the diminution of punishment in the Army had been accompanied by a diminution of crime, and it might therefore be hoped that a still further diminution of the former would be followed by a continued diminution of the latter. Some hon. Members had argued that corporal punishment was necessary, by way of example. Why, the same argument had been used for the retention of the pillory, and various other punishments. The House had been told by the noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Viscount Jocelyn) that the degrading punishment of flogging was only inflicted for degrading offences. But he (Mr. Ewart) had before him the evidence which was given before a jury in the case of White, at Kensington, in 1846, which showed that for the offence of insolence to his sergeant in answering
 409
 MR. EWART  said, he had only read the man's statement as what it professed to be, and it was of course to be taken for what it was worth; but he was not aware, from his recollection of the case, that it had been contradicted on any material point.
 MR. EWART  had understood the gallant Officer (Col. Peel) to say that the statement he had read was untrue. [ Cries of
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, in Ireland there was a force which had been frequently alluded to in those discussions as a model of good training and discipline. The Irish constabulary force mustered about 12,000 men, and the significant fact that that force, which was not subject to corporal punishment, had never been found wanting in discipline or bravery, ought to weigh with the Committee in its decision on this question. The hon. and learned Solicitor General for Ireland, in a speech which he delivered a few evenings ago, spoke of the number of threatened invasions of the Irish coast, and enumerated three occasions in particular on which the coast was menaced by a French squadron; but he forgot to mention that on the only occasion when the French effected a landing, the militia force which was sent against them turned tail and ran away. What would be the use of having corporal punishments when the militia was not to be embodied, but merely to be called out for training?
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  said, that having seen considerable service, he was satisfied that if they deprived commanding officers of the power of inflicting corporal punishment, they would never be able to maintain discipline in the Army.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it was impossible to subject a militia which was only enrolled for the space of twenty-one days to the same discipline which was exercised over regular troops. If they attempted this they would have that occurring which occurred during the last embodiment of this force, when a regiment of militia, quartered in the Isle of Ely, turned out and refused to allow punishments to be inflicted among them; and it was only by the aid of the sabres of a body of German cavalry that the officers were able to carry them out. He thought that this provision was one of all others most calculated to render this force unpopular in the country, and he should therefore vote for the proviso of the hon. Member for Manchester.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he knew a
 417
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he felt certain that the Members of the Government had too much sense to suppose that there were now any means by which relief could be given exclusively to the agricultural interest.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL : The hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) has just stated to the House that very often material good results from deliberation and discussion, and I think that sentiment has been fully illustrated on the present occasion. The hon. Member for East Somersetshire (Mr. Miles) says he believes fully that the Government will now be prepared to carry out those opinions and that policy in power, which they advocated in opposition. My own impression is that they will do so. When I heard the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer in bringing forward his Budget, I was one of those who cheered that speech, and I did so not because I believed the right hon. Gentleman was going to give up the policy which he previously advocated, but because in that admirable and lucid speech he corroborated in the fullest and clearest manner
 368
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL : That is just what I was going to do; and I will withdraw the word "prayer," and say it was a thanksgiving. I will read the document. "The National Society for the Protection of Industry and Capital throughout the British Empire." That is the heading:—
 "At a meeting of the acting committee of the National Association for the Protection of Industry and Capital throughout the British Empire, held at the South Sea House, London, on Monday,
 369 "That it be recommended to the agricultural and every British interest to use every possible and legitimate influence in preparing"[that is in italics]"to secure the return, both for boroughs"[also in Italics]"and counties, of thorough supporters of Lord Derby's Government, and of the policy of which he has been the ablest and most distinguished exponent: and that the above resolution be transmitted to the Earl of Derby, and that copies of it be forwarded to the chairman of local societies, and be otherwise generally circulated throughout the kingdom." "It is proposed to concentrate in the metropolis the vast but scattered power of individuals resident in all parts of the United Kingdom favourable to the principles of protection, to apply the power when centralised to disseminate sound information as to the questions of free trade and protection, and to oppose by every constitutional and legitimate means the organised efforts of freetraders." 370
 SIR EDWARD BUXTON  said, that one of his reasons for bringing in this Bill was, that according to the present system no man could positively declare that his election had been conducted in a perfectly pure way, owing, to the number of those who acted as his agents, and for whose acts he was responsible. He believed it to be the fact that in the West Riding there had always been an agreement between the parties; these refreshment tickets had been issued, and this had been done illegally which he desired to do legally. The same practice, he understood, prevailed in Lancashire, and there were very few counties where contests took place in which agreements of this kind were not come to. The necessity for these agreements arose from the impossibility of keeping so many persons in different parts of the country within the law, for, if a member of an election committee saw a tenant or labourer of his after the election, and gave him a glass of ale, agency might be proved, and the candidate be unseated. The poorer class of freeholders in many cases refused to come to the poll unless they were allowed some refreshment. He did not think it reasonable that the same punishment should be inflicted upon the candidate who gave a famished freeholder a glass of ale and a bit of bread and cheese, and the man who gave 20 l
 SIR EDWARD BUXTON  moved that this Bill be read a First Time.
 SIR GEORGE CLERK  said, as it appeared that the ballot was to be suspended till the end of the year, except in case of imminent danger, he wished to know, whether, supposing the Government could not, by means of the voluntary system, raise the whole of the 50,000, the Government, at the commencement of next year, would have recourse to the ballot to make up the deficiency? Now, if the ballot should be had recourse to under these circumstances, he should certainly vote in favour of a smaller number than 50,000.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the clause stated that there should be raised, and from time to time kept up, 80,000 men; and then
 374
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, there could be no doubt that protection, if that
 392
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said; be had had some experience in contested elections, and he thought there should be a clear understanding about giving refreshments. The last time he stood for Essex there was a serious opinion among the Liberal party that he and his Colleague should be unhorsed, because of this refreshment, which had been arranged with the opposite committee. It would be desirable if the House decided the question. He (Sir J. Tyrell) had no experience of a dry election; and he was afraid, although the Bill came from the Liberal party—["No, no!"]—he always thought the hon. Member was a Member of the Liberal party. The Bill laid down a self-paying principle, and the Manchester school always looked to that point. As a matter of self-interest, he (Sir J. Tyrell) might support the Bill; but he did it, besides, because human nature was unchanged. The hon. Member who introduced the Bill should, above all others, be the last to countenance a dry election.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  begged to state, with respect to the first question, that the trustees of the British Museum had had under their consideration repeatedly the condition of the reading-room, which was such as to require and justify their earnest attention; and that not less than three times, he believed, they had called the attention of. Her Majesty's Government to the necessity of providing further accommodation. They had submitted a plan and estimate to the Government, and it must depend on the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether or not adequate accommodation should be given, not merely to the persons who required it, but to the books themselves, which were annually accumulating. Three years would not pass over their heads without their finding the absolute impossibility of placing in the rooms appropriated to them the volumes of their annually increasing collection. With respect to the second question, the hon. Member had not stated whether the increased accommodation was to be for men, women, and children, or for plants, birds, beasts, or any other description of articles.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, that the proposition of the Government would involve peculiar difficulties, and amongst them the following—that if at
 372
 ADMIRAL STEWART  said, it was his intention to oppose the Bill in every one of its stages; at the same time he did not mean to say that the country was at present in a perfectly safe state. The condition of the country in 1803 had been referred to; and it was to be home in mind that at that time they did not feel themselves safe against an invasion, though they had then 100 sail of the line, besides smaller vessels; and it had been remarked that from the year 1782, when Rodney broke the lines of the enemy's fleet, down to the close of the war, our maritime superiority had been successfully subjected to the severest tests in general and particular actions; but the country at that time had not felt satisfied with resting its defence solely on the Navy, and volunteers sprang up on every side, while even the Judges of the land buckled on their armour. But now it was denied that steam had thrown a bridge across the Channel; but if steam was not a standing bridge across the Channel, he maintained it was a drawbridge, and that the man who had the power of raising it, or throwing it over, was the invader who could choose his own time and opportunity for coming. It had been said by an hon. and gallant Member opposite that he would stake his head on the defence of our shores. He (Admiral Stewart) believed there was not an admiral in England who would not lay down his head to prevent a French array landing in England; but, give the best and most active officer the whole fleet England possessed, speaking as a seamen, and from his feelings and experience, he declared he would not undertake to say that officer could prevent the French from landing; nor ought the House or the country to believe any one who said the thing was impossible. He did not fear a general invasion, such as was contemplated under Bonaparte, who, when he was distributing the crosses and ribands of the Legion of Honour to his assembled legions at Boulogne, saw daily Sir Edward Owen dashing in with the  Immortalité 388 Cheers. 389
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Cobden) had really almost perverted the facts having reference to this matter. The Bill was merely to prevent lavish expenditure at county elections, and, so far from giving occasion for bribery, he firmly believed it would tend to prevent it. To believe the contrary, could only enter into the head of the hon. Member for the West Biding. It was but proper that persons coming from a distance to vote should have some refreshment; and if that refreshment was limited to half-a-crown a piece, no great expenditure would be incurred in that way.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  wished to make but a single remark as to the case referred to by the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart). The evidence quoted by the hon. Gentleman was given by the party principally interested—the person himself whose conduct had given rise to the proceedings in question. It would be evidently unfair for the Committee to form any opinion on the question from a partial statement, and without having the statements on the other side before them.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he did not rise to defend or to discuss the punishment of flogging. He had long deemed it one which ought only to be inflicted for degrading offences, and he believed it was only now applied to such offences by officers in the Army. He was persuaded that no more painful duty could be performed by any officer than that of sitting on a Court-martial which might might find it its duty to sentence a soldier to this punishment. This was not, however, the fitting time or occasion to discuss that question. When that time and occasion arrived, he should be ready to unite his voice with those who held flogging not a punishment to be inflicted in time of peace. But he begged to point out the imprudence and injustice of exempting the militia from all liability to the punishment to which the regular troops were in some cases subject. Now, let it be recollected, that the regulars and the militia might be cantoned in the same quarters; and would it be just that a soldier committing a certain offence should be sentenced to the punishment of flogging, and a militiaman who committed the same offence be exempted from it? Surely such a course would excite the greatest jealousy between the two forces,
 403
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he wished also to say one word with respect to the case at Para, to which the right hon. Member (Mr. M. Gibson) had alluded. He very properly stated the affair had happened so long ago that he might not be quite correct as to the details of the transaction. But in a transaction of that sort the details were frequently an essential part of the case, and there was one link in the course of that affair which, if his memory served him right, the right hon. Gentleman had forgotten and omitted, but it was a link which was most important. It was quite true, as the right hon. Gentleman stated, that on the first ocea-
 391 A cry of
 MR. BROWN  said, that he thought it would be much more equitable, and less oppressive to the country, assuming that we really wanted an additional force of 50,000 men, and that 40,000 volunteered, and the additional 10,000 to be balloted for, they should be taken from the counties  pro rata 485
 LORD SEYMOUR  suggested the postponement of all the compulsory clauses, and this among the rest. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary said that this Act followed the 43  Geo. Geo.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  thought that the Committee should have an opportunity afforded it of considering the various things mentioned in this clause.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  begged to be allowed to explain the principle of a militia. It was, that a certain force be raised, in certain proportions, over different counties. In order to ascertain the number of men to serve, there must be quotas arranged for each county, and it was absolutely necessary they should ascertain the quota to serve in each county, whether the number was supplied by voluntary enlistment or by the ballot.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the object of the Bill was, first of all, to raise a gross number of militiamen; but that gross number was to be distributed over the counties in certain proportions to each. Those proportions must be ascertained; and the 8th Clause provided, therefore, that the quotas should be fixed by Her Majesty in Council. But the quota being fixed, voluntary enlistment was what they proposed
 491
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : With all due submission to my hon. and learned Friend, we should not reject one. We would not raise them.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  agreed to leave out the words "fit and liable" provided the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) would allow the clause to pass.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was quite ready to let the words "fit and liable" remain.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was willing to give up the words objected to, if the hon. Member would allow the clause to be then proceeded with.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. Member (Mr. Wakley) had spoken of the division against the Government. The persons, he believed, who were most surprised at that division were those who supported the Amendment. A great number of Members who would have voted for the question had left the House, under the impression that the division would not have taken place at so early an hour. It was with the greatest difficulty he got into the House in time to give his vote, and there were several Members in the lobby in a state of consternation because they could not get in. He deeply lamented the division. He thought the proposition of Government was perfectly fair and liberal; and he would tell hon. Members who had professed liberal politics that they could not have taken a more unpopular mode than that of voting against the Government measure. It was said by hon. Gentlemen opposite that they must not pass measures of importance in a moribund Parliament; but some measures the country would expect the Government to propose, as necessary to the public service; and a Bill to provide for the completion of the next House of Commons might fairly be considered a measure essential to the Parliamentary and constitutional government of this country. The opponents of this measure by their acts desired to provide that after the dissolution, an imperfect and incomplete Parliament should consider important measures. Hon. Members opposite often argued that the votes of Members representing large constituencies ought to tell for more than one vote each, because they represented more persons and property than other Members. All their argument turned against them—because by the recent division they declared that the representation should not be more equally distributed. Now with respect to the militia measure, the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. Ellis) said he objected to it be-
 478
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had made a good deal of the division, but he (Mr. New-degate) could only say that he knew that a great number of the supporters of the Government were shut out. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that he was shut out too, and, therefore, the question remained a moot point. As far as the measure was concerned, he again stated that the House, by a large majority, had already determined that some such measure of defence should pass, and he, therefore, trusted Her Majesty's Government would persevere; for if hon. Gentlemen had wished the Session to be brought to a close, why did they not select some opportunity before of defeating the Government?
 MR. C. VILLIERS  said, he did not understand why they could not dispose of the volunteer system in the Bill without reference to quotas.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  declared himself to be still at a loss to understand the meaning of the Government. The question was, whether the Government intended by the Bill to say that, in the first instance, a certain number of men should be the quota for each county by voluntary enlistment or by ballot, or was it the intention to raise 80,000 men by voluntary enlistment from whatever parts of the country they could be got?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the 10th Clause contained no provision for the Lord Lieutenant of a county to raise the necessary quota of men, and this appeared to corroborate the view that 80,000 men were to be raised from any part of the country.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman had stated that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had on former occasions always been ready to oppose every proposition for the expenditure of public money. But that was not
 486
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the intention of the Government was that the quota should be the basis of the increase, endeavouring to supply it first by the voluntary enlistment, and then falling back on the ballot. By the clause the number only would be fixed, not the particular men.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  thought all that was necessary was, to give power to raise a certain number of men in each county. The words "fit and liable" ought to be left out.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that had he been aware of these grave circumstances he should have been prepared to deal with them in a fitting manner. He was not prepared to say whether the course which had been taken was a breach of the privileges of the House, but he was sure that it was a great inconvenience to every Gentleman in that House. Perhaps the hon. Member for Sheffield would allow him a few hours to
 434
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, when, after re-election, I had the honour to resume my seat in this House, in answer to the interrogatories that were then addressed to me by an hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers), as to the views of Her Majesty's Government with respect to their general policy, and as to the course which they intended to pursue, after giving the hon. Gentleman such explanations as were necessary with regard to the first point, I had to communicate to him the course which the Government intended to adopt with respect to the despatch of business before the House; and I stated then that although it was the intention of Government humbly to counsel Her Majesty to dissolve the present Parliament, they were not prepared to give that advice until those measures should be passed which the exigency of the public service required, and some other measures were also carried which they deem to be of paramount importance. Although on that occasion I did not absolutely define all the measures which under the circumstances Her Majesty's Ministers might think proper to submit to the consideration of the present Parliament—although the House was, indeed, too generous to demand a pledge so precise, and I hope that Her Majesty's Ministers were too discreet to enter into an engagement so precipitate—voluntarily and without disguise I did then—that being in the middle of the month of March, express to the House what were the intentions of Her Majesty's Government with respect to some measures which could not be described as coming within the category of those absolutely necessary for the supply of Her Majesty's service. I said then there wore three measures that we deemed of paramount importance: one with respect to the internal defence of the country; another, a measure to carry into effect, if possible, those recommendations which were made for the reform of the Court of Chancery by Her Majesty's Commissioners; and, thirdly and lastly, I said that it was
 435 "I will mention, if the House will permit me, some measures which I think ought to be introduced without delay. I do not allude merely to those votes for the public service which every Member will, I am sure, join in granting to us; neither do I allude merely to the Mutiny Bill, which nobody, I believe, yet—although I have heard some strange rumours upon the subject—is prepared to oppose. But there are three other measures with regard to which, on the part of the Government, the greatest efforts will be made to secure their speedy passing. Those measures I shall feel it my duty, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, earnestly to press on the attention of the House. One of them is the disfranchisement of St. Albans, which has already been taken up by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State (Mr. Walpole). In connection with that measure, I beg to say that I shall take the earliest opportunity of expressing, on the part of the Government, what are their intentions with respect to the distribution of the four forfeited seats which we shall have to deal with if that Bill should receive the sanction of the House. That is a subject, in my opinion, of the greatest importance; it is, I think, highly expedient, that before Parliament is dissolved, the number of seats should be completed; and I trust that the proposal which the Government will have to make upon that subject will receive the general support of the House."—[3  Hansard, 436 437 438 439 440 441 442 443 444 445 446 447 448 449 450 451 501. l 452 453
 MR. MOWATT  asked whether the Government had any objection to add a schedule to the Bill containing a list of exemptions and exceptions which might be claimed?
 MR. MOWATT  would admit that our defences were not in a satisfactory state, nor were they so well protected against probable or even possible danger as they might be. He had for years thought that the country was exposed to risk of an aggressive character, to which it ought not to be left. But, notwithstanding, he was opposed to this Bill, because it was to be remembered that, in addition to the annual sum of 28,000,000 l l
 MR. G. SANDARS  rose to state, that he should give his vote for this clause, namely, the raising a militia force of 80,000 men for the defences of the country. He had voted for the second reading of this Bill, not that he approved fully of its details, but that as both sides of the House had agreed that our national defences were defective, and that it was necessary without further delay to place them in a state of efficiency, the natural question which presented itself was the best mode of effecting this object. Now, he admitted his opinions at first had been in favour of increasing the regular Army, and encouraging the formation of volunteer rifle corps; but the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) had convinced him that the establishment of a general militia force of the nature proposed by the present Bill, was, all things considered, the most effective and most permanent way of accomplishing this object. He did not wish to see a mere temporary measure carried, but he wished to place our defences in a permanent state of security. Now, the noble Lord had very justly remarked if Parliament now consented to a vote for the increase of the regular Army, as soon
 483 Geo. 484
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, he must express his decided and unqualified disapproval of the measures both of the late and of the present Government. He was perfectly impartial, as he belonged to no political party; and he had come to the deliberate conclusion that no argument had been used on either side of the House to justify the measure. In addition to the expense of the force, he would remind the Committee of the loss that would be sustained in these men's labour, which, if they were to estimate the 80,000 men as earning on an average 15 s. l
 COLONEL THOMPSON  asked what necessity there was for ascertaining the number of men fit for the militia in each county, as a preliminary to the apportionment of the numbers, when it would be easy to make the apportionment with quite sufficient exactness by taking the proportion to the population? For example, if 80,000 men were to be levied, and the population of England was 16,000,000, what was there to do but to take one man in two hundred of the population in each county?
 MR. BRIGHT  could not see that the omission of the words "fit and liable" would make any real difference in the case, except to render the clause very much worse English than it was before. Acts of Parliament ought to be drawn according to the rules of grammar. Right hon. Gentlemen opposite were not agreed upon the exact nature of the clause, and he thought they ought to have an opportunity of reconsidering it.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he still objected to the words "fit and liable," but really thought they had better postpone the clause until they had got further into the Bill.
 MR. BRIGHT  would ask whether the Government intended putting the ballot in force in one county to make up the deficiency in another county?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, it seemed to him the difference arose upon the word "forthwith." Now, if the ballot clause were struck out of the Bill, this clause would not be required at all, while, as regarded the ballot clause itself, it was not proposed to have the ballot until the 1st of January, and, therefore, that one would be totally unnecessary. The right hon. Gentleman, he must say, was leading them into a quagmire, in giving them a clause which had been introduced in a Bill made fifty years ago, with many provisions in it, far from applicable to the temper of the people or the exigencies of the times.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was distinctly of opinion that the Bill would not have received such consideration and favour from the House, had it been introduced under the very different circumstances in which it now stood. He said that circumstances had greatly changed since they last discussed this measure. The noble Lord the Member for the City of London said, that he did not think there was any urgency for the Bill, and that he had no fear of immediate danger; and the noble Lord at the head of the present Government had made on Saturday night a speech which was essentially a peace speech. Besides, the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, by withdrawing the ballot for a year, had given the militia force all the character of an army of reserve, who were therefore to be regarded as troops of the line, only that they received a larger bounty and were only to spend a certain time in training, instead of being permanently embodied. A circumstance had likewise happened tonight which he thought most important. There could be no doubt whatever, and he thought no one on the opposite side of the House would dispute it, that the division to-night was not unexpected by the Government, and he was not sure that it was not sought by the Government. He believed that the object of the Government was now to fulfil the engagement into which they had entered—that Parliament should be speedily dissolved with a view to meeting in the autumn, when the present dislocated state of the House would not interfere with the fair consideration of public
 468 469 l corps diplomatique 470 471 472
 MR. ELLIS  said, that, representing a constituency of no small magnitude, he wished to express on their behalf strong opposition to this measure. Having lis-
 477
 MR. ALDERMAN HUMPHERY  said, that when he arrived at the House at twelve o'clock that day, the person who had been appointed by the Committee to sell refreshments in the central hall, informed him that he had, on Saturday last, received a letter from Mr. Burrell, the secretary of Lord Willough byd' Eresby, the Lord High Chamberlain, desiring him to cause his stall to be removed. The correspondence which had taken place on the subject was this. In the first place, Mr. Lucas, who had established the stall, received from the Lord Great Chamberlain this letter:—
 "Lord Great Chamberlain's Office, Palace of Westminster, May 8 ."Sir—Having been informed that you have established a stall for the sale of provisions, wine, spirituous liquors, (fee, in the central hall of the Palace at Westminster, I am directed by the Lord Great Chamberlain to desire that you will cause the same to be immediately removed.—I remain, Sir, your obedient servant, "R. BURRELL, Secretary. "Mr. Henry Lucas, 20, Bridge-street." "Palace of Westminster, Lord Great Chamberlain's Office, May 10. "My dear Sir—I have reported to the Lord Great Chamberlain the substance of our conversation yesterday, and I am directed by Lord Wil-loughby to inform you that he has assented to your wish as an act of courtesy towards Lord Charles Russell, to allow the refreshment stall to remain in the central hall until one o'clock this day, after which I have received the Lord Great Chamberlain's positive directions to see that it is
 433 "R. BURRELL. "To Captain Gosset." "Palace of Westminster, Lord Great Chamberlain's Office, May 10. "Sir—Lord Willoughby having been informed that refreshments have been supplied and sold in the central hall of the Palace of Westminster, I am directed by the Lord Great Chamberlain to request that you will give strict orders to the police constables on duty in the Palace of Westminster to prevent for the future any refreshments whatever from being supplied or sold in the central hall.—I remain, Sir, your obedient servant, "R. BURRELL, Secretary. "To Mr. Superintendent May."
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, it appeared to him that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) had explained very satisfactorily the flimsiness of the pretence that the division was early and unexpected. He would now account for the opposition he intended to offer to the Bill. He had been told if the 7th Clause were rejected, it would endanger the Bill —that was a strong inducement for him to endeavour to get that clause rejected. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) had been very eloquent in the laudation of ft militia. Why, then, did the hon. and learned Gentleman not extend the benefit
 481 l 2s. 6d. s. d. l 482
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, this clause provided that a certain quota of men should be fixed to be raised in each county; but by the 10th Clause it appeared that power was given to raise the whole number of men in any one county, and he wished to
 493
 MR. ROEBUCK  begged to ask how the numbers were to be apportioned, supposing one county furnished 500 men, and another only 300?
 MR. ROEBUCK : Did he understand the hon. and learned Gentleman to mean, that in case the Middlesex quota, for instance, was fixed at 5,000 men, that county would not be allowed to raise more than that number; so that, if it proposed to raise 8,000, 3,000 of them would be rejected?
 MR. ROEBUCK : But what is that liability?
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to put this case: Supposing that there were ten counties who were each to supply ten men, that would make altogether a hundred men. Now, if fifty-five men volunteered from Ireland, how would they apportion the remaining number of men to each county?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, with reference to what had been termed a snapped division, that he had himself been shut out from it, and he understood that the division was called for by the hon. Gentlemen opposite themselves. When the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Newdegate), however, talked of a snapped division, he bogged to refer him to the recent division. The numbers were for the Motion 148, against it 234, tellers 4, pairs 80, these making a total of 466 Members. Now 466 Members was a large portion of that House, though it had been said many went away not expecting a division; that argument might operate on both sides—so there was an end of the hon. Member's snapped division. The fact was, that the hon. Gentleman knew the majority of that House was against Government on that question. The opinion of the House was, and is, that the present
 479 480
 MR. ROEBUCK  would ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the House was to put up with what they had just heard was the determination of that most important personage, the Lord High Chamberlain? Were they, after having determined that certain refreshments should be sold in that hall, upon the command, and upon the most impertinent interference of that functionary, to be prevented from having what he believed they had a perfect right to have, their own refreshment in their own House? He wished to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman would direct his attention to the matter, and what course he would hereafter pursue with respect to it?
 MR. ROEBUCK  begged his hon. Friend (Mr. Alderman Humphery) the Chairman of the Committee who superintended this portion of the arrangements of the House, to state under what circumstances the person who had had a stall in the central hall, had been forbidden to continue the sale of refreshments there?
 MR. HUME  said, this clause contained the essence of the Bill, which was to create an army of reserve of 80,000 men. If the Government must appeal to the country upon the question of distributing the vacant seats, he hoped they would also appeal to the country upon a matter of such grave importance as this, and not proceed further with the measure at present. He could conceive nothing more important to the Government in a financial point of view, or as it regarded the content or discontent of the people. Every sitting of the House brought petitions against this Bill; and if the cogent reasons for postponement offered by the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) applied to the last question, they applied, in his (Mr. Hume's) opinion, with much greater force to the present Motion. Seeing the situation of the country, be trusted Her Majesty's Government would say this was a fit subject to be postponed; and if it should be brought forward in a new Parliament, and he should be returned to that Parliament, he should meet it with that moderation which a question of this great importance demanded. He was as anxious as any man to make our defences effective, hut, having seen so much money squandered in useless establishments, and believing that the expenditure contemplated under this Bill would also be useless, he should move that the Chairman do now report progress, asking the Government to appeal to the country upon a question for which, it was admitted on all hands, there was no urgent demand. The noble Lord at the head of the late Government introduced the question as one of urgency. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department mooted the question as one of great urgency. But both sides now agreed that it was not a question of urgency, but of permanent establishment. He submitted, therefore, he was not unreasonable in asking that it might be referred to the country in the appeal which was about to take place.
 MR. HUME  said, he should withdraw his Amendment, and take the opinion of the House upon the clause, which he hoped a majority would reject.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought that in a Parliament which was about to expire, they ought not to commence an expenditure which might lead to, he did not know the amount, but immediately to 500,000 l
 MR. HUME  said, he should move the omission of the clause. He could not help complaining of the contrast which the conduct of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and of his party on that occasion presented to the course which they had pursued on the Opposition benches.
 MR. HUME  said, that the honour and the interests of the country were not at stake on that occasion. The right hon. Gentleman had utterly failed to establish any such position; and it was on that ground that he (Mr. Hume) opposed the measure. He would be one of the first to support any proposal which was based on the necessity of maintaining the public credit. But the measure before them was only a means of endangering that credit. All profligate Governments exhausted the public resources by unnecessary expenditure. [ Laughter.
 MR. JACOB BELL  submitted that if there had been any desire on the part of France to interfere with us, she could not have had a better opportunity than the interval during which we were left without any government, or the possibility of taking measures for the national defence. He entirely agreed with the hon. Member for Manchester, that the' circumstances were now entirely changed, and he trusted the Government would accede to the hon. Member's proposition.
 MR. COBDEN  said, his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson) was quite aware that the 42  Geo. Geo. Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  wished the Committee to remember that the present clause merely gave powers, in order to provide for any contingency that might arise, to fix the quotas of men in the respective districts in a way that would be fair and reasonable. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cobden) asked him to explain the whole of the conditions laid down in the 42  Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  explained, that the object of the Bill was to raise the men by voluntary enlistment, and if the number were not fixed by the Queen in Council, they would be forced to put the ballot in operation in some circumstances.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, every person would be liable to serve in the militia, except those exempted by the 42nd of  Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, there was nothing
 488
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that if in England and Wales the whole number of men proposed were procured, though in some districts the numbers might be smaller than in others, the ballot would not be enforced in any district. When the men were procured, the object of apportioning a quota to every district was, that they should give credit to every district furnishing its quota of men, and such districts, therefore, would be exempted from the ballot.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, there was nothing compulsory in this clause, which, in fact, was merely to enable the Crown to apportion the number of men in each district.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that in the 10th Clause it would be seen the volunteers would be confined to persons residing in each county.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the provisions of the 8th Clause would be necessary only in the event of having recourse to the ballot; and that by the 10th Clause they would raise a certain amount of volunteers in each county, and probably only the proportionate number which each county ought to furnish; but he had prepared a proviso to that clause to the effect that when a county had furnished its proper number of volunteers, it should also be allowed to funish a supplemental number, with the view of raising the whole number of men required in the aggregate.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, if it were not intended to resort to the ballot, of course there would be no necessity for quotas.
 MR. WALPOLE : The intention of the Bill is, that you shall raise volunteers in certain quotas from the counties, and that the ballot may be resorted to, if a sufficient number cannot be had. It has occurred to me, as I have previously stated, that it might be allowable for counties which have furnished their quotas, to furnish a supplemental number; but that is a question for the Committee to decide.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, if the right hon. Gentleman would take the Bill in his hand
 490 Geo. Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  replied, that it certainly was not intended to raise the whole number of men in any one county; and in reply to the inquiry of the hon. Member for Penryn (Mr. Mowatt) he said he could not accede to his suggestion to add to the Bill a schedule containing all the exemptions.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would not object to the omission of them.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the proposition
 467
 MR. WALPOLE  said, it was not very reasonable to be called on to go into repeated discussions on the principle of the Bill, and it was not out of any disrespect to hon. Gentlemen opposite, if he declined to enter into the general arguments. But there was one point, to which the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. W. J. Fox) had alluded, which he begged to explain, with reference to the assertion that the noble Lord at the head of the late Administration had changed his views of the urgency of the measure. The noble Lord, when appealed to by the hon. Member for Fins-bury (Mr. Wakley), gave his reasons for preferring his own proposition, but still expressed his opinion that some measure of this kind was necessary for the permanent safety of the country. With regard to the observation, upon the postponement of the ballot, from which the hon. Member inferred that this measure was considered by the present Government to be no longer an urgent one, he begged the hon. Member would recollect that urgency did not depend so much upon the ballot as upon voluntary enlistment. By the ballot they could not obtain the force necessary in less than three or four months; by voluntary enlistment they might obtain it certainly in as many weeks, probably in as many days. Supposing that the Government had argued that urgency was necessary, to say that they had postponed the ballot was no reason to induce the House to suppose that the urgency was not the same. This clause had already been discussed two evenings; three divisions bad been taken upon it, and everything that could be said had been said for it. He now hoped the Committee would go on with the remaining clauses.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the hon. Gentleman had commenced his speech by saying that Government were in a minority, and a Government in a minority ought not to advise the Crown to raise 50,000 men for defensive purposes; and he concluded his speech by telling Government they ought not to go on with a tyrannical majority against the wishes of the people, who, he believed, were decidedly against the Bill. Now, if it be a fact that Government were in a majority, and that that House, by a majority, had confirmed the principle of the Bill, was it not right that the Bill should be proceeded with? The House were agreed upon the principle of the Bill, and they were now called upon to consider the details. The hon. Member might show that the principle of the Bill was bad, but that principle having been affirmed, he would not discuss it then. If the hon. Member was right in his argument, the proper time would be to discuss the principle at the third reading.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would not consent to any compromise of the kind. The best way would be to postpone the clause.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he believed the mating out of the lists and the appeals formed one of the worst features of the militia system, giving rise to a litigation which would be needless, except under a compulsory system. The 8th Clause, as it stood, ought not to pass, because it involved questions of fitness, &c, which would be useless unless the ballot was resorted to; and therefore, until it were decided that there should be a ballot, the clause ought to be postponed. The Bill had an entirely new principle imported into it. By the 42  Geo.
 MR. M. GIBSON  said, if the ballot had been given up, as he understood it was, till the new Parliament met, there was no need of this clause. But in case this clause should pass, the Government would, in the terms of it, forthwith put the country to the immediate inconvenience of making up lists of those liable to serve. Every householder would be required to make up a list of those liable within his house, and that list would appear on the church doors, with a surplus of time for entering claims to be exempted. If they put off the ballot to a certain day for the further opinion of Parliament, why should they enact this clause? If he was correct in that, he must move the postponement of this clause till after the consideration of the compulsory clauses.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  hoped, the right hon. Secretary of State would detail
 487
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department had said they had been discussing the principle of the Bill for several evenings. He admitted that; and it appeared to him that they ought to discuss it again, and persist in discussing it until they had satisfied Her Majesty's Government that they ought not to persist in attempting to carry such a measure. Then the Government position was very much changed by the vote of this evening. They had been revelling lately in majorities, apparently very subservient majorities, and so subservient that they thought they would never miss them. There was a whip on their side of the House, and there might have been some lashing on his side. But they had now experienced a most mortifying and signal defeat, and experienced it, too, upon a strictly Government question—upon a Ministerial proposition— a proposition, respecting the character of which there could be no mistake. He would ask any lover of constitutional government on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, whether such a thing was to be found in the history of this country as that an Administration, being in a minority of 86 in a House of 382 Members, should demand to have conceded to them the power of raising a militia force of 50,000 men? He strongly suspected that if Parliament were dissolved next month, the Government would not be very anxious that a new Parliament should be assembled before November, and possibly not before December, so that the raising of the militia would most probably be confided to a minority of that House. Instead of being demanded, this Bill was detested
 476
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman I do not feel either entitled or disposed to impute to Her Majesty's Government any sinister object in the introduction of the present measure; neither shall I impute to the right hon. Gentleman that he has taken the House by surprise, nor that he has tampered with an honourable understanding; because the right hon. Gentleman has with perfect correctness cited the announcement which he himself made to us on a former occasion. He has also done me the justice to refer to an objection which, at the first moment of that announcement, and without communication with any others, I was prompted to make. But the right hon. Gentleman did not state accurately the grounds upon which I rested that objection. I did not suggest to the House that it would be wrong on the part of the Government to introduce a measure of the kind because they were suspected of a clandestine intention of procrastinating the dissolution of Parliament. What I ventured to say was this, that it was part of the constitutional duty of the House of Commons to obtain from Her Majesty's Government a pledge that no measures other than those of immediate urgency should be introduced, and that a measure for the appropriation of the four-seats vacant by the disfranchisement of St. Albans and of Sudbury could not, by any latitude of construction, be brought fairly within the description of measures of that kind. I shall not join issue with the right hon. Gentleman in any degree upon the merits of the proposition which he has just submitted; but I shall endeavour strictly to confine myself to the consideration of the question, whether the subject
 454 455 456 457 458 459 460 461 462 463
 MR. FORBES  said, he could not see
 475
 Mr. W. J. FOX  thought there were other reasons which should induce the Government to pause in proceeding with the measure besides the division to-night, to which he would not refer. One reason was the remarkable change which had taken place since this Bill was first introduced. It was then strongly impressed upon the House that two successive Governments had each declared that it was a measure of urgency. The inference was, that certain facts were known to those Governments in their official position which it would be imprudent to disclose, but that those facts were sufficient to ask the House, upon their authority, to proceed with the measure. No longer ago than the last night the House sat, the noble Lord at the head of the late Administration (Lord John Russell) distinctly stated that there was no urgency, no fears of immediate danger, no suspicion of designs by a 'person who presides over a neighbouring country. If there were any immediate danger, the noble Lord must have been acquainted with it. The succeeding Government had postponed the only feature of the Bill connected with the question of urgency—the right of raising men by ballot—until the end of the present year. Thus by the express words of one Government, and, what was stronger than words, by the acts of another Government, they had a contradiction of the impressions under which many had previously voted. They had
 473 474
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  would content himself with stating that his constituents were unanimously opposed to this Bill.
 SIR DAVID DUNDAS  said, a reference to the 19th and 20th sections of the Act of the 42  Geo.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he understood the 80,000 were to be raised by voluntary enlistment. But, so far as that went, the "Witness and liability" of the men mattered not in this clause, and these words could be omitted.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  asked, whether it was intended that the Lord Lieutenant of a county might enrol more than the quota of his county?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I think, Sir, it will be in the recollection of my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, that, at an earlier period of the present Session, I had to answer a question of a somewhat similar character to the present. In answering that question, I stated that it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose to Parliament any measure on this subject during the present Session; and now, in answer to my hon. Friend, I must say, that so far as the present Session is concerned, my answer on the part of Her Majesty's Government must be the same. But I took that opportunity to state my own deep conviction of the severe and painful distress under which several of our West Indian Colonies are suffering, from causes to which my hon. Friend has referred. This impression undoubtedly must be confirmed, not only by the petitions which my hon. Friend has presented, but also by the two to the same effect which I have myself presented this evening from the island of Jamaica and from the colony of British Guiana; and I fear that there can be no doubt that up to this time those Colonies are suffering under very great and severe distress. The question of my hon. Friend, however, proceeds to ask what course Her Majesty's Government intend to take upon this subject in the next Session of Parliament. Now, I think he will see that it would not be proper, even if it were possible, for me to say what might be the precise course that Her Majesty's Government may think it right to take in a future
 432
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  presented petitions from the island of Jamaica, and from British Guiana (signed by 4,000 of the inhabitants), complaining of the distress under which they were suffering in consequence of the operation of the Sugar Duties Act of 1846.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  presented a petition from the Bishop and clergy of the Established Church, and ministers of all the other religious denominations in Jamaica, complaining of the distressed condition of that island, and praying for justice to an aggrieved community, whose sufferings had been incident to a system of policy supposed essential to the welfare of the Empire. The petitioners set forth, that it was no ordinary exigency that had combined them, whatever the diversity or the agreement of their political opinions, in an unanimous appeal on this subject, but a feeling that in the threatened ruin of the agricultural and commercial interests of the Colony their own usefulness and ministrations were involved, and they, therefore, recorded their solemn conviction that unless some wise and well-directed efforts were made to reconcile as far as it was possible an act of justice to the West Indian proprietors and their dependants with such policy, and to allow either the differential duties between the produce of the free cultivator and slave-grown sugars to subsist as a special exception on moral grounds to a general political rule, or some other prompt and sufficient remedy to be devised for the evils under which the British West Indian colonies suffered, the privations already sustained by the planters, the labours of the ministers of religion, and the costly philanthropy of the mother country in effecting emancipation, would be abortive, the cultivation of estates and the religious and educational institutions in the island simultaneously abandoned, while the masses of the population would inevitably retrograde to a state of barbar-
 431
 The MARQUESS of BLANDFORD,  in seconding the Motion, said: I do not mean, Sir, to enter upon the various details of the subject which my hon. Friend has so ably treated at length; but there are one or two subjects which have not been touched on—not embodying details, but principles, and to which I wish briefly to refer. I know that a proposition of this
 524 525 "To pause now—to retrograde now—would be to descend from the pinnacle on which we are new placed, and which commands a view of the affection, the harmony, and the gratitude of our Roman Catholic subjects—would be to lose all the ground we have gained. That ground once lost will not be easily recovered. There is a tide in the affairs of man, upon the summit of which we are now riding towards the accomplishment of our object. The hands of Protestant and Catholic are outstretched to meet each other, and nearly touching."—[1  Hansard, 526 "Believing that piety; learning, and subordination would be thereby essentially promoted, your Excellency's memorialists are inclined to undertake the establishment of proper places for the education of the Catholic faith in their communion; and it being believed by counsel that his Majesty's Royal licence is necessary in order legally to secure the funds which they appropriate for that purpose, they humbly beg leave to solicit your Excellency's recommendation to our Most Gracious Sovereign, that he will be pleased to grant his Royal licence for the endowment of academical seminaries for educating and preparing young persons to discharge the duties of Roman Catholic clergymen in this kingdom under ecclesiastical superiors of their own communion." "A more faithful attachment to Government, and a more dutiful submission to the laws, must be naturally looked for from the zealous exertions of instructors, who, by the inculcation of those important duties, must feel themselves urged by a strong impulse of gratitude to enforce and illustrate the general principles on which those duties are founded," Tablet, "It is very true that the Pope ordered the clergy not to meddle in politics; this he did in 1847, in the same rescript in which he condemned the Colleges. The second part was received with reverence, as hostile to the Government; and the first was obeyed by the clergy rushing headlong into the revolutionary movement of '48, when nothing saved them except their belief in the impartiality of the Government—in which they were quite right, because if the legal evidence of their guilt had been as strong as its moral certainty, several of them would now have been along with their friends in exile in Van Diemen's Land." 527 "I know that attempts have been made to lessen the effect of the salutary admonitions contained in the solemn and authoritative documents published by the Synod of Thurles, and that certain anonymous memorandums and irrelevant statements have been industriously circulated to disturb the public mind. Such devices are not to be attended to, and will have no lasting effect. The admonitions of the synod are clear and decisive; and in full conformity with the rescripts of the Apostolic See. All Catholic parents have been warned of the' grievous and intrinsic dangers' of the institutions; they have been called upon to gave their children from their influence;' the terrible account has been announced to them which they shall have to render to Jesus Christ for the souls purchased by his blood if they betray these little ones, who are so precious in his sight, into grievous dangers, or suffer them to be perverted by a corrupt system of instruction." "The rock I allude to is that indifference in matters of religion which is practised in public, and, as it were, in an official manner, in certain educational establishments. In these houses, heresy and Catholicity, have, without hesitation, been placed in presence of each other—there is a temple for one, and altars for the other—one portion of the youth is obliged to receive instruction in the true faith, the other an heretical teaching.
 528 Regium Donum to
 MR. DUFF  thought it quite unnecessary to make any observation upon the statement which had been made by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner). He had little doubt that the inquiry moved for would be granted; and he certainly thought, after all that had been said of late, both in that House and out of it, re-
 565
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  simply rose to say, that, although highly disapproving of the Motion, and of all the arguments by which it had been supported, he meant to vote for the adjournment. He was one of the few persons in that House who had served an apprenticeship with his noble Friend below him (Viscount Palmer-ston), as a listener to the dulness and bigotry of Dr. Duigenan. Having heard, for a long time, that impersonation of bigotry, he had not one word to say in his favour; but he would undertake to prove, when the debate was resumed, that a bigotry more fierce than that of Dr. Duigenan was now in full play in Ireland—a bigotry more fierce than that which had existed in the blackest times of Popery.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  wished to say, the hon. Member for the county of Limerick did not make any communication to him before he made his proposition; and he (Mr. M. J. O'Connell) and other Catholic Members had strong objections to urge to the Motion. If there was any chance of his then being able to do so, he should go on; but after two speeches being made against the Motion, which were unanswered on the other side, it was impossible to expect that he should be listened to.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE : Sir, I cannot hear this question discussed tonight without rising to offer my protest, weak and feeble as that protest may be, against the hybrid Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner)—a Motion pretending inquiry, but breathing persecution; and When persecution is alleged against it, taking shelter under inquiry—a Motion which turns this House into judge, jury, and public prosecutor, and calls for inquiry into a system of education for a religious priesthood, the only reason for that inquiry being that this system of education is founded upon a series of books that existed for centuries before the hon. Member, the inquisitor who has brought forward this Motion, had the honour of a seat in this House, and which no more constitute a reason for inquiry into the education taught at Maynooth in 1852, than they did in 1792 or 1798, or at any other period since the college was first instituted. And yet here we have been for two mortal hours listening to quotations delivered from that red box which is now a green box, that have been three times, ten times, nay fifty times, re-echoed from folios to blue books, from blue books to pamphlets, from pamphlets to speeches, and from speeches back to pamphlets again. And  cui bono? 554 curriculum curriculum 555 556 557 l
 MR. ANDERSON  said, that for some time past disputes had been pending between the Porte and the Pacha of Egypt which had caused much solicitude in this country, as they were considered to involve the tranquillity of Egypt and the safety of the overland route. A report was current that the differences had been arranged; and although he believed that that was correct, it would be a great satisfaction to the public to hear it confirmed from an official source. He begged, therefore, to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether Her Majesty's Government had received any official information of the termination of the dispute between the Porte and the Pacha of Egypt, and particularly of the withdrawal of the proposal by the Porte to deprive the Pacha of the power of life and death in Egypt.
 MR. ADDERLEY  replied that the tenor of the information that he had received was very much in accordance with what had been stated by the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Molesworth) himself.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he thought the House must labour under one great difficulty in that matter, and that was to ascertain the point to which the observations of the hon. Member for Maidstone (Mr. B. Hope) tended. The hon. Member had deprecated inquiry into anything; and yet there was hardly a point connected with ecclesiastical subjects to which he had not made some sort of reference. As the hon. Member had alluded to so many extraneous topics, he (Mr. Newdegate) must say that he was surprised that he had said nothing about the induction of Mr. Bennett to the living of Frome. The hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne) had also addressed the House upon the subject, and in a very different strain, and had been, as usual, witty and amusing; but his wit had been tainted by something of the assurance of the barrack yard. The hon. Member had, at all events, succeeded in proving incontestably his total ignorance of the subject under the consideration of the House; he had even boasted of his ignorance, and congratulated himself on his own blindness to the effects of circumstances which were almost universally recognised. The hon. Member was very unfortunate in the result of his readings in  Hansard. 558 559 status "If I am asked whether I am prepared to defend every opinion contained in the text-books of Maynooth, I answer that I am no more prepared to do so than to defend everything in  Coke's Commentary upon Liitleton, Blackstone, malum prohibitum malum in se; 560 Hansard, 561 Tablet. Tablet Tablet 562 Tablet;
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. Gentleman professed to quote from a speech of mine, delivered on the 11th of April, 1845, on the subject of Maynooth. I said there was no passage of the kind to be found in the speech of April 11th; and now the hon. Gentleman says the quotation is to be found in a speech delivered on the 16th of February, 1844. But what has that speech to do with the
 553
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had watched the debate with great attention, and it seemed to him that it had one remarkable characteristic, and that was that almost every speaker had been of the same opinion; and, therefore, it seemed to him extremely advisable to conclude the debate that night if possible.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I willingly admit that the hon. Gentleman is perfectly justified in addressing the question which he has done to Her Majesty's Government. I can only say that the attention of the Government to the circumstances connected with the induction of the Rev. Mr. Bennett has been unremitting; and I trust that the hon. Gentleman, after my having made that declaration, will not at the present moment press me further.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was reluctant to fix any particular day; but he expected it would speedily be in the power of the Government to communicate something more definite to the House. When he was able to do so, he would not wait for any inquiry, but would voluntarily afford the information.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I beg the indulgence of the House for a moment, while I speak to a point respecting a representation made by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down; as it is a point of importance to myself personally, I beg the attention of the House. The hon. Gentleman quoted several passages from a speech of mine, which he said was delivered in 1845; and added, that in consequence of what he found in that speech, he founded his opposition to this Motion. There could be no mistake as to the particular speech referred to, because he very courteously gave the date of it, the 11th of April, 1845, to my right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole); nor could there be any mistake as to the particular speech intended, because he said the speech impugned the intentions of the then Ministry. The hon. Gentleman quoted what he called a graphic description of the state of Ireland, and to which the House listened with attention- The hon. Gentleman is entirely mistaken—I thought so at the time he was speaking—for, on reference to it by myself, by the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department, and by the Attorney General, we find it contains nothing whatever of the graphic description of the position of the people of Ireland to which the hon. Gentleman alluded. There is not one syllable of the kind in the speech.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have very great pleasure in informing the hon. Gentleman and the House that the differences that have existed between the Porte and the Pacha of Egypt have terminated. The Government have received an official notification of a complete adjustment having taken place. The Porte has conceded to Abbas Pacha the power of capital punishment—of life and death—for a term of seven years, and the Pacha has accepted that compromise as perfectly satisfactory.
 MR. HORSMAN  was very unwilling to press the right hon. Gentleman at all; but he could not state any period within which he might be likely to give some sort of an explanation to the House?
 MR. HORSMAN : I beg leave now to put to the Chancellor of the Exchequer the question of which I gave him notice yesterday. It will be in the recollection of the House that three weeks ago—I believe on this day three weeks—I submitted to the House a Motion on the subject of the Rev. Mr. Bennet's institution to the vicarage of Frome, which resulted in an undertaking on the part of the Government to inquire into the circumstances which I then brought before the House. As that Motion was made three weeks ago, I hope the right hon. Gentleman will feel that I have not shown any undue haste, and that I do not do so now, in asking him whether he is prepared to state, on the part of the Government, what steps have been taken to institute that inquiry, and with what result?
 MR. SERJEANT MURPHY  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. MOORE  had no intention of following the hon. Member for North Warwickshire through the fields of theological controversy in which he had been revelling. He believed it was quite possible for a Gentleman who had no intention of speaking an untruth to be guilty of utterly perverting and falsifying facts unintentionally. He would take the liberty of saying that the hon. Gentleman had been guilty of such a perversion of fact as he hoped would not be found recorded amongst the casuists to whom he had alluded. The hon. Gentleman stated, that in the works of Mons. Bailly, which he quoted to the House, a mental reservation, which amounted to little less than perjury, was justified; and he quoted the following words:—
 "Causa a juramenti obligatione excusans est limitatio intentionis jurantis, vel expressa, vel etiam tacita et subintellecta." 566 567
 MR. GRATTAN  said, he was surprised that Government had come forward so ill-prepared on this subject. They were wrong in their premises and wrong in their conclusions. They knew nothing about the matter, and were altogether ignorant of the affairs of Ireland. He asked, why did they dare to libel his countrymen when they said that there was a conspiracy amongst the priests of Ireland to wean the people from their allegiance to this country? The charge was false. No more loyal body existed than the Roman Catholic priesthood in Ireland, and to prove the fact, they need not go further back than 1348, when a few deluded but honest men had become involved in an insurrection. Then it was said that the College of Maynooth supplied clergymen to foreign countries; but so far from this being the case, 140 Roman Catholic clergymen had to be brought from the Continent to supply the wants of the Irish people. When they spoke of the danger of giving the Irish youth an un-English education, he would ask what inducement was there to give them an English education? They had been brought up in the crucible of sorrow and affliction, created by the misgovernment and injustice of this country. Let them recollect that their
 576 l.
 MR. REYNOLDS  begged to say, that he had waited with breathless anxiety to hear the opinion of the organ of the Irish Government—the Chief Secretary for Ireland—on the subject so closely connected with his department. He was anxious that on a great and important question like this, the Chief Secretary for Ireland, or, in his absence, the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland, the representative of the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) would give some explanation of the speech delivered by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He (Mr. Reynolds) was particularly anxious to ascertain whether the opinions of the organ of the Irish Government in that House harmonised with the No-Popery speech of the Home Secretary; because, having listened to that speech with attention and with feelings of pain, he could not help coinciding in the opinions expressed by the noble Lord who had just addressed the House, that the spirit of the ancient times of bigotry and intolerance hovered over this discussion. He (Mr. Reynolds) cared very little for the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire, because he was prepared to bear that speech with Christian patience. A man who was elected to the honour of enjoying a seat in that House had many penalties to pay for that honour; and one of the greatest penalties that a Catholic Member of the House had to suffer, was to hear the wholesale libels, the unmitigated calumnies, the filthy abuse contained in such a speech. He (Mr. Reynolds) was anxious to have an opportunity of replying to that speech, and also to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary. He was anxious to put his Catholic countrymen on their guard, and to tell them that there was now a party in power who, if they had sufficient strength, would repeal the Act of 1829, and again sound upon every Protestant steeple in the
 584 l. Regium Donum, 585
 MR. HUME  said, that the question involved in this Motion was one of a much more serious nature than a mere inquiry into the manner in which the Catholic priests were educated at the College at Maynooth. When Parliament gave to the Irish people an establishment for the education of the ministers of their religion, it never meant to prescribe to them the mode in which they should educate them. He had always contended that it was the wise and proper policy of this country to remove those oppressive restrictions and disabilities which had been imposed upon Ireland, in order that her discontent might be removed, and that she might become a tower of strength instead of a source of weakness to this country. How inconsistent, then, was it to entertain such a Motion as this, which, according to the speeches of the Irish Members who had spoken, would increase discontent in that country, after the strong representations which had been made of the defenceless state of the country, and after the House had been occupied for the last three or four weeks in providing additional security. He believed that this Motion would be attended with disastrous results, and would
 579
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that, representing an English constituency, he should probably be consulting his own ease, and probably his own interest, on the eve of a general election, if he had been content to avoid the question which had been brought forward that evening by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner). But as he looked upon this Motion as a mean attempt to raise a "No-Popery" cry, with which hon. Gentlemen opposite might go to the hustings, as he considered the Motion a means by which certain parties might make use of fanaticism for retaining their seats in that House, he, for one, would not for an instant shrink from expressing his opinion on the question, nor would he pander to what he considered a base fanaticism, even should he lose the confidence of his constituents. Now, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire commenced his speech, as he always did in similar cases, with assurances of the greatest good-will towards his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects; but in the next breath he told them that they professed a creed which was subversive of allegiance and injurious to morality. He did not intend to follow the hon. Gentleman through the various quotations which he had made from works of casuists and from certain textbooks of Rome; but he objected to this Motion of the hon. Member, because, when he remembered the course which he had always pursued on this question, the language of unmeasured vituperation which he had always employed in that House with regard to his Roman Catholic fellow-countrymen, he thought the Motion was a foregone conclusion. When the hon. Gentleman called upon the House to inquire into the system of education at Maynooth, it was not for the purpose of inquiry that he proposed it, but for the purpose of destroying the Roman Catholic system of religion in Ireland.  Delenda est Roma 543 "He did not think it inconsistent with his duty, as a Churchman, to give the endowment of May-
 544 Hansard, "Free as nature first made man, And wild in Woods the noble savage ran." "The cry is raised, 'The Church is in danger.' Yes, Sir, I admit that it is; but it is not from this grant to Maynooth, nor yet from the Vatican, nor yet from the Jesuits, that the Irish Church is in peril. It is from herself; from her own self-willed and disobedient laity that she is danger; they who would have her isolate herself from the rest of Catholic Christendom, fraternise with the Puritan, and denounce priestcraft with the Presbyterian! I admit that the Irish Church is in danger, but am irresistibly reminded of the dying words of the martyred Laud on the scaffold.
 545 Hansard, "The priests, those gentle priests and good, their fathers loved to hear, Sole type below, midst work and woe, of the God whom they revere," "Acknowledge frankly, and at once, that power which you admit to be so great, and which hitherto, with a childish and fatal obstinacy, you he We pretended to ignore. Accredit a Minister to the Vatican; receive a Nuncio at St. James's… With every feeling of confidence that as a Churchman I am not acting disloyally towards the Church in sactioning this measure, and as a statesman, that I am promoting the best interests of my country, I give my vote for this Bill of permanent endowment to the college of Maynooth."—[3  Hansard, 546 bonâ fide, "I oppose this Bill on account of the manner in which it has been introduced; and I oppose it also on account of the men by whom it is brought forward.… Are we to be told, that because those men who took the course to which I have referred, have crossed the floor of the House, and have abandoned with their former seats their former professions—are we to be told these men's measures and actions are to remain uncriticised and unopposed, because they tell us to look to the merits of their measures, and to forget themselves and their former protestations? Let us endeavour to put an end to the misconception and subterfuge which now surround us. You have permitted men to gain power, and enter place, and then carry measures exactly the reverse to those which they professed in Opposition; and you are reconciled to this procedure by being persuaded that by carrying measures which you disapprove of, and they pretend to disrelish, they are making what they call the 'best bargain' for you. I say the Parliamentary course is for this House to have the advantage of a Government formed on distinct principles. Here is a Minister who habitually brings forward as his own measures those very schemes and proposals to which, when in Opposition, he always avowed himself a bitter and determined opponent.… Let me ask the admirers of this 'best bargain' system how they think the right hon. Gentleman would have acted, had they been introduced by the noble Lord opposite? Let us tell persons in high places that cunning is not caution, and that habitual perfidy is not high policy of State."—[3  Hansard, "The present condition of Ireland was to be traced, not to Protestantism but to Puritanism. Let them consider Ireland as they would any other country similarly situated, in their closets, then they would see a teeming population, which, with reference to the cultivated soil, was denser to the square mile than China.… That dense-population, in extreme distress, inhabited an island where there was an Established Church, which was not their church; and a territorial aristocracy, the richest of whom lived in distant capitals. Thus, they had a starving population, an absentee aristocracy, and an alien Church, and the weakest
 547 Mr. Walpole, at this instant, rose to leave the House, after consulting with the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Hansard; 548 l. 549 550 l.; l.; l., l. l., l. l. l. l., l.; l. "Give us all the good things on earth, in the name of God, and give nothing to the rest of our
 551 552 Hansard,
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I refer most distinctly to page 561 of  Hansard, Hansard,
 MR. SPOONER  rose to move the appointment of a Select Committee "to inquire into the System of Education carried on at the College of Maynooth." The hon. Gentleman, who was evidently suffering from indisposition, arising from accident that had befallen him on the previous evening, said: Sir, the circumstances under which I rise to address the House will, I feel confident, insure for me that large and liberal indulgence which this
 502 Ironical applause from the Roman Catholic Members. 503 504 "He could not agree in the opinion that the system of instruction pursued at Maynooth ought to be a matter of indifference to the House. The system of education was a legitimate matter for the consideration of Parliament; and the House would abandon its duty, if it were to avow the doctrine that, because the grant had been continued for thirty years, it was therefore pledged to say to Maynooth, 'You may inculcate what doctrine you please, however injurious to the supremacy of the law, and detrimental to the established Government and monarchy of the empire.' If an opinion of that kind were put forward, he, for one, would never concur in it, and he thought it should be repudiated by every Member of the House. A misappropriation of the grant would form a very proper subject of inquiry, and if it were proved, the question might be submitted to the House, whether on that ground the vote ought not to be discontinued. If accusations of this sort were made, all he could say was, that the recipients of the grant were the persons who should show most interest in challenging inquiry, for the purpose of conciliating the good will of the public by showing, if such was the fact, that the charge was groundless. Under such circumstances, so far from inquiry being injurious, they should, as he said, be the first to challenge it. But, at the same time, he should say that nothing but full proof of abuse would render it wise in the House of Commons to enter into a pledge as to the future, with respect to this grant. To him, however, it would be much more satisfactory to have the ground of accusation cut away, and having established that, he should be able to give the vote which he was about to give with greater satisfaction." 505 Geo. 506 "I do not mean to argue, as has been done by other hon. Gentlemen, the question of compact, or whether it would be wise or prudent, after fifty years, during which this grant has been made, to stop suddenly and to declare that you will advance no further sums from the public purse for the purpose of educating the priests of the Roman Catholic religion. But, at the same time, will say, that if you found you were doing that which was mischievous to the community, and that the religious scruples of the community would not allow the continuance of this grant, or with reference to the civil and political reasons, you found that those you meant to be the teachers of religion had become the leaders and conductors of rebellion; if, I say, you found, for any of these causes, that there was ground sufficient to refuse this grant, then I can see no valid reason why any compact should restrain you, or why, upon strong grounds of this kind, the House would not be justified in declaring that it would give no further allowance." 507 Cheers. 508 "It is, I trust, conceived in the spirit to which I have referred—a liberal and confiding spirit. We have not introduced it without communication with the leading ecclesiastical authorities in the Roman Catholic Church. It has not been a subject of stipulation or contract with them. We
 509 "We are prepared, in a liberal and confiding spirit, to improve the institution, and to elevate the character of the education which it supplies. By improvement, I do not mean such an interference with the course of education as would poison all the good that one may derive from liberality. I mean that we should treat that institution in a generous spirit, in the hope that we shall be met in a corresponding spirit, and that we shall be repaid for our liberality by infusing a better feeling into the institution, and by insuring a more liberal system of instruction." 510 "We experience the deepest feelings of delight and mutual congratulation at the welcome news conveyed in your letter. The great liberality and munificence of your powerful Sovereign will to a great extent furnish you with the means of establishing a seminary for the education and the training of your youth to the sacred duties of their religion. Our first duty under the circumstances is to render our grateful thanks to the Most High. It is also our earnest desire that you will prove by your conduct the grateful sense you entertain for so signal a benefit. The inmates of the establishment should be sedulously admonished to be submissive to power and authority, so that no feelings of regret can ever be experienced for having conferred upon you such a benefit by every suitable means, a duty which we have no doubt you will be most sedulous in your endeavour to perform." l. 511 "It is clear that oaths, being made to God alone, may be changed for a just cause, or may be relaxed by dispensation from a lawful superior; for in this respect vows and oaths are on an equal footing." "This is proved from the universal custom of the Church. This power is expedient—nay, necessary, for the common good of the faithful; for that which was better at one time, and more useful to their safety, may afterwards become less good and less salutary." 512 Moral Theology, "Limitation, either expressed, or even tacitly and silently understood, of the intention of the swearer…For, in every oath certain general conditions are, from justice and use, included; one of them is, 'if you accept, unless you remit,' another (condition) is 'saving the right of another.'" Cries of" 513 Jus Canonicum Universum, "In every promissory oath, though made absolutely, there are understood certain tacit conditions, as, 1. 'If I am able;' 2. Saving the law and authority of my  Superior." "It is agreed (among the doctors) that an oath is unlawful, and cannot be kept which does not reserve the honour of the Apostolic See, because, truly, if a just cause arises, the Pope can dispense all vows and oaths." "A fourth condition is, if affairs remain in the same state; that is, shall not have been essentially changed. The reason is, that the person making oath had no intention of binding himself to a thing very difficult, or even improper, such as might occur when some remarkable change in affairs supervened; and, therefore, his oath is to be so interpreted that it does not extend to matters unforeseen and unexpected." 514 ipso facto Theologia Dogmatica et Moralis, "Q. How great must be the quantity of the thing stolen in order to constitute theft a mortal sin? "A. The quantity cannot easily be determined, since nothing has been decided on this point, either in natural, Divine, or human law." "That it has been generally laid down and determined that, in order to theft being a mortal sin, when committed on persons of the first rank, 50 or 60 pence are sufficient: with respect to persons of the second rank, 40 are enough; with respect to persons of the third rank, 20 or 10; with respect to the fourth rank, 4, or even 1, if they have nothing else to live on. Hence we do not give the aforesaid rule as a thing on which you can rely with certainty, but it is good, as something to guide confessors, all the circumstances being (by the confessor) prudently considered." 515 "Question 3. Whether hereties are bound by ecclesiastical constitutions? "Answer. That although heretics all over the world do, in fact, resist pontifical constitutions, nevertheless they are bound to them by law. Lugo says it is most absurd for any one to deny this. Heretics are bound by ecclesiastical laws; the reason is—that heretics, by baptism and the reception of the Christian faith, are now entered into the Church and become its members, and therefore remain bound by its laws. And truly, if heretics are not bound to ecclesiastical constitutions, the whole penal code of the canon law, and of all other constitutions ecclesiastical which have been put forth against heretics, are void." "But if they shall be unwilling to observe their oath, let them be deprived of the honour they hold [be ineligible for other honours, be bound under excommunication], and their lands placed under an interdict of the Church." "If, therefore, a temporal ruler, required and admonished by the Church, shall have neglected to purge his territory from heretical filth, let him be bound by the chain of excommunication by the Metropolitan and other com-provincial Bishops; and if he shall have contemptuously refused to make satisfaction within a year, let this be signified to the Pope, that he may declare his vassals to be henceforth absolved from their allegiance to him, and give up his territory to Catholics, who without any contradiction shall possess it, having exterminated the heretics from it." 516 par excellence, "Are vassals and servants and others freed from any private or individual obligation due to a heretic, and from keeping faith with him? ( Et fide eidem servanda. "I answer affirmatively. All are so from the clear disposition or ordering of the law"[referring to the authorities he quotes it thus],"They may esteem themselves freed, or released ( absolutos), "No. 311. The conclusion in this case in which any one is bound by an oath to a party who has fallen into heresy is (referring to authorities) that the doctors commonly conclude that the Pope, for the cause of religion, can for this fault absolve the laity from an oath of fidelity, and from every other obligation on oath which previously attached to them towards the delinquent. And this, because in every promise it is understood, 'excepting the cause of religion,' as well as because in such an obligation and oath it is tacitly understood." "No. 312. It is inferred that he who owes anything to a heretic by way of purchase, promise, exchange, pledge, deposit, loan, or any other contract is  ipso facto "It is asked if the Princes or Governments of Catholic States may receive and tolerate heretics in their territories, and (tolerate) their rites and exercises of religion? "I answer, first, by saying that, ordinarily, neither by the common or civil law, nor yet by the canon law, are Catholic Princes to tolerate heretics in their territories, and much less permit the exercise of their rites, or religion, or, rather, their false sect; but are bound most severely to repel and expel them from all places. This conclusion is most clearly made known by the text of the canon law." 517 "We decree, moreover, that earls, barons, and consuls of States and other places, at the admonition of their Bishops, shall promise, having given their personal oath, that whensoever they shall be required by them, they shall faithfully and effectually give their aid to the Church,  bonâ fide, "In what manner Princes or other Powers, and secular Judges, ought and may conduct themselves in the case of heresy; especially in the case in which the process against it is intended to be taken by the inquisitors, and by the bishop? "I answer, first, that all Princes and secular Powers not only are incompetent to take cognisance of heresy, but rather, if they are invoked (required) to assist the Bishops as well as the inquisitors, whenever any of them wish to proceed, inquire, or take process against heretics. They are bound, moreover, to execute forthwith the punishment imposed by the Ordinary or the Inquisitor; or if the heretics are delivered up to them to be punished by the ordinary sentence of the law, they are even to punish with death." "That secular Princes must not defer to execute the sentence of Bishops and Inquisitors  because those Princes have doubts "That though they may not review or interfere with the judgment of Inqusitors and Bishops, they may and ought to catch the heretics for them." "Who is the ordinary judge in criminal causes of the Clergy?" "A. First, in every crime the Clergy must be brought before the ecclesiastical judge. The layman cannot be the ordinary judge of the Clergy, notwithstanding any custom to the contrary. The reason is, because a secular judge has no jurisdiction over the Clergy, seeing they enjoy a privilege of court, and are exempt from the civil judge's jurisdiction. And, above all, should the civil judge proceed in criminal cases against the Clergyman, the clerical order would fall into great disgrace and contempt if the secular judges, who are the inferiors of the Clergy in rank, should take cognisance of their crimes and punish them, and thus bring into judgment their betters and superiors.  Certainly, a sentence pronounced upon these who are not subject to the judge does not bind." 518 "Heretics are like worms or bugs—they are false prophets, nor when they utter truth are they to be heard—they are like Sadducees—they are to be punished with death." "Heretics are more worthy of punishment than the heathen are of pity." "Penitents are to be questioned only as to those sins which are most common and usual among that class of persons, and are to be asked, not if they have committed them at all, but how often they have done so; and if they seem to doubt and hesitate, then require them to state the greatest number of times—as did he swear
 519 "As to sins against chastity, the confessor must interrogate most cautiously, especially lest the younger penitents should learn those vices of which they are as yet happily ignorant. "Alas! with great grief I say it, I have known penitents when on the bed of death, who had grown old in crimes against chastity which they had not known hut from the filthy and incautious questions of confessors, who more rightly deserve to be called contaminators than confessors." "I will own fairly and candidly, that I entertain a distrust of the Roman Catholic religion. I object not to the Catholics on account of their faith. For them I have the highest respect. In private life I have never made any distinction between persons on account of their religion. It is a matter of perfect indifference to me whether or not a party professes the doctrine of transubstantiation; but if there is added to that doctrine a scheme of worldly policy of a marked character, I have a right to inquire into its nature, and observe its effects upon mankind. Can any man acquainted with the state of the world doubt for a moment that there is engrafted on the Catholic religion something more than a scheme for promoting mere religion—that there is in view the furtherance of a means by which man may acquire authority over man? Can we know what the doctrines of absolution, of confession, of indulgences are, without a suspicion that those doctrines are entertained for the purpose of establishing the power of man over the hearts and minds of men? What is it to me what the source of power is called if practically it operates as such?" "By natural, by Divine, and ecclesiastical law, the priest who receives confession is bound to secrecy." "The second part is proved, because the priest hearing confession acts as Christ's substitute, and personates Christ." "In no case without the express leave of the
 520 "With regard to the Constitution of the Church we are indeed inviolably attached to our own: first, because we believe it to be true, and next, because beyond belief we know that its principles are calculated to make us, and have made us, good men and citizens. But as we find it answers to us individually all the useful ends of religion, we solemnly and conscientiously declare that we are satisfied with the present condition of our ecclesiastical polity. With satisfaction we acquiesce in the Establishment of the National Church; we neither repine at its possessions nor its dignities. We are ready upon this point to give every assurance that is binding upon men." "Your Petitioners most solemnly declare that they do not seek or wish in any way to encroach upon the rights, privileges, possessions, or revevenues appertaining to the Bishops and Clergy Of the Protestant Religion in the churches committed to their charge, or any of them." 521 Appeal, 522 "These, then, are our crimes. The Pope has taken the steps which he thought necessary for the spiritual benefit of the Catholics in England, and we and our Clergy have disobeyed a law which we could not have obeyed without denying our God and our faith. "But observe, Lord Derby is 'disappointed;' he expected that these things would have been prevented by the fruits of the endowment of Maynooth. "He is 'disappointed!' When he agreed to endow Maynooth he expected that in consideration of this endowment the Supreme Head of the Catholic Church upon earth would abandon the measures which he thought necessary for the good of the Catholic Church. "He really believed, it seems, that he could buy the holy Roman Church to abandon her own principles and duties, and that not in Ireland only, but in other countries, for the sum of 26,000 l. "This is the exact price at which he valued the holy Church throughout the world. "It is strange that with history before him he should have dreamed that the Catholic Church could be bought at any price; stranger still, that he should suppose any men, however base, would sell it for a bribe so contemptible. "He values the consciences of rulers and members of the whole Church throughout the world at the sum of 26,000 l. "But he is as much disappointed by the fruit* of the endowment in Ireland as at Rome. "He expected the Catholic clergy of Ireland would have obeyed the law, and they have openly refused obedience to the Ecclesiastical Titles Act. "Who are they who have disobeyed this law? The archbishops and bishops of Ireland. They have treated it as they were in duty bound, simply as if it did not exist." 523 "As our holy religion has been recently subjected to penal enactments at once injurious and insulting, no person should be permitted to aspire to the representation of our counties or boroughs, but one who will be prepared strenuously and perseveringly to vindicate our religion from such hostile as well as impolitic legislation." "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the system of education carried on at the College of Maynooth."
 MR. WALPOLE : With regard to the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), it seems to me to be the simple question whether we are or are not to inquire into the System of the education of the clergy at the College of Maynooth. Now, that depends upon this further question, namely, whether the grant, which was originally made under various Acts of Parliament, and subsequently enlarged and perpetuated by the last Act of Parliament relating to it, has or has not answered the purpose for which it was given? That, I think, is a fair test to apply to the question before we come to the conclusion of my hon. Friend, namely, that inquiry is necessary. Now, there are two ways in which it might not be necessary to go into this question at all. First, I heard it intimated, I think by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, that the question had been concluded in 1845, and that therefore it could not be opened again. Another way of getting rid of the question is, by showing, as was the argument of the noble Lord (the Marquess of Blandford), the grant to be so vicious in principle that you need not inquire into it at all, but at once bring in a Bill, to repeal it. With respect to the first of these, the House will immediately
 536 537 "I defend it—the Maynooth Bill—because I believe it to be a wise and a just measure, and far better than the continuance of the present system. I say that without the least hesitation; and I call on you to recollect that you are responsible for the peace of Ireland. I say you must break up in some way or other that formidable confederacy which exists in that country against the British Government and the British connexion. I do not believe you can break it up by force. You can do much, consistently with the principles you avow, as to the maintenance of the Union and the Protestant Church. You can do much to break it up by acting in a spirit of kindness, forbearance, and generosity."—[3  Hansard, 538 539 540 541
 MR. WALPOLE : I think it right, Sir, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, to state early in this discussion the course we intend to take with regard to the question now before us; and I will endeavour to do so without exciting any of those polemical asperities to which the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey) has adverted. We must all of us agree that this is a question of no ordinary difficulty and delicacy. Whether we regard it in its political, or whether we regard it in its social and moral bearings, the question necessarily and inevitably touches the tenderest parts in some of the warmest feelings of the people of England—feelings to which recent events have given greater effect, so far as relates to their religion. Under these circumstances, I own I approach this question with the Utmost caution and forbearance; but approach it, I think, we must: because, in the first place, it is directly brought before us; and in the second, it has taken such a hold of the public mind of the people of this country that we cannot, and ought
 535
 Mr. ANSTEY  explained. He did not say that he would not press his Amendment now, but would bring it forward on another occasion. He said he would press it now, and bring it forward again if it was not adopted.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  having listened with great attention to the speech of the noble Lord (the Marquese of
 529 530 "The real question was, would their Lordships accept or reject the measure? He had conceived it was so, because, in the first place, the inquiry would be utterly useless. It would be useless, on this account, if on no other, that in the sense in
 531 Hansard, 532 consimili casu Regium Donum;
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I propose to give my vote in favour of the Motion which the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) has made; but the subject is of so much importance, and I differ so widely from the spirit of the speech by which he introduced and recommended that Motion, that I cannot honestly or properly consent to vote in silence. Sir, I am not here to contend that Parliament is bound by any compact to the maintenance of the Act which secures the endowment of the Maynooth College. I do not now raise the question what may be due to individuals whose livelihood is dependent on their employment in connexion with, the college. I speak of its permanent maintenance, and in regard to its permanent maintenance I altogether disclaim the doctrine of compact. But while I disclaim the doctrine of compact, I must add that it appears to me that unless you can show in a definite manner and by substantial proofs that the objects and purposes of that endowment have failed, that the expectations you entertained at the time of that endowment have been frustrated—unless you can show all this, then both prudence and justice, in their highest forms, demand the maintenance of this endowment. It appears to me that failure cannot be shown; and I must say, in the first instance, it would be to me a subject of very great grief and of very serious apprehension if that failure could be shown. I confess I am surprised at the manner and tone in which this question is approached by many hon. Gentlemen. They seem to think it a small subject whether they shall withdraw this endowment from the College of Maynooth. They forget that its importance is not to be measured by the figures that designate its amount. They forget that the endowment of the College of Maynooth is of
 568 569 570 l. 571 572 573 574 575 bonâ fide
 MR. KEOGH  contended, that the opponents of the Motion were fairly entitled to an adjournment, because numbers of them had not yet spoken. He could not avoid remarking that a confusion and inconsistency of opinions without end seemed to prevail amongst the members of the Government. He had heard an hon. Gentleman connected with the Government state that this was an open question with the Administration; but he thought the opinion of the members of the Ministry should be manfully expressed. He hoped the House would allow him to say a few words in explanation of a personal matter. His hon. Friend near him (Mr. Osborne) had quoted some passages from a speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he understood that right hon. Gentleman to convey to the House that he was not only disposed to repudiate the sentiments he at that time expressed, but that the fact that he had ever uttered such opinions had entirely escaped his memory. Now, lest there should be any mistake upon the subject, he (Mr. Keogh) begged permission to read, from the authorised version of the Debates, the passages to which his hon. Friend had alluded. The present Chancellor of the Exchequer, speaking upon a Motion brought forward by the noble Member for the city of London (Lord J. Russell), and referring to agitation in Ireland, used these words:—
 "They heard a great deal of Reform Associ-
 586 Hansard, "He wanted to see a public man come forward and say what the Irish question was. One said it was a physical question; another, a spiritual. Now, it was the absence of the aristocracy; then, the absence of railroads. It was the Pope one day; potatoes the next. Let them consider Ireland as they would any other country similarly situated, in their closets. Then they would see a teeming population, which with reference to the cultivated soil, was denser to the square mile than that of China; created solely by agriculture, with none of those sources of wealth which are developed with civilisation; and sustained consequently upon the lowest conceivable diet, so that in case of failure they had no other means of subsistence upon which they could fall back. That dense population in extreme distress inhabited an island where there was an Established Church which was not their Church; and a territorial aristocracy, the richest of whom lived in distant capitals. Thus they had a starving population, an absentee aristocracy, and an alien Church, and, in addition, the weakest Executive in the world. That was the Irish question." "What would hon. Gentleman say if they were reading of a country in that position? They would say at once, 'The remedy is revolution.' But the Irish could not have a revolution; and why? Because Ireland was connected with another and a more powerful country." "Then, what was the consequence? The connexion with England thus became the cause of the present state of Ireland. If the connexion with England prevented a revolution, and a revolution were the only remedy, England, logically, was in the odious position of being the cause of all the misery in Ireland." 587 "To effect by his policy all those changes which a revolution would do by force. That was the Irish question in its integrity. It was quite evident, to effect that, we must have an Executive in Ireland which should bear a much nearer relation to the leading classes and characters of the country than it did at present. There must be a much more comprehensive Executive, and then, having produced order, the rest was a question of time. There was no possible way by which the physical condition of the people could be improved by Act of Parliament. The moment they had a strong Executive, a just Administration, and ecclesiastical equality, they would have order in Ireland."
 MR. MONSELL : The hon. Gentleman who has just concluded his speech evidently thinks it is just and right that Protestants should coalesce for the purpose of attacking the Roman Catholics, but not that Roman Catholics should combine in order to defend themselves. The hon. Gentleman did not stoop to argument, but did what he could to fan to the uttermost the flame of religious bigotry. I will pass by his speech with the single remark, that in the case of the Rev. Mr. Meehan, to whom the hon. Gentleman referred, the report was entirely inaccurate, and that he never used the words which were attributed to him. [Mr. NEWDEGATE said, he had not quoted any words used by Mr. Meehan.] What I stated was this, that the words to which the hon. Gentleman must have referred in making his statement—for I suppose he did not imagine or invent it—were incorrectly reported. But I pass by the speech of the hon. Gentleman, to the statement, far more important, of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department. That right hon. Gentleman rose, after a tirade of abuse had been discharged against the religion of one-third of Her Majesty's subjects, without one word of reprobation of the language that had been employed. Did he not rather ratify the statements which had been made, and proclaim war to the knife against us, when he, occupying the high position of a Minister of the Crown, said not one word in reproof of our adversaries? Occupying that position, whatever his own private feelings might have been, I think we might have expected that he would have endeavoured to protect us from the statements so wantonly made by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner). And now, what is the real object of the Motion which has been made? It was candidly acknowledged, if not by the right hon. Gentleman, by the noble Lord the Member for Woodstock (the Marquess of Bland-
 563 l. 564 bonâ fide,
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  wished to say a few words, for he felt that he was in a peculiar position, having to differ from a considerable number of those who were his most strenuous supporters in 1847. In voting against the Motion of his hon. Friend, and in favour of the Amendment, he did not intend to affirm his admiration, of the college of Maynooth. He was quite as much opposed and had quite as strong a dislike to the endowment of that college as
 533 "When I consider with what magnificence religion and science are surrounded in our Universities—when I call, to mind their long streets of
 534 Hansard,
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the terms in which the hon. Baronet had couched the first of his questions would rather tend to mislead the House, and showed, he thought, that the hon. Baronet was himself to some degree under an erroneous impression in respect to the present state of the ordinances for establishing the colonial constitution. It was true that by the last mail copies of those ordinances, containing certain alterations and amendments by the Legislative Council, had been sent over; but those ordinances were still incomplete, and, in fact, they could hardly, strictly speaking, be spoken of as ordinances. There were still certain forms remaining to be completed by the Legislative Council; and the Governor (General Cathcart) was reported to have deferred giving his assent to those ordinances until after the arrival of the next mail from England. Under these circumstances, he thought it would be premature to lay the ordinances, such as they were, on the table of the House. In reply to the second question of the hon. Member for Southwark, he had to state that the despatches lately received afforded no ground for the alarming reports to which he had referred.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he thought the debate ought not to close without a passing reference being made to one passage in the speech of his right hon. Friend and Colleague the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Glad' stone), whom he understood in the earlier part of his speech to state that it was quite true that there was no compact made between the Legislature of the country and the College of Maynooth; and that therefore the Imperial Legislature were at liberty to recall the grant or modify its application in any way that was more adapted to the necessities of the case, or that at all events the subject was open to the consideration of the Imperial Legislature; but, nevertheless, his right hon. Friend went on to say that the House must take care what they did in this matter, because if they withdrew the grant from Maynooth, they must be prepared for a new arrangement of the ecclesiastical establishment in Ireland. [Cheers.] It was not so much the words of his right hon. Friend which roused his attention,
 577 l. 578
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  would beg to ask the hon. Member for North Staffordshire if he had received any information bearing out what he (Sir W. Molesworth) had stated.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that he wished to ask the Secretary for the Colonies whether he would have any objection immediately to lay upon the table of the House the constitution of the Cape of Good Hope as amended by the Legislative Council? He desired, also, to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to another subject. In one of the blue books which had been presented to that House there was a despatch from the British Resident in the Orange Sovereignty expressing great apprehension lest the emigrant Boers, under Prætorius, beyond the Yellow River, should attack the Orange Sovereignty; for he stated that if they
 500
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I rise for the purpose of stating very shortly the grounds why I constitute one of those exceptions which my hon. Friend by me was at a loss to find, who are prepared not to agree to this Motion. It is my intention, if the House divides, to vote both against the Amendment and the original Motion. Sir, I think that this House is entering on a very unwise and dangerous course. I think they are entering on a course which, if a Committee he granted, must either end in a nullity or in very dangerous consequences. I think that no ground has been laid for the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) in the speech which he made. I think, of that speech, that it certainly does bring to mind the opinion entertained by some, that the shades of departed men are wont to hover over the scenes of their earthly occupations; and if the shade of Dr. Duigenan had been hovering over this debate, I can imagine the grim delight with which his spectre would have surveyed the scene. I thought we had got back to the times when the Catholic question was debated, and that we were not discussing the incidental and single question of the endowment of the College of Maynooth; for what was the line of argument which the hon. Member for North Warwickshire adopted? Did he go into any details of the system of education at Maynooth—of a system of education peculiar to that establishment? Did he tell us what were the doctrines inculcated by the lecturers, and in what way the course of education was likely to defeat the purposes for which the establishment was framed? If he did, I must confess that those parts of his speech did not catch my attention; but I did hear long and elaborate dissertations on the fundamental doctrines of the Catholic religion; I did hear quotations from writers whom the hon. Gentleman described as the Bacons of the Catholic Church; and I presume, therefore, that the main ground on which this inquiry is proposed by him is, that he believes, and no doubt sincerely, that there are in the Catholic religion, or at least in Catholic authorities, tenets which he considers to be at variance with the welfare of a Pro-
 580 581 582
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would endeavour to answer the questions put to him by the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, but at the same time he extremely regretted that he should have been so entirely misunderstood. In the first place, he did not think the hon. Gentleman understood precisely what were the duties of the law officers of the Crown. When the hon. Gentleman asked him whether he purposed prosecuting the proprietors of certain newspaper publications, he appeared to suppose that the Attorney General instituted proceedings whenever he found any paper unstamped, or considered that there were other grounds for prosecution; whereas the course pursued was this: If the Stamp Office found that there was a publication issued without a stamp, which they thought ought to be subjected to a duty, they instituted proceedings against the parties, and that, very frequently, without any communication with the law officers of the Crown, who would know nothing whatever of the proceedings until the briefs were placed in their hands for the purpose of conducting the prosecution before the Court. Where any doubt existed as to the liability of the parties, the opinions of the law officers of the Crown might be asked; but it rarely happened that their opinions were consulted before the matter was ripe for trial. With regard to the proceedings in the case of the  Household Narrative, 611 Household Narrative Household Narrative 612 613
 MR. COWAN  said, he had been a paper manufacturer for about thirty years. For the last twenty years he had endeavoured to the utmost to induce various Ministries to take the subject into their consideration, with a view of relieving paper manufacturers from the restrictions under which they suffered. He at once acknowledged that in Downing-street he was civilly received and courteously bowed out, but beyond that no progress whatever had been made. He hoped to have seen the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place to-day, because the right hon. Gentleman supported a Motion of a similar
 588 589 l l s. d. l l l l l 590 l per se An Historical Sketch of the various Substances used in the Manufacture of Paper. l s. 591 592 "Could they, then, do better in the present state of the revenue, with the resources which they had at their command, than to assent to the first proposition of the right hon. Member for Manchester?" "In his opinion it was a prudent, a politic, and a beneficial Motion. Were they to be prevented, then, from assenting to a resolution so justified by circumstances, so beneficial in its character and its results, by the ensanguined phantom of a revolutionary republic being conjured up before them, or by the possible catastrophe of a change of Ministry dimly hinted at in the Delphic sentences? The House might be safely assured that they were not near any misfortune of the kind."—[3  Hansard, in toto 593 d.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that having already spoken on this question, he did not think he should have been called upon to speak again, nor would he have done so had it not been that it was necessary to explain matters in reference to the imputations of hon. Gentlemen, who appeared to have forgotten he had already addressed the House. He might be permitted, perhaps, in explanation, to say that the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) was quite in error in supposing that he had ever said this particular tax was under the consideration of the Government. What he stated was, that they were being considered as parts of the general system of taxation: he guarded himself from saying they were being specifically considered. As he was on his legs, he might remark upon the charge made against him, that he had made a diversion from the decision of the House by stating that he would give his opinion on the subject when the Budget was produced. The same charge was made by the hon. Member for the City of Dublin (Mr. J. Reynolds), with respect to the Spirit Duties. The hon. Member seemed also under the impression that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had engaged to give a specific answer on that question when he made the financial statement. What he wanted to convey to the House, and what he believed he did convey to a majority of the House, was, that he could not state in detail the views of the Government upon any particular tax until the financial statement was made—meaning that hon. Gentlemen would receive an answer with the financial state-men, because it would prove that, instead of a large surplus, which existed only in the imagination of those Gentlemen who were urging the repeal of different items of taxation, there was a mere nominal surplus, with a margin so small that it could scarcely be considered a surplus at all.
 617 l l
 MR. MOWATT  said, that, knowing that it took many years, and required a constant repetition of the facts and arguments in each case to obtain from Parliament the removal of evils, however gross, he was not sorry that the debate had been
 601 bonâ fide l l Chambers's Miscellany. Miscellany, 602 The Struggles of a Work against Excessive Taxation, l Penny Cyclopaedia, l s. 603 l 604 605 bonâ fide
 MR. KNIGHT  begged to say a few words on the inconsistency manifested by the free-traders. They had insisted upon free corn: why not admit foreign works duty free? It was only the present restrictive laws that prevented them coming into the country. If free trade was to be the order of the day, the booksellers ought not to be protected any more than the agriculturists. If the duty on books were taken off, the bookseller would stand in the same place as the farmer, and would have a right to claim a reduction of burdens, the same as the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer claimed for farmers.
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, he was opposed to all Excise duties whatever, and particularly to the Paper Duty, as fettering native industry and interfering with the circulation of cheap publications, which he would like to see diffused among the people. Still, as he had voted on a former occasion for the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Gibson), he thought it fair to tell him he could not support the present Motion; not that he was prepared to vote black was white, according as his friends sat at this or at that side of the House, but because he thought, by the cheers of hon. Gentlemen opposite, they were content the whole question of direct taxation should be left to a future Parliament. In the present state of the Kafir war, no one could say what the financial condition of the country would be, and therefore he opposed the Motion.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, he was not in favour of touching at present the 993,000 l
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he should support the Resolutions, and in doing so he wished to caution the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) against taking the advice of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay), not to divide on the first proposition—namely, the repeal of the paper duty. That was the most valuable; it would emancipate labour, add to the employment of the people, and prove the means of relieving the pressure of distress. They could not well educate the hungry. The paper duty was a war tax, introduced in 1711 by Sir Robert Walpole. As an Irish representative, he (Mr. Reynolds) complained of the continuance of that duty. Until the year 1798 there was no such tax in Ireland. In 1798 a tax was imposed on the machinery employed in the manufacture. Ireland having been politically married, by a sort of forcible abduction in 1824, a charge of 3 d. d. d. 606 ad valorem 607 l l l l l
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  hoped his right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) would not withdraw any part of his Motion, for he did not consider that the Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer showed that the repeal of these taxes could not be afforded. The right hon. Gentleman had most ingeniously, to serve his own purposes, made the
 608 Geo. History of England. 609 Stoke-upon-Trent Monthly Narrative of Current Events Art Jour 610 nal, Musical Times, Tait's Edinburgh Magazine, Evangelical Magazine, Household Narrative? Friend of the People, Kidd's Expositor, Athenoesum, Literary Gazette, Lancet, Legal Observer, Punch,
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to remind the House that the question was not that they should immediately repeal the Paper Duty, but that financial arrangements ought to be made which would enable Parliament hereafter to dispense with that duty. The next proposition was, that the newspaper duty ought to be abolished. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had shown a balance in hand of 460,000 l 614 l l
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said, the first-proposal on which the House would divide was, "That such financial arrangements ought to be made as will enable Parliament to dispense with the Duty on Paper;" and in order to meet the views of one of his hon. Friends, he would add the words, "as early as may be with reference to the
 616
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he thought that the hon. Member, if not about to vote black was white, was going to do something very like it. When Lord John Russell was in office the hon. Gentleman said Yes to this Motion; and now, Lord Derby being in office, he said No. If that was not voting black
 615 Household Narrative. Vivian Grey
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I will not detain the House for many minutes on this subject, but there is one portion of it on which I am anxious to make a few remarks. As regards the duty on paper in general, I must say I shall be heartily glad when the time comes when it may be repealed. There is no doubt it is most imprudent for Members of Parliament, when they are under a strong impression of the disadvantages of a particular tax, to pledge themselves to its unconditional repeal; but I contend that we ought to have the whole case, and the whole state of the revenue before us, before we can enter on the discussion of questions of this kind; and for the present I hope it is clearly understood and intended by the House, that we shall rally round the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the present occasion, and, for the present year at any rate, steadily set our faces against any of these proposals for the remission of taxation. But it seems to mo that there has been a number of interesting circumstances connected with the operation of the paper duty, and with the consumption of paper in the various branches of its demand and the market for its supply; and I think this is a question in the discussion of which the House may be usefully occupied at this moment. There is one branch of the paper manufacture which is no doubt of the utmost importance—I mean where it is employed in the packing of manufactured commodities—and so far as that is concerned, the question comes before us simply in the same category with those legislative reforms relating to the commerce of the country which this House has so lately entertained with so much favour. There is another branch which, as respects the consumption of paper in the production of printed periodicals—whether newspapers or not—is likewise most interesting and important. But there is a third branch to
 594 595 596 History of England 597 "We draw your attention to the Motion of the Right Hon. T. M. Gibson for the repeal of the taxes on knowledge. We believe that these taxes present unnecessary obstacles against the spread of information among the people generally." 598 599
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he did not wish the debate to turn wholly upon the first of the three Resolutions of his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson), that for the repeal of the paper duty; he thought the strength of the case, at least with reference to immediate legislative action, lay in the other two—for the repeal of the newspaper stamp and the advertisement duty, and he would suggest that it would be well not to divide on the first Resolution, the decision upon which would not be a just indication of the feeling of the House, but would be influenced by reasons apart from the real merits of the case. There were, indeed, very strong reasons for taking off the duty on paper; but that might be said of many other, and especially of Excise duties in general. When, too, the paper duty was classed in the Resolutions with the rest of the "taxes on knowledge," it must be recollected that a large proportion of the paper made was not used for the diffusion of knowledge, but in manufactures, or packing manufactured articles for exportation. Then, again, the House should not express on opinion upon the paper duty, if (which he believed) the Government could not fairly be expected to proceed to act upon it in the present state of the revenue. The paper duty should be one of the first duties taken into consideration with a view to reduction; but it ought to be considered fairly with reference to other duties, and upon a general view of finance. These reasons for doubt or hesitation did not exist with reference to the other two duties—on newspapers and on advertisements; the Resolution as to them might fairly be pressed, nor could he see why they should not be repealed. If the newspaper duty were removed, a moderate postage duty would probably, in a very great degree, supply the loss to the revenue; and the extreme doubt as to the law with regard to the question "what was a newspaper?" would warrant the House in incurring a much greater risk of loss. He
 600 Times, Times,
 MR. CLAY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, in reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the City of London (Mr. Masterman), had spoken only of desertion among the crews of merchant ships. Could the right hon. Gentleman give the House any information with respect to the amount of desertion among the shepherds of the Colony? He (Mr. Clay) had seen private letters which stated that the desertion among the shepherds was not very general.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought the right hon. Gentleman was utterly mistaken in the view he had taken of this measure; and if he referred to the 42  Geo. c.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that owing to the omission of the words recently struck out of Clause 8, there was a discretionary power in fixing the quotas; but still there must be quotas fixed for the several counties.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  begged to point out to his hon. Friends on the Treasury bench, that hon. Gentlemen opposite had, by their Amendments, succeeded in crippling the 8th Clause; and he warned the Government that, if they yielded too easily to their suggestions, they would render the Bill inefficient, which was the object of hon. Gentlemen opposite.
 VISCOUNT PALMBRSTON  said, that his right hon. Friend must have paid too great attention to the Estimates and Votes in Supply not to have remembered the exact terms of the Resolutions which had at various times been either opposed or assented to. His right hon. Friend appeared to imagine that when the House voted the Army or Navy Estimates, they voted a compulsory resolution to the Government to raise and maintain a certain number of men. In point of fact, however, it was no such thing. The vote was to raise and maintain "not exceeding a certain number." There was no compulsion on the part of the Government to maintain the full number. The objection, therefore, which the right hon. Member for Manchester had so earnestly urged against what had been stated by the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, applied just as truly to every vote for the Army service, or for men in the Navy. He hoped, however, that the Committee and the public would bear in mind that what' his right hon. Friend had now been urging on the Government, was an argument which went to this—that the Government, were
 641
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the hon. Gentleman proposed to omit everything respecting bounties out of this Bill, and (as he understood him) anticipated that persons would be so extremely enamoured of this service that they would press eagerly forward—persons, too, of a much higher and superior class than if bounties were offered—to enter the militia,
 654 Geo. c. l l 655
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if a militiaman did not appear when called out, he would be taken before a magistrate and fined 10 l Laughter
 COLONEL SIBTHOHP  said, he must congratulate the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) on the various ques-
 665
 The CHAIRMAN  said, the hon. and gallant Member was pursuing a line of argument which was not consistent with due respect to the House.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  wished the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would inform the Committee what was the estimated expense which would fall on the county poor-rate.
 MR. CARDWBLL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had estimated the bounty at 3 l l l l
 CAPTAIN TOWNSHEND  said: I shall delay the Committee but a very short time by the few observations I have to offer; nor should I have trespassed on their attention at all, but that I am anxious to explain the reason for my voting against the second reading of this Bill, and to justify the course I have taken. I am altogether opposed to a Militia Bill in any shape, and the Bill intended to have been
 649 650 651
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, that in former times the kit was deducted out of the pay of the soldiers, which, therefore, kept them low for eight or nine months, and caused great discontent; the 4 l 661
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, he must repeat that they would not get men to leave their work, and volunteer into the militia, without paying them for it.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he was desirous of calming the perturbation of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) as to that part of the country, where he had the honour of spending a few days last week. He was present at the sack of Devizes, and he left it a very well-regulated and cheerful town. The hon. Gentlemen told them they must be careful how they trained men for soldiers, because they had a disposition to make a noise with tea-trays and tea-kettles. If the hon. Gentleman would turn to the police reports of the metropolis he would find that similar freaks were played by persons of the least military disposition in the world—by medical students, and such other gentry. He would now say a word as to the clause. The proposition was to take 50,000 men this year, and 30,000 the next. And the right hon. Gentleman the Home, Secretary said that if he did not get his 50,000, he would be satisfied with 40,000 rather than resort to compulsion. The right hon. Gentleman did not think that the want of 10,000 men would warrant harsh measures. But to say this, was no reason for charging him with having given up the urgency of the question. In taking the Estimates for the Army and the Navy, you mentioned a fixed force, which you already knew you could obtain. But it was a new force which was now about to be raised, and it was, therefore, difficult to say how many could be collected. He thought that the Government would have done better had they proposed that the number to be raised each year should be decided by the Queen in Council. The perfection of the force would be to take 16,000 men each year, so that only that number of raw recruits would be enlisted every year.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  was sorry to be impelled into the use of strong language, but he could scarcely avoid it when he heard such libels on the character of the people of this country.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the question now before the Committee was, whether they should stop the proceedings at this stage, it being only half-past eleven o'clock. As to the statement of the hon. Member (Mr. Mowatt) that they had been sitting on the Bill six hours and a half, hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House must know that it was necessary to be prepared on important questions to undergo much greater fatigue than that. Besides, the Committee had not shown any symptoms of fatigue, and as it was really an early hour, the proposition to adjourn was, he thought, a wanton one. With regard to the information required by the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson), that was a
 667
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, it was quite true that the suggestion to leave out the words "fit and liable" came from him, and he understood the Government to approve of the omission when the Bill was last before the Committee. He said it was necessary that there should be some power of fixing the quotas of men in the first instance taken by voluntary enlistment; and he thought the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department was mistaken when he said the clause would be only necessary when the men were taken by ballot. Let him remind the Committee of the process to be gone through under the tedious, troublesome, and expensive process of ballot according to the 32  Geo. c. 637
 MR. CARDWELL  wished to be distinctly informed on this subject. Suppose that in the county where wages were high, there was not a sufficient number of volunteers, and that in another county where wages were low, there was an excess, did the Government or not mean to introduce a proviso to the clause, by which a larger proportion of volunteers might be raised in one county, thereby preventing the necessity of inflicting the ballot upon the other county where the full quota might not have been raised?
 MR. MOWATT  wanted an answer to his question as to the deficiency of one county being made up by the excess in another.
 MR. MOWATT  said, what he and those with whom he acted complained of was, that there was no recognised principle or data on which any given number of men could be raised in any particular county whatever; the thing was entirely left to the discretion of the Secretary of State for the Home Department.
 MR. MOWATT  said, in the previous discussion he suggested that a proviso should be added to limit the operation of the clause until the 31st of December, on the express ground that the clause had only reference to the ballot, which would not come into operation until after that period, and that it was not desirable to put the country to the trouble and expense of ascertaining the basis on which the number should be apportioned. He did not imagine the discretionary power would be exercised with any degree of harshness; but he dreaded that under the system now contemplated, of applying the clause to the ballot, they might punish any particular county they liked by levying in it the whole number of men found deficient under the voluntary enlistment, and exempt all the other counties.
 MR. MOWATT  said, he should support the Motion for reporting progress, on the ground that the House bad already been in Committee six hours and a half.
 MR. MOWATT  said, the right hon. Gentleman had estimated the probable expense of the militia force, for five years, at about 1,200,000 l s. d. l s., l l 666 l l
 MR. MOWATT  said, he must protest against the injustice done to the regular soldier in putting a bounty of 7 l s. s. l s.,
 MR. MOWATT  wished distinctly to ascertain whether if there was a deficiency in any particular county as to the number of volunteers, it might be made up by the excess in another county; and, if not, whether the ballot was to be put in operation? His own opinion was, that if the deficiency was allowed to be made up by excesses in the manner he had suggested, one of the great objections to the measure would be overcome.
 MR. MOWATT  said, he wished to know what the equipment of the militia would cost in addition to the bounty? He also wished to know how they proposed to deal with the men that did not appear when called out?
 MR. MOWATT  said, that on the contrary, he did not think the Government would fill up the ranks of the militia without the bounty, for then the whole thing would fall into hopeless ridicule. But, if the Government would accept the offers made to them, there would be no difficulty in raising volunteers to any extent, not merely to act as riflemen, but as regular infantry and cavalry. He had also heard a proposal from some persons to raise a corps of light horse artillery. By giving a little encouragement to these persons, the Government could have gradually drawn this volunteer body under the operation of a regular code of discipline.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that the hon. Baronet who had put this question, was probably aware that the subject was involved in considerable difficulties, and that connected with it there were several parties whose interests it was not very easy to reconcile with each other. First, there was the book trade, who very naturally expected the the arrangements for the sale and publication of the National School Books should be put upon a strictly mercantile and commercial principle. Then the House would recollect that it was a fundamental principle of the National System of Education in Ireland that the Commissioners should have the complete control with reference to the subject-matter of the books which they published; and the Board, having this responsibility, which involved very delicate considerations connected with the contents of these publications, very naturally and rightly required that no arrangements should be made which should interfere with their complete control over them. They also expected that no arrangements should be made by which the price of these books should be enhanced to the poor of Ireland. There was next the Privy Council of England, who were also opposed to any arrangement by which the price of these books might be enhanced; and, lastly, there was the contract for printing, which had two years to run. The noble Lord the late Prime Minister, having taken the subject into consideration, expressed an opinion that the supply of books to be published by the
 630
 SIR GILBERT HEATHCOTE  wished to inquire, as there had been great changes in the relative populations of the different counties, whether the quotas were to be according to the present or old populations of the different localities?
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that the words "fit and liable to serve" having been omitted from the 8th Clause, it was necessary that they should be left out in the clause before the Committee—the purport of which was simply to enable the Crown to alter the limits of the several subdivisions of counties, but did not fix the quotas in those subdivisions. agreed to.
 MR. RICH  said, there had been so much uncertainty with regard to the application or non-application of the ballot, that he felt the Committee would be reposing too large a discretionary power in the bands of the Secretary at War, if they permitted him to give so large a bounty as 6 l l l l l l l l s., s. d. 658 s., l s. s. l s. l l l l d. 659
 MR. RICH  said, the only object he had in view, was, to prevent the militiaman from standing in a better position than the regular soldier. He would remind the right hon. Secretary at War that the period of service was reduced to ten years, and that the men enlisted for no more.
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to know what was to be the amount of bounty paid in cash to the militiaman, and were there to be any deductions?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that by the Bill it was proposed to give a bounty to the militiaman not exceeding 6 l l s., l l 663 l l l l l
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had never stated anything of the kind. How could he have said so, when he went into the question of the 7 l s. l l 664
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that although the right hon. Gentlemen on the Treasury bench did not appear to understand their own Bill, or to be able to explain its objects, yet the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton appeared ready to come forward on all occasions to make a speech on their behalf, which, if not very argumentative or very consistent, was sure to raise the cheers of the right hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial benches. But he (Mr. Bright) should like to look at the facts of the case, and not to be put off with an extravaganza which the noble Lord on all occasions exhibited on this question. They started, at all events, with this one great fact, that the House had already voted 15,000,000 l l l 647 Times Morning Chronicle l 648
 MR. BRIGHT  said, his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson) complained that the clause omitted a principle which was before contained in it. As it at first stood the clause went upon the principle that they should ascertain the number of persons fit and liable to meet the years that the Government proposed to take as their limits, and upon that number to apportion the quotas to be raised for the purposes of the measure. The reason why they took the words "fit and liable" was to make population the basis of the quotas. But as the clause now stood, the Government did not lay down in it any principle on which they were to fix the number of militiamen to be raised. It appeared to him, as the clause stood, that 10,000 men might be raised in Lancashire, 5,000 in Yorkshire, and 15,000 in Middlesex, without any reference to the respective population of those counties. That was a matter of which he and his right hon. Colleague had a right to complain; and he thought also they had a right to insist that the Government should clearly determine the basis on which the men were to be raised. He thought it would be better to make an Amendment in Clause 8 which should describe accurately on what basis the Queen in Council was to be allowed to make the apportionment.
 MR. MASTERMAN  begged to inquire whether it was intended by Government to take any measures in the course of the present Session to restrain the desertion of Seamen in the Australian ports?
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, he had not obtruded his opinion before upon the House in connexion with this Bill, because the Government appeared to consider it necessary, although he himself thought it was throwing so much money away. But the present point, which placed the militia and the Army in so great a contrast, was far too serious to be lightly passed over, and he entreated the attention of the Committee to it.
 MR. STANFORD  had not heard any reasons given for so large a bounty as was proposed. He would strongly urge that the amount be 4 l l l
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, that the restriction would operate most injuriously upon the county of Lancaster, where in consequence of the high rate of wages fewer volunteers would probably be raised than in any other county in England.
 MR. HUME  said, that he had an observation relative to Australia to offer on this subject; and that he might acquire the right of offering it, he begged leave to move that the House, at its rising, do adjourn to Monday next. He confessed he was not very sanguine in his expectation that the sending out of troops would have the effect of preventing desertion from the shipping. He hoped, however, that it might contribute to that object. But there was another matter, of scarcely less importance than the desertion of seamen, to which he was anxious to refer. He alluded to the prospect of the sheepmasters in Australia, and, as incidentally connected with the subject, to the probable prospects of the manufacturers in this country, many of whom were apprehensive that there would be an inadequate supply of wool for manufacturing purposes, if the sheep-walks of Australia were to be deserted for gold digging. Nothing could be more deplorable than the present condition of some of the working classes of our own people, more especially of the hand-loom weavers in Scotland and in the north of England. In Lanarkshire alone there were now between 3,000 and 4,000 hand-loom weavers, who only earned 4s. a week; and he suggested to the Government whether, with a view to better the deplorable condition of these poor people, and at the same time to supply the deficiency of labour in the Colonies, it might not be judicious to devise some plan for paying their expenses out, on condition of their agreeing to work as shepherds for a stated period—say for one year.
 MR. HUME  was still of opinion that, by encouraging volunteer and rifle corps, the Government might have raised the force which they wished for, without squandering the public money in the manner now proposed. Would the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down say whether he thought there would be any difficulty in getting together 100,000, or even 200,000 volunteers in the space of one month, supposing an emergency should arise?
 MR. HUME  would remind the noble Lord that he had very recently stated that there had been a decrease in the Army from 1839 to 1848. What was the noble Lord and his Colleagues about so to reduce the defences of the country? The fact was, the advocates of the measure shifted their ground perpetually. It appeared to him (Mr. Hume) that they were going to vote this force without any adequate reason. He, however, would keep to his original objection — the cost; and he would not vote a shilling more than the 15,000,000 l 653
 MR. HUME  said, he did not believe but that amongst the young men in towns and in the country nearly 500,000 could be found to enlist without bounty, and prepared at all times, without expense, to defend the nation against any unexpected insult, for he admitted he had no dread of any invasion. If the Government were sincere in their profession of a desire to infuse a martial spirit in the country, surely they should see how much might be elicited without the drawback of a pecuniary consideration. He could not understand why the Government should think of spending 700,000 l
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, he should move to report progress.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  would not enter on the subject of the ballot, though he had the idea that the people were more afraid of the ballot than of the French invasion. He wished to ask, whether the bounty would be a  bonâ fide l bonâ fide
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he wished to ask whether it was not still left in the power of the Secretary of State to raise the whole force from one county?
 MR. COBDEN  said, that the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) could not quote any precedent where a Government, having
 642 Wiltshire Independent 643 "It is a matter of much regret that many of the members of this regiment should, after escaping from the surveillance of their officers, have conducted themselves in an improper and disreputable manner. During the last three nights there have been repeated and systematic disturbances of the public peace—a number of the yeomanry meeting together in the market-place, and either parading the town beating kettles and tea-trays—and making every other imaginable noise; or separating into detachments and ringing the bells of every house they passed, breaking the windows, and trampling down the flower-beds. So unruly has been their conduct that the peaceable inhabitants of the town express themselves as not at all sorry that their stay is brought to a close, and by no means anxious again to have the honour of their company. We may add, that the matter is as much regretted by the officers, and the more sober and respectable members of the regiment, as by those whose slumbers have been disturbed, and whose property has been thus destroyed." en masse
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that in addition to the penalties which his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General had pointed out, there would be this security, that if the bounty was paid monthly, the men would appear in order to get their money; and if it were to be paid down, it would be in the discretion of the Secretary at War not to pay it down all at once, but in such times, modes, and conditions as would be most likely to secure attendance.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Secretary at War would have a discretionary power as to the payment of the bounties. If the money was to be paid down, it was provided that the whole bounty should not exceed 6 l s. d. l s. 657 l s l s. s., l l l l
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that, supposing volunteers were wanted at an emergency, he believed they could be got together even in as great numbers as the hon. Gentleman had mentioned. The object of this Bill, however, was not to raise a force for an immediate emergency, but to provide the nucleus of a force which might be turned into a regular army at any moment when the occasion arose. Now, the essence of a volunteer corps was, that a man might leave it at any moment he chose— there was no hold on him; and for that reason, he thought it was impossible to form a force such as he had described, and such as he considered was required, out of a volunteer corps.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he did not very clearly see the force of the hon. Gentleman's remarks, if he did not mean to say that the 1,000,000 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l
 MR. WALPOLE  said, when his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer brought forward his Budget, he stated the sum that would be required for the militia for the present year would be 350,000 l l
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he must object to the Motion; it was then only half-past eleven o'clock, and if the Committee would consent to sit a little longer, he, on the part of the Government, would agree not to proceed with any of the compulsory clauses that night.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had made inquiries with a view to ascertain what had been the expense of the machinery of the ballot when the militia were last called out, but he had been unable to obtain any accurate information on the subject. He had made his calculations of expenditure on the supposition that the full amount of bounty would be paid; but if the whole number of men required were not obtained by voluntary enlistment, and it was found necessary to resort to the ballot, there would be of course a saving of the bounty.
 MR. WALPOLE  thought it clearly was not.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that in its present shape the clause was somewhat am-
 638
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the ballot would not be put in force until the system of volunteers was exhausted.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Government was preparing a proviso upon the subject.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that, during the present year, even if the number of volunteers did not exceed 40,000, he thought he might give an assurance, on the part of the Government, that the ballot would not
 640
 MR. WALPOLE  considered that the objection raised by the right hon. Gentleman on this clause was not of the most reasonable kind. The alteration made in the clause was made in consequence of a suggestion of the right hon. Baronet (Sir C. Wood); it was adopted by the opposite side of the House, and acquiesced in by the Government. The matter stood in this way—as the Bill was drawn, by Clause 8 the Queen in Council had the power of fixing the quotas of men, so as to apportion, as nearly as might be, the whole number of militiamen the Act directed to be raised
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the omission of the words "fit and liable to serve" from the 8th Clause was suggested by the right
 636
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the intention of the clause was to fix the quotas equitably and rateably among the different subdivisions of counties, but at the same time to leave a discretion with the Crown.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, in the clause relating to the ballot, they gave power to fix the number of men required to be raised for the ballot. Whenever, by an Order in Council, any number of men were required to be raised for any county or riding by ballot, the lieutenants and deputy lieutenants of such county or riding were empowered in general meeting to apportion deficiencies in voluntary enlistment among the various subdivisions and parishes of their county; but the subdivisions and parishes in which the full number of volunteers had been raised were to be exempt.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he did not object to the principle which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to carry out. All he objected to was, the right hon. Gentleman's endeavouring to apportion the quotas according to fitness and liability.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to know what was the necessity for this clause, after the important change which was made in Clause 8 on Friday evening? The Committee were not, perhaps, aware that the whole principle of the ancient Militia Law had been entirely subverted by that change. Under the old law the apportionment of the quotas of men to be furnished by each county was settled by Act of Parliament; whereas, under this
 634 vice versâ.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  did not think the explanation of the hon. and learned Gentleman was satisfactory, because he had laid down no principle of apportionment. He had left out the words which described the rule for fixing the quotas, and therefore they were not bound to any principle in fixing them. What had been said by the hon. and learned Gentleman about the old Bill was not to the point, for although it was in the power of the Queen in Council, by the existing law, to alter or apportion the quotas, still they should be made in proportion to the population of the different counties. He thought, therefore, that a novelty was introduced into this Bill which was calculated to do considerable injustice.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  thought that the statement of the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department, by throwing so much uncertainty over the whole affair, was calculated to alter alto, gether the character of the Bill. First 120,000 men were required, the number was then reduced to 70,000, then to 50,000, and now it appeared that if 30,000 or 40,000 were obtained, the Government would be satisfied. If this number would suffice, why ask for more? It was a most unconstitutional and unprecedented course for any Minister to come down to the House and ask for a vague and indefinite force to meet some vague and indefinite danger. The Ministers of the Crown, in dealing with a matter of such importance as that of the national defences, ought not to be guided by the popularity or unpopularity of their measure; they ought to have the moral courage to declare what the country required, and the firmness to stand by the proposal. If they had a case which they dared not lay before the country and support by argument, they ought not to submit it to the House.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he must deny that he was in favour of the ballot, but he contended that if the Ministers of the Crown thought the ballot right, they onght not to come down to the House and agree to alter their measure on grounds of popularity or unpopularity. It was their duty to take upon themselves the responsibility of measures which they thought right, and to pass them without reference to their popularity or unpopularity. [ Laughter.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that if there were any limitation in the source from which the volunteers might be drawn, it was quite plain that the ballot would thereby be rendered the more probable; for instance, if they decided upon raising 10,000 men in a particular county, and did not succeed by volunteering, they must then resort to the ballot.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, there was one important matter which it was very necessary that the Committee should consider with the utmost care—he meant the list of exemptions. Before proceeding to enact that compulsory military service should be resorted to, it was only right, he thought, that they should decide who were the persons liable to serve, and clearly define the exemptions.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to know the point on which they were about to divide. He understood his hon. Friend (Mr. Rich) to say that the system of bounty to the 'militia would interfere with the recruiting for the Army. On that subject he would refer to the evidence of
 662
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the supporters of the Bill showed little favour towards it—the hon. Member for Haddingtonshire (Mr. Charteris) having an Amendment on the paper to get rid of the ballot, and the hon. Member for Bedford (Sir H. Verney) now proposed an Amendment to get rid of the bounty. He was delighted to have the opportunity of voting in the same lobby with an advocate of the Bill, as he should support the Amendments,
 656 l l
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  wished to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General what steps were to be taken to enforce the attendance of militiamen?
 MR. WAKLEY  said, the Committee was told the force to be established was a new force; but though the ground for its establishment had been asked, it had never been told to Parliament. At this moment the rental of the four metropolitan counties was absorbed by the defences of the country. If, notwithstanding the 15,000,000 l
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he had listened with great interest to the statement of the right hon Baronet; and he should be extremely glad if his effort to throw the whole of these expenses upon the colonists should be successful; but wished to be informed whether the right hon. Baronet possessed the power to enforce so desirable an object as that to which he had adverted, namely, the payment of the expenses by the Colonies themselves?
 MR. BERESFORD  said, that the militiaman would receive the whole of the bounty; he was to serve but for a very limited time, a kit would not be required, and therefore nothing would have to be deducted on that account.
 MR. BERESFORD  begged to remind the hon. Member for Richmond that a militiaman could not go into the line when he thought proper. If he enlisted as a militiaman he must serve in that capacity, unless men were wanted for the line; and then, and then only, he might be allowed to enter. He begged also to say that there never existed any intention of making the actual bounty paid 6 l l s. s. d.
 MAJOR BERESFORD  said, the effect of the hon. Gentleman's plan would be to draft off from the Army the very best soldiers at the time they were most valuable; and an illustrious Commander had pro-
 660
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  wished to know precisely under what circumstances the ballot was to be resorted to? Beyond what maximum of volunteers did the Government intend to enforce the ballot?
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that if those quotas were to be permanently acted
 639
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he was of opinion that a sound distinction had been taken between temporary and permanent employments, but the principle applied to the pay, and not to the bounty. He really was at a loss to know why a militiaman should receive a bounty of 7 l s. l s.
 SIR GEORGE CLERK  said, he apprehended that the proposed limitation would turn out to be very inconvenient. It was highly expedient, no doubt, that the persons who were to serve should be resident within that portion of the United Kingdom in which they would be required to serve; but he thought that they might be residents either in the county in which they were raised, or the counties immediately adjoining.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  wished to ask the hon. Secretary to the Treasury what was the present state of the question which had arisen with respect to the sale of the publications of the Irish Board of Education, and whether the plan submitted to the Treasury by the Committee of the Irish Board was likely to be carried out?
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  moved, as an Amendment, to omit the provision offering a bounty to recruits on enlisting. It had been well objected to the Bill, that the bounty system would act injuriously as regarded the regular Army. He believed that men who had health and strength would come forward and offer their services. If they would be prepared to act in case of immediate danger, they would also come forward to receive that amount of training which would render them efficient when a necessity arose for actual service. For certain periods of the year, militia training could be carried into effect in agricultural districts; especially in that with which he was personally acquainted, without any inconvenience; for example, from about the 7th of May to the 7th of June, and from the 1st of November until about Christmas. He knew a large body of young men who, instead of a burden and annoyance, would find it a pleasure and enjoyment to be subjected for a certain period to military discipline. There were 2,000,000 militiamen in the United States raised by compulsion. Any man who did not serve was liable to be fined. Plenty of men, and better men too, could be got in this country without than with a bounty. Once raised and properly drilled, they would soon be fit to act by the side of regular troops.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he had resorted for that purpose to the only expedient that appeared to be at his command, for he had made the continuance of the military assistance conditional on payment of the expense.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the question of the hon. Member for the City of London was one which related to a portion, and that not the least important portion, of that most extraordinary emergency which had arisen in two of the Australian Colonies, in consequence of the recent discovery of gold in that region of the world—an emergency to which he assured the hon. Member the assiduous attention of Her Majesty's Government had been, and would continue to be, most seriously directed. With a view to correct the misapprehension which existed as to the precise number of the ships from which desertion had taken place, he had procured some information on the point, so far as concerned the port of Melbourne—that part of the colony where the largest discoveries of gold had been made, and where the evils of desertion were most complained of. It appeared that, on the 6th of January in the present year, there were thirty-five ships in that port; the aggregate number of their crews was 816, and out of that number 417 had deserted. The most pressing representations had been made to Her Majesty's Government on this subject by the Governors of two of the Australian colonies — New South Wales and Port Phillip; and repeated despatches had been received, urging on the Government the necessity of military and other assistance, under the existing state of circumstances. It was only the other day
 631 632
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  thought it would be scarcely fair inconsiderately to
 633 l l l l
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  was unable at the moment to give an answer to the hon. Gentleman's question.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  did not think that his right hon. Friend had in the least degree negatived the assertion which he had made. He (Lord Palmerston) did not say that his right hon. Friend was in favour of the ballot—Oh dear, no!—he was against it; but he was urging that a Government which was carrying its Bill through by majorities of a hundred or more every night, if it had any regard to its own duty, it ought to enforce the ballot. The Committee would judge what would be the effect of the negative of his right hon. Friend, and his (Lord Palmer-ston's) assertion.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he must say one word with respect to the charge the hon. Member who had last spoken had made against him, as to his not having opened his eyes till within the last few weeks or months to the necessity of measures for the increased defence of
 652
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding
 644 645
 The CHAIRMAN : Does the hon. Member for Manchester propose any Amendment?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) promised that, if they would only confine their Bill to volunteers, he would vote with them. That hon. Member objected to the clause they were upon, because he said parties were to be forced by it to take the oath in question. He would find, however, that it referred in express terms, not to the persons balloted for, and forced to take the oath, but to the volunteer. Perhaps, under these circumstances, the hon. Member would vote with the Government. The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), again, considered that the proper way would be to adopt the oath of the 42  Geo. Geo. Geo.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought the arguments so clear, that if the Committee would just consider them for a moment, they would not hesitate to come to a conclusion in favour of this clause. The hon. Member for Haddingtonshire (Mr. Charteris) was not against raising a militia; he had voted with the Government upon all the divisions; and had acceded, as the House by large majorities had acceded, to the proposition that a force not exceeding 80,000 men should be raised. It was expected that force would be raised by voluntary enlistment. The reserving to the Government the power to raise the force by ballot, supposing it could not be raised by voluntary enlistment, was only a precautionary measure. He felt, as strongly as his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department, the extreme probability that the force would be raised by voluntary enlistment; but he put it to the Committee, having admitted the necessity of giving Government power to raise that force, and assuming the possibility of its not being raised by voluntary enlistment, why not give the Government power to complete the force by ballot? The hon. Member for Haddingtonshire asked them to expunge these compulsory clauses, and defer them to the consideration of a new Parliament; and the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. W. J. Fox) said, if the Government did not succeed in raising the force by voluntary enlistment, they would have no difficulty whatever in obtaining these powers from a succeeding Parliament. Hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House had over and over again said nothing was so odious, so
 701
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he did not believe that the omission of the compulsory clauses would deprive the Government of one single man before the new Parliament met. They themselves had postponed the operation of the ballot to the 1st of January, 1853. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that even when it was begun to be put into operation, four months would elapse before he could get a single man; therefore, until this time next year they could not command a single man by the process of the ballot. He should not vote for the Amendment with a view of rejecting the ballot altogether, but because, if postponed, a consideration might be given to the revision as well as the consolidation of the law, so as to give greater facilities in calling out the force for active service. Under the Bill of the late Government the cost would have fallen upon the general taxation of the country, and not upon each particular county. By this Bill the expense would be charged on the county rates; he did not know whether that was one of the new modes of taxation of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but he was inclined to think it would not be very popular with his supporters.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he had not joined in any opposition that appeared of a
 705
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  protested, as an Irish representative, against some of the remarks which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the Committee. The hon. Gentleman had repeated the unfair and unworthy declarations made by anonymous correspondents in journals of a low character, which, however, received some sanction when reiterated by
 712
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the hon. Member for Falmouth (Mr. Mowatt) had stated that the Government was anxious to shuffle through this Bill; if so, they were grievously disappointed, for every endeavour had been made, and by none more than by the hon. Gentleman himself, to prevent the clauses passing through Committee. The hon. Gentleman rose to speak to the Proviso of the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Pox); but a very small part indeed of his speech was applied to that Proviso, and at last some of his observations had raised the ire of the hon. Member for Ennis (The O'Gorman Mahon), who chose to grapple with the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Mowatt) stated that this Bill was a string of trumpery nonsense; but as every clause had been carried by large majorities, the hon. Gentleman's observation was at least a reflection on the majority of that House. The hon. Gentleman had said he was "ashamed to be found night after night discussing such oceans of balderdash." Now the course which the hon. Gentleman should take was obvious—he should show his sense by retiring. He (the Attorney-General) objected to the Proviso on one broad ground, that it made the most invidious distinctions between different classes of Her Majesty's subjects. He considered that every subject of the Crown was deeply interested in the defence of the country; but by the Proviso, the hon. Member for Oldham raised the inference, that only those who voted for Members of Parliament were interested in the defence of the nation, and, therefore, that they alone ought to be compelled to take up arms. He would take it for granted that those who enjoyed the franchise were not the least respectable of the community. The hon. Member for Falmouth said, "You will have the lowest class, the vagabonds, by this system of voluntary enlistment;" and then the hon. Gentleman, by his Proviso, proposed that when this force of "vagabonds" was obtained, the Government should take the respectable classes of the community, and compel them to
 714
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, he must defend himself from the charge of inconsistency made against him by the hon. Member for Montrose. It did not follow that he (The O'Gorman Mahon) was bound to be inconsistent, because the noble Lord the Member for London, lately at the head of the Government, had come down one night, and proposed a measure, which he voted against a few nights afterwards. The charge of inconsistency which the hon. Member for Montrose had made, came very badly from him as the Solon of the Opposition benches, because he and his friends had for a whole series of years been living illustrations of the most consistent inconsistency.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL,  understanding the hon. Gentleman's object, must say that he did not think it desirable or reasonable that persons should be allowed to escape from service in that or any other way. Many persons, for instance, had a conscientious objection to paying public taxes; and a thousand other conscientious objections might be taken to the performance of the duties of the subject, so that if such a principle as was involved by the Proviso were sanctioned, they would fritter away every obligation which a man incurred when he became a member of a community. He would submit to the Committee that the Proviso ought not to be allowed to stand.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, there ought to be an exemption for the Society of Friends; and he should be glad to see the Government have the credit of it. They were not a numerous nor an increasing body; and if the Government would consider the interest of their own measure, they would perceive that the effect of leaving room for a charge of religious persecution in the case of so respected and popular a body, was tenfold greater in one direction, than anything that could be gained by annoying them in the other.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he was glad to hear the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that he was opposed to all exemptions, and trusted that many of them would be done away with. If it was thought desirable to relieve married men, it would be better to diminish the age at which they were to be made liable, than to exempt them altogether.
 LORD SEYMOUR  wished to know whether there was to be a distinct class of exemptions.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, all exemptions were in the nature of compromises. They had heard a great deal from the head of the Government about compromises, that it was the principle of good government. Were they to have any compromise here?
 MR. LAW HODGES  said, that none of the men who had deserted from the regiment in question had been balloted, and, consequently, had not taken a compulsory oath.
 VISCOUNT PALMBRSTON  said, he was not prepared to say what his opinion might be of the exemption of Peers. He was really very much at a loss to imagine, at the present moment, upon what foundation the exemption rested; but he thought the Committee should consider this, that—if he understood the matter right—the only way the exemption formed part of the Bill was by reference to the Act of 42  Geo. 726
 MR. VERNON SMITH  would advise his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson) not to press the Amendment if the Government declared that they were prepared to consider those exemptions.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  would beg the Committee to bear in mind that this was the year 1852, and not the year 1802; and that since the latter period the Legislature had found it expedient to abolish an infinite number of oaths, which had manifested themselves as not only absurd, but mischievous. If you could not rely upon the loyalty and integrity of a militiaman, you certainly could not rely upon an oath exacted under such circumstances.
 COLONEL CHATTERTON  would advise the Government to take the advice of military men upon military matters, and not to suffer themselves to be misled by the vague assertions of hon. Gentlemen opposite. He trusted there would be no alteration in the clause.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that if the Motion were pressed to a division, he should feel compelled to vote for the Government, as he could not see any possible object in reporting progress. They had all been rather accusing Her Majesty's Government of a desire to delay, and ought, therefore, if only for consistency's sake, to seek themselves to expedite the public business.
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, he had no wish to waste the time of the Committee, by urging general arguments against the Bill. As the Government had consented not to enforce the compulsory clauses till after the new Parliament had had an opportunity of expressing its opinion thereon, they had done well; but he thought it would have been still better to omit these clauses altogether. Their retention destroyed the popularity of the Bill, and might endanger its passing. But for those clauses it was probable the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) would not have opposed the measure. The ballot ought only to be had recourse to in cases of extreme necessity; these were not likely to arise, according to the admission of the Government themselves, who, in introducing the measure, recommended it as one of voluntary enlistment; it would therefore be better to make a trial of the voluntary portion first. Circumstances might arise to make a resort to the ballot necessary; such an emergency was contemplated by the 26th Clause, which authorised the force to be raised to 120,000 men in the event of an invasion, or imminent danger thereof. In that event a ballot might be necessary; and if the 16th Clause were struck out, the 26th would have to be considerably altered; but this would involve no legal difficulty. It was out of no factious spirit that he begged to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, but solely from a desire to give greater efficiency to the measure.
 MR. GRENVILLE BERKELEY  said, he had hitherto opposed the Bill, but he would be no party to any factious opposition, and should therefore oppose the Motion.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  wished to make an observation on the argument of the hon. Member for Dovor (Mr. Rice), with respect to the persons who he said would be deterred from offering themselves as volunteers, because they would get large sums by acting as substitutes. It was true that 20 l l
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he understood the effect of this clause was, that
 696
 MR. OSWALD  was a little puzzled what to do. By a large majority, and without a single reason being heard, they had already consented to exempt Peers. It was stated that Peers were exempted from sitting on a jury. But did the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of Exchequer know that it was part and parcel of the English Constitution that a man was to be tried by his Peers?
 MR. GEACH,  as an employer of some thousands of men, knew their repugnance to being called from their occupation to serve or be trained as soldiers. The hon. and learned Attorney General had argued that they ought to have the ballot to resort to if voluntary enlistment failed. When they voted the number of men for the Army, they might as well vote that if they could not get those men for the usual bounty, they should force men to enter the Army. He believed that there was a very strong feeling in the country that there was no necessity for a militia at all; and if any defensive measures were required, he thought that a large majority of the population would prefer an increase of the standing Army.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the Government would have no security that they could obtain the requisite number of men if the Committee consented to omit this compulsory power.
 MR. PACKE  said, in the earlier part of the evening hon. Gentlemen opposite inveighed against the ballot, because of its harshness; but this proposition of the hon. Member for Oldham would increase that harshness tenfold, as it would limit it not to those who were now on the register— limited though they were as compared with the general population—but the hon. Member proposed to allow any elector who had a religious scruple to serve in the militia to escape by merely dropping his name from the register. He wondered how any hon. Gentleman who voted for this burden to be put upon the constituents, would afterwards face his own.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he hated quacks and quackery as he hated the devil, and he was therefore against the Proviso.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would not agree to the suggestions that had been made on the opposite side of the House. They had now the upper hand, and let them not give way.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, the corps of which the hon. Member for West Kent spoke was a disgrace to the nation. He hoped no other branch of the service had such a stigma upon it—800 deserters— 800 men forgot their duty to their King and their country; it almost made one ashamed of the country where such cowardly louts could be found. Why should not a militiaman take an oath as well as other people—why should he not serve faithfully and truly—and, if not, why should he not be punished? The man who committed the foul crime of desertion ought to be stigmatised as an outcast of society.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP,  knowing how skilled the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) was in military tactics, should be sorry if the country were deprived of his services in the militia. He should be delighted to drill him some of these fine days.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was provided by the 50th Clause of the 42  Geo.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the object of the Government was that Quakers should not be placed in a worse position than other classes of Her Majesty's subjects.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the Committee would not be led away into a discussion upon an abstract proceeding—a discussion, he admitted, involving a principle of the greatest importance, but one which was by no means peculiar to the Militia Bill. The very same objection might be made to the administration of oaths in Courts of justice, for they were often made under pains and penalties. ["No, no!"] But he said, Yes. A man who was subpoenaed took the oath reluctantly, and to such a man the same objection applied.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the exemptions proposed by the Government were all of ancient date, and had not been proposed without much consideration. That being so, he could not assent to the crude and off-hand propositions now made by the right hon. Member for Manchester.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. Member for Manchester very much misconceives my observation. When I objected to a matter of this kind being brought forward in a crude manner, I meant to say that I objected to such a question being brought forward without giving fair notice. The question has certainly given rise to a debate, without the slightest notice to the Committee of the hon. Gentleman's intention of bringing forward the proposition. As to the observation of the hon. Gentleman, the  ad captandum 725
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, they proposed exactly the same exemptions as in the Act of 42  Geo.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had the greatest respect for the hon. Member for Evesham (Sir II. Willoughby), but considered the principle which he had enforced to be of the most vicious character. There was nothing in our legislation on all points which ought to be avoided more than the system of exemptions. In the system of taxation, it was productive of the greatest possible evils. The principle which ought to be acted upon was not to increase exemptions. Under no circumstances ought such a procedure to be sanctioned. If the exemptions which now existed by law were not adapted to the present times, irrespective of the objection to all exemptions, the Committee would be able to deal with them; but the Committee were now asked to increase the list of exemptions, and thereby diminish the area of service. He certainly should oppose the proviso, first because it would tend to diminish the area of service, but principally and chiefly because he was opposed to the system of exemptions.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: My impression is, that, by rejecting this compulsory clause, you will materially affect the chance of success of voluntary enlistment. A man will enlist if he sees the eventuality of the ballot in the distance; and the effect of the ballot in districts in obtaining volunteers, is a very strong reason why we should retain this clause. I repeat that, if you reject this clause, the success of voluntary enlistment will be seriously affected.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I trust the House will permit me to make an observation as to the point upon which the hon. Gentleman has now touched. In the first place, I would remind the hon. Gentleman that I was speaking of the redress which was sought for by the parishioners of Frome; and in anything which took place between them and the Bishop of Bath and Wells, no allusion whatever was made as to what occurred abroad. The hon. Gentleman
 690 Directories, 691
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I beg that, by the favour of the House, I may be permitted to take this opportunity of conveying to them the result of the investigation which Her Majesty's Government undertook to make as to the remedies that exist with respect to an alleged grievance relative to the institution of the vicar of Frome. After the discussion that took place in this House some three weeks ago [ see 686 Laughter. primâ 687 facie 688
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I confess I cannot exactly understand what the right hon. Gentleman means by "the conduct of the Bishop of Bath and Wells."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the Committee would not allow itself to be led, at that time of night, into a discussion about oaths—a subject not at all peculiar to the question of the militia.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought this was hardly fair dealing with the Government. This clause had been under consideration for several hours, and the Committee should understand the position in which it would be placed, if, after its repeated appeals to the Government to expedite the business of the country, it should accede to the Motion of the hon. Member—a Motion which, he must say, appeared to him to have the character of being factious.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that, notwithstanding the appeal of the hon. Gentleman, and the explanation with which he had accompanied that appeal, he was still at a loss to understand the motive for further opposition. If the hon. Gentleman thought there was any chance of defeating this Bill, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could assure him he was mistaken. He might by the course he was taking inconvenience the Government, he might prevent the progress of necessary legislation, he might prolong the duration of this Parliament, but this Bill would nevertheless become law. Anxious as he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was at all times to defer to the convenience of the minority, he felt he had only one duty to fulfil now, and that was to persevere in pressing this Bill forward.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the hon. Member for Haddingtonshire (Mr. Charteris) asked the Government to postpone a power which they professed they did not intend to exercise, to the consideration of another Parliament; and the answer of the Attorney General was in substance—"Do not tell me to come before a new Parliament for the ballot, because then I must put the ballot before them in its naked deformity; but let me take the ballot now, behind the defence of a professed voluntary enlistment, and then, with that defence before me, I can induce the present Parliament to give practically the coercive power of the ballot, though in time of profound peace I dare not ask any Parliament to give it, unless disguised by some other propositions." He submitted that was a perfectly candid manner of stating the argument of the Attorney General; and the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman had raised— he would not say in its naked deformity— had raised in its true light the practical proposition which they were now called upon to concede, namely, that in time of profound peace they were to submit the Queen's subjects to compulsory conscription, through means of the ballot. Practically for twenty years there had been a
 702 l l l l 703
 MR. HORSMAN : I had hoped that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have concluded with some formal Motion, because there are some points in his statement which it would be rather convenient to notice. Still, though it is not quite regular, perhaps the House will allow me to make an observation upon one point in that statement which refers partly to a question of law, and partly to the complaint which I made when I brought forward the Motion upon this subject. The right hon. Gentleman says that no parishioner of Frome has appealed either to the Bishop of London, as the prelate in whose diocese the alleged offences were committed, or to the Bishop of Bath and Wells, as the prelate in whose diocese the
 689 Battersby,s Catholic Directory, Deo gratias." bonâ fide
 MR. RICE  said, the substitutes would be supplied from the same class as volunteers. If those persons knew that by refusing to volunteer, they could force on the ballot, and as substitutes they could get 20 l l l 704
 MR. MOWATT  said, he was not surprised at the great anxiety of the Government to shuffle through this Bill in any way they possibly could, for he put it to their common sense whether the measure did not seem to them more absurd, more preposterous, and more wretchedly contrived, each minute. He had heard the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary say that he did not want the riff-raff to serve; but when you called upon a man to abandon his home and his family to stand forward in defence of his country, it was reasonable that you should see he had something to which his heart was attached, and which would bind him the more strongly to the national institutions. The Bill was professedly on account of the danger to be apprehended from a foreign Power; but had it never occurred to the right hon. Gentlemen opposite that the foreign Power which they so much dreaded was watching the progress of the measure through the House of Commons? What, he would ask, must be the conclusion at which that Power would arrive when it looked at the efforts made in order to raise a force of 50,000 men for one year only—when it saw that the English Parliament was afraid to trust the Irish people, whom they had so sadly misgoverned, with arms for the de-
 711
 MR. MOWATT  begged to explain. He had not alluded in any observations he had made to Her Majesty— [The O'GORMAN MAHON: NO; Her Majesty's Government.] He was satisfied that the hon. Gentleman and the Committee understood him to refer to the Government, but he would take this opportunity of saying that the anger of the hon. Gentleman should be directed not against him, but against right hon. Gentlemen opposite, for he had merely invited them to explain why the Bill had not been extended to Ireland, although he had certainly put it hypothetically that the Government were afraid to intrust the Irish people with
 713
 MR. MOWATT  would remind the Committee that if the militia were raised in England alone, the proportion would be 5,000 out of every 1,000,000, whereas if the 80,000 men were extended over the whole United Kingdom, the rate would be only 3,000 in the 1,000,000.
 MR. MOWATT  said, the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer with regard to exemptions were strangely misapplied. In the first place, Ireland was exempted; then came Scotland; and then the great bulk of the population were exempted. Eight or ten classes of exemptions were put forward, and yet, when a practical proposition was made for giving relief without interfering with the operation of the Bill, the right hon. Gentleman said if there was one thing more than another to which he was disposed to take exception, it was the system of exemptions.
 MR. MOWATT  thought it well that the Government should attempt to modify the hardships of the measure as much as they could. As the number of men required for the first year would be only 50,000, and they hoped to get the greater proportion by voluntary enrolment, he thought there was not much cause to apprehend that by limiting the ballot to unmarried men, there would be any difficulty in obtaining the number of men that would be required. The hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wak-ley) said the object should be to make the exigencies of the Bill equable upon all parties; but was it doing so to treat the unmarried man without incumbrance, as the man with a wife and half-a-dozen children?
 MR. HUDSON  said, that he had supported the Bill of the Government up to the present time, because he believed that
 700
 MR. G. SANDARS  said, the hon. Member for Pinsbury (Mr. Wakley) had stated that he was against all exemptions. He himself (Mr. Sandars) had a strong objection to the compulsory clauses, and for that reason he had voted against them. But it had been stated that this measure was extremely unpopular; now, if hon. Gentlemen looked to the division lists,
 721
 MR. WYLD  thought that if they consented to an exemption in favour of medical men, they would only be following out the spirit of their legislation of late years. He thought the exemption a fair one.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he should support the Proviso. Surely it could not be any indignity to the House of Peers to be put upon the same footing with the Members of this House? He should like to see any hon. Gentleman who would stand up and contend that the Peers were invested with such a sanctity and dignity of position that they ought to be excluded from the burden which they were about to lay upon a large class of the people, and upon the Members of that House. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer talked about the crude way in which the Proviso had been brought before them; but nothing could be more crude than the manner in which the Bill itself had been prepared. They had got a hundred clauses in the Bill before them, and many of them contained most objectionable provisions. He trusted that House would have spirit enough to assert its own privileges.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the persons on whose behalf this proposition was made, were exempted from serving on juries.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer must form a very low estimate of the faculties of the Committee when he made a comparison between the case of a man brought to a Court of Justice under a subpoena, and a man compelled to serve in the militia against his will, and then compelled to swear to serve faithfully. The witness in the Court of Justice was only sworn to tell the truth—the militiaman, who had been balloted, was obliged to swear he would do a thing which he disliked to do, and if he did not so swear he would be punished. There was, in truth, no parity whatever. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), in his great Maynooth case, had mentioned nothing half so odious and infamous as this. Hon. Gentlemen had cheered the hon. Member for West Kent, when he said the 800 deserters were not balloted men; but if men who freely enlisted had violated their oaths, how much more likely were those to break them who were forced into swearing, and who had taken the oath under duresse? The requirement was immoral and depraving, and ought not to be extorted from any British subject.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had intended to
 728
 MR. BRIGHT  thought his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson) was perfectly right in proposing this Proviso now. The exemptions came after the ballot clause in the 42  Geo. 724
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he must complain of the mode in which the Bill was managed by the Government. It was said that an opportunity of discussing the question of exemptions might be taken by any Member moving a clause or a proviso, and no doubt they were at liberty to do so; but the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary would admit that any one who wished to discuss the Bill fairly, was placed in a position of extreme difficulty by the course taken by the Government; and he was sure that if the right hon. Gentleman was on that side of the House, they would hear him, as a lawyer, enter on a dissertation to show how impossible it would be for militiamen to understand this Bill, taken in connexion with other Acts of Parliament, and that even the law officers of the Crown were unable to reconcile them. His right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson) objected to some of the exemptions; and if those objections were valid ones, the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary ought to bring up a clause to meet them. He would be a bold man who would say that Peers should be exempted, and not Members of the House of Commons; he would be a bold man who would Bay that clergymen and ministers of reli-
 718
 MR. BRIGHT : I do not wish to put the Committee to the trouble of dividing, though I believe upon the constitutional part of the question I had the best of the argument.
 MR. BRIGHT : Yes; and my Amendment is based on the simple ground, that Scotland, Ireland, and Wales are excluded from the operation of the clause now under consideration. [Mr. WALPOLE: No; not Wales.] Well, then, Ireland and Scotland. 80,000 men were to be raised by the 1st of January next. If there were not enough of volunteers, compulsion, in the shape of the ballot, was to be resorted to. Now, the proposal of the Government was, that those men so balloted for should be sworn to serve for five years, and they might be called upon to serve, not only in England, where they were raised, but also in Scotland or Ireland, to which they did not belong, at the disposition of the Home Secretary. If the whole of the United Kingdom were placed under the provisions of the measure, an argument might be used on the score of equality of transfer; and if militia were sent from England to Scotland or Ireland, so militia might be sent from Scotland and Ireland to England. But here there was no such reciprocity; and he complained that so little regard was paid to the liberty of the subject, and to the wishes and feelings of the English people. He proposed that the oath which was in the Militia Act 42  Geo. Geo. 695
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, by the haste with which he had risen, seemed desirous to prevent the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary from speaking, lest he should commit himself. The noble Lord seemed to be the big brother of the Government. The noble Lord exclaimed the other night —"What, would you treat the people of Ireland as if they were traitors?" Why then would the noble Lord exclude that part of the United Kingdom from the operation of the Bill? It was a special ground of complaint against the Bill, that, enforcing it in one portion of the Kingdom only, they took balloted men from that portion, and insisted upon their serving in parts of the United Kingdom to which the Bill did not apply. That was not just dealing with the people of England and Wales. The noble Lord's inconsistencies were interminable. The noble Lord said that Ireland was as likely to be invaded as England; but supposing that 60,000 French soldiers were to land some foggy night at Kinsale, or Bantry Bay, or wherever else the noble Lord had fixed upon in the south of Ireland for that purpose, did the noble Lord think that the 80,000 militiamen, who were snugly in their beds, or pursuing their habits of industry in England, could be collected and taken over in time to arrest the progress of the invaders? The noble Lord seemed to be able to force the Government to do anything; but he (Mr. Bright) did not wish him to force the Government to extend the militia to Scotland and Ireland. He did, however, hope the noble Lord would support him in his proposition, that the oath should not be so constructed as to force men balloted in England to serve in Ireland and Scotland.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he objected to the clause in its present shape, because the militia might be compelled to serve in Ireland or other parts of the United Kingdom in which they bad not been raised.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the. object of the Interchanging Act was connected with a particular department of the duties of the militia—namely, the suppression of insurrection and rebellion within the Kingdom. But that duty not being required of them under the present Bill, he did not see there could be the same necessity for sending the English militia to Ireland. A law of this nature ought not to be confined to one portion of the United Kingdom only, though he would not move that it should be extended to either Scotland or Ireland. As, however, the right hon. Gentleman said there was not the slightest possibility that the power would be used, he (Mr. Bright) suggested that in this case the Bath in the 42  Geo. 692
 MR. BRIGHT  said, they had not been discussing these clauses, but for three-fourths of the night they had discussed the exemptions. The division on the compulsory part of the clause was hurried on in the earlier part of the evening to allow Gentlemen—who had now returned with white waistcoats—to go to dinner, and the majority was but 17. It was their intention to take another opportunity of discussing that point; but they did not intend to take what were called factious proceedings against this measure; and, looking back to the course hon. Gentlemen opposite had taken in past years, the conduct of hon. Members on the Opposition side of the House would bear a very fair comparison with that of those who now sat on the Ministerial benches. He proposed to take a division on the ballot in a fresh House, and therefore supported the Motion.
 MR. ELLIS  said, his father had a strong objection to serve in the Army, or to permit his sons to bear arms. His (Mr. Ellis's) younger brother was balloted for, and the consequence was his imprisonment, for he had no goods to be seized on default of personal service, or procuring a substitute. Now, he thought the Committee would agree with him that that was a most arbitrary and unjust proceeding. He hoped that the possibility of such injustice under this Act would be prevented.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the hon. Member ought to have come down prepared with some statement to show to what extent the area of choice would be limited by the adoption of his Proviso; because unless some data were given, it would be impossible for the Committee to come to a decision without running the risk of so narrowing the field of choice, as to throw a burden upon a small number of persons. A man with move than one child was exempted on the principle that a heavy burden might otherwise be thrown on the parish. He should feel it his duty to oppose the Proviso of the hon. Member.
 MR. HUME  said, he was unwilling to excuse any man from the performance of a public duty, and therefore he would not limit the ballot to those who enjoyed the suffrage. He would recomend the hon. Member (Mr. Fox) to withdraw his Motion, and to substitute for it a Proviso to the effect that every person drawn by the ballot should be entitled to have his name registered in the list of voters for the town or county in which he resided. With respect to the observations of the hon. Member for Ennis (The O'Gorman Mahon), he must remind him that the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell), was so far from thinking this Bill necessary that he actually voted against it; and if the hon. Member was such a follower of
 715
 MR. HUME  said, that the Government having succeeded in carrying this important, but most unpopular, part of the Bill by so
 707
 MR. HUME  said, this was not a military question at all, but whether a man drafted into the militia against his will, would be obliged to take an oath. The objections to the Bill were twofold: first, there was no necessity for the force; and, secondly, that it was inconsistent and improper for a moribund Parliament to take upon itself to establish an army of reserve. His main objection was to the 16th Clause, and if the Government would consent to forego the compulsory power of conscription which that clause gave, his opposition to the measure would be much mitigated. He believed the Government would not have proceeded with a Militia Bill, if the late Government had not introduced one.
 MR. BUCK  said, the Committee would fall into a great absurdity if it consented to the Proviso of the hon. Member for Oldham. The Committee had already agreed to adopt the ballot, but the Proviso of the hon. Member for Oldham would make that principle more harsh in its operation. How could the hon. Member go to his constituency after he had endeavoured to make the ballot more oppressive than it otherwise would be? The hon. Member wished to give those on the registry who objected to serve an opportunity of withdrawing, and, therefore, he would limit the number of those who were to be drawn by ballot.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the Government had carefully considered the subject, and he would at once afford the information required. The exemptions were to be as follows:—1st, Peers of Parliament; 2nd, persons serving in other forces of the Crown; 3rd, officers on half-pay; 4th, commissioned officers who had served four years in the militia; 5th, resident Members of either University; 6th, clergymen; 7th, persons licensed to teach in separate congregations; 8th, constables and peace officers; 9th, articled clerks and apprentices; 10th, seamen and seafaring men; 11th, persons employed in Her Majesty's dockyards, &c.; 12th, persons free of the Company of Watermen; 13th, any poor man having more than one child born in wedlock.
 MR. WALPOLE  considered that it would be the best course for any Gentleman who wished to make any exemptions, to move a clause containing such exemptions. He would not say that the Government would not consider the present exemptions, although he thought good reasons could be given for them.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that if any hon. Member thought that exemptions should be added to or taken away from those now proposed, it was of course in his power to move a Proviso to that effect, and take the sense of the Committee upon it.
 MR. WALPOLE  replied that the exemptions would be the same as in the 42  Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the exemptions had better come at the end of Clause 18; and if the right hon. Gentleman would agree to that, he would then state what his views were respecting it.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the two grounds upon which the hon. Gentleman put forward the Proviso which he had proposed, seemed to be these: first, that everybody who was compelled to serve should have all the rights of citizenship conferred upon him; and, secondly, that many persons who entertained conscientious scruples against military service under any circumstances, and who came under the operation of this Bill, would, by having to pay the penalty of disqualification in the event of their not serving, thereby contribute all they ought to do towards the force which was about to be raised. With regard to the first of these questions, namely, whether the rights of citizenship should always attach upon those who were called on to serve, that was evidently a much larger question than could be discussed now. It must be discussed as part of a great measure; the Committee must consider how far it would be applicable to other services, and whether the mere fact of serving in a force should entitle a man to vote for a county or borough. But the way in which the hon. Gentleman had framed his Proviso, put it out of the question for the Committee to adopt it in its present form; it could only he adopted in the way to which he (Mr. Walpole) had referred, as part of a general measure for extending the franchise. The operation of the Proviso would be to narrow the basis out of which the ballot would be drawn, and to throw upon a minority the whole burden of serving, to the exclusion of the great bulk of the people of this country from the service. This was so serious an objection that he thought the arguments of the hon. Gentleman
 710
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought the reasons which had been assigned by the hon. Gentleman were very strong reasons for retaining the words in the clause, for the hon. Gentleman admitted that in certain cases it might be necessary to have recourse to the ballot. The Committee would remember that the two objects of this Bill were, first to raise 80,000 men to co-operate in the defence of the country, ready to take the field, or to go into garrison; and, second, to raise the men, if possible, by voluntary enlistment, according to the preamble of the Bill, "with as little disturbance as may be to the ordinary occupations of the country." The basis of the Bill was volunteer enlistment, although, if volunteer enlistment failed, recourse must be had to the ballot, or else
 698
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought the clause necessary. If it were intended to employ the militia to suppress insurrection or rebellion, the Bill might be objectionable if it proposed to send them to Ireland for that purpose. But it was only intended to send them for the defence of the country, and to enable the Government to bring over the troops of the line from Ireland to England, in case this country should be invaded. Unless the necessity arose, this power would not be put in force, but if that necessity did arise, the power ought to be put in force, consequently the power ought to exist in the Bill.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that under the 42nd  Geo. Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the hon. Member was not quite correct in his facts. No orders had been given for a compulsory attendance at Divine worship, nor had the men been subjected to any additional drill for not attending. The facts were these: many men in the force were precluded, by the nature of their duties, from attending Divine service on Sundays; but it was found practicable to afford an opportunity of voluntarily attending church on Wednesdays to those who were prevented from doing so on Sunday, and several of the men cheerfully availed themselves of that regulation. It was found, however, that those men who did not wish to attend church had nothing to do between the time of being inspected and the time of going to their pay (Wednesday being the pay-day), and it was considered a judicious regulation that those who did not wish to go to church should have their drill in that half-hour. It was not an additional drill, but was substituted for one which, under any circumstances, they would have had to undergo.
 MR. WALPOLE : The hon. Member gave notice of the question which he intended to ask this evening, and the information which I procured was with reference to that question, and that question only. I do think that, if the hon. Gentleman means to challenge the accuracy of my information, it is but fair that before he does so, I should be allowed an opportunity of obtaining additional information.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that what his right hon. Colleague had said was, that he did not object to these exemptions being taken into consideration by the Committee at a proper time, but what he objected to was, that no notice had been given of such an intention; and he thought it might be well for them to consider whether they ought not to postpone all consideration of them at present.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that they merely continued by the Bill the exemptions in the old Act of Parliament, and he objected to the extension of exemptions, beyond those contained in that Act.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : Well, be it so; but be it remembered that what I stated' was, that the men were compelled to go to
 685
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  was still of opinion that the statement he had made of the case was the correct one, and was inclined to believe that an erroneous version of the facts had been communicated to the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman could not deny that the men were sent to drill in default of going to church; and he (Mr. Duncombe) believed that he was in a position to show that this was an additional drill, and not in substitution of any other drill to be undergone on any other day. He begged the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to these facts.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  begged to ask the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department by what authority a portion of the K division of the Metropolitan Police were ordered, on the 5th and 12th of April, to attend Divine service in St. Thomas's Church, Stepney, and in default of so doing were subjected to military drill? In order that the House might clearly understand the question, he would state a few facts. On Wednesday, the 5th of April, as he had been informed, there came down a peremptory order that 130 or 140 men of the division of police to which he had referred should attend service at St. Thomas's Church, Stepney, at half-past twelve o'clock that same day. The promulgation of this order created great amazement among the men. The alternative at the same time proposed was, that if they refused to go to church they should undergo an extra drill. One hundred of the men, after expressing their surprise at this unusual proceeding, consented to go to church. Thirty of them and one sergeant preferred the drill. These were Roman Catholics or Protestant Dissenters. On Wednesday, the 12th inst., the same thing again occurred. The men murmured and expressed their dissatisfaction, but the majority of them consented to go to church. Thirty-eight of them, however, refused, and were sent to drill. These were occurrences of so singular a character in this country of religious freedom, that he could not but think that some explanation was required respecting them. When men entered the police force it was not customary
 684
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : The Attorney General surely could not intend to have one oath for balloted men, and another for volunteers. The oath must surely be the same for both. This was a good reason why they should postpone the consideration of some of the clauses until the Committee had decided whether the ballot would be adopted. He thought it was most unjust to impose the provisions of this clause upon England, and not upon Scotland or Ireland, which were to derive the benefit of the force to be raised in England exclusively. An Irish Member had observed to him that Ireland was peculiarly a soldier-growing country, and if the Government wanted to raise an extra force, he thought it was better for them to employ Irishmen, who were now unemployed, or with bad wages, than to have recourse to the people of England, who were generally fully employed, and with much better wages.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, if the right hon. Gentleman would submit the list of all the exemptions he proposed, so that they might have an opportunity of considering them, and whether any additions should be made to them, he would agree to the proposal, otherwise he could not see but that this was the proper time to press this proviso.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had now another Proviso to bring forward.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would now bring forward the Amendment of
 723
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  wished to know whether the Government would lay upon the table of the House a list of the exemptions, that the Committee might have an opportunity of examining them.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  could not see why Peers should be exempted, or allowed to escape the payment for a substitute. The duties of the other House were not so severe as those required from Members of that House. He thought that the Peers ought not to be exempt, and he should take the sense of the Committee upon the subject. The right hon. Gentleman's list began with Peers, and ended with paupers. What did he mean by a poor man? What was the degree of poverty required? [Sir C. BURRELL: A day labourer.] Then a day labourer was the poor man, and all day labourers who had one child born in
 717 Geo.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he should be sorry to take any person by surprise; but he had three or four times made an appeal to the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department to submit to the House the list of exemptions he would support, in order that the sense of the House should be taken on each separate I exception. The right hon. Gentleman had told him that he would not do that; that it was for him (Mr. M. Gibson), or any person who wished to do so, to move Provisos with a view to objecting to any exemptions which the right hon. Gentleman might propose, or to propose any exemptions they might think it necessary to add; and he (Mr. M. Gibson) was now taking the course which had been suggested by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department himself. The I right hon. Gentleman proposed to exempt Peers from serving in the militia by the Bill he had submitted to them; and he (Mr. M. Gibson) took the opportunity—a most fit-ting and legitimate one—by a Proviso in the mode the right hon. Gentleman had suggested himself, to object to that ex-emption. He saw no just ground for it; he did not see why Peers should not purchase substitutes if they were drawn as well as other men.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had another Proviso with respect to the balloted men. By the clause as it stood the man balloted for and obliged compulsorily to serve, was also obliged to take an oath that he would serve faithfully for five years. Now, he objected to the compulsory oath. To the volunteer who accepted a bonus, and who knew the conditions upon which he joined the militia, he saw no objection to his taking an oath; but when they compelled a man to become a soldier, and further to call upon him to take an oath to serve faithfully for five years, it was little short of blasphemy. ["Oh, oh!"] Yes; he repeated the phrase, and he was not at all sure that a Court of Law would not release a man from his obligation who had taken the oath under duresse. Such an oath so taken with the fear of imprisonment before the eyes of the militiaman, was not a binding oath. An oath, to be
 729
 MR. MITCHELL  said, that on the bringing up of the Report, he should move that no substitutes be allowed, in order that hon. Gentlemen who were drawn by ballot might themselves have an opportunity of defending the country.
 MR. WAKLEY  considered that the argument of the fear of the ballot inducing voluntary enlistment was valueless, because the Government had announced that there would be no ballot this year. There was a very strong objection to the ballot; and the other day he heard of artisans in one shop having declared that, if drawn, they would rather go to gaol than serve. He hoped the Amendment would be carried, and that they would thus get rid of the Bill.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, it was now when the exemptions came to be discussed, that they saw the odious character of this measure. He, for one, entirely disapproved of the proposition of the hon. Member for Evesham (SirH.Willoughby). He thought, if there was to be a ballot, there should be no exemptions at all, whether of Peer or poor man. Many a man who was called poor was a richer man than a Peer; for, if a poor man lived within his means, he was a richer man than a Peer who did not live within his means, but squandered them. But why should they inflict this penalty upon a poor man at all? Why did many men refrain from marriage but from motives of prudence—and he (Mr. Waklcy) said that they were entitled to great credit for their discretion—and the Committee was now going to offer a premium upon imprudent marriages; for he believed, if this proposal were to be adopted, it would lead to the formation of an enormous number of imprudent marriages, which would end in nothing but misery. He
 720
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he understood the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer to say, very distinctly, that on a future occasion the exemptions would be taken into consideration. [ Gries of
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he was against exemptions altogether; but if there were to be any, no persons could put in a stronger claim on public grounds than medical practitioners. He should therefore move a Proviso, exempting them from liability to serve in the militia.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that as it had been admitted by the Government, and expressly declared by the noble Lord the
 732
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the declaration of the Government only served to fortify his previous opinion. He had made himself acquainted with all the circumstances of the case as connected with the Bishop of Bath and Wells, and when the time came he would he perfectly prepared to show that that right rev. Prelate had acted not only up to the letter hut to the spirit of the law throughout the whole transaction.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I understood that the conduct of the Bishop of Bath and Wells, in the institution of Mr. Bennett, was distinctly impugned on a former night, as not being according to law; and it is on that account that in the discussion which then took place, I suggested that the Government should ascertain and state whether that was so or not.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I wish to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman with respect to the meaning of a part of the explanation he has just given. ["Order!"] I can assure the House it has reference to a point which is involved in the right hon. Gentleman's statement. I wish to know if I am right in understanding him to say that Her Majesty's Government have ascertained that the steps which were taken by the Bishop of Bath and Wells, whose conduct was impugned on a former occasion, in the matter of the institution of Mr. Bennett as vicar of Frome—that the conduct of the Bishop of Bath and Wells, according to the information they have received, was in due course and in all points according to law?
 MR. EWART  said, he was convinced the common sense of the country was against the measure entirely. He objected generally to exemptions; but the Government, by their measure, introduced the question of exemptions, and one of them was the case of a poor man having more j than one child. The proposed proviso, therefore, in one respect, approximated very nearly to what was the law under the Militia Act, and he should give it his support. Let the Government go to the country On the volunteer principle, and not have recourse to a conscript system, borrowed from the example of France. They had the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Hudson), and the hon. Member for Wakefield (Mr. G. Sandars), rising on the other side, and stating they were against the compulsory clauses; but reason brought them back to the same conclusion, that the best way of meeting the difficulty was by increasing our standing Army. If that great man who now swayed the destinies of France—great on account of his elevated position, if from nothing else-—could hear their debates on this subject, he would consider it the most ridiculous exhibition ever made by legislators. They ought to have a real force, not a paper force, like that by which this Bill pretended to (legislate for the country.
 MR. EWART  would also advise the Government to take powers to raise volunteers only. If they required a greater force, let them add to the regular Army, and particularly to the artillery, which, in modern warfare, would be found the most important branch of the service.
 MR. EWART  thought that if the Government promised to consider the question of exemptions, his right hon. Friend ought to consent to postpone it; but if no such promise were made, that was the time to press the subject.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he could join his testimony to that of the hon. Member for Norwich (Mr. Peto) as to the strong feeling of the working classes against the compulsory clauses, to which he attributed the odium expressed to the measure, and the great obstructions offered to its passing through the House. In conceding those clauses, the Government would yield no point, because they intended to rely upon the voluntary system until the end of the year. In the intervening period they had an experiment to try; and if that experiment should fail, and if the new Parliament should be convinced of the necessity of such a measure, no doubt powers and functions would then be readily granted by the Legislature. He contended, further, that by insisting now upon the compulsory clauses, which were to be inoperative until the end of the year, they would most materially impede and damage the trial they were about to make of the voluntary system; they would keep alive the feelings of opposition which had been excited in the country; they would sustain all the antipathy felt by the working classes; and they would extend that antipathy to those who, without the dread of the ballot, might be disposed to assist as volunteers.
 MR. W. J. FOX  then rose to move a Proviso to the clause, to the effect that no person be made liable to compulsory military service whose name is not on the registration list as an elector for some borough, city, or county. It did not follow that because the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) had withdrawn the clause respecting the franchise of which he some time ago had given notice, that therefore the principle therein involved was to be given up. The right hon. Gentleman had proposed that we should make militiamen voters; he (Mr. Fox) proposed that we should make voters militiamen. Look at the hundreds and thousands of people who were, it might be said, without the pale of the Constitution, and who—to use language which had once been used in another place—had nothing to do with the laws but to obey them, and yet who were the equals, in many respects, of those who enjoyed the civil rights and privileges of the country. They were outlaws from our institutions; and yet they contributed to the resources of the State as well as to the supply of their own wants, and they ought not, in common justice, to be subject to such a law as this. In considering the classes who were to be liable to serve in a militia, he thought that property, the habits, the customs, and the occupations of the people in different parts of the country, and the possession of the franchise, should be taken into account, as well as the mere amount of population in the different counties and ridings. In the Saxon and Norman period of their history, the right of bearing arms was connected with the privilege of citizenship. He founded his Motion on the plainest principles of justice—the principle that those thousands who were beyond the pale of the Constitution, and whose civil existence was not recognised, should be exempted from the duty of bearing arms. He only claimed for them the exemption that belonged to their proscribed condition. But he recommended this Motion to the Committee on grounds of policy as well as grounds of justice. Were they sure that this enrolment of proscribed subjects might not involve consequences of serious and most momentous character? Lord
 708 709
 MR. W. J. FOX  rose to explain. The object of the Proviso was, that persons enjoying the franchise, and having a conscientious objection to war, might take their names off the registration list, and thus prevent the necessity of serving.
 MR. FOX  said, he would withdraw his Proviso.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he could not ac-
 716 As
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he should now move that the Chairman do now leave the Chair. He would appeal to Her Majesty's Government not to proceed any further with the Bill that night. He did
 733
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, he had for many years taken a deep interest in this subject. What was right and expedient in 1802, might not be light and expedient in 1852. He hoped the Committee would consider the advance that had been made during the last fifty years. About 4,000 or 5,000 oaths had been abolished at the Custom House alone. He had himself twice succeeded in inducing the House of Commons, by majorities, to abolish compulsory oaths in Courts of Justice. He would just allude to the preposterous state of the law in this respect:— If a man was balloted in the militia, he must make a promissory oath as a security for his obedience and fidelity; but if the man were a Moravian, or a Quaker, or a Separatist, or had been any one of these, and was now an infidel, he was exempted from swearing. But if he said he was an Independent, then he must take the oath. If a balloted militiaman did not take the oath, he subjected himself to imprisonment. If a man valued an obligation, he would respect it without an oath, and if he did not, the oath was no security. He knew an instance of a man who had been four years in prison because he refused to take an oath on the ground of conscientious scruples; and at length an Act of
 731
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  hoped that there would be a militia neither in England nor Ireland. The Government was certainly a little inconsistent, for in another place they had granted a Committee to investigate Captain Warner's invention, which was to render it unnecessary to have a militia at all. He (Sir G. Pechell) thought there was a great deal of humbug about Captain Warner's invention, but he was willing to let it continue if they could by any means get rid of this Bill. It had been said that the only way to get rid of protection was to place it upon the Treasury benches; and he supposed that the only way to get rid of Captain Warner was
 693
 SIR GEORGE STRICKLAND  said, he was old enough to remember something of the ballot, and he was quite certain, if hon. Members referred back to the heartrending scenes which attended it, they would not be surprised if the alarm of the country was ten times greater now than it is. fie was inclined to join the hon. Baronet (Sir H. Willoughby) in exempting married men, if there was to be any exemption at all; but, to render the measure just, it ought to fall upon the Peer as well as the poor man.' But, with the firm conviction that the more the Bill was discussed and known, the more it would be seen to be a measure totally uncalled for, he trusted it would be yet prevented from passing.
 SIR HENRY W1LLOUGHBY  rose to move another Proviso, that no married man should be liable to the ballot, and no unmarried, except between the ages of twenty and twenty-five. In support of his Motion he would state that it appeared by the last census there were 8,753,000 males in England and Wales alone. Of these there were 800,000 between the ages of twenty and twenty-five, and deducting the married men, there would still remain 600,000 liable to serve. He mentioned this to show that they would, even if they agreed to his Motion, still have a large class to draw from. It was of no
 719
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY,  in reply to the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman
 722
 MR. PETO  said, he must earnestly impress upon the minds of the Government, that though the Committee had by a late vote come to the decision that it had not sufficient confidence in voluntary enrolment, it would be well to consider if the country would not prefer the augmentation of the standing Army. That would be but a larger payment for the protection— if that was necessary—of our property. The fact of two Governments having deemed it necessary to bring a precautionary measure before the House, was a sufficient reason for its being considered of importance; but he said, let the House give the Government the power to augment the standing Army if necessary. He could assure the Committee that the industrial classes felt deeply upon this question— they viewed it with feelings which few had an idea of. He could assure the Government it was with no party feeling he made this suggestion; but he thought, if the country was not satisfied with this measure, the Committee would do well to consider his suggestion.
 MR. PETO  said, he believed that he had been more extensively engaged with the industrious classes of this country than any Member in that House, and he thought that the better course would be for the Government to postpone this question of the ballot, in order that they might have an opportunity of testing the opinion of the country on the subject, and of ascertaining whether or not the proposed system of voluntary enlistment would work well.
 699
 MR. PETO  moved to add a Proviso to the clause, that no person belonging to the Society of Friends, or Quakers, should be liable to be drawn or called on to serve. He was aware that a brother of the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. Ellis) had suffered several months' imprisonment on account of his refusal to serve in the militia.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  believed that no Act was necessary to raise a militia by voluntary enlistment in Ireland. He knew that during the war the Irish militia was raised by volunteering; and he should rather apprehend that the Act being still in force, no change in the law was necessary there as in England. By the existing laws relating to England, balloted men would be liable to serve in any part of the United Kingdom, and thus there would likewise be no necessity for legislation respecting them. The object of the clause was merely to make volunteers liable to the same extent of service as the balloted men.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I hope that the Government will not accede to any such proposal as that which has emanated from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester. The militia of each island was originally limited in service to the island where it was raised; but the object of a militia force not being to suppress rebellion or insurrection, but rather to defend the country from foreign invasion, it was found inconvenient to confine the English militia to Great Britain, and the Irish militia to Ireland, and the Legislature therefore altered that restriction of service, and declared that all militiamen should be liable to serve in any portion of the United Kingdom to which they might be sent. So far from seeing a reason for the ancient restriction in the fact that it is proposed by Government to raise the militia only in Great Britain, it appears to me that that is an additional argument why we should preserve the arrangement of the Act of 1812. The reason why any militia is required is, that you may possibly need additional force, beside the troops of the line, to repel a foreign invasion; but in case of war, I cannot see that Ireland may not be just as likely to be invaded as England. Nor can I think that the fact that the Government does not think fit to raise a militia at present in Ireland, should be received as a reason why the English militia should not be sent to that country. The argument to be deduced from that fact appears to me to take a totally different direction, and to be conclusive as to the expediency of reserving to ourselves the power of sending the English militia to Ireland, in case the prospect of a foreign invasion should render it desirable to do so.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  submitted to the hon. Gentleman that that was a very hasty way of putting to him a question of that kind. The hon.
 742
 MR. ADDBRLEY  did not suppose this question was anything other than an open one with the Government; if it was not, he regretted being compelled to place himself in opposition to their views. But, being alive to the urgency of the subject, and being aware of the views entertained by the colonists, he could not submit to deal with a measure of such importance upon grounds so wholly futile as those advanced by his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonies. Every argument he adduced went on simple assumption. The right hon. Gentleman argued, not against the Bill, but against the principle of intolerance; but in such an argument he was begging the question, for it might be asked, was the Bill based on the principle of intolerance? Again, the right hon. Gentleman said the colonists did not wish the separation of their Churches from the Mother Church. But the question was, would
 766 ipse dixit 767 exigeant 768 769
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  agreed with his right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) that the Established Church in the Australian Colonies was in a most disadvantageous position, and that the colonists were deprived of those privileges and of that freedom of action which were possessed by other colonies and by the Mother Church in this country. This arose from the circumstance of those colonies not enjoying the benefit of the ecclesiastical law which existed in this country, and more especially of the right of jurisdiction in spiritual courts. The House was probably aware that an attempt had been made to obviate this inconvenience by introducing into the patents of the bishops of Australia a power to exercise spiritual jurisdiction, and to establish for that purpose ecclesiastical courts, with an appeal to the Archbishop of Canterbury. But the attention of the Government having, in 1847, been turned to that subject, the law officers of the Crown were of opinion that the power so conferred by the patent was unlawful, and that the Crown had no power to establish by patent ecclesiastical courts in the Colonies. The consequence, of course, was, that no efficient ecclesiastical jurisdiction could possibly be exercised; because, without the power which was conferred upon the ecclesiastical courts to summon persons before them and to administer oaths, it was impossible that justice could be administered. An illustration of this difficulty had been stated in the cases of Mr. Bateman and Mr. Wigmore, which had been alluded to by his right hon. Friend. The licenses of both those persons were withdrawn by the bishop—with respect to one, on account of some misconduct which was alleged against him; and with respect to the other, on account of his insolvency. But the stipends possessed by those persons were given to them by Government; and they being chaplains, and not holding rectories or curacies, the bishop could exercise over them no power at all. All the effect of withdrawing their licences was to produce
 778 "By authority of this present Parliament, according to the said submission and petition of the said clergy, that they, nor any of them, from henceforth shall presume to attempt, allege, claim, or put in use any constitutions or ordinances, provincial or synodal, or any other canons; nor shall enact, promulge, or execute any such canons, constitutions, or ordinances provincial, by whatsoever name or names they may be called, in their convocations in time coming (which alway shall be assembled by authority of
 779 780 781 "That no person shall be received into the ministry, nor admitted to any ecclesiastical function, except he shall first subscribe a declaration, &c., that the King's Majesty under God is the only supreme governor of this realm, and of all other His Highness's dominions and countries, as well in spiritual or ecclesiastical things or causes as temporal.'" 782
 MR. BECKETT DENISON , having had some experience in county elections, believed they might well be concluded in one day. There were very few instances in which the decision of the first day had been reversed by the polling on the second. County elections, too, involved a holyday
 792
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : After what has been stated by the hon. Gentleman, it really appears that it must be obvious that it is a mere mockery to name the 16th of June as the day on which the House will appoint a Select Committee to inquire into the system of education in Maynooth College. If there be an inquiry, it cannot be by appointing a Committee that cannot meet until the 18th of June, or sit more than three or four days, or possibly a week after that date. This is a very grave subject; and if the hon. Gentleman really wishes for an inquiry into the system of education at Maynooth, it is not a thing to be begun and ended in a day. It is a matter of the utmost importance—it is a matter on which the feelings of the people of this country, of Scotland, and of Ireland are deeply interested; and to propose that
 796 797
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The right hon. Gentleman is mistaken if he supposes that I recommended the issue of a Royal Commission for the purpose of inquiring into the system of education at Maynooth. All that I said was, that the Act provided a particular mode of inquiry, and that mode should in the first instance be resorted to, if it was not proposed absolutely to abrogate the grant.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that after what had been stated that evening by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), it appeared to him that the House could not come to any decision upon the subject of the Colonial Bishops' Bill that day. He thought it quite right that, after what had occurred, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Colonies should have an opportunity of stating his views in regard to this important subject; but he thought it would be very inconvenient that after that the debate should be allowed
 743
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  replied, there was a provision in a recent Act of Parliament for an increase of the number of polling-booths. That would not come into operation until the next Parliament was elected, and he believed it would not be necessary in the meanwhile to make any additional provision for the purpose.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, it would be perfectly easy for the House to agree to the second reading of this Bill, which would simply involve an acknowledgment of the principle that, as soon as convenient, the time of polling in counties should be reduced from two days to one; and then all the Government would have to do would be to determine in Committee when the Bill should come into operation. He begged to move, therefore, that this Bill be now read a second time.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  moved the Second Reading of this Bill, as to which he thought there was such a concurrence of opinion in its favour that no argument was needed from him him to prove its necessity.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE : I confess, at first sight, I feel some embarrassment how I shall proceed to support the Bill of my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), when, on the one hand, I see the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Colonies (Sir J. Pakington) impugning it, because it is an arrogant and tyrannical measure, intended to place the Church of England in a position of supremacy, tyranny, and domination, utterly intolerable to the Colonies; and, on the other side, I see the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis) lamenting that it does not put the Church of England in that position of dominancy and supremacy in the Colonies which she is so naturally and so justly entitled to occupy. At first sight there seems to he some difficulty; but on looking at the matter a second time, and a little deeper, I think this the very best and surest proof of the excellence, temper, and moderation of the Bill—that two hon. Gentlemen, both very sincerely, no doubt, and very ably—should be impugning it, each upon his own principles, which are of a very different and totally dissonant character. The fact is, the Bill does not do either the one thing or the other. If the Bill were intended to place the Church of England in the Colonies either in a position of supremacy or degradation, we should be doing that which we have no right to do, and that which the Colonies would tell us, very quickly and very unmistakeably, we have neither the right nor the power to do.
 774 status 775 776 "And no such regulation shall authorise the bishop of any diocese to confirm or consecrate, or to ordain, or to license or institute any person to any see, or to any pastoral charge or other episcopal or clerical office, except upon such person's having immediately before taken the oath of allegiance to Her Majesty, and having likewise subscribed the Thirty-nine Articles, and having furthermore declared his unfeigned assent and consent to the Book of Common Prayer." status, 777
 MR. OSWALD  had not had any intention of addressing the House, though his name was on the back of the Bill; but the Secretary for the Colonies had come down to the House as a Minister of the Crown to speak on a subject touching the vital interests of the colonial Churches, and yet that right hon. Gentleman was so ignorant of the Book of Common Prayer, so ignorant of the subject on which he had addressed the House, that he did not know that in the service for "the ordination of Deacons" the oath of supremacy occurred as follows:—
 "I, A. B., do swear that I do from my heart abhor, detest, and abjure, as impious and heretical, that damnable doctrine and position, that princes excommunicated or deprived by the Pope, or any authority of the See of Rome, may be deposed or murdered by their subjects, or any other whatsoever. And I do declare that no foreign prince, person, prelate, state, or potentate, hath, or ought to have, any jurisdiction, power, superiority, pre-eminence, or authority, within this realm. So help me, God!"
 MR. OSWALD  begged to say, in explanation, that though he was certainly wrong in the point relating to the omission which had been adverted to, his argument, he thought, remained the same.
 MR. ADDERLEY  moved the postponement of the debate to that day fortnight.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, his object was to bring forward the question on such a day as he thought would afford the fairest opportunity for discussing the question. Now, as he did not think that Wednesday would afford such an opportunity, he must decline the proposition of the hon. Member for Youghal. He should endeavour to consult with some Members of the House with the view of obtaining an earlier day than the 16th of June for resuming the debate.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that his hon.
 795
 MR. PACKE  thought that the admission made by the hon. Member that the Bill would disfranchise some voters, was of itself a strong objection against the Bill. He had been a great deal connected with county elections, and had never known any bribery or corruption in his own county, though no doubt both had been practised in boroughs. It would be most unfair to deprive any elector of the power of voting in another county by any such limitation as that proposed. He should give the Bill his determined opposition.
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the hon. Gentleman that it was out of order to move an Amendment upon an Amendment.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  deemed it his duty to offer every opposition in his power to this Bill. It had been said that the second day's polling caused great dissipation and immorality in the large manufacturing towns. More shame for them if it did! Why was not better order kept? The Bill was a disgrace to a civilised community.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was favourable to the principle of this Bill, although he believed the difficulty about the increased number of polling-booths would be greater than the noble Lord supposed. He trusted that the House would not divide upon the second reading.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the Government are not prepared to abrogate the grant to the College of Maynooth, nor has any thing fallen from any Member of Her Majesty's Government that would at all justify that statement on the part of the noble Lord. I am in favour of an inquiry into the system pursued in that College, which is the Motion brought forward by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire; though the grounds on which he recommends that Motion are not such as I can concur in. My right hon. Friend to whose speech the noble Lord has referred (Mr. Walpole), expressed his opinion that although an inquiry
 798 799
 MR. CARDWELL : I understand it is now proposed to postpone the adjourned debate respecting the Maynooth inquiry to the 16th of June. That is a day on which many of us hope the House will be no longer sitting, and when, at all events, it will not be possible to commence a long inquiry in a Committee upstairs. The House has, therefore, a right to know from the hon. Gentleman who put the notice on the paper for the 16th of June what is his real intention. I was one of those who intended, if the adjourned debate had been resumed to-day, to offer some observations for the purpose of showing why I voted in favour of an inquiry. I should do so in the hope that it might be conducted in a fair and dispassionate spirit, and that it would lead to a result consistent with justice, believing that in that event it would do much to promote the public good; but now this is the state of affairs, that whereas this notice was first put on the paper on the 10th of February, exactly one week after the House assembled, it is now proposed to postpone it to a period at which it may not possibly come on before the House is adjourned. Every Member of Parliament, whether he be of the Catholic persuasion or of the Protestant— whether he be an opponent of the grant or a supporter of it—must see that while a fair and dispassionate inquiry, calmly conducted, might lead to a most beneficial result for the general good, we have a right to know whether this matter is to be merely held in suspense; and I think I am not putting an impertinent question, when I ask the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) to state what his intention is in regard to it.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that after the expression of the wish by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) for the postponement of the discussion for a fortnight, he would not, on the present occasion, go at any length into the question before the House. He would not enter into the question of the law in the Colonies, and the condition of the Church there. The hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken (Sir W. P. Wood), said that he wished to leave the Church unfettered. But what did he mean by leaving it unfettered? Did he mean to remove all restrictions on the part of the State, and all advantages from connexion with it? But the Bill would not place the Church on a footing of equality with the other Churches —it went to remove it from the control of the State, and yet to leave it from State connexion advantages. The Free Church of Scotland was unfettered in the Colonies; and when the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) said that he desired to have perfect religious equality, he agreed with him that it was the only principle which, in justice or in sound policy, could be carried out. At the same time, as the House was told that the Secretary for the Colonies had given a pledge that he would legislate on this question next Session, on the ground that the Church in the Colonies was in a very unsatisfactory state, he must say, while agreeing in that statement, that legislating for the Church in the Colonies was a matter of extreme difficulty and delicacy, upon which he hoped the [right hon. Baronet would proceed with great caution. If we had now to begin at home, it would be a question with any statesman, whether, considering the diversity of religious sects, it would be wise to establish a State Church even in England; but when the state of the colonial population was considered, that it was but a reflex of the many different religious denominations in this country, and recruited mainly from that class of which a great proportion had no sympathy with a State Church, he thought it would be a very dangerous task indeed for any Minister to do anything to increase in any manner the inequality which he (Mr. Horsman) held to exist in the Colonial Churches. The Bill now under discussion proposed to give to the Colonial Church powers which were not
 789 790 l
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he would put the question to-morrow.
 MR. HORSMAN  appealed to the indulgence of the House while he explained the grounds on which he asked again for an opportunity to bring forward the question which had been for some weeks under the consideration of the Government. More than a month ago a Motion was made by him (Mr. Horsman) for the institution of an inquiry into certain circumstances connected with the institution of the Rev. Mr. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome. That Motion was negatived by the House, on the Government's undertaking that they would themselves institute an inquiry—not a friendly nor a judicial one, as had been suggested, but a  bonâ fide 740 bond fide 741
 MR. SERJEANT MURPHY  said, it was extremely unfair to the Irish Roman Catholic Members to postpone the debate till the 16th of June, because that day must necessarily be close upon the dissolution of Parliament, and at that period those Members would probably be engaged in addressing their constituents, in preparation for the coming election. Many of them had, in fact, left town to prosecute their canvassing, and if this subject were to be resumed on the 16th, they would be obliged to return to town. But it was not certain whether it would be resumed on that day; and as a matter of justice, therefore, he called upon the hon. Member to fix some day on which it was next to a certainty that the debate would be resumed. Once for all, let the hon. Member state distinctly whether it was his intention to bring on the debate again upon the 16th of June?
 MR. HERRIES  said, that in conformity with what he had stated on a former occasion, he had merely to observe that he should be prepared, in a very short time, to lay upon the table of the House such papers as contained a detail of the progress of the events, which, he feared, had led to hostilities between the Burmese empire and the Indian Government. With respect to that part of his hon. Friend's question which related to delay, he had the satisfaction of informing him, notwithstanding the reports which had gone abroad touching such supposed delay, that none had occurred; that all the preparations for the expedition directed by the Governor General had been executed with the greatest exactness, and that the expedition had taken its departure for Rangoon at the time the Governor General intended, and had probably arrived there on the very day on which it was determined that it should roach its destination. He begged to remind the House, that, owing to the erroneous rumours which had been circulated upon the subject, he had stated on a former occasion that the Governor General, in his extreme anxiety to avoid pessible or ultimate hostilities, sent a letter to the King of Ava, warning him of his danger, and giving him to the 1st of April to reconsider his conduct, and make such submission to the British Government as should avert hostilities. Now, the last day fixed for the receipt of an answer from the King of Ava being the 1st of April, if the expedition had arrived there about that day, it would be just in time to execute the orders given to it, or not, as the case might be. Of course every one who was conversant with such matters would see the propriety of not allowing the expedition to arrive at Rangoon before the period when it was determined it should act.
 MR. LOCKE KING  supported the Bill, believing that, practically speaking, county elections were determined in one day, and that they could be concluded in that time without any disadvantage.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  could not understand how any Gentleman who was desirous to put down bribery and intimidation could oppose this Bill. It appeared that a noble Lord in another place was driving from the House one of the most estimable Members representing a county in the north of Ireland; and every one who had ever contested a county knew that all the intimidation and bribery, as well as the drunken scenes, occurred on the second day of an election. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the
 793
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, the reasons given by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for the course taken by the Government, with respect to the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, were perfectly valid. But he (Mr. Osborne) had a suggestion to make. He was sure everybody admitted that both the hon. Members for North Warwickshire were perfectly sincere on the subject; but he was bound to say, that he was afraid that those hon. Gentlemen had not searched the Order Book with sufficient care. The hon. Member for Warwickshire had omitted to observe that there was one day open to him. If he had this Maynooth question so much at heart, why did he not fix Wednesday next for its resumption? ["Oh, oh!"] Those Gentlemen that cried "Oh, oh," could not be sincere about the Maynooth question. If they were, they would prefer the settlement of that question to visiting a race ground. He called upon the hon. Gentleman to fix Wednesday next for the resumption of the debate.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  would be very glad to diminish both the time, ex-! pense, and trouble of county elections, and, if he were told that it could be conveniently carried out, he should vote for the second reading of this Bill. He did not attach very great importance to the objection that it would prevent persons resident in other counties from voting, and would not allow this to weigh against the great convenience that would be afforded by this measure in other respects.
 MR. WALPOLE  feared that the passing of this Bill would be attended with the greatest possible inconvenience until an additional number of polling-places could be supplied, which could not be done without some delay, and consequently the arrangements which would become necessary would not be ready for operation by the next election. Until this were effected, he repeated that, just at the eve of a dissolution, it would not, he thought, be convenient to press such a Bill as this.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that with reference to the observations which had been made by the hon. Gentleman, without any previous notice of his intention to bring the subject forward on that occasion, he thought it extremely inconvenient, in the absence of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that any expression of opinion on the part of the Government should be made. So far as he was concerned, all he could say was this— in the course of yesterday afternoon he had a long conversation with the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon the subject; and so far from the Chancellor of the Exchequer or himself wishing to prevent the hon. Member bringing the matter before the House, they considered whether they could not give him an early day for renewing the subject in that House, so as to place him in the same position in which he originally stood. The state of public business was, however, such—so many Bills pressing for consideration, and the Government under so many engagements to give up their days to private Members, they did not see well how they could give the hon. Member for Cockermouth an early day for his Motion. He was sure that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be present to-morrow to answer the question which the hon. Gentleman intended to put.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he was perfectly willing to discuss this question on a Saturday, which was an open day. If the hon. Member for Warwickshire should persevere in attempting to put off the debate till the 16th of June, he (Mr. Anstey), as an Amendment, would move that it be resumed on Wednesday next.
 MR. BRAMSTON  should oppose the Bill, believing it to be inconsistent with the provisions of the Reform Bill, one great object of which was, that there should be no surprise at elections.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman will inquire about it; for it is obvious that the public are entitled to have this correspondence laid before them.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he would not press the Bill to a division. He begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies if he had any objection to lay upon the table of the House copies or extracts of the correspondence with the Bishop of Sydney?
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he did not
 762 763 764
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, this was, perhaps, the time for him to make an observation on the course of the public business, particularly with reference to the Colonial Bishops Bill, which now stood for a second reading; and he wished now to state to
 739
 MR. W. BROWN  said, the second day's polling was productive of great inconvenience, without, as far as he knew, any advantage whatever.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  deprecated any further discussion after the courteous course taken by the Secretary for the Colonies, which gave to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) the opportunity of considering what steps he would take on a future occasion respecting the introduction of a new measure. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford would have no reason to regret this discussion, because the House had heard from the Secretary of State for the Colonies three important statements on the subject of this Bill. He said, in the first place, that he did not consider the state of the Church in the Colonies satisfactory. He said also that there were objections to the colonial clergy being placed solely under the despotic control of the bishop; and he had further stated that the members of the Church in the Colonies were impeded in the consideration of their own affairs by the difficulty they found in meeting for discussion. The right hon. Gentleman added that there was great need for the exertions of a missionary church. Now, after all this, he thought the House could hardly feel that there was no necessity for legislation. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Colonies himself said, that legislation would be necessary in a future Session of Parliament; and but for what had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, and his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Bethell), he (Sir W. P. Wood) would not have addressed any observations to the House. His hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General said that there was no need for legislation whatever, and that no embarrassment was occasioned by the Act 25 Henry VIII. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Aylesbury said the same. [Mr. BETHELL here dissented.] He believed, however, that no lawyer would tell the House that the question was clear either in one way or the other. It was for the purpose of relieving these doubts that there was a necessity for the Bill. His hon. and learned Friend said that no convocation had been held by the Queen's writ in the Colonies, and therefore the Act 25 Henry VIII. did not apply to the Colonies. But his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney
 786 787 788
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  had no very strong feeling either one way or the other with regard to the Bill. Every one was ready to acknowledge that the limitation of polls to one day in boroughs had been productive of the greatest good; but it might be a very serious question as to whether at present the necessary arrangements could be made to conclude a county election in one day; and he begged to ask the noble Lord who brought in the Bill, therefore, whether he had made any provisions to increase the number of polling places?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that after the serious charge which had been brought against him, he had no doubt the House would hear with him for a moment. He certainly regretted, that after the construction put upon what he had said by the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford he had not read the remainder of the second clause to the House; but he submitted to the House with perfect confidence that the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman did not impugn his argument. He had said that the clause dispensed with the oath of supremacy, and that it also dispensed with the 36th Canon, and that it was the first attempt which was ever known to ordain persons to ecclesiastical office being British subjects without the oath of supremacy being required. It was no answer to tell him that among the Thirty-nine Articles there was one which embraced the oath of supremacy. Looking at that omission conjointly with the powers bestowed upon the bishops in the first Clause, he said that he was advised and believed that the effect of the Bill would
 765
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the correspondence consisted of two letters, one to the Archbishop of Canterbury, from the Bishop of Sydney, which was not in his possession. The letter he had read was from the Archbishop of Canterbury to himself, containing the Bishop of Syd-
 791
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  had no objection to make such inquiry.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I appreciate the motives which have induced the noble Lord to mate this observation. I can assure the House that I would gladly have been spared one of the most painful and difficult duties I have ever undertaken; but I think that the House will feel—and I am glad the noble Lord opposite has made the admission—that after the course which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) has thought it his duty to take, after I had put it to him, this day three weeks, not to proceed with a subject of such extreme importance and difficulty, under circumstances which made it impossible for me to reply to him—I say I think the House will feel that I am acting under an imperative sense of duty in now availing myself of the opportunity afforded by the reading the Order of the Day to state the views which I entertain upon the subject. I hope, Sir, I may he favoured with the attention of the House while I proceed to state my opinion upon the Bill, which, though brief in itself, and at first sight simple in its phraseology and enactments, is, I believe, when closely looked at, the most important Bill upon ecclesiastical matters which has been for years submitted to this House, and which, I believe, if it were to pass into law in its present form, would be the first step towards a change in our ecclesiastical polity, which may indeed he desired by a certain party in this country, but which I believe is one that is decidedly opposed to the opinions of the great body of the people, not only in this country, but in the Colonies not less. I rise, Sir, under the unusual disadvantage of replying to the speech of my right hon. Friend after an interval of three weeks since that speech was delivered; hut I consider the difficulty less—although it cannot fail to be one— than it otherwise would he, inasmuch as the speech of the right hon. Gentleman was for the most part addressed to those points in which I am happy to say that I agree with him—namely, to the necessity of affording to the Church in the Co-
 744 745 746 "In consequence of a representation which
 747 "The whole subject requires minute and careful discussion both here and at home. With a view to ascertain the state of feeling and opinion here, I purpose, if God be pleased to permit me, to assemble my clergy early in February; and having obtained their preliminary advice, shall seek to collect the suffrages of the laity, by prudent consultation with them and the clergy jointly, in what may, I trust, be deemed a lawful assembly. But it is not apparent how any determinate conclusions can be arrived at without a fresh discussion at home of the opinions offered by the separate dioceses, brought collectively under the review of a competent tribunal to prepare and draw up the terms of a Bill to be submitted to Parliament under the sanction of Her Majesty's Ministers." "At the close of our deliberations last year it was a subject, not of debate in conference, but of private conversation among my brethren, whether I, as their metropolitan, ought not to be accredited to proceed to England, for the purpose of initiating measures for giving legal effect to our determinations. At that time I certainly gave no encouragement to the suggestion… I am not prepared to say what my determination would be if the call should now be made upon me to undertake a voyage to England. I suspend for the present my judgment as to the most ad-
 748 Statute of Submissions, 749 "The bishop or bishops of any diocese or dioceses in the colonies enumerated in the schedule
 750 751 status "But it shall not be lawful to impose by any such regulation any temporal or pecuniary penalty or disability, other than such as may attach to the avoidance of any ecclesiastical office or benefice." 752 Geo. "And no such Regulation shall in virtue of this Act be held to have any other legal Force or Effect than the Regulations, Laws, or Usages of other Churches or Religious Communions in the said Celonies." quâ 753 Geo. "And any such regulation touching the existing relation of the said bishops, clergy, and others to the metropolitical see of Canterbury, shall be forthwith transmitted by the presiding bishop or his deputy to the archbishop of the said see, and shall be subject to disallowance by the said archbishop, under his hand and seal, at any time within twelve months from the passing of the said regulation, or within six months from the receipt thereof by the said archbishop, but not afterwards." 754 "And no such regulation shall authorise the bishop of any diocese to confirm or consecrate, or to ordain, or to license or institute any person to any see, or to any pastoral charge, or other episcopal or clerical office, except upon such person having immediately before taken the oath of allegiance to Her Majesty, and having likewise subscribed the Thirty-nine Articles, and having furthermore declared his unfeigned assent and consent to the Book of Common Prayer." "That no person shall be received into the ministry, nor admitted to any ecclesiastical functions, except he shall first subscribe a declaration, &c, That the King's Majesty, under God, is the only supreme governor of this realm, and of all other his Highness's dominions and countries, as
 755 756 757 "We are of opinion that an assembly or diocesan synod shall be constituted, and shall be presided over by the bishop of the diocese, and that such assembly shall consist of all the clergy of the Church within the diocese." "We are of opinion that no advantage can be gained by the formation of any provincial assemlies whatever, so long as the present close connexion of our Church in the Australasian colonies with the Church in England continues; and we would further state that it appears to us that such assemblies would have a direct tendency to weaken that connexion, and by the assumption of authority which belongs only to the Queen in Council, to interfere with the independence of the individual bishops and their dioceses. We are of opinion that in order to maintain and strengthen our union with the Church of England it would be advisable for each diocese, in the separate and independent colonies of Australasia, in matters of metropolitan jurisdiction, to be subject to that of Canterbury only." "We are of opinion that, in order to strengthen the union with the Church of England, it is advisable in all matters of ecclesiastical importance, the jurisdiction of the colonial Church should be subject to the see of Canterbury." "That a copy of the foregoing resolutions be forwarded by the chairman to the Lord Bishop of Adelaide and to his Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury, our Primate, with an earnest supplication that his Grace will use his authority to protect the Church in South Australia from any episcopal interference with its doctrines and discipline, which has not previously received the direct sanction of his Grace and of Her Majesty, as the su preme head of the Church." 758 "I return for publication the resolutions and opinions arrived at by the clergy on the minutes of the conference at Sydney, which on my return I submitted for their consideration. They appear to me to be characterised by a calm and serious spirit, which, under the circumstances of excitement lately prevailing, is peculiarly gratifying. Should Her Gracious Majesty, as supreme head of the Church of England, authorise the clergy and laity of the Australasian dioceses to frame their own ecclesiastical polity, subject to Her approval, and should it be deemed advisable to depart on any point from the existing constitution of the English Church, I trust that the pattern of other reformed Protestant and episcopal churches will be followed, and the relations of the bishops, clergy, and laity, as set forth in the Scriptures, be carefully preserved." "I have the honour to transmit to your Lordship a document connected with the future action and development of the Church of England in this diocese. Our subordinate relation to the mother Church, and spirit of obedience to the legal supremacy of the Crown, have, I trust, been duly preserved inviolate during the friendly discussions which have preceded the adoption of this report." "The clergy being under an obligation implied by their subscription to the Thirty-nine Articles, it is not competent in a diocesan assembly to make any alteration in the terms of these Articles." 759 "We are also opposed, in the strongest manner, to any legislative or other proceedings that will have the effect of taking from the Australian Church, in reference to disputed points of doctrine and discipline, the right of appeal in the last resort to the highest ecclesiastical court in England. It is our pride to look with affectionate regard to the religious and secular institutions of Britain as the worthiest manifestations of her greatness, and we desire to cultivate in the minds, and to transmit to the affections of our children this sentiment in unimpaired freshness." "That your memorialists view with much apprehension any measure or act that would have the effect of separating the Australasian branch of the Church of England from all but doctrinal unity with the United Church of England and Ireland, as likely, at no very distant period, to lead to the severing of the only remaining link, and also as tending to dissolve the civil and political bond which keeps Tasmania and the whole Australasian group of Colonies a portion—and a most valuable portion—of the British empire." "Your memorialists, therefore, most humbly present this memorial, earnestly praying that your grace and all the archbishops and bishops will be pleased to give it your early and careful consideration, and that you will sanction no Imperial legislation which would involve a change of relation with the mother Church, or fail at least to secure the right of appeal to the highest ecclesiastical authority in England, and fully to establish the rights and liberties of the clergy in the diocese of Tasmania." 760 761
 MR. BETHELL  was understood to say, that he entirely agreed with his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General with respect to the construction of the statute of Henry VIII.; but he did not think that it would he competent for the clergy and laity in the Colonies to adopt anything like a synodical form of action, because he apprehended that it would be an attempt to interfere with the prerogative of the Crown. With respect to the Bill before the House, the objections to it had been stated so forcibly by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Colonies, that as a lawyer he need do little more than give his assent to them. The right hon. Gentleman who introduced the Bill (Mr. Gladstone) represented that he desired to relieve the Church of England—or rather, the bishops, clergy, and laity in the Colonies, being members of Churches in communion with the Church of England—from a disability affecting them, and not affecting any other religious community; and the right hon. Gentleman assumed that it was competent to any other religious community to form rules and regulations capable of being personally enforced, but that the members of the Church of England could not do so.
 783 784 785
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  reprehended the expression which had fallen from the hon. Member for Ayrshire (Mr. Oswald), that the indecision of Her Majesty's Government upon this subject was only like that which characterised all their proceedings upon every political, ecclesiastical, or civil question. The observation was utterly irrespective of the point at issue, and was one of a wholly party character. The question was not a party one on either side of the House; and he hoped to guard himself from saying anything which would make it such. The hon. Gentleman who spoke last said that the arguments of the Secretary for the Colonies were futile; but the hon. Gentleman had not proved that assertion: he had simply hazarded it as his own opinion. The hon. Gentleman referred to appeals made for such a measure as the present from Canada and Cape Town, and seemed to signify that it would he dangerous to deny their demands. In consequence of a Motion he (Sir R. H. Inglis) made some two months ago, Her Majesty's Government had last night laid upon the table of the House a collection of papers connected with Colonial Church legislation, and—although he had had no opportunity of examining them except by a glance— his impression was that there was not, among those papers, a single application for a measure like that which his right ton. Friend and Colleague (Mr. Glad-
 770 771 772 773
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS , seeing the President of the India Board in his place, and knowing the deep interest, he would not say anxiety, which was generally felt regard to the war in Burmah, begged the right hon. Gentleman what was the date of the last despatch which had
 738
 MR. ORMSBY GORE : Sir, I beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland for information respecting the arrest and committal to gaol of eight Ribbandmen, seized in their lodge at Granard, and committed to Longford gaol, and concerning their having been subsequently admitted to bail. These eight persons, when seized by a police officer, were in the act of writing threatening notices to individuals in the neighbourhood. They were committed to gaol, and subsequently brought before the magistrates. There was a division amongst the magistrates as to their being admitted to bail, and the majority agreed to admit them to bail. On one of those persons, named Brierley, there was found a death notice to Mr. Green, the clergyman of Granard, and on another of them, named Donnelly, was found a notice of death to be served upon a person of the name of
Fitzpatrick, a most respectable farmer, of the neighbourhood, he having been served before with a notice to the same effect. At the bottom of the notice was written, "This is the second time, and by God Almighty if this dost not do, you may have your coffin ready afore long." They have been admitted to bail, and there is a strong sensation in the country with regard to it. I this day received a letter from that part of the country, stating that on their being committed to gaol, a number of bad characters were missed out of the neighbourhood, but they all have returned since the principals were let loose. I have no other interest in troubling the House on the subject, than the security of my labourers in that part of the country. I beg, therefore, to know from the Attorney General for Ireland whether the crime committed was bailable, and what steps are likely to be taken for the purpose of restoring confidence to the loyal and well-affected individuals of the locality?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was sorry he could not congratulate Mr. Bernal upon the prospect of the duty he would by-and-by have to perform. With regard to the objections of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), he begged to say in the first place, that the hon. Gentleman was under a mistake in supposing it would be necessary for the parties to publish the particular description of bodily infirmity under which they laboured, and which incapacitated them for service in the militia. By the words of the 42  Geo. 809 Geo.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would remind the right hon. Gentleman that the question of physical infirmity would be
 810
 COLONEL ESTCOURT  said, that he had served for a period of twenty years, and he had never known a case where the commanding officer had attempted to bias a Court Martial. He was convinced that such an idea would never enter into any officer's head.
 The EARL of MARCH  said, he could not help thinking that the remark which had just been made by the right hon. Member for Sutherlandshire was one to which he could not subscribe. As the drilling of the militia was only to last three weeks, it would he absolutely necessary to have some severe punishment to keep the bad characters in order. It would be an encouragement to had characters to commit an offence, such as striking a superior officer, in order to obtain an imprisonment of ten days, thereby escaping the rest of the drill.
 MR. O. STANLEY  said, he believed that corporal punishment could be done away with entirely, except when troops were in the presence of the enemy. He had hoped that the Government would not subject militiamen, when called out for training, to corporal punishment. When hon. Gentlemen said that militiamen could not be exempted from corporal punishment if they were in garrison with troops of the line who were liable to such punishment, they must forget that in India corporal punishment had been abolished as far as the native army was concerned.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the volunteers equally as well as the men enrolled by ballot would be liable to the Mutiny Act.
 MR. HEADLAM  moved that the limit of age after which men should not be liable to the ballot, should be twenty-five, instead of thirty-five years.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, his notion was this, that everybody who was liable to serve in his parish, having once served, was not to be called upon to serve again. [Murmurs of dissent.] Such, at the moment, was his interpretation of the word.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that by limiting the area between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five, there was no doubt a greater chance that a larger number of persons from that range would be called on to serve; but what he contended for was this, that if they got 50,000 men from that range, the hardship would be less upon them individually than it would be on those from twenty-five to thirty-five years of age. With regard to the interference with enlistment for the Army, he had to observe that one of the arguments which had been urged in favour of a militia was, that it
 819
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that by the 43rd Clause of the 42  Geo.
 COLONEL ESTCOURT  said, he thought the period proposed for training would render the force very inefficient. He did not believe that a training of twenty-one days a year for five years would make a soldier. The period of training ought to be in the first year, and never afterwards,
 821
 COLONEL ESTCOURT  said, he should now move his Proviso, which was to the effect that Her Majesty should be empowered to direct that the drill and training of the militia in any one of the five years for which they were enrolled, should extend over a period of ninety successive days, but in that case the drill and training in the other four years should not exceed six days in each year.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would suggest that the Proviso would be more advantageously attached to the next Clause.
 COLONEL ESTCOURT  said, he would not divide the Committee, and the Proviso was withdrawn.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was not correct to say that the keeper of a public-house had no monopoly: he had the valuable monopoly of being alone entitled to sell spirits by retail in less quantities than two gallons. The argument of hon. Gentlemen would go to doing away with billeting altogether; for if they were to have billeting at all, it was clear they must adhere to the ordinary course of billeting the men on public-houses, and he felt inclined the rather to recommend this, as the Committee had already expressed its opinion that it was not advisable to make distinctions between the militiamen and regular soldiers. The right hon. Mover of the Proviso had not suggested any feasible mode of lodging the militiamen in preference to that proposed by the Bill.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the hon. Member for Manchester, who talked so much of the ignorance of the Members of Government, was, doubtless, himself well informed. Now, would he show the Committee where beershops were referred to under the Act of 42  Geo.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : No; I beg your pardon. [Mr. M. GIBSON: I beg yours.] The term used is alehouses— a term well known in law. In point of fact, beershops had no existence at the time of the passing of this Act; so that hon. Gentlemen who charge the Government with ignorance, would do well themselves to understand the subject they speak of.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  replied, that if not liable under the old Act, they would not he under the present; and if, on the contrary, they were, they would be left in that position. This Act would not interfere with them.
 SIR HARRY VBRNEY : Did the right hon. Gentleman mean to say that men could be made efficient soldiers by twenty-one days' drilling in a twelvemonth?
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, the present mode of balloting was very expensive, and he believed it might be reduced considerably. Some of the expenses were charged in a manner different from the modern mode of charging. He did not expect the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary to look into all these variations at present, but he wished to obtain some information on one point, and that was the nature of the expenses which would fall on the county rate. This was a matter in which country gentlemen were interested, and he was somewhat surprised that they did not display some degree of interest on the subject. Had a simple project come from the late Government, no doubt they would have been overwhelmed with questions on the subject.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, it might be very consolatory to the hon. Baronet to think that the occupants of the Ministerial bench were men in whom he could confide; but he (Sir F. Baring) was afraid that his constituents — the payers of the county rates—would not feel much consolation in having the charges to be occasioned by this Bill imposed upon them. The late Government proposed to take care, in the Bill which they intended to bring in on the subject, not to let the expense of the militia fall upon the county rate. Now, he thought that it would have been more consolatory to the county ratepayers to have been benefited by such an enactment, than to reflect with the hon. Baronet that they had a Government for the country party, and to pay the heavy expenses that would be occasioned by this Act.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he had not stated anything of the kind. The charge would have fallen on the general revenue.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he objected to charges of this kind being thrown on the Consolidated Fund, because the opportunity of an annual revision of such charges was not afforded. If ball practice was required, it could not be carried out without considerable expense, and he should like to know whether it was to be charged on the county.
 MR. ORMSBY GORE  could not understand why Her Majesty's right to call out
 832
 MR. ORMSBY GORE  thought the clause should be omitted. He had no idea of legislating on suspicions. They ought to legislate on what they considered to be the benefit of the country.
 MR. ORMSBY GORE  said, he had no objection to postpone his proposition for omitting the clause, on condition that he should not be prevented from opposing the clause ultimately. The principal argument of Earl Grey in favour of his Militia Bill in 1831 was in case of disaffection showing itself in the country.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he should vote for the postponement of the clause, in the hope that the result of the Government's consideration would he to withdraw it. He saw no reason in the world why, if there was any domestic convulsion, the militia should not be called out, because nothing was more likely to produce the danger of invasion than some domestic convulsion. The old Militia Law gave the Crown the power, by Order in Council, to call out the militia in the event of internal disturbances; and if this clause was not struck out, the position of the country would be weakened, instead of strengthened, by the present Bill.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  would confine himself to the question whether it was not
 843 odium theologicum
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  observed, that the House, which had been listening to the hon. Member (Mr. Reynolds), who had been rambling over all manner of subjects, would do well to revert to the question before it. When he suggested that to the hon, Member (Mr. Reynolds), they all saw how he turned on him; and if he (The O'Gorman Mahon) was not endowed —as, thank God, he was—with an exceedingly complaisant temperament, and a large fund of good humour, which enabled him to endure every outrage—and the House would agree with him that these combinations were much required—he did
 844 toute ensemble
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he should be quite prepared when the subject came under discussion to defend the conduct of the late Government, so far as it related to the department with which he had been connected, in regard to the measure to which his noble Friend had alluded. That measure had failed without doubt, but it was because the Government were misled by the Board of Health. It was in consequence of reliance on their assurances that they could raise the money for carrying out the measure, when they had not the means of doing so. He hoped the
 851
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  denied that there was any surplus of barrack accommodation in the country. Within the last five-and-twenty years, the barracks at Colchester, Cheltenham, Yarmouth, and other places, had been converted to other purposes; and, in some instances, as in the case of Yarmouth, 140,000 l 826 d. d.
 MR. HARDINGE  stated that he wished, with the permission of the Committee, to set the hon. Member who had just spoken right on the statement he made respecting corporal punishment in the native army. Corporal punishment, at present, existed in the native army; it was abolished by Lord W. Bentinck, and restored by the Governor General in the year 1844.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that although hon. Gentlemen opposite, the supporters of the Earl of Derby's Government, were so drowsy, foreign Governments were awake to what was going on in that House; and if hon. Gentlemen had looked into the newspapers that day, they must have seen in the intelligence from France a strong confirmation of the arguments used against the Militia Bill—namely, that if an increase was made in the forces of this country, other countries would make that an excuse for keeping up, and even increasing, their armies. A proposition had been made for increasing the French army by precisely the ominous number of 80,000 men; and one of the reasons assigned by the  rapporteur 831
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that he objected to the principle of this Bill, for which he could not see the least necessity. Not only were there no petitions in its favour, but there were many against it; and although there were in that House many representatives of mercantile and shipping constituencies, he had not heard from them that this measure was at all requisite to meet the exigencies of British trade in foreign countries. Under this Bill great injustice might be done, and he would tell the Government that although they might carry it by numbers, they could not say that they had advanced even one single plausible argument in its favour.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the laws concerning the Burial of the Dead in the Metropolis. At that late hour of the night he would not enter into any details of the measure, but would merely say that it would provide, first, for the closing of the burial grounds within the metropolis, and secondly, for forming burial grounds beyond the metropolitan boundaries for the reception of the dead. At a future stage he would enter more fully into the details.
 MR. OSWALD  said, he could throw out a crumb of comfort for hon. Gentleman on that (the Opposition) side of the House, namely, that if this clause should pass, it would be one of the compulsory clauses, which, he felt quite convinced, would never be carried into operation. If hon. Gentlemen wanted a topic for the hustings just now, they could make the compulsory clauses that topic; and if they did, they might rely upon it they would hear no more of those clauses.
 MR. OSWALD  wished to point out a very curious anomaly which would exist if the Government inserted an exemption as they proposed to do in this clause. In England, where there would be something to do, the qualification of deputy lieutenants would not be required; but in Scotland, where there would be nothing to do, except to appear at Her Majesty's levees and State balls, a qualification of 300 l
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wished to call the attention of the Committee to the admission of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir F. Baring) that if the late Government had passed a Militia Bill, the greater part of the expense would have been cast on the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, in that case, if the expense was likely to fall heavily on the county rates, country Gentlemen had a right to expect that the Members of the late Government would support them, if necessary, in transferring a portion of that expense to the general taxation of the country.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  expressed his concurrence in the adjournment of the debate to Tuesday next, at 12 o'clock.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  hoped that the House would allow him to answer the
 845
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) was singularly unfortunate in his allusion to him (Mr. Newdegate), for he would remind j the hon. Gentleman that the only two per sons who had ventured publicly to recommend insurrection in case of invasion by way of inducing the Irish people to assist the invaders, was the Rev. Mr. Cahill and the Rev. Mr. Murray, two of the priests educated at Maynooth. He rejoiced to J hear that the Government intended to re- I consider this clause, for it was an exception to every Militia Bill this country had ever known.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  could only say this, that he would rather have in his parish a dozen militiamen than one member of the Anti-Corn-Law League.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he was in favour of retaining the land qualification.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  complained that the lords lieutenant were to be deprived of their usual power of appointing the officers to the militia. He considered that such power could not be placed in more efficient hands; and he hoped Government would fall into his views, and allow them to retain the powers conferred on them by the Act of George III.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that when the right hon. Member talked of persons getting the money and not coming, it must be understood that he was talking only of Manchester; but in this case the old adage, "A bird that can sing and won't sing, must be made to sing," must be put in force; if the people of Manchester did not come forward, there was such a thing as bringing them forward. He had a better opinion of the people of England generally. He thought their fidelity to their Sovereign, their attachment to their country, and their desire to preserve the property of others from a foreign enemy, would induce them to come forward without regard to the paltry sum of 61. As to the period of drilling, twenty-one days a year was a mere flash in the pan. If an efficient body of men were wanted, let them be properly drilled, and to do this, not less than six weeks, or even a further period, would be necessary.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, there were occasions when flogging was absolutely necessary. A mutiny might take place, and how was it to be suppressed? In scarcely any case was there a disposition
 813
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am not aware that I made use of the expression "improperly instituted" on that occasion. What I stated, or, at all events, what I intended to state, was, that any parishioner of Frome who complained of a grievance in the institution to a vicarage of a person, like the present vicar of Frome, alleged to have committed gross breaches of discipline and doctrine, might obtain redress through the interposition of the bishop of that diocese where the alleged breaches of discipline and doctrine were committed; and I also stated that he might obtain redress by appealing to the bishop in whose diocese the person accused of offending against the ecclesiastical law at present holds preferment. I stated that there were these two ways of redress open to the parishioners of Frome; and that it did not appear from all the inquiries which the Government had instituted on the subject that any parishioner or parishioners of Frome had as yet endeavoured to procure redress by either of these methods. If that was not precisely what I stated, it is assuredly what I intended to convey to the House. With respect to the other point to which the hon. and learned Gentleman has slightly alluded, namely, as to the means of obtaining redress against these bishops, or either of them, in the event of they or either of them refusing to institute the inquiry provided for by the Church Discipline Act, I beg to remind the hon. Gentleman that what I stated was this, that Her Majesty's Government had such confidence in the discretion and sense of duty of the Pre-
 805
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My remembrance of what I stated is precisely that which I have already explained. I have a strong impression—an impression in which I am confirmed by hon. Friends who sat near me, and listened attentively to my words—that I never made any such statement as the hon. Gentleman has attributed to me. I spoke merely of the redress which the law had provided for the parishioners of Frome with respect to a grievance which they might suppose themselves to labour under; but I did not make any statement as to their redress against a Bishop.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  appealed to the House whether it was not irregular and highly inconvenient
 806
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would not put the hon. and learned Gentleman to the inconvenience of waiting until to-morrow for a reply to that question. He begged to say that he considered the request of the hon. and learned Gentleman as very irregular and wholly unusual. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had, on principle, the greatest objection to laying on the table any case submitted by the Government for the opinion of the Crown officers, and he hoped that the House would support the Government in that objection.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, Her Majesty, by the Act as it stood, had the power, with the advice of Her Privy Council, to extend the period of exercise from twenty-one days to fifty-six days. The Government, in fixing the latter period, had consulted the highest military authorities, and he considered it undesirable and unnecessary to prolong the period beyond fifty-six days; he must, therefore, oppose the Proviso.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was a fallacious assumption on the part of the right hon. Gentle-
 817
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he would beg to refer to an Act of 44  Geo.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that although the Government had certainly given this subject the best consideration that they thought it demanded, at the same time they were bound to listen to the opinions given on questions of detail by the Members of that House. It was not to be supposed, however matured the measure had originally been, that in matters of detail it was not capable of improvement; and in fact the object of going into Committee was to receive the benefit of the suggestions of hon. Gentlemen on both sides. He would express the determination of the Government not to press this clause on the present occasion, but to withdraw it for further consideration, in the hope that there would not now be any more discussion upon it, and that they would at once proceed to the other clauses.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, no doubt the principle upon which the clause was framed was, that the princple of the Bill was confined to institute strictly a defensive force against foreign aggression; but as the hon. Baronet (Sir H. Verney) and other hon. Gentlemen disapproved of it, he would leave it for future consideration.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not think the hon. Member had made out a case for reporting progress. The Government did not wish to keep the House in suspense as to the postponed clause, and he hoped to communicate their opinion on it to-morrow. As the night was still young—and the House fresh, he hoped they should be allowed to proceed, so as to finish the Bill in good time to-morrow.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would accede to the hon. Member's request, on condition that the Government might propose amendments in the clause to-night.
 MR. HORSMAN  gave notice that tomorrow he would ask Her Majesty's Government whether there would be any objection on their part to the laying on the table of the House the case submitted to the law officers of the Crown in the matter of the institution of the Rev. Mr. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome? On that occasion he would, with great deference to the Crown officers, take leave to state his own views as to the law of the question.
 MR. HORSMAN  would be glad to be informed whether, in the case submitted by the Government for the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, there was any inquiry whether, in the event of a parishioner complaining, without effect, to a Bishop of the improper institution of a vicar, there was, as the law now stood, any redress against that Bishop? — any right of appeal to an Archbishop for instance?
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the right hon. Gentleman had misconceived his question. His (Mr. Horsman's) Motion was to inquire whether the Bishop of Bath and Wells had acted properly in instituting the Rev. Mr. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome; and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer met that Motion by stating, in effect, that, if the Bishop had acted improperly, the parishioners had redress against him under the Church Discipline Act. Those might not have been the precise words used by the right hon. Gentleman, but the language he employed was thought to have that signification. He begged to be informed whether it was the opinion which was conveyed to the Government by the law officers of the Crown, that there was any redress against the Bishop under the Church Discipline Act?
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that, in reference to the Motion of which he had given notice as to the institution of the Rev. Mr. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome, that he thought it better to adhere to his original intention of bringing forward that Motion on an early day after Whitsuntide, than to press the Government to any immediate course with reference to it, which might result in an interference with the progress of public business. Having alluded to the subject, he would take the opportunity of putting to the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question in reference to a misconception that had got abroad with respect to that right hon. Gentleman's statement of the law, or, to speak more correctly, with respect to his statement of the law
 804
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that in the year 1831 there were 770 persons drawn for the militia in the city of Westminster. Of these 770 only 36 declined to serve in person, and they obtained substitutes for 3 l
 MR. MOWATT  would beg to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General to explain what was meant by rotation.
 MR. MOWATT  said, he was willing to admit that by enlarging the area from which men might be drawn, the chances would be reduced in favour of the younger men; but there were great varieties in the physical and social positions of men, and while in one case the liability to be drawn might be perfectly right, in another it might be most inequitable. The very fact of drawing a line at the ago of thirty-five showed that there was a necessity to fix a limit somewhere beyond which men should not be liable to be drawn; and the question was, whether the Government had drawn that limit at the proper place by putting it at the age of thirty-five. Except in a case of emergency, when 500,000 men might be required to be raised, he was of opinion that the area within twenty-five years of ago would be ample for all the purposes of this measure.
 MR. MOWATT  said, he knew it was hopeless to appeal to the right hon. Secretary at War, who had broadly stated and reiterated his opinion, that the lash was not a degrading punishment, either to suffer or to inflict; but he did hope that the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, who had shown every disposition to modify the more violent portions of the Bill, would adopt the Proviso.
 MR. MOWATT  thought these discussions showed that the House was in a false position, dealing with an Act which it had not before it, and, by incorporating that Act in this Bill, giving powers with respect to the militia of which the country had no conception—powers barely tolerated in a former age under extraordinary circumstances.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  would put it to Her Majesty's Government, whether it would not be a breach of faith, and a departure from what had been said at the introduction of the Bill, if the Government did not firmly resist the withdrawal of the clause? All through the discussion, attention had been rather directed to circumstances external to this country, than to the formation of an army of reserve. If the Government wished to be consistent, they would resist the postponement of this clause, or any alteration in it. They would consult their own integrity and good faith,
 836
 MR. GOULBURN  thought that a Proviso should have some relevancy to the clause to which it was appended. Now as Clause 17 referred to meetings to be held by the lord lieutenants and the deputy lieutenants of counties, it would be supposed that the object of the Proviso was to exempt them from corporal punishment.
 MR. H. HERBERT  appealed to the hon. Member (Mr. Newdegate), as an English gentleman, to say what good purpose he could gain by keeping the question open? It was evident that it could not be disposed of in the present Parliament. He knew, from his character, that he (Mr. Newdegate) would scout with indignation the notion of keeping such a question in suspense for the purposes of party, or to serve for a cry at the elections.
 MR. TUFNELL  wished to know whether the volunteers as well as the balloted men would be subject to the provisions of the Mutiny Act?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that it was required by the 42  Geo. 808 Geo. Geo.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he could not see the difficulty of inserting the Proviso somewhere, after the statement of the right hon. Secretary at War that it was next to impossible flogging should be inflicted when the militia were under training. The supporters of the Proviso were only asking the Committee to carry a distinction already drawn a little further. He would have proposed this Proviso himself to make the measure less difficult to work, and less hateful to those whom it might affect.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he believed that when men enlisted in the regular Army, and were subjected to surgical examination, they were obliged to strip naked, and to undergo much more examination than any beast shown in Smithfield. Was this course to be pursued with regard to men drawn by ballot for the militia?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, this clause involved very important considerations, and would require much discussion. It would be better for the Committee not to proceed further till they heard the conclusion of the Government as to the clause that had been postponed, which, if omitted, would entirely alter the character of the Bill. This Clause 28 involved all the clauses of the 42  Geo.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he must press for the postponement of the 28th Clause, but he would offer no opposition to the remaining four clauses. In making this proposal, it could not be considered that he was acting unfairly.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the right hon. Gentleman must not suppose because he (Mr. Bright) and his Friends had not risen to address the Committee, that they did not object to the withdrawal of this clause. With regard to Great Britain, there could be no kind of expectation that anything like disaffection was likely to prevail again. And, with regard to Ireland, he believed that that House might legislate in such a manner that there would be no more reason to apprehend insurrection in that country than in Great Britain. He was glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman last night express his disapproval of the arguments and policy of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), and that at the same time he made an explanation of the speech of the right hon Gentleman the Home Secretary which gave a very different colour to it from that which it had had before. [ Cries of 833
 MR. BRIGHT  denied that there was any wish on their part to increase the expenditure; but what they said was, that the Government ought to deal with publicans, with regard to billeting, just as they did with the people from whom they bought arms. The greatest amount of ignorance respecting this Bill Was shown by the Members of the Government who introduced it. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary talked of the billeting not being in all cases imperative; but in the 94th Section of the42  Geo.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, his right hon. Friend and Colleague (Mr. M. Gibson) had had been applied to by the licensed victuallers to represent their feelings on this subject. It was absurd to say that any privilege conferred by a licence upon a public-house keeper was any equivalent for forcing militiamen upon them. He apprehended that the State had no more right to throw this burden upon the publicans than upon the grocers or the country gentlemen. He should like to know what the process was by which these billeted parties were apportioned on the publicans. He presumed the matter was in the hands of the billet-master. It was monstrous to suppose that publicans derived any benefit from the system of compulsorily billeting men upon them, because, in the majority of instances, the publican paid the penalty to get rid of the soldiers. He objected to the system because it was a departure from the contract principle upon which Government had always proceeded in providing for the military. He should therefore support the Proviso.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, in introducing the Bill, alluded to his aversion to interrupt the course of regular industry throughout the country, and he led the House to believe that the number of days on which men would be required to serve under the Bill, would not, on the average, exceed twenty-one days in the year; but it would
 829
 MR. JOHN EVANS  must admit that beershops were not included in this Bill. Still he could not understand why licensed victuallers, livery-stable keepers, and others were made liable. Suppose it were enacted that all the lawyers in a parish should find lodgings for the militia, or all the parsons and dissenting ministers, or
 828
 MR. J. EVANS  said, his suspicion that we were about to establish an ineffective force, was very much strengthened by the opinion just expressed by high military authorities as to the period of drilling. Unless the compulsory clauses were struck out, he was afraid this Bill would turn out to be in its first part ineffective, and in its last oppressive.
 MR. J. EVANS  said, there was a general feeling throughout the country that it was the intention of the Earl of Derby's Government to impose a duty on corn, and if it went forth that there was to be a force of 80,000 men officered by landed gentlemen, who were favourable to a change that was unfavourable to the body of the people, it would create very great alarm. He thought that this clause was perfectly consistent with the design of the Bill, and he therefore should support it.
 MR. REYNOLDS  objected to the postponement of the question to the 16th of June. The Motion had been introduced by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) in a speech—but he could scarcely call it a speech, because it was principally composed of extracts from certain works which had reference, he believed, to the Catholic religion. The speech delivered by the hon. Gentleman was a speech which, in his (Mr. Reynolds') judgment—and he spoke as a Roman Catholic Member of the House—was calculated to insult the whole Catholic body. It appeared to him to be a speech of unadulterated, malignant bigotry, and in the manner of the delivery, as well as the matter, was extremely offensive. When Gentlemen over the way were exhibiting symptoms of impatience, he begged to remind them that they had heard all the libels and filthy and abominable calumnies contained in that speech, not only with patience, but with smiles of approval. He had hoped that the discussion would have terminated on that day, or that night, or that morning, because if it had, he believed it would have terminated in affirming the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire; but it suited the taste of Her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Home Department to make a long speech upon that occasion, which he could only characterise as a No-Popery speech. Since then the House had been addressed by the right hon. Gentleman who had the honour to be the leader of the House, Her Majesty's Chancellor of the Exchequer, who threw the shield of his protection over the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and declared that he meant no offence against the Catholics of that House or against the Catholics of the United Kingdom. He (Mr. Reynolds) took it for granted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer
 840 841 Laughter. 842
 MR. STANFORD  trusted that the Bill would be laid on the table at a time when a full explanation of the objects and details could be given and discussed.
 MR. WALTER  said, he had voted with the minority when the question of flogging was raised on the 7th Clause, and was strongly of opinion that the Government might have conceded that point. If you made all liable to corporal punishment, whether they were volunteers or men balloted for, you, in effect, put a premium to the ballot, and prevented volunteering; for who would volunteer if they were as liable to flogging as they would be if they were men balloted for?
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, he now begged to bring forward the Proviso of which he had given notice. He did not wish to vary the discipline of the embodied militia in respect to flogging from that of
 811
 MR. HENLEY  said, that he had engaged to remove from the Bill all the provisions which rendered it applicable to any but merchant seamen deserting from foreign ships, and he believed that he had entirely fulfilled that engagement. The clause relating to the harbouring of deserters was merely an extension to foreign seamen of the same provisions as were already in force with respect to English seamen. The Bill could have no application whatever to the case of slaves.
 MR. NAPIER : It is quite true, as stated by my hon. Friend, that there have been eight persons taken up under circumstances which induced the magistrates to think that they were justified in committing them to gaol for the purpose of being tried as members of an unlawful confederacy. My hon. Friend must be aware that a change was made in the law some years ago—a change that is under the consideration of the Committee upstairs at this present time, and consequently the difficulty has arisen with respect to persons found in those lodges with papers. Formerly the possession of those papers afforded substantive evidence of the guilt; but the change of the law has caused embarrassment and difficulty to the magistrates and police in taking up persons under these circumstances. In regard to this particular case, there were eight persons discovered, but not exactly as stated by my hon. Friend. They were not discovered writing the notices, but they were discovered in a public-house, with pen and ink on the table, and the papers which are annexed to the informations were discovered in their possession. The offence would be an offence of being members of this ribband society, and it might assume the higher character of conspiracy to murder. The magistrates are intrusted by law with a discretion in cases of felony and misdemeanour to consider the circumstances, and, if they think proper, to admit the parties to bail, taking sufficient secu-
 803 l l
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, that the use of the armies on the Continent was to put down the liberties of the people; and there would be a natural impression that the proposed force would be employed for a similar purpose in England.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, it was not the
 847
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, that the yeomanry were liable to be called out in the
 834
 MR. WALPOLE  said, as so many doubts had been started as to whether the clause would not act cumulatively in reference to the 42  Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  thought it was of very great importance that the House should come to some practical decision on this question. He quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), that if the discussion were postponed until the 16th of June the proposed inquiry would be rendered entirely futile; but he also thought that the other day which had been suggested, namely, Wednesday next, would, for reasons which were apparent, render it much more futile, since it could not be expected that any serious discussion would take place on that day. What was the House to do, then? They were nearly approaching the end of the Session; ail agreed that a practical decision should be come to, and all agreed that no practical conclusion could be come to if the discussion were postponed until a few days before the Parliament was dissolved. In this position only two courses seemed open. The one was, either to discharge the order altogether, or to move the adjournment of the debate to the next day, for the purpose of giving the hon. Member for North Warwickshire an opportunity of considering what morning or what day he could select. [An Hon. MEMBER: No, no; fix a day.] As far as he (Mr. Walpole) was concerned, he had not the slightest objection that the hon. Member should fix a day, and he should be the last person in the world to wish that any further discussion on the Motion should be entirely prevented, because he saw that the opponents of the Motion were desirous of addressing some observations to the House upon the subject. He would take this opportunity of saying that his (Mr. Walpole's) speech on this question a few evenings since had been very much misrepresented, and he was convinced that those who heard it would not put upon it the construction which some hon. Members had given it. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had correctly described the construction to be put upon it. He thought a day ought to be appointed for the renewal of the debate, and the earlier the day the better it would be.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had already stated that it was not intended to have recourse to the ballot during the present year; and if there was any doubt upon that point, he was prepared to insert words in the 15th Clause which would make the intentions of the Government clear. The volunteers for the militia would be called out in the course of the autumn; and
 823
 MR. WALPOLE  would remind the Committee that it was not proposed to lower the qualification, but only to modify it, so as to meet the altered circumstances of the present day, when so much more property was held for long terms of years, and so much less upon freehold. There was no fear of the lord lieutenants appointing any officers unless they were satisfied that they were persons living in the county, and all appointments would be subject to the approbation of the Crown.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Government had first to consider the area, and then the capability of service. If they had taken men at forty-five years of age, they would have compelled them to serve up to fifty. By taking them at thirty-five, forty years was the utmost limit of age at which service would be required. The Government, therefore, had thought it best not to exceed that age for compulsory service.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, if the Amendment were adopted, instead of diminishing the hardship of the ballot, the Committee would he increasing it. The assumption was, that everybody who was able to serve would be liable to serve; and, as the area was increased out of which the men were to be obtained, so would the hardship of the ballot be diminished. Again, if they were to draw men entirely from those who were within the younger period, namely, twenty-five years of age, there would be a much greater interference with the recruiting for the regular Army; for these reasons he objected to the Amendment.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Committee would not forget that only a few nights ago the right hon. Gentleman attempted to force the use of the ballot upon the Government, and now he was trying to put the country to a great additional expense in lodging these men, so that the right hon. Gentleman, in his eagerness to oppose the Bill, had been betrayed into two great inconsistencies. With regard to the clause itself, he would remind the Committee that there were but three ways of providing for these men: either they must be accommodated in barracks, or they must be encamped, or they must be billeted in public-houses. Now it was shown that there was no surplus of barrack accommodation for
 827
 MR. WALPOLE  said, it was the intention of the Government to make the ordinary time of training twenty-one days; but it was proposed to insert a much larger figure in order to be prepared for any emergency.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Militia Act was an annual Act, and the whole of the payments were provided for in that Act. The payments for the men were charged on the country; but he believed the payment of clerks, parish constables, overseers, &c, in respect to the militia, devolved upon the counties. There was a schedule affixed to the Act, which he would hand over to the right hon. Gentleman in the course of the evening.
 MR. WALPOLE  did not say anything of the kind. In fact, he believed that men to be trained as efficient soldiers would require about nine weeks' drilling in the year.
 MR. WALPOLE  was understood to say that on looking into the annual Act he had considerable doubt whether such a charge would be thrown on the county or not, but a clause might be introduced into the annual Bill to settle the matter.
 MR. WALPOLE  was understood to say that it was his intention to abide by the regulations of the Act 32  Geo.
 MR. WALPOLE  should conceive not. All that was wanted was a sufficient ex- animation by a surgeon to ascertain that the man was not incompetent.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the question was, supposing they had drawn up a Bill to amend the law relating to the militia, whereby they would raise men by voluntary enlistment, they would leave the law as it stood in other respects, as had been done on all former occasions. They did nothing by the present Bill to alter the law, except so far as they amended and mitigated it by some of the provisions of the Bill; and when any objection was made to a particular clause, the Government did not show any disinclination to consider any reasonable improvement.
 MR. WALPOLE  was understood to say there would be no objections to the publications of the notices on chapel doors.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  consented to withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he was sorry to find that although he had understood that the Government had agreed to all the important Amendments to this Bill which were proposed on the second reading, the third clause still remained. By it every person who harboured or concealed a deserter from a foreign ship, was liable to a penalty of 10 l l 838
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  considered the clause one of the good clauses in the Bill. If the clause were not adopted, the Government would be armed with an excuse for keeping up the militia long after the necessity for that force should have passed away.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, if he adhered to his first proposition, should have his support. There could be no doubt that if the right hon. Gentleman stood by his own clause, the Committee would not allow it to be rejected. Before he talked of deferring to the sense of the Committee by agreeing to the postponement of the clause, let the right hon. Gentleman first take the sense of the Committee whether it actually wished the clause to be postponed or not. The right hon. Home Secretary obtained the assent of the House to the principle of the Bill, by representing that it was to be looked at as strictly and exclusively a defensive measure, and in no way intended for internal purposes. The Government had put forward this Bill with sham pretexts; and now they were about to withdraw this restriction in the same way as they had withdrawn the proposal for enfranchising the militia, which had been
 835
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  wished to know whether there was any objection to the insertion of words to render it quite clear that beerhouse keepers would not be liable to be billeted upon? If it was intended to render them liable, let words be inserted to that effect. If not, let the matter be set at rest.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : They are included under the class of houses that sell beer by retail.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it was not for him to make the suggestion, because he wished to get rid of the Bill altogether. The Government, however, ought not to shrink from proposing the expenditure necessary for the proper accommodation of the men they were about to raise. Besides, his Proviso only related to the period when the militia were called out for training and exercise, and not to the period when they might be embodied along with the regular troops. He again asked why country towns should be subject to the intolerable nuisance of having these raw young men—vagabonds of ever)' description— ["Oh, oh!"] — quartered upon them? Yes, he held they would be mere vagabonds, for it had already been admitted that nobody would enter who had anything better to do.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that in moving the Proviso he held in his hand he was not going to say a word about morals, because he knew that in these matters these considerations were generally put aside, though he had heard it said that it was unwise to place young
 824
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  wished to know the reason for reducing the age to thirty-five?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he must repeat what he had said before with respect to the supplementary ballot, and he again begged for some explanation on the part of the Government.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that by the statute 42  Geo. III., c. s. ad infinitum, 822
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he could not concur in the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General as to the meaning of the clause referred to, for there happened to be a Schedule to the Act, in which there were these words: "Infirmities, if any, likely to incapacitate from serving." And again," Infirmities, if known." He would admit that deputy lieutenants were persons of average ability; but even if they were supposed to possess sufficient medical skill to determine whether an infirmity was sufficient to disqualify a man from service, there were a number of legal questions that might also arise. Suppose, for instance, that a man pleaded apprenticeship, the deputy lieutenant would have to decide whether it was a legal or a merely colourable apprenticeship. Or, again, a man might plead that he was a member of the Watermen's Company; or the deputy lieutenant might have to decide the meaning of that most remarkable exemption, whether a person was a poor man. The deputy lieutenant could not be expected to decide upon the points that might arise unless he had professional skill and experience; and he (Mr. M. Gibson) submitted that he ought to have assessors.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to know how the ballot was to be conducted, and whether the Government proposed to adhere to all the provisions of the 42  Geo. Geo.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, all parties seemed to agree that these pet soldiers ought to be well accommodated. They, no doubt, required commodious dwellings and great conveniences, and he thought there could be no places so proper for them as the houses of the nobility. As Peers were exempted from the ballot, let them have the benefit of the billet. Many of the mansions of the nobility were very scantily occupied, and as they would have a militia, let them lodge the men in their houses. He thought it most unfair to fasten the militia on the publicans, whose burdens were sufficiently heavy already, and who, between the magistrates and the brewers, had a pretty hard time of it. It was highly improper that one particular class should be selected to bear a burden of this kind.
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that as far as he could understand the Bill from the few words of explanation the noble Lord had given, the present measure appeared to be the same as the one which had been so unsatisfactory in its results. He hoped full information would be given as to the nature and provisions of the Bill before any stage in it were taken.
 MR. GLADSTONE  was glad the hon. Member had responded to the appeal, though he could not say he was satisfied with his answer. No men were more interested in the rejection of the Motion than the hon. Member and those who acted with him. What was his reason for postponing the debate to the 16th June? Because he wanted the discussion to take place in a full House, and would not take Wednesday next. The hon. Member spoke as if Wednesday next was the only available day. He trusted that under no circumstances would the House consent to adjourn the debate to the 16th June; for, if they did, they would agree with what would go far to render the character of the House ridiculous. The Motion for such a postponement raised a question, not as to the sincerity of the mover, but as to the reality of his objects. Was it possible that he could think it consistent with the dignity of the House, and the respect they owed to the feelings of all classes of the people,
 846 bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide,
 MR. BERESFORD  said, the custom had ever been that licensed victuallers, who possessed a decided advantage and a monopoly in the exercise of their trade, should have troops billeted upon them. It was a mistake to suppose that soldiers were never billeted upon publicans except when on a march. They were often billeted upon them for weeks and months together; but the publicans took it in turn, and the billeting was made as little burdensome as possible. All that was asked by this clause was, that the same regulations should be in force for billeting militiamen as for the regular Army.
 MR. BERESFORD  thought the power conferred upon the Government to call out the militia for fifty-six days in one year, if desirable, and for twenty-one days in the succeeding year, would be found quite sufficient to give a thorough drill.
 MR. BERESFORD  said, with regard to the time of drilling, he admitted that they could not make a good and perfectly trained soldier in twenty-one days; but there were powers in the next clause to increase this period, if necessary. He thought, however, that if men were drilled completely, and then left to rust without exercise in subsequent years of service, they would not remain in that efficient condition which the hon. and gallant Member for Devizes (Colonel Estcourt) would like to see them in.
 MR. BERESFORD  considered that this question had been settled by the previous discussions; and that it was quite impossible to have two Mutiny Bills. Moreover, by the custom of the Army, corporal punishment was never inflicted except for disgraceful conduct, and therefore the object of the hon. Gentleman's Proviso was already met. He regretted that hon. Gentlemen had spoken of corporal punishment as degrading to those who received and to those who inflicted it. The degradation was not in the punishment, but in the crime for which it was administered. He was likewise very sorry to hear an hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Salwey) on a former debate, state that he had known instances in the Guards where a Court Martial had proved no safeguard to the soldier, because the commanding officer had interfered to bias the opinion of the Court. He (Mr. Beresford) could only say that during the period he was in the Army, he had never heard of such a thing; and he had since communicated with several officers of the Guards, who also declared that not an instance of such conduct had ever come to their knowledge.
 MR. FORBES  moved that the adjourned debate upon the grant to Maynooth be resumed on Tuesday next, at 12 o'clock.
 MR. KEOGH  said, the hon. Gentleman appeared to have misunderstood the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford. That right hon. Gentleman had not proposed that the House should meet on Wednesday next to discuss this question; on the contrary, he was as well aware as any hon. Member in the House of the absurdity of their meeting to discuss the question on the day proposed by the hon. Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey). He observed numerous ambassadors from different parts of the House were recommending various courses to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. They were now at the close of a moribund Parliament, without having come to any decision upon a Motion which was put upon the books at the commencement of the Session. They were now in the penultimate month of the Session, having discussed only one night a question which had been two months before the House, and in which the country took the deepest interest. What the right hon. Gentleman for the University of Oxford had suggested was, that they should meet to discuss this question at a morning sitting. If the hon. Member for North Warwickshire was really anxious to have the question fully discussed, let him not propose to discuss it three or four days before the dissolution of Parliament. Even if the House should, on the 16th of June, consent to grant a Committee, the selection of the hon. Gentlemen who should compose that Committee, must necessarily give rise to considerable discussion. Let the hon. Member throw off the mask. Let him not fancy that he could delude the country by proposing to have a discussion when no real discussion could take place; but let him adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Member (Mr. Gladstone), and ask the House to consent to a morning sitting. Let him ask the House to sit upon Saturday. Let them, after all the shuffling which had taken place on the other side of the House, really name some early day on which the question could be
 848
 MR. GOOLD  thought the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire not so unfortunate as his speech. He believed that the proposed inquiry into the system of education at Maynooth would raise a bad feeling and ill will in Ireland, and the question ought therefore to be decided at once.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman behind him (Mr. Anstey) would withdraw his Motion
 849
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  hoped lords lieutenant would appoint the surgeons and other inferior officers, as they must be best acquainted with the qualifications of the candidates.
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  said, that a man who took the bounty swore to perform a service, and if he did not appear when called upon, he was a deserter, and might be proceeded against as such.
 SIR DAVID DUNDAS  said, he was anxious to say a few words on the present question, having had the honour for some time of helping in the administration of military law, as Her Majesty's Judge Advocate. He had, from time to time, heard a great many objections made to corporal punishment. He wished, however, to call attention to the fact, that within a few weeks the Mutiny Act had been passed without one word being then said with respect to corporal punishment. In passing the Mutiny Act they had not prohibited the infliction of corporal punishment in the Army, as they might have done if they had been minded so to do. But it being the law under the Mutiny Act that corporal punishment should be inflicted in the Army, he was of opinion that it ought
 814 815 816 Geo.
 SIR DAVID DUNDAS  considered that, from the words in the Schedule of the 42  Geo.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, that the opinion of the hon. and gallant Member for Ludlow (Colonel Salwey), was worth a great deal more than that of all the colonels on the Treasury benches, for they had declared that they could not carry on their business, without the power of inflicting the lash. He (Sir G. Pechell) regretted to hear the manner in which the services of the hon. and gallant Member for Westmenter had been spoken of; nor could he forget that at the Westminster election fellows had been exhibited with their arms tied up to represent the flogging which it was insinuated had been inflicted by order of the hon. and gallant Member. He looked upon that as a most disgraceful proceeding to the parties who were responsible for it. With respect to the question before them, he thought that flogging in the Army ought to be abolished; but he doubted whether it could be dispensed with in the Navy, where there were not the means of ordering confinement. But he was happy to say that hardly a ship returned from foreign service now but what the list, as to flogging, was a clean sheet of paper. He should support the clause.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  was also in favour of the Proviso, as he had long been of opinion that there never was such an oppressed class as the licensed victuallers of this country.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he supported the Proviso. There were barracks which had cost the country enormous sums of money that were now entirely unoccu-
 825
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  wished to know what good reason existed for the proposed repeal. It appeared to him that every loyal subject would be quite as ready to assist in suppressing rebellion as in repelling foreign invasion; and in all probability, if invasion were ever attempted, it would be combined with an attempt at insurrection.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he wished to diminish the burden of the ballot for men who were beyond twenty-five years of age, and he should therefore support the Amendment. If the right hon. Gentle-
 818
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he feared that the period mentioned by the hon. and gallant Member would be productive of serious inconvenience to those who were called out, whereas he believed the force might be made effective without any such inconvenience to those who composed it. He would press upon the attention of Government the advantage of taking those periods of the year when the agricultural labourers had some difficulty in obtaining work—the month of November, and part of the month of December, and the month of May. Those were periods in which the men could serve without inconvenience, and they might be drilled in companies in the shorter days of November and December, and in battalions in the month of May.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, it perhaps might be unsatisfactory to the right hon. Gentleman that he had not had an opportunity of stating what that great boon which they intended offering to the country would have been. Whether the right hon. Gentleman meant to speak  omne ignotum pro magnifico,
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, that the right hon. Baronet had been pleased to be facetious on the drowsiness of country Gentlemen; hut the behaviour of country Gentleman, so unpleasant to hon. Members opposite, might he explained by the circumstance that there was now in existence a Government from which the country
 830
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, he did not shrink from the opinion he had expressed privately to his hon. Friend (Mr. Newdegate) that it was most important an early day should be fixed for resuming the debate. As this view also met with the concurrence of the Government, he hoped his hon. Friend would propose to resume the debate on Tuesday next, at 12 o'clock. He would only say, in conclusion, to hon. Members opsosite (the Irish Roman Catholic Members), that if it had not been for the unfortunate Papal aggression he believed hon. Gentlemen would not have heard of this Motion.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone (Lord D. Stuart) had stated that an addition of 80,000 had been made to the French army in consequence of the measure that was now before the English Parliament. That, he thought, was the best compliment that had yet been paid to the militia, He was surprised to hear the statement of the President of the Reform Association (Sir J. Walmsley), that nothing would cause him so much regret and so much lamentation as anything that would have the effect of depreciating or deteriorating the value of this measure. With regard to calling out the militia to suppress riots, it was well known that the manufacturers of Manchester were always most anxious for the presence of troops during any disturbance.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL : The hon. Gentleman said he would lament anything that would depreciate the measure, and that this Amendment would have that effect. The hon. Member has plenty of prompters.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  rose to order. The hon. Gentleman would perhaps be kind enough to state what words he had "put into his mouth."
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY : The hon. Baronet says I spoke of the merits of the Bill. I think it has many demerits, but I never allowed that it had any merits at all.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he must protest against the hon. Member for North Essex putting words into his mouth that he had not used.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  had no doubt the Government had given, as they stated, great attention to this clause, as well as all the other clauses of the Bill; and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not consent to withdraw a clause which would alter the whole tenor of the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  trusted the Government would not lower the qualification for deputy lieutenants. He was sure the great principle ought to be retained,
 820
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  would take that opportunity to state the nature of the question he intended to ask in reference to this subject either to-morrow or on Monday. Entertaining a notion that this question had been very unfairly dealt with, and that assertions had been made with reference to it which could not be substantiated; he wished, before there was further debate on the question, to ask whether Her Majesty's Government were aware, or whether they had reason to believe, that the Rev. W. J. Bennett, who had been appointed to the vicarage of Frome, was or was not a clergyman in the holy orders of, and in communion with, the Church of England?
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, it was not to be denied that the evils of the present system of intramural interments were notorious, but they were not more so than when the late Government with so much confidence brought in the Bill. It was true, that Bill had failed; but it was to be regretted that a full explanation of the causes of the failure had never been given; but he hoped there would be an opportunity afforded in the consideration of the present Bill to have those causes fully stated and discussed. He must say that nothing could be more unsatisfactory than the conduct of the late Government in respect to that Bill.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he should support the third reading of the Bill, because it would provide for extramural interment, and cheapen the cost of interments.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  was perfectly satisfied that the Bill should pass, as the rights of the poor people on the ground were completely protected.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in order that the answer might be satisfactory, it was necessary that he should give a short explanation. Upon the 60  Geo. l. 896 l., l. Dunfermline News Dunfermline News
 MR. CLAY  trusted that the clause would be retained. He believed that a rebellion in this country was purely impossible. The Government were not afraid of the people, and wanted no force to put them down; the clause was, consequently, of little importance. But as it had been introduced, it would be unwise to withdraw it, as it would give colour to the accusation against the Government—of being desirous to put down the popular demands. Experience had proved that the police force and the regular Army were far better adapted to act in cases of insurrection.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had a few minutes ago stated the reason of the Government for withdrawing the clause—that the intimation of the Committee's opinion was so strong, and so impossible to be mistaken, that it was perfectly clear the Government could not succeed in maintaining it as part of the Bill. The clause being admittedly unimportant, and the Government seeing that there was a predominant feeling against it, it was unquestionably their duty to yield to that feeling, and, even against their inclinations, to withdraw the clause. As to the question of the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) the Committee must first decide whether the clause was to form part of the
 912 Geo. Geo. Geo.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought the hon. Gentleman had overlooked a more recent Act, that of the 54  Geo.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he did not think he was called upon to answer the right hon. Gentleman, as to what a poor man was. The Government had proposed to the House a Bill, the effect of which would be to make certain clauses of an existing Act operative with certain alterations, and amongst those clauses was one which provided for certain exemptions. Upon the subject of exemptions, the Committee had had a very considerable discussion, and the opinion of the Committee had been tested with regard to one of those exemptions. A division had been taken, and a large majority had affirmed the exemption. An hon. Member had proposed to insert other exemptions, and the Committee, by a large majority, had expressed an opinion against that addition. The right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department had declared his intention to adhere to those exemptions—whether without alteration or addition, he (the Attorney General) did not understand—but undoubtedly his right hon. Friend did not wish to strike out any of those exemptions which were to be found in the Act. Under these circumstances, the right hon. Mem-
 918
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  admitted he certainly did say a day labourer. A man earning his living by his daily labour, and maintaining himself and family by the wages of a daily labourer, would be within the exemption, if the deputy lieutenants should think as he did.
 MR. LAW HODGES  said, that as the Committee had affirmed the principle of the ballot, he was anxious that they should consider a clause which he had placed on the Votes for some days past. The object of it was to transfer deserters from the militia to regiments of the line, instead of subjecting them to corporal punishment. This, he thought, would in a great measure check desertion, and facilitate enlistment in the line.
 MR. LAW HODGES  said, he would not press his Motion against the wishes of the Committee.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he had ventured, when the Bill was last before the House, to suggest to the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington), while fully acknowledging the ability he had shown in mastering the subject, the expediency of not pressing such a measure in the present Parliament. On that occasion the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark (Sir W. Molesworth) had denounced him (Mr. V. Smith) as a person indifferent to the feelings of the colonists; but, now, the hon. Baronet had apparently come completely round to his views in regard to this Bill; and while he (Mr. V. Smith) quite agreed in every part of the speech, that evening, of the hon. Baronet, he certainly did think that the consistent conclusion would have been a Motion to read the Bill a second time that day six months. There were no good reasons for proceeding with such an important Bill, which it was impossible the House, under present circumstances, could adequately discuss; while there were innumerable reasons for giving it up until next Session. This was a Bill which included every great question of Colonial Government, each one of which questions was entitled to deliberate discussion. The thirteen classes of questions which were not to be submitted to the consideration of the local Legislatures constituted one mass of difficulties. There was, besides, the great question of giving up the land sales to the colonists. He quite approved of this proposal; but such a concession would cause great jealousy in Australia, where a similar power was not given to the colonists; and therefore should not be given up lightly, or considered at all except from the general point of view for all the Australian Colonies. The hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley), had detailed three courses open to the House to pursue; and he had stated his opinion that the first course, namely, a continuation of the Suspension Act, would be the worst. He (Mr. V. Smith) did not agree with the hon. Gentleman. He could not understand why a year's delay should cause such frantic irritation as the hon. Gentleman had anticipated. The colonists would see the anxiety which was felt by the House of Commons to extend to them liberal institutions. They would see that the House of Commons itself was in a state of dissolution, was in a novel position, and was incapable, for the time, of
 945
 MR. J. A. SMITH  begged to offer his thanks to the right hon. Colonial Secretary for the attention he had applied to this most important subject, and he would urge upon the House the expediency of at all events going into Committee upon the Bill, and proceeding with it as far as possible so as to satisfy the colonists that Parliament had done all it could to meet their wishes. It was difficult to decide what would be the best form of government for this rising colony; but, under the circumstances, he imagined that the most expedient course woul4 be, having formed a Central Legislature, to leave to that central Legislature the charge of arranging the functions of the other Legislatures that might be established. Mistakes would be better than delay, so earnest were the colonists for the introduction among them of representative institutions. He had been especially surprised at the expressions of the hon. Member for Southwark (Sir W. Molesworth) with reference to the New Zealand Company, when he reflected that for several years the hon. Baronet had
 947
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  agreed with the statement which had just been made by the right hon. Gentleman, so far as he was in a position to corroborate what he had said. If the noble Lord (Viscount Ebrington) thought the Bill would interfere with the Metropolitan Interments Act,
 893
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he should be glad to state to the House the contents of a petition which he was too late to present when the order for the second reading of the Bill was read. It expressed the sentiments of a portion of New Zealand, in which he was personally more interested than in any other, namely, the portion connected with the Canterbury Association, no unimportant portion of this important Colony. The petitioners stated that they viewed with feelings of deep satisfaction the Bill which had been introduced into the House to establish in the Colony of New Zealand a constitution founded upon a principle which would give them due control over the management of their own affairs. They said, that having made themselves acquainted with the provisions of the measure, they were able to assure the House, that without referring to subordinate circumstances, about which there might be a difference of opinion, the measure, as a whole, and in all its main features, was hailed by them with the greatest satisfaction, as a boon of inestimable value. It was only owing to the debate having come on rather earlier than was expected, that petitions of a similar kind, from individuals in Eng-
 939 940 941 942 943 "I have heard that it is in contemplation to oppose the New Zealand Bill on the ground, amongst others, that the colonists are opposed to the creation of separate local governments in the several settlements. I beg to assure you of my firm belief, that not only will such provincial governments be most popular, but it is my own private opinion, and that I think of every one acquainted with the country, that such are the means by which its peculiar requirements can be met." 944
 MR. PACKE  said, he did not think the motives of the Government in introducing or withdrawing the clause were of any consequence. It was in obedience to the majority of 200 of the preceding night that the Government had acted in withdrawing the clause. It was perfectly monstrous to say that a regiment, raised for the defence of the Crown, should be prevented by Act of Parliament from acting in the case of rebellion or insurrection. He could not help asking also of what use was it to refer the Bill to a Committee, if the Government were not at liberty to amend it?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had not been aware that there was any intention of bringing up this clause, and he feared that it was intended to supersede the clauses of which he had given notice—to which, he understood, his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary had promised to give his favourable consideration on the bringing up of the Report. The clauses which he (Col. Sibthorp) had intended to propose, rendered it essential that the qualification of officers should be the same as that required by the 42  Geo. c.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I have listened with the attention which the importance of the subject and the high character of the individual who has addressed you naturally commanded, to the observations of the noble Lord; but I cannot help contrasting those observations with the remarkable notice which I find upon the paper to-day. The noble Lord has there intimated that he will "call the attention of the Government to reports which have lately circulated in Europe as to the exertion of foreign influences with a view to effect changes in the constitution of Spain." Now, the noble Lord has not favoured us with any enumeration in detail in reference to these reports, nor has the noble Lord informed us as to what foreign influence, or to the influence of what foreign Powers, he adverts. Certainly it may be agreeable to the noble Lord, or to any Member of this House, to elicit general declarations of opinion upon subjects of this importance from those who may be administering the government of the country; but, as a general rule, I should have thought it was extremely inconvenient that a Minister should be called upon in his place in Parliament to express such opinions without some facts or reasons being brought before the House to justify so unusual an appeal. There may have been, and there may be, rumours of the nature to which the noble Lord alludes; but at present no one can point to any facts leading to the conclusion that any foreign Powers have combined, or are combining, to effect a revolution in the constitution of Spain. If, therefore, I touch upon this subject, I do so that there may be no misconception in the minds of hon. Members, after the appeal of the noble Lord, of the feelings of Her Majesty's Government upon thi3 important question. And here I may be permitted to mention to the House a circumstance which occurred when we first acceded to power, and which will at once evince the feeling of the Government with respect to the constitution at present existing in Spain. Her Majesty's Minister at Madrid at that time was a noble Lord who had been promoted to that high office
 904 905 906
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the clause having been
 907
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the consolation of the Government under the attacks of the horn Gentleman must be the conviction that a belief in their truth was not shared by any considerable numbers. The very argument which the hon. Gentleman had used against his (the Chancellor of the Exche-quer's) right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department—that he had founded a recommendation of the previous clauses on the clause now under discussion—proved the sincerity of his right hon. Friend at the time when he made that declaration. Of course, if he had supposed that the clause would not remain in the Bill, he would not have founded any argument upon it; but his right hon. Friend had given up the clause with reluctance. Any one who could judge of the temper of the Committee must have seen that, on the subject of the omission of that clause, there was a very preponderant opinion. He hardly remembered any instance in which the similarity of opinion was more general. He could not agree that this was an important clause. It might be important in the eyes of a Gentleman who supposed the Government had introduced it in order to guard themselves from the consequences of some hypothetical policy which he imagined they were going to pursue. No doubt, if they had that profound prescience which the hon. Gentleman had, they might probably find, even in the clauses of a Militia Bill, some
 909
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had not asked for an opportunity of postponing the clause till convinced that a large majority of the Committee were opposed to it. Under those circumstances he had taken the usual course—of asking leave to postpone the clause, instead of moving, as it was open to him to do, that the clause should be omitted. He had since taken the opportunity of ascertaining what was the feeling of the Committee upon that clause, and he was convinced that it was utterly vain to attempt to carry it.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, the principal difference between hon. Members on opposite sides of the House, had reference to the functions of the central and provincial councils. That difference appeared to have arisen from the circumstance of the originator of the measure not being the person to carry it into execution. This measure originated with the Governor of New Zealand, but it had since passed into the hands, first of all, of the noble
 946
 MR. MOWATT  thought it desirable that the Government should state the reasons which had induced them to withdraw this clause. He had viewed the clause with great satisfaction—first, as showing that the Ministry thought any outbreak as so far improbable that it needed not to be taken into account at all. Of all species of force to be employed against the people in case of insurrection, militia or volunteers were the most objectionable. It was always better to employ regular troops, who had no connexion whatever with the locality. The withdrawal of the clause would damage the Bill and also the Government by showing that they had not that confidence they were supposed to have in the people of this country.
 MR. MOWATT  said, he considered the hon. and learned Gentleman's definition very vague, and wished to give him an opportunity of correcting himself. If a man engaged in gaining his livelihood by his daily labour—an unskilled daily labourer— were to be exempted, that would exclude the great mass of the population, and make it a middle-class militia; the middle class alone would be subject to the operation of the Bill.
 MR. F. SCULLY  wished the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies to inform him whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to apply any portion of the large funds recently received from Australia in aid of emigration from Ireland to that colony; and, if so, whether any part of those funds would be applied in assisting emigration of well-conducted youths from the Irish workhouses?
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, he must complain that the right hon. Home Secretary had given no answer as to the reasons which had induced him to insert the clause at first. An hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Packe) said the motives of Government were of no consequence, so long as there was a majority of that House in favour of the omission of the clause. He contended that there was no such majority, until the Government announced the contemplated withdrawal of the clause. The withdrawal of this clause gave the Bill an entirely new aspect, because under it men would be called upon to serve for a totally different object than that which had been stated. The Government had obtained their majorities on the supposition that the men who enrolled themselves in the militia would not be called out except to repel a foreign invasion, whereas now they would be liable to be called on to put down their own countrymen. [ Cries of
 MR. G. THOMPSON  would assure the Committee he did not wish to trespass upon their attention beyond what was necessary for the expression of his honest opinion. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had withdrawn this clause with reluctance. The clause was one which must have occupied the attention of the Government, and could not have been adopted by them without the most deliberate consideration, and the most solid judgment of its propriety. Now, what he wanted to know was, first, what were the reasons which induced the Government to introduce the clause into the Bill; and, secondly, what were the reasons
 915
 MR. GOULBURN  would not oppose the third reading, but thought that care ought to be taken that when the general provisions of the Act, which involved the purchase of cemeteries, came into action, there should be some check imposed with reference to cemeteries of this kind.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, the education at the German Universities was a special exemption from serving in the Landwehr. The ordinary service was three years, and a University education served as an exemption for one year out of the three. He hoped the exemptions under this Bill would be extended to the Universities of London and Durham.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, it must be admitted that, whatever might be the degree of importance attached to the clause itself, the fact of its having been introduced into the Bill by the Government, and then afterwards withdrawn by the Government, was of sufficient importance to make the clause deserving of the attention of the Committee, He hoped that his hon. Friend would be allowed to go on with his argument, although he was aware that this was an hour when hon. Gentlemen were called on to go elsewhere.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that, after the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, he felt bound entirely to withdraw the expression of opinion he had given utterance to—namely, that the right hon. Gentleman had not acted with sincerity in this matter.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that in comparing the 111th section of the 42  Geo.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had given a great deal of attention to the subject, and he was convinced that difficulty would arise.
 MR. BRIGHT : Not before the right hon. Gentleman offered to postpone the clause, but after.
 MR. BRIGHT  complained of what he might call—without offence—the shuffling conduct of the Government with respect to the clause. This clause formed, on the introduction of the Bill, a most important feature of the speech of the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department; but now, when it was found convenient to the Government, and when it had answered its purpose, this important clause was got rid of. It was his belief that the right hon. Gentleman had never had the slightest intention of passing the clause. If when the hon. Member for Bedford had moved the omission of the clause, the right hon. Gentleman had shown anything like the determination which he had manifested with respect to the other parts of the Bill, he would easily have carried it. He trusted that the right hon. Home Secretary would not lend himself to this proceeding, for when he introduced the Bill he referred to this clause as showing that the measure was not intended for the repression of public opinion, but entirely for the purpose of defence. This was one of the tricks of a Government which were not remarkable for their straightforwardness and for their character for aboveboard dealing, and its object was to secure support for an obnoxious measure. He (Mr. Bright) had been in the House of Commons nine or ten years, and had seen three Cabinets on those benches; but whether he referred to the dignified Government of Sir Robert Peel, or to the general truthfulness of the noble Lord lately at the head of the Government, he was compelled to draw a contrast very unfavourable to that of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He should be glad if the right hon. Home Secretary would tell them what now became of his argument fouunded upon this clause against his (Mr. Bright's) Amendment with regard to the oath; for it was very likely that but for those arguments that Amendment might have been carried. He might remonstrate with the right hon. Gentleman and the great majority of the Committee; but they could take any course they pleased. After the various occasions
 908
 MR. J. EVANS  said, the clause was an entirely exceptional one, not found in any other Militia Bill, but introduced here for the first time. It was for the Government to state why it had been so introduced. The clause had been regarded as a redeeming feature in the Bill; the right hon. Home Secretary had founded his arguments on it; and now the leader of the House stepped before him, made an admirable speech, and prevented the right hon. Gentleman from answering the question put to him. In the absence of any answer, the Committee would only put their own construction on the motives with which it had been introduced. A dissolution was approaching. [ Cries of" 913
 MR. WALTER  said, that, as the example of the elective Upper Chamber of the United States had been referred to, he might be allowed to observe that there was this essential distinction between the Upper Chamber of this country and that of the United States, that the members of the
 982
 MR. BAINES  said, if the Amendment of the noble Lord should be agreed to, he should regard it as a great public misfortune. As Chairman of the Select Committee to whom the Bill had been referred, he had come to the conclusion, in which the Committee unanimously concurred, after a most full and close inquiry into the merits of the case, that the Bill was one deserving the sanction of Parliament. It had been made perfectly clear to them that there was existing in London a most dangerous and scandalous state of things with reference to interments, for which there appeared to be no remedy that could by possibility be suggested except some efforts like those of which the plan proposed by this company was one. Several projects had been from time to time suggested; but so far as regarded any efforts of the Board of Health to supply the existing wants of the metropolis, he believed it was quite admitted by all parties that any powers they had for that purpose had been tried without effect, and that, if this Bill were not carried, it would be perfectly hopeless to expect any remedy from the Board of Health. He had never seen a Bill more diligently investigated by a Committee than this had been, and there never was one in which the result arrived at had been more perfectly unanimous.
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, he did not believe that any trickery had been designed in introducing or withdrawing the clause; still less did he suppose that its withdrawal would cause any great amount of dissatisfaction in the public mind. But the omission of the clause placed the Bill under an entirely new aspect. It had been intro dnced as a precautionary measure. I was now generally admitted that there was no danger of an invasion; and the first effect of this precautionary measure had been to induce the French to add 80,000 to their Army. So that, while we had
 911
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. MANGLES  said, the members of the New Zealand Company would be quite willing that the statutory arrangement made with them should remain intact; but what they complained of was that the Government proposed to hand over the land, which was their security for a sum of 268,000 l.,
 MR. WALPOLE  proposed an additional clause, prescribing that the qualifications of officers in the militia might be derived from personal as well as from real estate.
 MR. WALPOLE  moved the following Amendment:—
 "All the provisions of the said first-recited Act, and of any Act amending the same, not hereby repealed, shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, and so far as the same are not inconsistent
 916
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would answer both the questions which had been put by the hon. Gentleman, and that with perfect sincerity. First, the clause was introduced into the Bill because the Government thought (and none more strongly than himself) that they ought not to raise by this Bill any other force than that of a defensive force—a force not to be used except to resist foreign attacks. That was the reason why the clause was introduced into the Bill. He could assure the Committee that until they had come to the clause last night, he, for one, had wished to retain it, because he thought there would be a great advantage in not calling out the militia for the purpose of suppressing any insurrection or rebellion that might take place; but when the Committee came to the clause, a strong opposition was raised to it, not only by the Opposition side of the House, but by hon. Members on the Ministerial side, and communications were made to the Government from all quarters respecting it. He could assure the Committee that it was merely out of deference to what he believed to be the predominant opinion of the Committee that he had given up, and he would say reluctantly given up, this clause of the Bill.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, in reference to the proposal that had been made by the hon. Member for North Lancashire (Mr. Heywood), to exempt members of the Universities of London and Durham, he could not see why they should not exempt the modern Universities, except that it would be very unadvisable to increase the number of exemptions. He thought it would rather become a question whether they should not include the Universities already exempted.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the clause now proposed by the Government, substituted—not necessarily, however, but only
 921 Geo.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  would, when the Bill went into Committee, vote for the omission of any clause or clauses which had the effect of setting up, either in the shape of a distinct chamber, or of a component part of a chamber, any body of nominees of the Crown.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he considered it was absolutely necessary that this Bill should be passed along with the Government Bill, for when the Government chose to declare that no more burials should take place in the metropolis, here was the ground provided for the purpose by this measure. He would give the House an instance that had come to his knowledge of what took place under the present system. A gentleman had followed the remains of his nephew to the burial ground of St. Clement Danes, in the Strand, one of the most populous neighbourhoods, and on visiting it about three weeks afterwards he thought he saw the ground disturbed in which his nephew had been buried, and a gravedigger at work there. On going to the place he found the grave was opened —his nephew having died of a malignant smallpox—the coffin was dug up, and the inscription upon it was thrown aside. That was a thing that had occurred a few days ago, and it was only a single instance of much greater atrocities and abominations that were going on in the metropolis.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the noble Lord lately at the head of the Government had once remarked of a distinguished statesman, now no more, that no one knew so well how to dress up a statement for the House; and he conceived that some pains had been taken to dress up this Bill, so as to put it in a popular shape before the House. It appeared to have been supposed in the Cabinet, as they had an unpopular measure to pass through the House, that some Members of the Opposition might be quieted if votes were given to the militia; and if it was understood that the militia would not he drawn out to put down insurrection, it was an insult to the House not to submit the measure, in a bold and manly way, in the form in which it was intended to pass. The proposal for giving votes to the militia, and not calling them out in cases of insurrection, were the conceptions of Ministers themselves; and after hon. Members on his (Mr. M. Gibson's) side of the House had been induced to withdraw their opposition, in consequence of one of these proposals, they had a right to complain of its withdrawal. This course savoured a little of that peculiar practice which was known by
 910
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the definition of a poor man, read by the hon. Member (Sir H. Verney), applied to the Scotch militia. He wanted to know what was meant by a poor man under this Bill?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, this clause rendered the men liable to all the provisions of the 42  Geo. Geo.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said:* I consider it, Sir, before all things essential to the formation of a just opinion of the several details upon this measure, that the House should consider its general position. I assume that there is a prevalent, indeed almost an universal, opinion, that the existence of the present Parliament ought not to be materially prolonged, either by actual contests, or by the expression of possible differences of opinion, upon the details of a Bill relating to the constitution of New Zealand. If this be so, then it appears to me that the question which we have before us is, in its first aspect, this— whether we shall, each of us following out that particular scheme for a colonial constitution which he may prefer, proceed to develop and urge upon the House the adoption of such scheme in its various parts; or whether, upon the other hand, we shall be content to view the proposed plan of Her Majesty's Government as a whole—to say we like or dislike it as a whole, and as a whole we accept or reject it. It seems to me that this is the real alternative before us. As practical men, having a practical object in view, and weighing together, as well as we can, several advantages which in some degree conflict with one another, we must in the main be content to forego many things in
 952 953 954 955 956 957 958 959 960 961 962 veto veto 963 964 965 966 967 l. l. 968 969 Cheers. 970 971 972 l. l. "There shall be charged upon and paid to the New Zealand Company out of the proceeds of all future sales of the demesne lands of the Crown in New Zealand, after deducting the outlay for surreys, and the proportion of such proceeds which is appropriated to the purposes of emigration, the sum of 268,370 l. s. s. "In obedience to your Lordships' commands
 973 l. s. l. 974
 MR. BERESFORD  said, he did not think the remedy proposed by the hon. Gentleman was the best to meet the evil of which he complained. It would be very natural for a soldier to feel annoyed if a man were declared unfit for the militia, that he should be nevertheless considered fit for the Army. The proposition of the hon. Member, if adopted, would amount to this: it would be held as a slur cast upon the whole Army, which he was sure no hon. Gentleman would wish to do. In regard to the punishment itself—if a man were found guilty of an offence by a Court-martial, and that the punishment was to be sent abroad for a given time, great expense would be entailed upon the public, and much trouble given to all parties, to no beneficial purpose. They had military prisons, for the punishment of soldiers, when found guilty of an offence by Court-martial. He thought, that such a mode of punishing offenders in the militia was much better than sending them to the regular force, particularly as no condemned regiments existed now. He was of opinion that such a system as was recommended by the hon. Gentleman would be a very bad one to introduce.
 MR. EWART  thought the hon. and learned Gentleman ought to comply with the request which had been made by his right hon. Friend (Mr. M. Gibson). He (Mr. Ewart) hoped some reason would be given why Peers should be exempted. The noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) had stated the other evening there was a reason why Peers should be exempted, and he trusted, therefore, the noble Lord would
 917
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  having moved that the House at its rising adjourn till Monday,
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  begged to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General what steps had been taken to try the ques-
 895 Geo.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he considered the measure most important, and knew that it would be sanctioned by a large body of the inhabitants of the metropolis.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that, remembering that the representatives of Russia, Austria, and Prussia had come to put down constitutional government in Spain, when he was in that country—remembering how they subsidised rebellion against the constitution—he felt that the most vigilant attention was required on the part of the Government of this country to maintain and preserve intact the free constitutional system of government which had been fortunately successfully established in the Peninsula.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he did not know whether to take the speech of the hon. Gentleman as an attack or a compliment. He was not aware that this clause had anything to do with corporal punishment, and therefore he would not delay the progress of the Bill by discussing that question on the present occasion. With regard to the militia, he was not conscious of having said anything in disparagement of that body, with which he presumed, from the tone of his observations, the hon. Member was connected.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, the question had been asked why Peers were exempted. He believed Peers were exempted from paying their debts under certain circumstances—so were commoners, and he did not think they ought to be. If the analogy were kept up, commoners ought also to be exempted from the operation of this Bill; but he thought it was a discredit to the peerage that that exemption should exist, because if the ballot came into operation, it was not merely conscription, it was a tax; it led to substitutes; and if it were a tax, no exemption ought to he allowed to the higher classes, who could afford to pay it. Some Gentlemen had intimated an opinion that the cost of substitutes formerly in time of war would be no criterion for the cost in time of peace. Perhaps they would be surprised to hear that the annual tax upon France under the operation of substitutes was estimated, on good authority, to be no less than 42,000,000 francs. The French were accustomed to it, and submitted to it; but that was not so in England. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, when he presented that Budget which had redounded so much to his credit, particularly commented upon large exemptions of any kind, and he said they were confiscations. If the principle of large exemptions were applied to the higher classes, great inconvenience would result, and perhaps there would be no harm if the Government were to state their intention of reconsidering the subject, for he thought it incumbent on the Government to have as few exemptions as possible.
 MR. F. PEEL  said, there were many parts of the Bill of which he disapproved, but he would reserve his remarks on these until it came to be considered in Committee. He assuredly did not agree with the right hon. Gentleman below him (Mr. V. Smith) that it would be better to pass a Bill suspending for a year longer the Act of 1846. He thought it better to pass this measure in the present Session, though certainly not on the ground urged by the hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley), who argued that they ought not to disappoint the just expectations of the colonists, that upon the expiration of the Suspending Act the representative institutions granted them by the Act of 1846, which had been improperly withheld, would at last be accorded to them. If this Bill should pass into a law, he did not think representative institutions would have been given to New Zealand one day too late. Sir George Grey had been Governor of New Zealand six years; and, although he received that colony in a State of anarchy, civil confusion, and utter prostration, and at war with a powerful native race, it was but justice to him to say that he had succeeded in those six years in bringing it round into a condition of peace, progress, and prosperity, without a parallel in the annals of our colonial dependencies. Eleven years ago that Colony was peopled only by a few scores of European missionaries, traders, and South Sea whalers. Now, the European
 948 949 ad valorem 950 951
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he did not see why Peers should be exempted; and as respected members of the Universities, they were the last persons who ought to be exempted. The students of the German Universities were the first parties required to come forward in defence of their country. The words in the Act 42  Geo. l.
  SIR HARRY VERNEY  wished to say that when he suggested last night that the clause should be omitted, he was surprised it should have met with so much approbation on both sides of the House. His sole object originally was to call attention to what he conceived was an interference with the prerogative of the Crown.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he did not rise at that late hour to protract the present discussion. The time for protracted discussion was already passed. In speaking for himself he would only say that he was not at all disposed to offer any opposition to the second reading of the Bill; and that he was perfectly ready to go into Committee for the purpose of discussing the various clauses in such a spirit that, if possible, the Bill should pass into a law during the present Session. He must say, however, that he entirely agreed with his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford in thinking that
 981
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he hoped, under the circumstances in which he was placed, the House would be kind enough to indulge him for a very few moments. He had listened with great pleasure to the able speech addressed to the House by the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), in many of whose principles he certainly concurred. But when the right hon. Gentleman, with his usual eloquence and ability, argued, that the manner in which the very early settlements of our American colonies were formed, ought to be the model of our colonisation at present, he (Sir J. Pakihg-ton) could not concur with him, because the right hon. Gentleman had lost sight of the different circumstances under which they were formed, and had forgotten what a small and insignificant portion of our Empire our Colonies then were. He did not think the right hon. Gentleman bore in mind the effect which must be produced upon such questions by the enormous in-crease of our Colonies in all parts of the world, by the effect which this, of course, had upon our relations with foreign countries, and the extent to which those relations had affected the mode in which we must deal with our Colonies. Neither had the right hob. Gentleman remembered the extended commerce which had resulted from this great increase in our colonial Empire, nor that many of these Colonies had been founded by the outpourings of our convict population. He did not advert to these topics With the intention of dwelling upon them at any length; for, as they had been touched by the right hon.
 975 976 977 978 979 980
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  was understood to say that before the Bill went into Committee, he would lay oh the table the letter containing the agreement made between Earl Grey and the New Zealand Company for carrying out the Act of 1847, and defining the portion1 of land to which the Company were entitled.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  moved the Second Reading of this Bill.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the best answer he could give to the first portion of the hon. Gentleman's question was to state that the practice of the Emigration Commissioners had been to send out emigrants from the different portions of the. United Kingdom as nearly as possible in proportion to the population of each; but, in consequence of some difficulty in finding the necessary number of emigrants from Scotland last year, it happened that at this moment the Irish proportion of emigrants was in advance of the proportion which had been sent out from England and Scotland to the extent of 6,000 persons. Under these circumstances, the course which the Commissioners would have taken in ordinary times would have been to send out no more emigrants from Ireland until the proportion from the different branches of the Kingdom was fairly adjusted; but, in consequence of the extraordinary state of things which existed at this moment, the Commissioners were not taking that course. On the contrary, their selecting agents were at present in Ireland making arrangements for the emigration of a certain number of Irish families; but a preference was given to families in which the females were more numerous than the males. He begged to remind the hon. Gentleman that in 1850 no fewer than 4,000 young women were sent out to the colonies from the Irish workhouses; hut it appeared that the colonies did not like the emigrants so received, and, consequently, that practice would not be again resorted to. With respect to the hon. Gentleman's second question, he begged to say that as the Commissioners had resolved to give a preference to emigrants with families, it would he inconsistent with that regulation to select young men from the Irish workhouses.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said the hon. and learned Attorney General had defined very clearly the poor man, and he (Sir J. Tyrell) thought there was no great difficulty in defining the rich man, when he mentioned those gentlemen who, upon a certain occasion at Manchester put down their names as subscribing 1,000 l. 920
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he was much disappointed with the contents of this Bill. After reading it carefully through, and attentively studying its details, the favourable impressions which he had conceivod with regard to it from the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Colonial Secretary had almost entirely vanished, and to the objections which he made on its introduction he had now many others to add. He had not only to object to an Upper House composed of Members nominated for life, and to the superintendents being nominated by the Governor, and not elective, but he found that the provincial councils were not municipalities, but positive Legislatures, and that there were to be municipalities in addition to the provincial councils. He found also that one of the most obnoxious powers of the Colonial Office, which the right hon. Baronet stated that it was his intention to abandon, had been substantially retained, and he found that the most important provisions of the Bill, namely, that for the surrender of the waste lands, was clogged with a condition which would greatly diminish its value in the eyes of the Colonists. In reading through this Bill, the first thing that struck him was the immense quantity of government which was to be imposed upon the scanty population of New Zealand, which amounted, at the highest estimate, to about 26,000 Europeans, and about 100,000 natives. It appeared from this Bill that, first, Now Zealand was to be divided into two parts, an English part, and a native part. Within the English pale, English laws were to be enforced; without the pale, in the native part, native laws and customs were to be maintained by the Governor-in-Chief of New Zealand, notwithstanding the repugnancy of any such native laws to the laws of England, or of Now Zealand, provided they were not repugnant to the laws of humanity. The part of New Zealand within the English pale was to be divided into six provinces. These would be, in fact, miniature Colonies; the two largest of them would have an English population of about 7,000 persons
 923 924 925 imperium in imperio, Ga- 926 zette Gazette l. l. l. 927 928 929 s. l., l. l. 930 l. "There should be charged upon and paid to the New Zealand Company out of the funds of all future sales of Crown lands in New Zealand, after deducting the outlays for surveys, and the proportion of such proceeds which is appropriated to the purposes of emigration, the sum of 268,000 l. s. l. 931 932 933 "Calculated utterly to destroy that unity of action accompanied by economy which could alone confer an uniform national character upon the different portions of the colony which it should be the desire of all to establish." "One centrally-situated Executive, with the aid of steam vessels to keep up a rapid and regular communication between the settlements, would be infinitely more direct and efficient in its action, and far less costly in its maintenance, than any number of provincial councils could hope to be; while, to meet the wants of each separate district, municipalities, with extensive powers of legislation on questions merely relating to such districts, would amply suffice for all their local wants." "The colonists of the southern province would rather hare one general Legislature for the whole of New Zealand; that they were rather anxious for municipal institutions than for the erection of subordinate Legislatures." 934 "That provincial councils would be cumbrous, expensive, and ostentatious; for, unless the provinces of New Zealand were multiplied to an amount which would entail upon the colony a ruinous Government expenditure, it would be impossible to divide it in such a manner as not to include within the same limits districts of dissimilar interest." "To suggest one Central Legislature and Executive, as quite sufficient for every purpose of good government in New Zealand." "The employment of steam vessels upon the coast would remove all the obstacles to this form of government, and would afford a regular and easy intercourse between the settlements, which would produce moral and political results of the most beneficial character; for nothing would more certainly tend to unite the colony together, to lead to broader and juster views of policy, to remove local ignorance and prejudices, to counteract, in short, the narrowness of view and selfishness which never fail to arise in isolated communities. Steam communication, by practically reducing the size of the colony, would render the repetition of offices unnecessary, and diminish both the machinery and expense of government." 935 936 937 938
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he rose pursuant to notice, to move an Amendment. He complained that the principle of allowing compensation to the clergy for interments was recognised in the present Bill, although it had been previously denounced and given up in the Metropolitan Interments Bill of the Government. While this measure apparently supported the Government Bill, the effect of its passing would in fact be practically to repeal that Act. If this Bill was to be viewed as a private one, it was a measure that would prove not only inefficient, but superfluous. The cemeteries of London belonging to private companies embraced already 260 acres, of which 150 were available for public uses. It was obvious that such an extent of ground as this Bill proposed to enclose—namely, 2,000 acres—could not be required by any company for the purposes of a cemetery. Mr. Walker, the able and meritorious pioneer in exposing the abuses of intramual interments, as well as many other authorities upon the subject, concurred in stating that a piece of ground of 400 or 500 acres would be quite sufficient for the purposes of a permanent burial ground for the inhabitants of the
 892
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  rose, pursuant to notice, and said: Sir, I wish to claim the indulgence of the House for a very short time, in order to draw their attention, and the attention of the Government, to reports which have been some time current of the exercise of foreign influence for the purpose of bringing about a change, if not an abrogation, of the Constitution of Spain. My opinion is, that constitutional monarchy is the best form of government that has ever yet been invented by the wisdom of men. By consti-
 897 898 899 900 901 902 903
 MR. ORMSBY GORE  begged to ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, in the event of railway companies having paid up a certain proportion of their capital, and complied with certain conditions to be named by the Government, the Government was willing to make advances by way of loan to railway companies in Ireland; and whether the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to state what the conditions were which he required to be complied with before making such advances?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he agreed in what the hon. and learned Gentleman had just stated, and wished that the hon. and learned mover of the Amendment would explain how it was possible that any judicial proceeding could take place which could throw open an inquiry into what was, in fact, the object of the Bill, namely, a wholesale system of corruption.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, the reason why he should support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury was, that this Bill, in a great measure, would be the machinery for transferring the franchise of small boroughs to large towns. He was very much afraid that would be the way the Bill would work. It provided for inquiry, the result of which was to be laid before Parliament, but they did not know what ulterior course would be taken; in his opinion, therefore, there was no valid reason why counties should not be included. His attention had been drawn to a large amount of bribery in counties, not by landlords only, but by Freehold Land Societies—freehold societies which were countenanced by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright). He had heard of some of these societies being established in that portion of the country in which he (Capt. Harris) resided, and he understood the object was to bring the men who joined them completely under the control of those who apportioned the lands. Many of the men who held freeholds were in debt, and likely to continue in debt, and so long as they were in debt they held their votes at the disposal of the committees of those societies. He thought there was as much ground for inquiry into that state of things in the counties, as for inquiring into the practices in cities and boroughs; and considering, as he did, that it was unfair to the cities and boroughs not to include the counties, he should vote in favour of the Amendment.
 CAPTAIN HARRIS  said, the hon. and learned Member seemed to think he had advanced a charge that was incorrect. He would repeat what he had stated, that he had understood from several persons that money was advanced to these freeholders to purchase the freeholds—[Mr. C. ANSTEY: Where?]—and that they were to pay the money back by instalments, and that during the time the money was in course of repayment the votes were at the disposal of the committee of the society. [Mr. C. ANSTEY: What society?] This he had not heard from one quarter, but from a hundred different people, and whetherit was correct or not, he thought the House would agree with him it was a fit topic for inquiry.
 MR. LASLETT  begged to offer his thanks to the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone for having brought the subject under the notice of the House. He had some experience of the working of the Poor Law, and he considered that some amendment in the law was necessary.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  considered that this measure was a great improvement in the law relating to the poor; but he regretted the manner in which the Motion of the noble Lord (Lord D. Stuart) had been received by the Government. The arguments which had been used, were, in his opinion, conclusive as to the propriety of having uniformity in the law. He could not understand why a parish, carrying on its affairs satisfactorily under its own local Acts, should be interfered with. The House had a right to have an explanation of the principle on which that interference rested. Local interest must, of course, influence many hon. Members. He (Mr. J. A. Smith) was interested for Chichester, which he had represented for twenty years. It was a collection of parishes under a local Act, and he was certain no complaint could be made with regard to the management of the poor there. He wished for an explanation of the principle, therefore, on which the Poor Law Board had acted in introducing their orders into parishes which had local Acts.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, he was really quite tired of hearing without contradiction the statements which had been made as to the present universal employment of the lower orders in this country. The hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) had stated that there was no pressure upon the workhouses, in consequence of the cheapness of food and the abundance of employment. [Mr. WAKLEY: I said there were less than formerly.] But lot the hon. Member look to the sister country of Ireland, whore, in one of the Unions, the assistance of soldiers had been demanded in order to maintain order among
 1095 Times "It is quite clear that a very trifling expense, as compared with the cost of their permanent maintenance at home, would transport these turbulent spirits from the scenes of their riotous exploits to distant regions, where their thews and sinews might be employed with advantage to themselves and to others. When will official men begin to shake off the humdrums of tradition, and look the facts of a totally new situation boldly in the face? Our modern statesmen are called upon to deal with a state of facts for which the experience of their predecessors offers no solution. Action is wanted, and instant action. We are not dealing simply with a redundant population at home, but with a perishing colony abroad."
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  explained that he did not mean anything beyond making those parishes which had local Acts independent of the Poor Law Board.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  moved that the blank be filled up with"1853,"instead of"1854," his object being to limit the duration of the Bill to one year.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  rose to move the instruction to the Committee of which he had given notice. He considered the question they had to consider one of the utmost importance to a great portion of the public, for it was a fact that at any rate wherever there were parishes governed by local Acts, a deep interest was felt in the Motion which he had to submit; and he thought that whoever was in favour of the principle of local self-government should support that Motion. He believed that the foundation of all the power, wealth, prosperity, and freedom of this great country, and the principle which had made England the wonder and envy of the world, was this principle for which he had to contend. That important principle was seriously interfered with by the members of the Poor Law Board as they interpreted the law; the object of the present Bill was to continue the power of the Board so to interfere; and that what he wished to do was to take away that power, so far as it respected certain classes of parishes, which were never intended to be placed under the control of the Board by the original framers of the Poor Law Act. If the House should agree to his Motion, he intended in Committee to move the insertion of a Clause or Proviso to the effect that the provisions of the Act 4 & c 5  Will. 1074 Will. 1075 mandamus mandamus 1076 1077
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the reason why he did not insert the word "counties" in the original Bill was, that, although they had had many complaints for now three-quarters of a century with regard to the prevalence of corruption in boroughs, he did not remember an instance in which it had been stated that in a county, or in a division of a county, bribery had generally prevailed. Of course, they were aware that, from the time of Old Sarum down to the last instance (that of St. Albans) the practice of bribery had generally prevailed, with regard to which Parliament had made inquiries, and Parliament had legislated. He had therefore thought fit to confine the Bill to that class of cases with regard to which Parliament had already interfered and instituted inquiries. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down might make a distinction between large towns and small towns; but, in the first place, it was very difficult to draw the line as to the size of the towns which should be included; and, in the next place, he remembered an inquiry with respect to the town of Liverpool, and an intention intimated of proposing a Bill upon that subject. The reason he had not included counties, was exactly that
 1062
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  did not think any proceedings before a Court of Law would prevent the necessity of an inquiry, either by a Committee or at the bar of that House.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, if his memory did not deceive him, though he much doubted it after what had fallen from his noble Friend the Member for the city of London, he thought there had been a charge made of the most extensive bribery ever practised at an election having been practised at an election for West Gloucestershire. On account of some technical difficulty it was not inquired into—it -could not be brought before the ordinary tribunal; but a Committee was apppointed to inquire whether a noble Lord had not been guilty of a breach of the privileges of the House in the manner in which he interfered in that election. As his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) found it very difficult to draw the line between the constituency of one borough and that of another, so he (Lord R. Grosvenor) thought it very difficult to draw a line between boroughs and counties. Whether the machinery of the Bill were applicable or not, he did not know, but at present he should vote for the Amendment.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  could only say, with regard to the statements of the last speaker, that in the district to which he belonged, there was not a labourer out of employment; and at this moment there was not a single ablebodied pauper in the workhouse. As to the question before the House, he should be very sorry to see all centralising authority withdrawn, for he was convinced the poor would very much suffer from it. But, as there was a doubt about the law, he thought the House ought to see that that doubt was removed, and he should consequently vote in favour of the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he saw but one reason for voting against the proposition of the hon. Member for Finsbury, and that was the time and the stage at which this Amendment had been brought forward; otherwise he must say, that he himself fully concurred in what had been said as to the propriety of applying the principle of the Bill to counties. He believed that treating was carried on in counties to a considerable extent, and other influences were also brought to bear, to which the attention of that House could not be too soon directed. When he found it publicly avowed that a noble Lord, a Member of the House of Peers, in direct violation of the privileges of the House of Commons and of the rights of the people, had entered into a corrupt compact, to cause the return of a Member for a county constituency, which Member was to be in that House under the immediate and direct control of that noble Lord, and to be his nominee—when he found that this Member was denied the privilege of soliciting the suffrages of the electors on his own account, and that he was only permitted to ask for them in the name and on the behalf of the noble Lord who was his patron, he repeated that the attention of the House could not be too soon directed to influences of such a nature. He admitted, therefore, the propriety of applying the principle of this Bill to counties. But in this stage of the Bill the adoption of such an Amendment would give the Bill an entirely new character, and extend it to a case to which it was not intended to apply originally. But for this he should have had the greatest repugnance to voting against the Amendment.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he thought it would be very inconvenient to insert the words proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman; for all that such an inquiry could do would be to ascertain individual cases of bribery; but the object sought by this Bill was evidence of wholesale corruption.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he regretted that Her Majesty's Government should have sanctioned the Bill brought forward by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord John Russell). It had already gone through three editions, but though they had wasted time and paper upon it, it remained as bad a Bill as had ever come before them. He warned the Government against the mantraps and spring guns set by the other side, for they would get caught if they did not mind. The Star Chamber was a farce compared with the tribunal which this Bill would create. It would send down Commissioners—briefless barristers he supposed—into various parts of the country; and, like poachers, they would lie waiting for their prey in the darkness of the night, and endeavour to entrap innocent and unwary persons—persons less likely to be guilty of corruption than the noble Lord himself. It would be well to sift what took place at the last election in the pure and immaculate City of London— how much money was paid, and to remember,  qui facit per alium facit per se. l. l. Cries of
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, if he were not mistaken, the hon. Member for Pins-bury (Mr. T. Duncombe) had just voted against his (Col. Sibthorp's) Amendment to postpone the third reading of the Bill till that day three months; and, by that vote, he had condemned the boroughs and had supported the noble Lord's Bill. That being the case, although he (Col. Sibthorp) might be disposed to extend the same measure to counties as the House had determined to apply to boroughs, yet, coming as the proposition did from such a quarter, he felt it necessary to be cautious how he accepted the hon. Member's favours —  Timeo Danaos, et dona ferentes.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not oppose the principle of the Amendment. If they were to inquire into the conduct of constituencies, he thought a limitation to a particular class of constituencies was an odious distinction. But it was his sincere belief that the county constituencies of this country were pure. That was his firm conviction; and he was quite sure, if his firm conviction were not well-founded, they would have had complaints made to that House. If, in indicating the character of borough constituencies, it would afford satisfaction to hon. Gentlemen opposite, he could say also that he believed the corruption of borough constituencies was very much exaggerated: it applied to a very limited class of boroughs. Although the principle of the suggestion was one which he would not quarrel with, it would be well for the House to consider how it would work, how the Bill would apply, supposing the word "counties" was inserted. Suppose they established a charge of corruption, were they prepared to disfranchise a county, and leave a considerable portion of England unrepresented? The machinery which applied to boroughs did not apply to counties; and however good the principle, it was not well considered, not sufficiently matured with respect to this Bill. If the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) should succeed in bringing counties under similar Parliamentary control, then it would be necessary to devise different machinery to that contained in this Bill. The subject appeared to he one which required more consideration than it had received. He quite agreed
 1063
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The conditions precedent upon which loans can be contracted by railway companies, are contained in the Act of Parliament by which those railway companies are formed; and the conditions on which Her Majesty's Government have made these advances, when the conditions
 1050 l. l. l.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he had never heard anything with more surprise than the statement made by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the West Riding of Yorkshire might be disfranchised by the operation of this Bill. Now he (Mr. Horsman) contended that the Bill contained no machinery of disfranchisement whatever. The Bill only empowered the Queen, after receiving an Address from the House of Commons, stating that corruption had been practised among any constituency, to issue a Commission of Inquiry. That was the whole of the power conveyed by this Bill. Under these circumstances he did not see on what princi-
 1066
 MR. HUDSON  said, he could corroborate the statement of the hon. Member for Stafford (Mr. Alderman Sidney) with respect to the practice at contested elections in the West Riding of Yorkshire. It was a regular understood thing there that half-a-crown and five shilling tickets should be issued. The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), when he spoke of the purity of his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), should not have forgotten that the hon. Member for the West Riding had never stood a contest. Whenever he did, he, or his friends for him, which was the same thing, would, he might depend upon it, have to pay the half-crowns and the five shillings. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had talked of having never heard of corruption in counties, and put on an appearance of exceeding innocence; but the noble Lord had himself contested counties, and, if he were candid, must admit that he had paid larger sums than the mere legitimate expenses ought to have amounted to. He (Mr. Hudson) disapproved of the Bill altogether, and would not vote at all on this Amendment.
 MR. HUDSON  paid, it would afford
 1054 l. primâ facie 1055
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he could add his testimony to that of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) with regard to the Freehold Land Societies. Speaking particularly of the largest—the one which had extended the suffrage the most, the one in Birmingham, and those in Lancashire—he was quite sure the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Capt. Harris) was entirely mistaken—that he knew nothing about them but what he had picked up from the papers of his party, which of course could not be relied upon. The hon. Gentleman might certainly have had some connexion with another society in Birmingham, a Conservative society of which the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) was a member; and he (Mr. Bright) could not say that the practice of that society was not as the hon. and gallant Gentleman had represented. But the practice was not so in those societies with which he (Mr. Bright) was acquainted. If the hon. and gallant Member, or any one else, chose to become a member and a freeholder, no one would ask him what were his political opinions, or how he intended to vote. With regard to the Amendment, nothing had been said against it. The only thing that had been attempted to be said was, that as the county constituencies were very large, that kind of treating and bribery was not carried on for which boroughs were so notorious. That was just as good a reason for exempting many large constituencies in boroughs, such as Edinburgh, Glasgow, Manchester, Leeds, or Birmingham, or any of the metropolitan boroughs. He believed there had never since the Reform Act been a single petition against the returns
 1061
 MR. FLOYER  said, that the case of West Gloucestershire was the only instance which had been mentioned in which bribery and intimidation had been practised. It was said that treating took place in many counties; but no great demoralisation was occasioned by a candidate giving an elector a slice of bread and cheese, or a sandwich and a glass of beer. If that was all the treating that was to be put down in counties by the grand machinery of this Bill, he thought it was hardly worth the while of the House of Commons to interfere in so unusual a manner to put down an evil which a few days ago a large number of Members of the House thought it not unfair to legalise. When it was proposed to include counties in a Bill which was described by the noble Lord who brought it forward as one which was in the nature of a Bill of pains and penalties, he thought that some better reason should have been assigned than that given by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), that "there was nothing against it." Therefore, although no man in the House had a stronger repugnance to bribery and corruption than he had, he should feel quite justified in voting against the Amendment.
 MR. STANFORD : Sir, though I am aware that the privilege of addressing the House at this stage of a Bill is but sparingly used, I cannot, on the present occasion, refrain from availing myself of the Opportunity which it affords of recording my sentiments on the important and deeply interesting subject with which it deals, as well as of examining the claims of its supporters to be esteemed the uncompromising foes to, and  bond fide l. l. 1068 sotto voce, aide de camp 1069 elite l. l 1070 custom morum bond fide brutum fulmen, 1071 per contra, 1072 bond fide
 MR. WALTER  said, he fully concur-
 1097
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to call the attention of the House back to the question immediately before them. That question had nothing whatever to do with the well or ill management of the Marylebone vestry; neither was it whether the Poor Law Board should be continued for two years longer, for no one had disputed that at all; but the question was whether, ay or no, those parishes which had local Acts should be exempted from the authority of the Board? The noble Lord (Lord D. Stuart) had charged him (Mr. Henley), and others on that side of the House, with inconsistency in opposing the present Motion, in the face of the fact that they resisted the Bill of 1847; but he denied that there was any inconsistency in the matter. He did not believe that the question of local boards, to which the present Motion referred, was at all agitated in 1847. The debate on that occasion wholly turned, he believed, upon the constitution of the Poor Law Board; and he must say that the course which was taken by himself and his friends in relation to that matter, had been justified by the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Hull (Mr. Baines) that night. The House would remember that the right hon. Gentleman, in speaking of the manner in which he had regulated his conduct, said, "I did this," and "I did that," demonstrating that what was done was the action of a single individual, and not the action of a Board. Now, the main ground which he (Mr. Henley) and those who acted with him took in 1847, was that it was indispensable to the well working of the Poor Law system that there should be a single responsibility. It would be remembered, that up to that period there was an almost uniform discontent throughout the country with the conduct of the Poor Law Commissioners; but owing to the able management of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Baines), and his lamented predecessor (Mr. C. Buller), since the introduction of the new system, it might almost be said that the public had no knowledge of the Poor Law Board, so smoothly
 1093
 MR. HENLEY  had no objection whatever to the production of some of them. Generally, he might say, the memorials prayed that the Act should be enforced.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that in consequence of the convention that was entered into some years ago between Her Majesty and the late King of the French relative to the Channel fisheries, an Act of Parliament was passed for the purpose of carrying that Convention into effect; and, among other provisions of that Act, there was one forbidding within certain months—from the 1st of May to the 1st of September, any fishing-boat in the Channel having any dredges or other fishing implements on board. Representations had been made to Her Majesty's Government, by the Government of France, to the effect that they were about to carry that treaty out, and wishing this Government to do the same. Representations had likewise been made to them by various bodies of fishermen in this country, some of whom wished the Act to be strictly carried out, and others of whom wished it to be relaxed. The fishermen of Dovor and on the coast of
 1049
 MR. HENLEY  would make inquiries upon the subject, but he did not apprehend there would be any objection to his doing so.
 MR. HUME  said, that while the Board was under the direction of the right hon.
 1090 mandamus
 MR. HUME  said, he was one who had encouraged these Freehold Land Societies. He belonged to one in the City of London, and he would venture to say the imputation which had been made, was a calumny upon that society. He knew they were associated for the purchase of properties in different parts of the country; but so far from interfering with the exercise of franchise, there was never the least question put to the members as to their political opinions. The great point with these so-
 1060
 MR. BAINES : From my recent connexion with the Poor Law Board, I am desirous of stating shortly the grounds upon which I think it my duty to resist the proposition of my noble Friend the Member for Marylebone. In doing so, I shall confine myself strictly to the question involved in that proposition. With regard to the case of Pancras, the fact that it is about to become the subject of judicial investigation, would of itself be decisive with me as to the impropriety of discussing it now. I trust, also, that my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Brighton will pardon me if I decline, on the present occasion, to follow him into the subject of Alverstoke. Should he, at any time hereafter, think fit to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to investigate that subject fully, and to inquire into all the facts connected with it, I have no doubt that the Poor Law Board will be perfectly prepared to meet him. The question, however, now before the House is a general one, and is substantially this, namely, whether it is expedient for Parliament to enact that the jurisdiction of the Poor Law Board shall be wholly taken away in the case of every parish in which there is a board of guardians or directors of the poor, constituted under the provisions of a local Act. There can be no
 1085 1086 1087 1088 1089
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, he should support the Motion, because he felt it his
 1092
 MR. P. HOWARD  said, he would support the Amendment, because it was invidious towards cities and boroughs to suppose that they alone were subject to temptation. He observed that the title of the Bill was sufficiently general to admit of the Amendment without alteration—the title being, "to provide for more effectual inquiry into the existence of Corrupt Practices at Elections for Members to serve in Parliament."
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, the hon. Member for Christ Church (Capt. Harris) seemed more conversant with the party politics of the county in which he re-
 1059 s.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he had an Amendment to propose to the first clause. The House would remember that the Bill originally provided that when any Member had reason to believe in the existence of corrupt practices in any borough,
 1056
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he would take that opportunity of giving notice that on the Report being brought up, he would move that the Bill be continued for five years.
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he desired to see the Board continued for five years. In 1842 and 1847 the Board was continued for five years, and there was no reason why it should now be limited to a shorter period, for the Poor Law Commission stood better in public opinion now than formerly. It was most desirable to give the Poor Law Board a permanent character, not affected by political changes.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  wished to know why the provision of this Bill should not be extended to counties? It was at present confined to cities and boroughs. He believed county electors were quite as corrupt as, and certainly much more dependent than, 10 l. l. 1057 l.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, he cordially agreed with the preceding speakers in the view they had taken of the Bill. He saw no reason why these constituencies should be subjected to such an inquisition as this Bill would create. In the City of London there was a body of persons, 1,000 in number, who regularly expected the sum of 40 s. Cheers.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  then moved to include the Universities in the operation of the Bill.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  would remind the House, that at the assembling of the present Parliament, a very great number of petitions were presented against the returns for counties after the last general election, among which were petitions from North Staffordshire and Cheshire; and he did not, therefore, see why counties should be excluded from the operation of the Bill. It was quite notorious that, in the West Riding of the county of York, it was a matter of arrangement between the contending parties that they should give tickets for refreshment, and pay the expenses incurred by the electors on the days of polling. The terms of the Bill were certainly large enough to include counties, because the 6th Clause directed that inquiries should be made whether any corrupt practices bad been committed by way of treating. Every principle of English justice required that a rule which was considered fair for boroughs, should be applied to counties also. He did not like anything that appeared one-sided justice. He would observe that there were three Universities which sent Members to that House, and he knew that the practice was to pay the travelling expenses of the poorer class of clergymen, and an allowance for their table while they remained in the city, If the House affirmed the Amendment of the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe), he should take the
 1065
 MR. WAKLEY  thought, after what had fallen from the noble Lord and the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, the House ought either to adopt the Amendment, or adjourn the debate. It was quite clear this matter was not lightly considered. The attempt to draw the line was not only absurd, but unjust—most unjust. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer stated that the constituencies of the counties were pure. Then keep them pure, by placing before them the fear of inquiry. But he entertained a different opinion, and he thought counties stood quite as much in need of a Bill of this kind as cities and
 1064
 MR. WAKLEY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) had laboured in vain to remove the impression which had been produced by the speech of his (Mr. Wakley's) noble Friend (Lord 1). Stuart) with respect to the charge of inconsistency against the other side of the House. But the fact was, that words were beginning to lose their meaning. "Inconsistency" now meant "change," and "change" meant "consistency." But he would ask the right hon. Gentleman, if he opposed the Bill five years ago, why should he support it now? Under the present Poor Law there were as many horrors as under the old, though it happened that at this moment there was no pressure upon the workhouses, owing to the cheapness of food and the abundance of employment. Were the scenes witnessed at Andover and Tooting forgotten? The fact was, that hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial side of the House, until they were in office, abhorred the centralising power; but now they were willing to take up the measure and perpetuate it, to the extreme annoyance of the ratepayers of this country. What was wanted by the country was a Poor Law Court, with a Poor Law Judge, before whom applications from the various parishes could be considered and decided in public, and then, in a
 1094
 MR. WAKLEY  said, he had heard some extraordinary speeches since he had been honoured by a seat in that House; but of all the queer speeches he had ever heard in it, that of the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed them appeared to him to be the queerest. He could not, for the life of him, understand what was the meaning of the hon. Gentleman. He could tell the hon. Gentleman that there was one way of adopting purity of election, and that was by adopting the ballot. The ballot would afford an effectual security against intimidation and corruption, provided the constituencies were large. The hon. Gentleman had intimated in a variety of ways that they all neglected their duty, and he had told them that any man who honestly spoke his own sentiments in that House was an ass. Surely the hon. Gentlemen did not mean to say that he was himself an ass. [Mr. STANFORD: NO!] But had not the hon. Gentleman spoken his own sentiments? [Mr. STANFORD: Yes.] Then he should be glad to know what the hon. Gentleman was. The answer to that question followed as a matter of course. He had been told that the hon. Gentleman, before he had been elected for Reading, had promised to unite himself by the closest ties to a lady of that town. It appeared, however, that the hon. Gentleman had not fulfilled that pledge. But he (Mr. Wakely) acquitted him of all blame on that head, because he was sure the fault was not his. Surely he could not blame any lady for not having united herself with such an animal as he had described himself to be. A number of Members of that House had endeavoured to secure purity of election, not by indictments, but by the adoption of the ballot; and yet, on the very last occasion on which they had had the ballot under their consideration, the hon. Gentleman had recorded his vote against it. Now he (Mr. Wakley) said it was impossible to obtain purity of election without the ballot. But he concluded, from what the hon. Gentleman had said, that the hon. Gentleman was taking leave of Parliament and of his Friends in that House. It appeared to him (Mr. Wakley), however, that on such
 1073
 MR. TORRENS M'CULLAGH  said, he begged to inquire of the right hon. Secretary of State for the Colonies whether the communications that have lately taken place between Her Majesty's Government and members of the Executive Councils of Canada and New Brunswick, who have come to this country, relative to the formation of a railway from Halifax to Quebec, have been brought to a satisfactory termination? Also, whether there was any objection to lay before the House the correspondence between those members of the Executive Councils of Canada and New Brunswick and Her Majesty's Government?
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, if there was any necessity to protect the tenants at will in England from unjust influence, that protection was doubly necessary in Ireland, where corrupt practices were at the present time being carried into effect, and he should, therefore, feel it his duty strenuously to support the Amendment.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, when the Bill of the hon. Baronet the Member for South Essex (Sir E. Buxton) was introduced to legalise treating, it was acknowledged that the practice of paying for dinners was almost universal throughout England; and it was stated that there was an agreement on both sides that no adverse proceedings should be commenced on either side on account of that practice.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that since the law had been under the management of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Hull (Mr. Baines) a very great improvement had taken place; but the right hon. Gentleman had never interfered with the parishes. In the parish of Marylebone, he knew of the Board finding fault with the dietary for being much too good. It appeared that the prisoners in the county of Middlesex were much better fed than the poor in many of the poorhouses throughout the country. He would advise the right hon. Baronet the President of the Poor Law Board to allow those parishes that were governed by local Acts to manage their own affairs. They could manage them much better than he could. He hoped that he would consent to withdraw all interference with these parishes. If the right hon. Gentleman would not consent to do so, he hoped that the House would consent to the Motion of his noble Friend.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  would remind the House that when the Poor Law Bill was last to be renewed, the greatest portion of the hon. Members who now sat upon the Government benches not only spoke but voted in favour of a proposition that the Board should cease and determine. He believed it was the present right hon. Judge Advocate who moved that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. He, therefore, had hoped that this Amendment would not
 1091 l.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  seconded the Motion.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  wished to ask the hon. Member for North Wiltshire whether he intended to take any other opportunity of moving that the Poor Law Bill be continued for five years?
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he would give such a proposal all the opposition in his power, and hoped the matter would be brought on at a period of the evening when it could be fully discussed.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  found that he could not, in point of order, propose the Amendment which he had put on the paper, but he would take the opportunity of stating that in 1850, the Poor Law Board issued an order which, in effect, removed
 1096
 SIR GEORGE CLERK  asked, if the right hon. Gentleman would also lay before the House the memorials he had received from the fishermen on different parts of the coast, because it was a question which materially affected the means of subsistence of many hardworking and industrious families; and if it were intended to alter the law, it was right the House should become acquainted with the claims of those parties.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would lay the correspondence with the French Government, and the orders sent to the Commissioners of Customs, upon the table?
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he wished to remind the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, that in 1843 an Act was passed to carry out a convention which had been entered into for the regulation of the oyster fisheries in the Channel, whereby arrangements were established which it was thought would be satisfactory to both countries. He (Sir G. Pechell), in asking a question at the time, was assured that those regulations would not in any way interfere with the fishing in Mid-Channel. Now, however, he was informed that the French Government had made communications with a view to prevent such fishing. He wished, therefore, to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether any instructions had been issued to the Commissioners of Customs (in consequence of any representation from the French Government), directing the commanders of revenue cruisers to prevent vessels taking oysters in the English Channel beyond the limits exclusively reserved to the fishermen of this country?
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, that, considering the course which the right hon. Baronet the President of the Poor Law Board had pursued for the last ten or twelve years, those who had preserved consistency in their views must have been entertained with his discourse. The House had seen exemplified the contrast between those who were expecting the honey, and those who were receiving the sweets. The right hon. Gentleman had attempted to throw doubts upon the statements of the noble Lord (Lord D. Stuart), and had read letters from certain discontented persons, whom he called the "parish," and then he said the parishes in question were
 1083 1084 Geo.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  could assure the right hon. Gentleman that he did not mean any imputation whatever, and if he laid stress upon the word Hull, it was merely to attract his attention, he being Member for that town. He, on the contrary, had endeavoured to pay him the highest compliment, and his regret was that he had not remained longer in office.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that in the debate on Friday last, on the New Zealand Bill, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies had stated in the course of his speech that, in his opinion, the faith of the Crown was pledged to the arrangement with the New Zealand Company, with reference to their debt, in a manner somewhat different from the statutable arrangement of 1847; and he (Sir J. Graham) understood the right hon. Gentleman to found that opinion upon the correspondence which had taken place between the Secretary of State—before the appointment of the right hon. Gentleman to office-and the New Zealand Company; and the right hon. Gentleman had added, he was of opinion that that correspondence ought to be in the hands of Members before the discussion on the New Zealand Bill was again resumed. He wished, therefore, to know whether the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to lay that correspondence upon the table of the House?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the statement which he had made on Friday night, and to which the right hon. Gentleman referred, was to the effect that the clause in the New Zealand Bill relating to the state of things between the Government and the New Zealand Company did not rest exclusively, as the right hon. Gentleman who had spoken previously (Mr. Gladstone) had supposed, upon the clause in the Act of 1847, but that a subsequent arrangement had been entered into, which consisted of a correspondence between the late Secretary of State (Earl Grey) and the New Zealand Company; and he had also stated that he had no objection to lay that correspondence on the table of the House, But he was not then aware of the fact that that correspondence was included in the list of papers relating to the transactions between the Government and the Company which had been already laid upon the table, and he begged to refer the right hon. Gentleman to those published papers.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the negotiations to which the hon. Gentleman referred had now terminated; but whether the termination might or might not be satisfactory to the hon. Gentleman he was unable to say, considering that it was a question on which very great difference of opinion existed. But he had to state, that after much consideration on the subject, Her Majesty's Government had arrived at the decision—and they had done so with much regret—a decision which they had communicated to the Governors of the Colonies in question, and to the members of
 1051
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he feared it was impossible to have those papers ready before the next discussion on the New Zealand Bill. They were very voluminous, and owing to the pressure of business, he feared that they could not be produced in less than a month from the time the hon. Gentleman moved for them. He would see, however, that as much despatch as possible was made with them.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that the object of the present Bill was to continue the powers of the Poor Law Board for two years. The powers now possessed by the Board would expire on the 23rd of July, or at the end of the next Session of Parliament, and, as the next Session might be one of very uncertain duration, it was necessary to bring in a measure to continue the powers of the Board. He thought the noble Lord (Lord D. Stuart) did not wish to abolish the Board altogether, but that he merely desired to restrict the powers of the Board with reference to certain parishes which  were 1078 1079 1080 mandamus "To command the defendants to cause a vestry meeting to be assembled, as by adjournment from the meeting of the vestry on Easter Tuesday last. At that time a meeting was held for the purpose of ascertaining what was the sum necessary to be raised for the relief of the poor in the present year. On that day the vestry had assembled under the local Act which was in force in the parish, and an estimate of the money that would be required for the maintenance of the poor for the year was duly presented; but the rate to raise the money
 1081 Geo. l., l l, l nisi mandamus 1082 l, l.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, neither in the case of Alverstoke, of St. Pancras, of Marylebone, or of Chichester, had the orders been signed by him; they had been signed and issued by his predecessor in office.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  wished to know when the papers which he (Sir W. Molesworth) had referred to would he presented?
 VISCOUNT CASTLEREAGH  said, that on Friday evening he had given notice that, unless in the meantime he should be otherwise advised, he would on Monday ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question with respect to the appointment of the Rev. J. W. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome. He was sure it would give the right hon. Gentleman pleasure to know that he had been otherwise advised. He (Viscount Castlereagh) had had no previous communication with the rev. gentleman whose name had been implicated in an accusation brought against him in that House on the authority of  Battersby's Catholic Directory. Battersby's Directory Battersby's Catholic Directory, Battersby's Directory, 1053
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that unless there was some central authority to see that the Act of Parliament was duly applied in the control of workhouses, the whole Bill of the Legislature would be constantly set at nought by local Boards of Guardians, He would press most urgently upon the right hon. Baronet the President of the Poor Law Board the necessity of making some inquiry into the state of the metropolitan workhouses, in some of which, as was shown by the returns of the Registrar General, there had been a very large amount of mortality.
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, that, before he ventured to touch upon this extremely complicated question, he must remind the hon. Gentleman who first spoke that evening, that he should bear continually in mind two ideas—ideas, no doubt, exceedingly unpleasant to some persons.
 1153 theologia dogmatica theologia moralis, 1154 "Learned theologians are very rare in the University, and in consequence they are still rarer elsewhere. No efficient means at present exist in the University for training candidates for holy orders in those studies which belong peculiarly to their profession." 1155 Life of Liguori, alter ego "You said, 'the Rome of to-day is still the Rome of Gregory VII.' I will add that it is also the Rome of Gregory I., to whom England is indebted for the faith." "He made against your country an aggression, the result of which was to liberate the freemen in it from the slavery of infidelity. The aggression of Pius IX., be well assured of it, has the same object, for the single, but ardent desire, of Pius IX., as of all of us, is to break in pieces the chains under which, in the name of liberty, Protestantism crushes your souls. I will add that the aggression of Pius IX., like that of St. Gregory, will have for its certain result the restoration of a great number among you to this interior liberty, which belongs only to the children of God." 1156 Tablet, "I believe with you, that an armed rising of the people would be the excess of madness, because I believe with you that, comparing the manifold elements of strength on the part of the English Government, we have no chance of success. On this ground therefore, and on this ground alone, I firmly believe the great mass of the clergy are opposed to insurrection."
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, the Motion then before the House was, that the debate be now adjourned, and he was sure it was quite unintentional on the part of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire that he had gone into the general question. He could say to that hon. Gentleman, that amongst those who he said had opposed him there was an exception. That exception was himself (The O'Gorman Mahon); for, in the absence of that hon. Gentleman, he had expressed his own gratitude for former services.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  rose, and expressed a hope that the hon. Member (Mr. Anstey) would not press for a division after the proposition of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. He trusted the debate would not be allowed to drag its slow length along day after day, but would be brought to a conclusion at once.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, after the marked allusion which had been made to him by the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Reynolds), he trusted the House would indulge him for a few moments. The other night, on a Motion of adjournment, the hon. Member went into a variety of subjects having no relation whatever to the discussion before the House. The course pursued by the hon. Member excited a good deal of indignation; and he suggested to the hon. Member in the most friendly spirit that it would be better for his own sake to return to the question. Upon that appeal, which was made in the best spirit imaginable, he was met by such deportment and language as was not usual when friendly communications were meant. It was then that he was under the necessity of standing up and giving to the House what he conceived to be the very reverse of an accurate description of the course pursued by the hon. Gentleman. He suggested that the hon. Member had displayed elegance, amiability, and language of the most exquisite taste. It had been said with respect to the originator of the Motion now before the House that he had pursued a certain course from a feeling antagonistic to the Roman Catholic religion; and in the absence of the hon. Member he had thought it only fair to state that on former occasions the hon. Member had rendered essential service to the Roman Catholic cause. He now repeated that assertion. He stated that when the hon. Member for Dublin was nowhere, and far removed from any connexion with the Roman Catholic body, he (The O'Gorman Mahon) and other Roman Catholic gentlemen in this country received essential benefit from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Spooner). He never stated that the hon. Gentleman had voted on the subject, because the hon. Gentleman was not in the House at the time; but it was notorious that outside the House he agitated for the advancement of the great Catholic question, and there Was no inconsistency in his pursuing the course he had since done. That was what he (The O'Gorman Mahon) had stated, and would not retract. He had been asked
 1164 tout ensemble, maitre de langues.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, it was quite obvious that, unless the House consented to the proposition made in the early part of the evening, they would be occupied uselessly for the whole of the night, as it was the determination of Irish Members that this debate should be fairly gone through. If it were attempted to throw them over; it would only increase the irritation that at present existed on the subject both in and out of doors.
 CAPTAIN FITZROY  said, after the long time the Speaker had occupied the chair that day, he thought they were bound to
 1172
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  rose, and was about to address the House; but Mr. Speaker deciding against him, the hon. Member resumed his seat.
 MR. TENNYSON D'EYNOOURT  said, that he had already stated that he did not think he ought to be called upon to give way on the reassembling of the House, but he had added that he would be prepared to yield to a general wish on the part of hon. Members. It appeared, however, that his noble Friend the Member for
 1166
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that for his part he was prepared to concur in the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and to proceed at once to a division on the main question then under their consideration; but as several Roman Catholic Members wished to have an opportunity of addressing the House on the subject, he did not see how they could well adopt the suggestion. In the present state of the Session it was very desirable that they should not take into consideration any measures that were not really practicable; and if such measures were brought forward by independent Members of the House, there would be no use in attempting to reproach Ministers for not immediately proceeding to a dissolution. With great respect for his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth (Mr. D'Eyncourt), he would suggest that his Motion for leave to bring in a Bill to shorten the duration of Parliaments, which stood on the paper for that evening, was, for the present, at least, one of an impracticable character. It was, in fact, one of those great measures of reform which could only be properly considered by a new Parliament. But the Motion of which he (Lord R. Grosvenor) had given notice for that evening—for the repeal of the attorneys' certificate duty—was one of a very different description. It had already received the support of a large majority of that House; and every hon. Member was aware that the discussions upon it had never occupied more than an hour or an hour and a half. He would, therefore, venture to propose that that Motion should be taken first after the reassembling of the House that evening; and after that they might pro-
 1163
 MR. TENNYSON D'EYNCOURT  would be very sorry to stand in the way of the hon. Member; at the same time his hon. Friend must recollect that his Motion was an Order of the Day, and he could put off to any other day. The Motion of his hon. Friend was, he admitted, one of a very interesting nature to his (Mr. D'Eyncourt's) constituents, particularly on the eve of a dissolution; but he thought that his (Mr.D'Eyncourt's) Motion (for shortening the duration of Parliament) was quite as interesting, and much more capable of being led to a practical conclusion. Unless, therefore, it was the wish of the House, very strongly expressed, he would feel himself under the necessity of persevering with his Motion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. Member would have it go forth that, because hon. Members wanted to go to the Derby, therefore they did not wish the debate to be resumed. He appealed to the experience of hon. Members whether the custom had not been for many years that the House had adjourned over the Derby day, because it was found that jobs were perpetrated on that day. Now, he accused the hon. and learned Member for Youghal of endeavouring to bring on the adjourned debate on Maynooth on the Derby day for the purpose of quashing it, because he counted upon there being then a thin attendance.
 MR. SPEAKER  was about to put the question, when
 MR. SPEAKER  stated that the proposition now made by the hon. and learned Gentleman was not consistent with the rule3 of the House, which had already ordered that notices of Motion should have precedence. The Motion that this debate be adjourned till after the Orders of the Day was correct; but the notices of Motion and Orders of the Day could be postponed if the House and those who had charge of them should agree to such an arrangement, and the adjourned debate could then be resumed.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the House must first decide whether the debate should be adjourned or not. After that question had been decided, then would come the question of fixing the time for resuming it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in the present state of the public business, it would be most expedient that the debate—if it was necessary to continue it—should be continued to-day. He suggested to the House that, considering the state of the public busines, and the discussions that had already taken place upon the subject, perhaps it would be best, upon the whole, to divide at once upon the main question.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  begged to remind the House that it was entirely through his suggestion that the debate had taken place that day. It was he who had proposed that Tuesday morning should be set aside for that purpose; but he had explained that, for reasons which he believed were satisfactory to the whole House, it would be quite impossible for the Government to allocate any of the few days now remaining of the Session to any debate not connected with the most pressing necessities of public busi-
 1167
 MR. C. FORTESCUE  rose to protest against the speech of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, and of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and the whole animus and tendency of the policy which they advocated towards the Roman Catholics of Ireland. This sort of theological controversy would have the effect of driving many good men out of that House. The speeches of the Attorney General for Ireland and of the Home Secretary were mere echoes of that "No-Popery" agitation which was got up out of doors, and which he looked upon as one of the most deplorable signs of the times. That agitation might be described as the influence of the unthinking many over the thinking few, and it was at this moment coercing the intellects and consciences of numbers of hon. Gentlemen who were about to meet their constituents on the hustings. There appeared to be no end to the "No-Popery" cry against our Roman Catholic fellow-countrymen. One might have expected that when the Emancipation Bill was passed, that cry would have ceased—one might have hoped that a new era would then have begun—that religious equality would thenceforth prevail; but it seemed that we were doomed to disappointment. The fact was that the Emancipation Bill was not carried with the hearty concurrence of the people of this country; it was carried by the influence of a few public men. In the same way the Act which the House was now considering might be said to have been carried by the influence of one great man alone. It was quite plain to his (Mr. Fortescue's) mind, that the people of this country had not made up their minds to accept the consequences of the Emancipation Act. They had not made up their minds to recognise to a full and just extent the claims of their Roman Catholic fellow-countrymen. They had not made up their minds to permit to the Church of Rome that full freedom of action and speech which she conceived to be necessary. By the Emancipation Act, we pretended to set the Roman Catholics of this country at liberty; but the moment they seemed inclined to avail themselves of that liberty,
 1152 l
 MR. SERJEANT MURPHY  said, he rose for the purpose of opposing the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), and he trusted that in doing so the House would not misunderstand his motives. He was not in the slightest degree adverse to an inquiry of the most searching kind into the discipline, the education, and the conduct pursued in the College of Maynooth. He believed that if there were such an inquiry—and the more stringent, if possible, the better—it would only redound to the credit of the college, and show that the modes of education there adopted, the discipline there practised, and the habits of the professors and students, were in perfect conformity with the objects for which the institution was originally founded. He believed most sincerely that that inquiry, so far from reflecting discredit upon the institution, would prove that in every respect it had answered its purpose, and that the conclusion of the inquiry would be to satisfy every fair, reasonable, and dispassionate person that, instead of being amenable to the charge which had been made against it by the hon. Member—namely, that it was an institution in which doctrines were taught that were subversive of morality, and adverse to allegiance to the Sovereign, it upheld the truest allegiance to Her Majesty, and inculcated doctrines which were consonant with the highest virtue and the purest morality. Of that he was convinced. He might be asked, then, why it was that, with that conviction so strong upon his mind, he was opposed to the inquiry suggested by the hon. Member. There were many reasons. He objected to it because it was not an inquiry suggested in good faith-—because he believed the hon. Member and those who supported him in this matter, did not come forward entertaining any doubt as to the system of education pursued in the college—because there was, as he would show in the sequel, ample light already thrown upon the subject, and ample information given to the public to satisfy every reasonable mind—but because the Motion itself was suggested by a mean spirit of retaliation upon the Roman Catholics of this country and of Ireland generally, in connexion with recent matters; and that in point of fact there was no necessity for the inquiry, because the results of inquiry were full in the face of the country a} that moment. Why did he say that the inquiry was not proposed in good faith? When the hon. Member
 1115 1116 1117 "That whereas the elected visitors and the five visitors appointed by Her Majesty are bound to visit the College of Maynooth once within every twelve months, have full power to call before them the president, vice-president, professors, tutors, and all other members of the establishment, and to inquire into the government, management, and discipline of the said college; and whereas the Lord Lieutenant or other chief Governor of Ireland has authority to order such additional visitation as may seem to him necessary, any inquiry by a Parliamentary Committee is not only superfluous and unnecessary, but will have a tendency to create distrust in the minds of the people of Ireland as to the intentions of the Legislature with regard to the continuance of a grant guaranteed by Act of Parliament, and will foster and encourage a spirit of religious bitterness among different classes of Her Majesty's subjects in that part of the United Kingdom." "That, in addition to such periodical or ordinary visitation, the visitors by this Act appointed, or any three of them, shall in like manner visit
 1118
 MR. SERJEANT MURPHY : But the right hon. Gentleman would allow him to call his attention to the 18th Section of the Act, which gave visitatorial powers in matters of religion. True, those powers were confined to visitors who were members of the Roman Catholic persuasion; but he hoped there was no man in this House, not even including the hon. Member for North Warwickshire himself, who would have the meanness to say that men holding the high position which those individuals did who were the Roman Catholic visitors of the college, if anything were brought before them as such visitors, in matters of religion, to show that the teaching of the professors was either subversive of the original institution of the seminary, or subversive of the allegiance due to the Sovereign, or the morality of Christianity, would shrink in the least degree from exposing it. He said, therefore, that within the Act itself there was every requirement that was necessary for conducting an investigation; and that everything that was done  ultra 1119 bonâ fide 1120 1121 1122 were 1123 curriculum 1124 1125 "The total failure of the designs to excite a general insurrection in Ireland, has probably veiled the heinousness of the guilt of those by whom they were projected, and I have no doubt that many who now advocate their pardon would turn from them with abhorrence, had not the civil strife and bloodshed which they meditated been prevented by the defensive measures of the Government, and the general loyalty of Her Majesty's subjects." 1126 1127 1128 pari passu 1129 1130 Standard Warder "Knowing the interest you take in the welfare of Ireland, I am induced to trouble you with the following statement of what I witnessed during a recent visit to the county of Galway, in the hope that your exposure in your place in Parliament of the atrocious system of proselytising now being carried on in that poverty-stricken district, through the instrumentality of the clergy of the Established Church, may have the effect of affording the starving population of the west of Ireland some protection against the dreadfully demoralising consequences certain to result from a continuance of the unholy and diabolical attempts now being made to take advantage of the destitution of the people for the purpose of inducing them to renounce their religion. The people, too, appear to be quite courteous and unsophisticated, eager for employment, and most grateful for the slightest encouragement; and the priests, whenever I questioned them, appeared to be incessantly engaged in the discharge of their spiritual duties; and I had frequent occasion to witness their zeal in the performance of their religious avocation, and the consequent respect in which they are deservedly held by their poverty-striken flocks; and they evidently share in the general destitution which unhappily afflicts the people of this ill-fated land. Is it to be wondered at, therefore, that the priest, who always appears to the people in the alternative form of a friend and benefactor, should exer-
 1131 1132 1133 1134 "Omnia transformat sese in miracula rerum. Verum, ubi nulla  fugam a Ses anciens amours, faux pas
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  stated that he represented that constituency in Ireland which was most interested in a continuance of the grant to Maynooth, and he should not wish the debate to conclude without having an opportunity of expressing his views in regard to the proposed inquiry. He concurred with the hon. Member for Finsbury in thinking that no useful or charitable object could be attained either by the proposed inquiry, or by a continuance of the debate upon it, unless, indeed, it were thought a useful purpose to kindle sectarian strife and religious rancour. But if an inquiry were to take place, he and other Catholic Members would desire to have a most full and ample discussion. But neither he, nor they, nor the Catholic people of Ireland, had any wish whatever to increase those feelings of religious animosity which had already been created between the inhabitants of the three kingdoms; and, therefore, whilst he challenged and defied all inquiry into the system of education pursued at Maynooth, he did not invite it, but, on the contrary, would regard it as an unnecessary and uncalled-for insult. His own sentiments in respect to the inquiry had been already expressed in very emphatic terms by the present Premier, then Lord Stanley, in a speech delivered by him in the year 1845, when he strenuously opposed a similar Motion for an inquiry, made in the House of Lords, as an Amendment to the Bill of Sir Robert Peel, for an increase of the grant. With the permission of the House, he would read a passage from that remarkable speech:—
 "If the inquiry was useless, it would not be merely useless. If they entered upon that inquiry —if, in prosecuting it, they called before them the various officers of the college, and the evidence which the noble Lords who proposed an inquiry were prepared to produce, for the purpose of proving that this or that objectionable passage was to be found in the text books used at Maynooth;, or that this or that doctrine was there in-
 1168
 MR. FRESHFIELD  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, he might repeat what he had stated before—that he, as a Roman Catholic representative of that House, did not deem it his duty to oppose the Motion. In saying that, he was not shrinking from inquiry into Maynooth,
 1160 l 1161
 MR. REYNOLDS  observed that it would he futile to adjourn the debate to any future day, unless an hour was specially fixed for its resumption. He begged to be allowed to offer a few remarks with reference to certain observations that had fallen from the hon. Member for Ennis. [ Loud cries of
 MR. NAPIER  said, he was aware of the difficulty of fully discussing the question before the House in a spirit of impartiality;
 1135 1136 1137 A. B., 1138 1139 1140 "16th February, 1799.—A petition of the trustees appointed to carry into execution the Act of Parliament, entitled, An Act for the better Education of Persons professing the Popish, or Roman Catholic Religion, was presented to the House, and read, setting forth, that petitioners, with profound gratitude, acknowledge the munificent support granted them by the House, by Which they have been enabled to give effect to the wise and liberal views of Parliament, in providing the necessary accommodations, and in every respect accomplishing the full establishment of the seminary, agreeably to the statements submitted to the House; that petitioners express their firm reliance on the benevolence of the House, and their strong hope that the institution intrusted to them, become now efficient, will be found to contribute to the general prosperity of the kingdom, by diffusing the blessings of morality and religion throughout a large portion of its inhabitants, among whom a more faithful attachment to Government, and a more dutiful submission to the laws, must be naturally looked for from the zealous exertions of instructors who, in the inculcation of these important duties, must feel themselves urged by a strong impulse of gratitude to enforce and to illustrate the general principles on which these duties are founded; that petitioners have prepared an estimate of the annual expenses of the full establishment of the seminary, amounting to the sum of 8,0007., and therefore praying the House to enable them to provide the said sum of 8,000 l "Ordered—That the said petition be referred to the consideration of a Committee. And a Committee was appointed of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the right hon. Lord Viscount Castlereagh, and others, with power to send for persons, papers, and records. "On the 22nd February, 1799, the Committee made their report, and amongst other things, reported that in their opinion the petitioners deserve the aid of Parliament." 1141 Geo. 1142 Geo. Geo. in dubio. 1143 in dubio, 1144 "In this country your religion is not only tolerated, but protected by the law. It is clear, then, that on the score of religion your conspiracies are without an object, and it is the angel of darkness, who transforms himself into an angel of light, that he may seduce you to violate all the charities of the Gospel, under the appearance of zeal for the faith." in dubio. "That Legislature which raised you up from your prostrate condition, and gave to you without reserve all the privileges you desired—is not that Legislature entitled to your reverence and love? We trust that your feelings on this subject are in unison with our own, and that a steady attachment to the constitution and laws of your country, as well as to the person and government of your Gracious Sovereign, will be manifest in your entire conduct. Labour, therefore, in all things to promote the end which the Legislature contemplated, &c.,—viz., the pacification and improvement of Ireland." "If sowers of discord or sedition should attempt to trouble your repose, seek for a safeguard against them in the protection afforded by the law." "Resolved, that our chapels are not to be used in future for the purpose of holding therein any public meeting, except in cases connected with charity or religion; and that we do hereby pledge
 1145 "Resolved, that while we do not intend to interfere with the civil rights of those entrusted to our care, yet, as guardians of religion, justly apprehending that its general interest, as well as the honour of the priesthood, would be compromised by a deviation from the line of conduct which we marked out for ourselves and impressed upon the minds of our clergy in our pastoral address of the year 1830, we do hereby pledge ourselves, on our return to our respective dioceses, to remind our clergy of the instructions we then addressed to them, and to recommend to them most earnestly to avoid in future any allusions at their altars to political subjects, and carefully to refrain from connecting themselves with political clubs, acting as chairmen or secretaries at political meetings, or moving or seconding resolutions on such occasions, in order that we exhibit ourselves in all things in the character of our sacred calling, as ministers of Christ and dispensers of the mysteries of God." "of the Catholic population increasing in an incalculable proportion, with an incredible diffusion of knowledge through all classes of the people, which required a corresponding advancement in the learning as well as in the number of their
 1146 1147 Cries of 1148 1149 1150
 MR. SPOONER  resumed: His Motion had been duly entered on the book. He was now charged with having afterwards altered it. He denied that fact, and he would prove it. He admitted that hon. Gentlemen in looking over the Votes of (he House might be mistaken as to the fact, because, by some mistake, though he gave notice of a specific Motion, the entry made in the book was entered merely as a renewal of an old Motion. That was a mistake; but he was willing to take the blame of it on himself, because there was so much accuracy in everything transacted at the table of the House, and because he did not give his notice in writing, he believed the fault was his, and he was willing to take the blame of it. But he had taken the trouble to examine those usual sources of information which conveyed the proceedings of that House to the public, and, generally, with so much accuracy; and he found in several of the morning papers of the 11th of February this notice:—"Mr. Spooner stated that, on that day fortnight, he would move for a Select Committee to inquire into the state of education in the College of Maynooth." Here, then, was the specific notice of a specific Motion to be made, and he was now charged with giving up that Motion in order to carry out the views of the Government. But the House would observe that this notice was given ten or twelve days, or a fortnight, before there was any change of Govern-
 1159
 MR. SPOONER  said, this was neither the first nor the second time that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Anstey) had brought unfounded charges against him. According to the forms of the House, he was quite aware he might adjourn the debate or not. ["Oh!"] He did not know what the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Anstey) meant by crying"Oh!"he supposed it was something very satirical in his own mind, but the House was not all anxious to know it. With regard to the question of the hon. Gentlemen as to his (Mr. Spooner's) reasons for adjourning the debate, he would give him two answers. He was willing to yield his opportunity of reply; much as he had been accused of wishing to bring on this debate through certain motives, he was willing to forego that right, and to divide immediately if the hon. Gentleman would accede to that. Another proposition he had to make was, that if hon. Gentlemen who had notices of Motion for to-night would forego their notices, he would agree to adjourn the discussion till six o'clock. If the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lambeth (Mr. D'Eyncourt), whose notice stood first upon the list of notices of Motion for to-night, agreed to this proposal, he (Mr. Spooner) made no doubt other hon. Members would follow his good example, especially those hon. Gentlemen who had been of late heaping abuse after abuse upon him (Mr. Spooner), and stating
 1158 Cries of
 MR. WALPOLE : They are only the same powers as at the ordinary visitation. The words are, "in like manner."
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he
 1157
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, as it was clear his Motion was irregular, he should propose another. The hon. Member for Lambeth would not give way; and it was probable that Her Majesty's Ministers would not accede to the condition on which alone the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex offered to give way—namely, that a day should be fixed during the present week for the discussion of his Motion. Probably they would refuse the same indulgence to the hon. Member for Finsbury; and, therefore, the noble Lord and the hon. Gentlemen who had notices of Motion would persist in bringing them on. Under these circumstances, and being anxious that the House should proceed to a division as soon as possible, he would have rather done so at once; but that course was objected to by several Gentlemen who had not addressed the House. He should move that the debate be resumed to-morrow.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, the idea of adjourning this question till after the notices of Motion were disposed of, was a mere mockery; and therefore, as an Amendment, he would move that it be adjourned till half-past six o'clock, then to come on before the notices of Motion.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, it was usual for Gentlemen who solicited an adjournment to give some reason for so doing. If the hon. Member had moved an adjournment till six o'clock, and that the adjourned debate take precedence of notices of Motion, such a Motion would have commended itself to the good sense and feelings of the House. Until some satisfactory explanation was given of the real purpose for which the adjournment had been moved, he would resist it.
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that, in order that the House might have an opportunity of deciding between duty to Maynooth and the pleasures of the Derby, he should move that this debate also be adjourned till after the other Orders of the Day this day.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  did not rise to oppose the Motion, nor should he have opposed it now, but he wished that note should be taken of the fact, that if they agreed to that Motion, the Order for resuming the adjourned debate on Maynooth would become a dropped order, and the debate could not be resumed during the present Session. That was what the party opposite wished; and it was clear that the Derby element prevailed over the Protestant interest. It would deprive them of the opportunity of resuming the debate, which, out of consideration to the Chair, they proposed not to resume that night,
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, it appeared to him that they ought, in the first instance, to decide whether they would adjourn till to-morrow; because if they did not so adjourn, the debate might be resumed this day. He had himself a Motion on the paper for that evening upon a question which might not appear from its name to be a very interesting one—namely, the repeal of the post-horse duty; and if the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. D'Eyn-court) did not feel inclined to give way, he (Mr. Duncombe) should consider it his duty to proceed with his own Motion. He did not feel disposed to give way to the purpose of affording the bigots of the House an opportunity of inflicting pain on his Roman Catholic friends, and insulting Ireland. He did not see what was to be gained by a continuation of that discussion. If a Motion were made for repealing the grant to Maynooth, and all other grants by the State for religious purposes,
 1162
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that the right hon. Gentleman having misunderstood a passage in a speech which he (Mr. Gladstone) had delivered on this subject, he was desirous of saying a few words in explanation. His right hon. Friend seemed to have supposed him to have intimated that if the House of Commons was prepared to inquire into the condition of the College of Maynooth, it must also be prepared for the reconstruction of the ecclesiastical arrangements in Ireland. It would be in the recollection of the House that his right hon. Friend was quite mistaken on this point. What he (Mr. Gladstone) stated, was, that he was prepared to accede to this Motion for inquiry, but that if the House was prepared to depart from the principle upon which the endowment of Maynooth was granted in 1845, it must also be prepared for what he thought the necessary consequence—the consideration of the reconstruction of ecclesiastical arrangements in Ireland. His right hon. Friend seemed to suppose that he (Mr. Gladstone) was prepared to bring forward a proposal with that object, and that when it was brought forward he (Mr. Napier) should be disposed to consider it fairly. He was much obliged to his right hon. Friend; but he (Mr. Gladstone) not only did not intend to make any
 1151
 MR. KEOGH  said, it must be within the knowledge of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire that before putting his Motion on the books of the House, he had the consent and concurrence of at least one right hon. Gentleman opposite. In the progress of the debate another right hon. Gentleman gave the Motion his concurrence; and this day the House had heard from the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland, that he considered it the duty of the Government to advance the inquiry by every means in their power. He (Mr. Keogh) believed he was right in saying, that to all intents and purposes this was a Government question. If the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire were so supported, if the Attorney General for Ireland declared at this period of the Session, knowing the probable duration of the Session, that he considered it the imperative duty of the Government to forward an inquiry, why should there be any hesitation on the part of the Government in naming a day when the matter could be proceeded with? If it were of that all-absorbing importance which was alleged, if the country from one end to the other were agitated and anxious for a decision, and the inquiry received the support of the Government, and they considered it their bounden duty to advance it, why should not the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had adopted the question and made it a Government measure, propose a fitting day for its discussion, without calling on hon. Members upon this side of the House to abandon their Motions in order to further a conclusion in which they did not concur? If Ministers wished to act in a straightforward manner, and not, as on many other questions, to play fast and loose, they ought to give way.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  felt himself under the necessity of opposing the Motion. There was a very important subject on the Orders for to-morrow.
 SIR ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL  suggested that the debate might be resumed on Thursday or Friday.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, there were proposals sometimes made to the
 1171
 LORD STANLEY  thought the most satisfactory manner in which he could re-
 1194 1195 1196
 LORD STANLEY  was glad that the noble Lord had given him an opportunity of correcting a misstatement which he (the noble Lord) had fallen into in his former address. The noble Lord had intimated that the offence for which Mr. Murray was arrested, had been altogether of a political character; but though it was undoubtedly connected with the state of the country, and with the state of political feeling at the time, he (Lord Stanley) did not think it could be described as the noble Lord had described it. Mr. Murray was charged with having, while holding an official situation for the repression of crime, connived at the most serious of all crimes—at acts of assassination. The charges against him were twofold: first, that he had taken no part in repressing these crimes; and, secondly, that in one instance, at least, he had directly aided and abetted in their commission. These, he thought, could not, in the ordinary meaning of the word, be called political offences. With regard to the question just put by the noble Lord, he (Lord Stanley) had already stated that
 1197
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  wished to know whether Mr. Murray had been tried by a secret tribunal?
 LORD STANLEY  said, that Mr. Murray was tried by a special tribunal appointed to try a largo number of persons charged with offences connected with the late disturbances at Rome.
 LORD STANLEY  said, it was true that Mr. Murray was arrested in July, 1849, and that he was not brought to trial until two years and a half afterwards. It was also true that, during that time, no communication on the subject had been forwarded to the Foreign Office. But it was not absolutely true that no specific charge had been made against Mr. Murray, for a distinct charge had been made, as he had already stated, but it was after a lengthened delay.
 LORD STANLEY : Under the Republican Government.
 LORD STANLEY  would suggest that as the noble Lord (Lord D. Stuart) had given notice that he meant to bring the matter forward on a future occasion, the hon. and learned Gentleman had better pospone his question till then.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that applications had been frequently made within the last twelve months to the British Government, by merchants and others interested in the guano trade, asking, first, whether they considered that the island of Lobos, and another island off the coast of Peru, belonged to the Republic of Peru or not? secondly, whether British ships would be allowed to load guano there? and, thirdly, whether the Government would send a ship of war there for the protection of such trading ships? To those applications a reply, similar in substance, had been made by the late and the present Government. That reply was, in effect, that whether the islands in question belonged to Peru or not, it was quite certain that they did not
 1200 primâ facie 1201
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  might be allowed to say, as the transactions referred to had some connexion with the department of the late Government over which he had had the honour to preside, that within the last two days he had received a despatch from the admiral in command on that station (which he had forwarded to the Admiralty), in which the admiral stated that he was on the point of sending a vessel of war to protect the trade carried on at those islands.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  begged the hon. Gentleman to state what course he intended to take with regard to the debate.
 SIR ROBERT FERGUSON  seconded the Amendment.
 SIR ROBERT FERGUSON  said, he considered that the hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Clement's) figures were supported by facts. It was stated by a very high authority on such subjects, Mr. Joseph Kincaid, in his evidence before the Lords' Committee, that the Poor Law Valuation was, on the whole, sound and satisfactory. It was well known that the property which paid worst in Ireland was house property; yet it was now proposed to lay a heavy tax on houses under 5 l
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland might depend upon it that whatever opposition was now given to the Bill, he would himself be grateful for it, when it became his duty to bring in a new Bill in the autumn of the present year. His hon. Friend (Mr. Clements) had forgotten that, in consequence of the Bill of 1844, Mr. Griffiths was obliged to bring forward another estimate to get out of the mess into which he had plunged himself. Last year Mr. Griffiths said that it was impossible to carry out a tenement valuation, and therefore he contended that a certain fixed value should be based on agricultural prices. He (Sir B. Norreys) was opposed to the present Bill, because he considered that this was not the period to introduce a new system of taxation in Ireland. Were hon. Gentlemen who approved of this Bill aware of the useless character of the last Valuation, which had cost the country 300,000 l
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he had gone over the prices from 1832 to 1844, and he told the noble Lord that they did not justify the prices upon which he had made his estimate, because they were from 25 to 40 per cent less. He held in his hand a Return moved for by the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. French) of prices of oaths down to 1851, which did not support the present principle. The effect of this Bill would be to disfranchise a large portion of the constituency of the country. He heard hon. Gentlemen say that they wanted a fair Valuation; but
 1212 s. l s.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had better move that the original clause be negatived, and then bring up his Amendment in the shape of a new clause.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS,  not concurring in the opinion that the Bill would correct the evils which at present existed, or in the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Aylesbury, desired to express as shortly as he could his
 1240 1241 bonâ fide 1242 1243 bonâ fide. 1244 bonâ fide
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Bethell) that it was impossible to overrate the importance of this subject; but regretted that he was obliged to differ from his right hon. Friend the Master of the Rolls as to the expediency of referring the Bill to a Select Committee, or interposing any delay whatever to its passing into law. Let them consider the state of the law when the Bill was brought in, and remember what was the object of his noble and learned Friend in another place, and they would then see how necessary it was at once to carry out that object, and to perceive that delay would only tend to introduce confusion into the law, and to prevent any immediate remedy being applied to the existing evils, which were of a most serious character. While they were debating on this Bill, people were making their wills, and some of them were paying the debt of nature; and it was quite possible that many wills had been made in the interim, which, unless this Bill pass, would prove to be inoperative. For a moment he would call attention to the present state of the law. A great and important amendment had been introduced into it in 1837 by Lord Langdale. By it wills of reality and personalty were placed on the same footing: both were required to be executed by the testator at the foot, and to be attested by two Wit-
 1245 1246 1247
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, his object in referring the Bill to a Select Committee was not to prevent its passing this year, but to obtain the assistance of some of the learned Judges and those most conversant with the practice of the Courts of Equity, to put the Bill in a proper form. He reminded the House that a Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners recommended the course with respect to wills which was now suggested. He would move that the Chairman report progress, with the view of having the Bill referred to a Select Committee; but if he should not succeed, he would not trouble the House further.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  opposed the Amendment as unnecessary, the clause having already a prospective effect.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, he should support the Bill, and hoped the right hon. President of the Board of Trade would state the reasons of the Government for opposing the measure.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, that it was in that House first that he desired the subject to be discussed, for out of it discussed it would be. A grave and disastrous imputation had been indirectly cast upon the members of his Church, on account of the books that were said to be used as text-books at Maynooth. Now, he would boldly state that to all the imputations thrown out upon the loyalty, the truth, and the purity of the doctrines of the members of his Church, he would give a flat denial. If the documents which the hon. Member for North Warwickshire quoted from, had any existence at all, they were repudiated by the clergymen of his religion. He courted discussion on the subject; and he, therefore, called upon Her Majesty's Ministers to respond to the appeal made to them by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate).
 MR. MILES  regretted the tone and temper the debate had assumed. The Government was placed in a peculiar position. They wanted a day, and if the matter was postponed to the end of August, a day must be had. The Protestant feeling of the country required it. He proposed to postpone the debate till that day, and then let the Government be prepared to name a day. The question must not be blinked, and the country required that it should be fully and entirely discussed,
 MR. CLEMENTS  said, he was not all convinced of the simplicity of the measure
 1207 1208
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that this was an enabling Bill—to enable certain burghs in Scotland to raise money for the purpose of improving their harbours. The Bill had been recommended by two Commissions, and had been revised and approved of both by the Board of Admiralty and the Board of Trade. It was considered of very
 1255
 MR. VESEY  said, that in giving his support to the second reading of the Bill, he should take a different ground from that put forward by the hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. H. Herbert). He should support it because it would be inoperative in the county which he represented. Under the Bill brought in in 1846, power was given to alter the townland valuation to a tenement valuation, which had been adopted, he believed, in the Queen's County. The hon. Member for Leitrim (Mr. Clements) said that the Bill was brought in against! the wishes of the Irish Members; but, in contradiction to his hon. Friend, he would mention a Resolution agreed to by the Committee which sat in 1844, and which reported that there ought to be but one
 1211
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that he would bring forward the subject again on a future occasion.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished to know whether, on Mr. Murray being arrested, the British Consul at Ancona, or any other agent of this country, had communicated the fact to the Government here at home; also, whether the noble Lord could state what the crime was with which Mr. Murray was charged?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs. It appeared that an unfortunate man, named Edward Murray, the son of a gentleman formerly an officer in the British Army, and who belonged to a family many members of which had served with distinction in that Army, was some three years ago, whilst in Italy, accused of certain crimes and offences, but what it did not clearly appear, and thrown into prison, where he had been exposed to a great deal of very ill treatment for the long period of nearly three years. He was, however, lately tried in some sort of way in the Papal dominions, and had been sentenced to death. It was alleged that in consequence of a political crime being imputed to him, he was denied some of the advantages and privileges accorded to ordinary criminals in the means of preparing his defence. However that might be, he had been certainly sentenced to death. It appeared that our Consular Agent at Ancona was perfectly aware of the facts at the time of the alleged crime, and that gentleman had expressed an opinion that the prisoner was not guilty of the crime imputed to him. He (Lord D. Stuart), therefore, wished to ask the noble Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs whether the attention of the Government had been called to those circumstances with regard to a British subject, either by our consular agents or in any other way—whether they had taken any steps or proposed to take any steps in order to ascertain whether Mr. Murray bad had a fair trial—and whether they intended in any way to intercede so as to make it certain that no injustice had been or would be inflicted on him? Also, whether there would be any objection to laying the correspondence that had taken place on the subject on the table?
 LORD NAAS  said, that the Valuation was based upon the average prices of corn in 6,000 markets within the last three years.
 LORD NAAS,  in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, that the law on the important subject of Valuation was in a most anomalous state as regarded Ireland. The present Valuation was based on two different Acts of Parliament, and on two different principles. The first was the 6 &c 7  Will. l Vict., l 1206 d. d. d.
 LORD NAAS  said, he was glad to hear from all quarters that there was no real objection to the principle of the Bill. He
 1221
 MR. COWAN  was of opinion that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee to take evidence as to the effect the measure would have upon various interests in the country. No one could be more convinced than he was that the patent law required amendment; but he thought it was impossible to pass a satisfactory law on this subject during the present Session, and therefore he thought they ought to devote the time that yet remained to obtaining evidence from practical men, whose suggestions might be adopted in the next
 1222 Cries of
 MR. NEWDEGATE  expressed his regret at having been taken by surprise by the hon. Member for Wells (Mr. Hayter), the whipper-in of the late Government. He certainly did not expect the Whig whipper-in would have taken such a course, when there were on the paper three Motions on that side of the House—one by the hon. Member for Lambeth, one by the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex, which he insisted on bringing forward, and one by the hon. Member for Finsbury. He was at the door six minutes after eight, and, to his surprise, heard that the Whig whipper-in had counted the House. The most persevering attempt had been made to bring the question to a division; and the hon. Member for Athlone, gifted with the acute-ness which was the characteristic of his countrymen, could not so far humbug, or rather delude, the people of England, as to prevent their understanding the process which, as the leader of a certain section of Roman Catholics, the hon. Member was pursuing. He would ask the Government whether there was no day at twelve o'clock, or any other hour, at which the question could be brought to an issue? The advo-
 1259
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he was anxious to give the Government every support, but he could not do it in this instance. He wished to move as an Amendment, on Clause 3, to leave out the word "major," and insert the words "captain or any higher rank." He denounced the new scheme brought in by the Government, some of whom, he said, did not know the difference between the breech and the muzzle of a carbine. As the clause stood, it was nothing less than a stigma on a deserving class of officers. He could not consent to do away with the landed qualification for officers. He believed the force was a necessary force, and wished to see it what it ought to be. He should like it to be a constitutional and strong body of men. He knew that the Lord Lieutenants felt much aggrieved at not being able to appoint their own adjutants and other officers. He felt strongly interested in this question, knowing the value of the militia.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Member appeared to suppose that the Motion for the adjournment of the House on Tuesday was a Motion for the adjournment of the debate upon the Maynooth question. Upon this point the hon. Gentleman was in error. The Motion for the adjournment of the debate had passed; there was, subsequently, a Motion made by an hon. Gentleman opposite, for the adjournment of the House, and the business upon the paper did not in the least refer to Maynooth. It consisted of several Motions, three of which, if carried, would have very much diminished the revenue of the country; and he as Chancellor of the Exchequer had very naturally voted for a Resolution which would prevent these Motions being brought on. He did not vote for the adjournment with the slightest reference to the question of May-
 1199
 MR. HORSMAN  said, the House ought now to be made acquainted with the opinion of Her Majesty's Ministers. It was clear they could not carry on this discussion without facilities from the Government, and the Government ought to say whether they were willing to afford these facilities. It was too much to say that the Irish Members wished to burke the discussion; for, after the speech of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, it was impossible to go to a division without first having a full discussion of the subject. There had been as yet very little opportunity afforded for discussion; but the Irish Members were entitled to it, and the Government ought at once to say that they could not give them that opportunity, or that they would arrange
 1260
 MR. F. SCULLY  denied that hon. Members on his side of the House had had a fair opportunity afforded for discussion, for only two Roman Catholic Members had as yet spoken in this debate. Four hours occupied in a morning sitting would not be sufficient for the discussion of this question, and the Government were bound to afford not part of a morning, but a whole evening, for the renewal of the debate.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  observed, that he differed from the Attorney General for Ireland, who had stated that this Bill was a mere Valuation Bill, and not a Taxation Bill. He regarded it as a Taxation Bill. Its sole object was to lay a basis to regulate all future taxation throughout Ireland. Therefore it was a mere Taxation Bill, to be effected by means of a Government valuation. He differed also from the assertion that this was a measure which could not possibly involve any political interest. He could easily conceive how its machinery might be put in motion by a Government officer to unfairly forward the ends of a Government for the time being. He thought also it might be converted into a political engine by improperly reducing the valuation of some tenements, or by unfairly lowering its scale of agricultural prices, so as to deprive many of the county
 1215 Geo. Vict., Vict, 1216 bon° fide l s. d. l l l s. l 1217 1218 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d. s. d., s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. 1219 1220
 MR. MUNTZ  was surprised to hear the right hon. Gentleman opposite say that the Bill was the same in principle as that of last year. He considered that it was altogether different, and that it was as bad a Bill for inventors as could be devised. It had, in fact, only one redeeming clause, and that was the one which enabled an inventor to obtain a patent for a small sum in the first instance, and to renew it afterwards at a little additional expense. He
 1229
 MR. EDWARDS  considered it most desirable that the debate should be resumed as soon as possible, to enable the House to come to an early decision upon the question; and as he found that a strong feeling existed amongst Members around him that the Government should place no impediment in the way, and that another whole night should be given for the consideration of the subject, he would suggest that the debate be resumed at 5 o'clock this day. The hon. Member for Youghal had broadly asserted that the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex, and two hon. Members who had notices on the paper for Tuesday night, were willing to give way. He should wish to know upon what grounds the hon. Member made that assertion after the unequivocal declaration of the noble Lord that he would not consent to abandon his right to priority. He (Mr. Edwards) would not have taken notice of this had he not been censured as one of the absentees at the time the House should have been made. This was a question of such general interest throughout the country, and one in which a great portion of his own constituency felt so strongly, that he certainly would have been at his post at 8 o'clock on Tuesday evening, had he not believed that the discussions upon the other Motions on the paper would have occupied some hours. He would only add, that if instead of an investigation into the system of education pursued at Maynooth, the proposition had been one for the entire abrogation of the grant, he would have supported it with much greater satisfaction.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, be did not wish to offer any objection to applying the same privileges to the University of London as were given to the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge; but the Proviso of the hon. Gentleman extended far beyond that. The privilege in respect to exemption from serving in the militia was only enjoyed by persons actually resident at the two latter Universities; whereas this Proviso extended it to all persons connected with the London University, whether resident or not. The hon. Gentleman also proposed to extend the privilege to the schools in connexion with the University of London, which was going beyond the exemption enjoyed by the other Universities.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he could not forbear from replying to some of the observations of the hon. Member for Lei-trim (Mr. Clements). The hon. Member had said that the Bill could only be carried by the English Members voting for it, and had based his opposition upon the late period of the Session. Now, he (Mr. H. Herbert) represented a part of Ireland where some measure of this kind was imperatively and absolutely necessary, and he should be ill discharging his duty to his constituents if he did not tender his thanks to the noble Lord (Lord Naas) for having brought forward this measure, even at so late a period of the Session. With regard to the time required to go into the details, this was just the very case of all others where Irish Members might copy the example of Scotch Members, who invariably placed themselves in communication with the Government when intricate and difficult questions were involved; and he had no doubt any suggestions of the hon. Member would meet with that consideration from his noble Friend which they deserved. When the hon. Gentleman talked of the Poor Law Valuation being a satisfactory Valuation for the purpose, he (Mr. H. Herbert) could only say, from all he had heard, from all he had read, and from all he knew, he believed that assertion, with all due respect to the hon. Gentlemen, to be at total variance with the facts. But assuming that the Poor Law Valuation in the north was a good one, it did not follow, nor was it correct to say, it was good also in the south. It was not inconsistent with a good valuation to have a difference of 30 or 40 per cent in different localities; but other principles must guide them when they only wanted a valuation for local taxation, and when they wanted it in relation to the Franchise Bill passed last year. The Franchise Bill made it absolutely necessary that some general principle should be adopted, and the Valuation made uniform throughout the country. From his experience he could prove by facts and figures, that undoubtedly the remarks of the hon. Gentleman did not in the slightest degree apply to the south of Ireland. Therefore, he entreated the House not to be guided by representations from one part of the country, where, he admitted, everything was a model which, truth compelled him to admit, might be advantageously copied by the county of Kerry at least,
 1210
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he had intended to move that the debate be adjourned till the 12th of August; but after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), he should withdraw his Motion, and vote with the Government in opposing the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, if the House came to a division. He was sincere in his desire to quash further proceedings in this matter; but he did not believe there were ten sincere men in that whole assembly at that moment who were not heartily sick of the question, and who did not wish they were out of it.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, that he had moved the adjournment of the debate; but as it stood on the paper after the other Orders of the Day, it was not until after the other Orders were disposed of that they could with regularity discuss when it was to be resumed.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  then withdrew his Motion for resuming the debate at Twelve.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  moved that the debate on Maynooth College be adjourned till To-morrow, at twelve o'clock.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, the hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that he had a right to resume the debate at eight o'clock on Tuesday; for the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Lord R. Grosvenor) was not willing to postpone his Motion, and there were two other Motions on the paper afterwards. He was willing to make any arrangement, so that it should be understood he was willing to go on with the debate.
 MR. HEYWOOD  moved the insertion of the following Proviso at the end of Clause 16:—
 "Provided always, that no person being a resident Member of the University of Durham shall be liable to serve personally or provide a substitute for the Militia,"
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he must protest against the argument, that because they were at present in the month of May, a sensible and useful Bill was not to be discussed. That argument would imply that the House ought to abdicate its functions, because the period of the Session was an advanced one, and because some Irish Members thought fit to leave London at a time when they ought to be in the House. No argument had been adduced
 1214
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, this Bill came down to them from the House of Lords, from a Select Committee of very distinguished lawyers, and he thought it was therefore a very extraordinary thing for the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just addressed them to propose that it should be referred to a Select Committee of that House. What was the mischief which this Bill proposed to remedy? The Act of Victoria requiring the signature to be at the foot of the will, the question of validity of the will came to be decided not by a rule of law but one of space; and this Bill, therefore, provided that wherever the signature was placed, the will should be valid, if it was apparent on the face of the document that it was the intention of the person signing to attest it as his will. The next part of the Bill negatived every bad decision heretofore made condemning the wills of honest men; declaring that none of the objections which had prevailed heretofore should do so hereafter. But lest it should be contended that only the enumerated defects were remedied, the Bill went on to say that the enumeration of these circumstances should not affect the generality of the enactment. He contended that the clause was therefore sufficient to remedy the mischief complained of—first, because it provided where the signature should be placed; second, because it negatived every bad decision; and, lastly, that the particularity of the language employed should not impair the generality of the enactment. The Bill was not intended as a general statute on the subject of wills,
 1250
 MR. BRIGHT  would ask whether Mr. Murray's first apprehension and subsequent discharge took place under the Republican or the Papal Government?
 MR. BRIGHT  begged to ask whether Mr. Murray had been allowed to remain in prison from July, 1849, to November, 1851, a period of two years and four months, without any distinct accusation being made against him; and whether it was a fact, that although a British subject had been thus imprisoned without any specific charge being made against him, and without being brought to trial, no person in an official situation at Ancona, or at Rome, on the part of the British Government, had reported the circumstance to the Foreign Office in this country, or had made any complaint to the Papal Government? He also wished to ask further, whether, when it was reported to Her Majesty's Government that the trial was going on, and that Mr. Murray had been sentenced, the only instruction given to Mr. Freeborn was to watch the case?
 MR. J. GREENE  said, that were it not for the great injury inflicted by the existing patent laws during the last half century, he should not be disposed to support the second reading of this Bill.
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, it was in no spirit of hostility to the Government that he intended to oppose the second reading of this measure. Several of the Irish Members had left town for the purpose of addressing their constituents with reference to the coining election; and he thought it would be unfair in their absence to press forward a measure in which they, as the representatives of Ireland, were deeply interested. If so important a Bill as this were pressed forward this Session, the Government would act in violation of the promise given by their chief, to the effect that no measures except such as were of absolute urgency, should be submitted to the consideration of the present Parliament.
 MR. REYNOLDS  said, the only sincere Member in the House was the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Edwards), who said that his constituents were deeply interested in it; and he was anxious to be able to tell them that he had voted for the inquiry into Maynooth. He congratulated hon. Gentlemen opposite on the dissolution of partnership between the hon. Member for North Warwickshire and the Government. To repeat the phrase of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, applied to the late Sir R. Peel's Government, the present position of affairs was nothing less than "a reorganised hypocrisy." The Irish Members did not want to divide—they wanted to speak, and they would put the opposite party on their trial, and convict them of rank and unadulterated bigotry and hypocrisy. If the Committee was granted to-morrow, they could not act, and he was then entitled to call it a rank unadulterated hypocrisy.
 MR. JOHN STUART  said, that hon. Members had stated that this Bill had already been before several Select Committees; and one hon. Gentleman had stated that if it were now referred to a Committee, the Session would pass over before it could be considered. But he (Mr. Stuart) could not see why sending this Bill to a Committee should necessarily result in throwing the Bill over to another Session. This Bill was prepared by the late Government. [Mr. HENLEY dissented.] He had understood so; but it now appeared the right hon. Gentleman treated it as his own Bill. The subject was no doubt one of vast importance, and one on which public opinion was greatly divided. The hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) had proposed a principle which he believed had never been sufficiently considered. He had proposed that the law of patent should be assimilated to the law of copyright. He did not accede to that proposition; he was not prepared to abrogate the patent law; but still he believed that between the present state of the patent law, and the more extreme opinion advocated by the hon. Member for Finsbury, there were many intermediate points which well deserved consideration. The measure not only affected the rights of individuals, but it dealt with great questions of constitutional and international law. He referred more particularly to the 27th Section, in which he found an extraordinary provision, which might be very good or very bad, but which was certainly entirely new. It provided that English patents should not prevent the use of inventions in foreign ships resorting to British ports; so that as far as regarded discoveries applicable to navigation and commerce, the whole value of the patent would be annihilated by that clause of the Bill. The only exception to the clause was the case of countries which did not concede the same right to English ships. He longed to hear what the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade had to say in favour of that
 1225
 MR. JOHN STUART  said, that in the course of the present debate, it had been proposed to strike out all those words which had been placed in the Bill in the other House of Parliament, and to insert another clause. It was also admitted that the original clause was the work of a noble and learned Lord, the greatest lawyer now living; and was not only his production, but had also received the sanction of the whole House of Peers, comprising the eminent Judges who sat in that House. To hear it said, therefore, that what had thus passed the House of Lords, was a mere farrago of words, showed the debate had declined into something very far from the real debate on the clause. The principle of the clause was plain; it declared what should be a sufficient authentication of a will, and what was called a farrago of words was a plain and accurate description of what certain Judges had declared not to be an execution of a will under the existing law, and a declaration that in so doing they had proceeded on a misinterpretation of the existing law, or, at all events, of the intention of the Legislature. Could they proceed on a safer principle than to say that the existing law should remain in force, but with a distinct correction of the misinterpretations? He thought it was not reasonable to refer this Bill, which had passed the House of Lords, and had received the sanction of the Lord Chancellor and of all the law Lords who sat in the Upper House, to a Select Committee, seeing that no two of the lawyers who had criticised it had agreed with respect to the language in which another enactment ought be framed. Neither the Master of the Rolls nor the hon. and learned Member for the City of Oxford (Sir W. P. Wood) would adopt the Amendment before the House; and yet the latter had promised that if the Bill were referred to a Select Committee, it would be brought into a better shape in a couple of days. He believed that if that Committee were composed of the lawyers who had addressed the House that night, the only conclusion to which they could come would be, that some authority should decide between their different views, and that they would take as the best the authority of the House of
 1251
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  hoped that no such reference would take place, for, even if it should, every clause would be afterwards submitted to the ordeal of a Committee of the whole House. As the Bill would, in his opinion, confer great benefits upon Ireland, it was of importance that it should be pressed forward.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, this measure had already been before various Select Committees, and it appeared to him that the proposal to refer the Bill to another Committee was only in effect to postpone it to another Session. For his part he thought this was a useful Bill; he had received several letters from his constituents in its favour, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not agree to send it to a Select Committee.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that a Bill on this subject had in some degree been prepared by the late Government before they went out of office; and, in point of fact, the present measure was substantially the same Bill that passed both Houses of Parliament last Session—which was sent down from the House of Lords to this House, where some amendments were made in it—which was then sent back to the House of Lords, where the amendments were agreed to; and which, if the Session had continued but one day longer, would have become the law of the land. With the exception of a single clause, his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Stuart) had not stated one objection to any of the provisions of the Bill; and he (Mr. Henley) did think that that was very odd, coming from a person of so much acuteness. Instead of bringing objections to the Bill, his hon. and learned Friend had amused the House with a long discussion on the subject of wills, as if wills had anything to do with the matter before them. With respect to the 27th Clause, he (Mr. Henley) was ready to admit that the subject to which it related was one of the greatest difficulty; and whether the clause could be amended so as to be put into a better shape, and deprived of its retrospective effect, was a matter well worthy of consideration in Committee, where he should be ready to attend to every reasonable and proper suggestion. The hon. and learned Gentle-
 1226 1227 l l l 1228
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was not satisfied that the Bill placed a proper check upon the taxing power proposed to be conferred by the Bill. Nothing could be done under the Bill before the summer of 1853, and therefore it was unnecessary to pass it in a hurried manner.
 MR. HUME  said, he did not think any amendment could be made on either side of the House that would reconcile him to the Bill. He rose to enter his protest against it. He did not believe that it was
 1202
 MR. MULLINGS  observed, that the reason why the words "signed at the foot of the will" were originally introduced, had been lost sight of. It was done to prevent fraud, for it was well known that by inserting dispositions on the second sheet after the will had been signed, great frauds had been committed on the families of testators. He knew a case where a person had lost a large fortune by a fraudulent insertion of a disposition contrary to the wishes of a testator on the second page. If, therefore, the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman were
 1252
 MR. NAPIER  said, the Bill had been in the hands of hon. Members a long time; and as no lawyer except the hon. and learned Member for Aylesbury had offered an Amendment, which the House had negatived, he thought there was no reason why the Bill should be delayed. He considered the Act ought to apply to every will already made in cases in which vested rights had not been acquired.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he considered that the Government would be failing in its duty if it did not persevere in pressing forward this measure. The Bill had been maturely considered last Session by a Select Committee of most competent persons. [An Hon. MEMBER: That was a different Bill altogether.] It had at that time very nearly passed, and since then the different objections urged against it had been maturely considered, and the Bill as it now stood, had been reconstructed to meet those objections. Many observations had been made this evening which it would have been much fitter to make in Committee, since they did not affect the principle of the Bill; and the House ought not to wander into a number of points which did not touch that principle. A great deal, for instance, had been said with regard to the expense, which hardly touched the principle. The main expense of the last Valuation, he might say, however, had been occasioned by appeals, the greater part of which had not been substantiated nor followed up. The principle of the Bill was, that it established an uniform Valuation throughout Ireland. At present two systems of Valuation existed in Ireland, the Town Land Valuation, which prevailed in twenty-six counties, and which was based upon the scale of agricultural produce fixed in 1820, and the Tenement Valuation of the 9th and 10th of Victoria, which was adopted in six counties. Thus one form of Valuation prevailed in one-third of Ireland, and the other in two-thirds, and what was wanted was one uniform system. The Valuation contemplated by the present Bill was to be made with reference to a certain scale of agricultural prices from fourteen years to fourteen years, which would take away all inducement to an unfair local valuation. At present, the Townland Valuation was complained of as too high when compared
 1213
 MR. PORTAL  said, an hon. Gentleman (Mr. Keogh) had taunted the hon. Member for North Warwickshire with insincerity, while he claimed for himself and those who acted with him a sincere desire to bring the question to an issue. Now, he (Mr. Portal) would put the hon. Gentleman's sincerity to the test by asking him whether he was inclined at once to go to a division? Both sides of this question had been amply and fully discussed; and, considering the period of the Session, and the extreme difficulty in finding a day for renewing the discussion, hon. Members opposite ought to give evidence of their sincerity by assuring the House that if another day were fixed they would not occupy unnecessary time, and would on the day so named bring the debate to a close.
 MR. PORTAL  would suggest that at that late hour the Committee on the Bill should be postponed.
 MR. P. HOWARD  said, he would now appeal to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) to state his intentions with respect to the Maynooth debate. If he would give an indication of the line of proceeding he meant to pursue, it would greatly conduce to the convenience of hon. Members.
 MR. P. HOWARD  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) and other Members of the Government had voted on Tuesday on the Maynooth question in favour of the Motion "That the House do now adjourn." As that was generally considered to be the Parliamentary form by which a Resolution for inquiry should be negatived, and as either the right hon. Gentleman or other Members of the Government had failed to make a House at eight o'clock in the evening, to which hour they had adjourned, he (Mr. P. Howard) wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman now, or he would give notice for to-morrow of the question, whether any altered course of policy had been adopted by the Government as regarded the inquiry into the College of Maynooth?
 MR. SPOONER  said, that it did not rest with him. He did not even know who the hon. Member was who, having moved the adjournment, was privileged to resume the debate. [ Cries of
 MR. SPOONER : I have no power one way or the other. It stands on the Orders of the Day to be resumed this evening after the other Orders of the Day.
 MR. SPOONER  said, the House might have come to a division long ago if it had not been for hon. Gentlemen opposite. As for the renewal of the discussion, if the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) would tell him that the Government would give a day for that purpose, they (the Government) should have their own day and their own hour. But, if not, he would take the sense of the House now as to whether they should adjourn until twelve to-morrow.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, it appeared to him that this was a subject of great importance, and that it would be very much to be regretted if, for the sake of a hurry which he confessed he could not see the reason of, the House should be led to pass a measure which introduced not only new regulations, but also, in many respects, new principles into the patent law of this country. He, for one, had formed a very strong opinion that it would be useless to pass the Bill, even through the present stage; and that it would be a far wiser course not to attempt to consider the clauses of the Bill in Committee this Session, but to postpone the whole subject to a future Parliament: and he would shortly state to the House some of the reasons which had led him to this conclusion. He knew it had been said that this was the same Bill which was pressed forward at the end of last Session, and which had advanced to the last stage in that House; and that this was a reason why they should pass the present measure. But he begged to observe that the measure of last Session was introduced at a late period, and that, it having been urged upon the House, that on account of the peculiar reasons which existed in connexion with the Great Exhibition, it was of great importance to pass it at that particular time, many hon. Members—himself among the number—were led to pay a less vigilant attention to the Bill, under those circumstances, than they would otherwise have done. Now, he had looked carefully through the present Bill, and it appeared to him to involve three entirely distinct subjects, if not more. One part of the Bill embraced a very useful class of clauses; and if the Government would content themselves with those, the Bill might probably pass without difficulty through Parliament. The clauses to which he referred went merely to the reduction of fees, and the better regulation of legal proceedings on the subject of patents. This
 1231 1232 1233
 MR. S. CARTER  observed that the loss to the Treasury by the diminution of the patent fees would not be so great as had been represented by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade; for it appeared from the Schedule that the total amount of fees would be 149 l
 MR. WALPOLE  suggested, that this Proviso should also be postponed. He quite agreed that the Universities of Durham and London should be put upon the same footing as the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge; but he thought there was
 1205
 MR. WALPOLE  said, if his hon. and learned Friend had been present when his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade explained the object of the Bill, he would have found that it did not interfere with the principle of the patent law, but maintained it as a wholesome stimulus to invention. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said that there were two clauses of the Bill which contained such new and important principles that they ought not to be adopted without more consideration than could be afforded to them during the present Session: the one the clause relating to foreign ships, and the other to inventions the use of which was known in foreign countries or the Colonies. With regard to the first, the object was to anticipate those differences which might arise and become matters of international law in reference to foreign ships carrying their nationality with them, which would be extended to articles used on board ship. The President of the Board of Trade had stated, however, that the House, in passing the Bill, was not bound to adopt that provision. With respect to the use of inventions used in the Colonies or abroad, he agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman that the principle of the Bill in that regard required
 1234 l l
 MR. WALPOLE  was understood to say he was sorry his right hon. Friend the Master of the Rolls should press his Amendment to a division, because the effect of sending the Bill to a Select Committee would be to send it to a Committee of lawyers, who would all differ on the subject. He thought they were more differing on the peculiar mode in which the Bill should be worded, than upon the effect it would have when brought into practical operation. The law relating to the execution of wills would remain as settled in the year 1837—namely, that the testator should sign in the presence of two witnesses, and those witnesses should sign in the presence of the testator, and in presence of each other. The effect of this Bill would not be to alter the law of wills with reference to their execution, but would simply say that the Judges were not to put that forced construction upon the Act of Parliament which had had the effect of leaving a vast number of wills unadministered. He hoped the Committee would pass the clause.
 MR. WALPOLE  called upon the hon. Gentleman to observe in what a position the Government were placed. He had given a day once in his hon. Friend's absence in the hope that this debate would be concluded then, or, if not in the morning, that it would, at least, be concluded at the evening sitting. Now the Government were asked to give another day, when they had themselves hardly a day to spare to get through the ordinary business of the Session, in order to facilitate a dissolution as soon as possible. The House would remember that they could have no day now until after the Whitsuntide recess, and then probably a similar objection to that made before would be urged again—namely, that it would be putting the debate off to a day which would be making a division futile. It had been said that this was a Motion brought forward by the sanction of the Government. Now, that was not so. The Motion was brought forward by his hon. Friend (Mr. Spooner) upon his own account alone; and he (Mr. Walpole) had felt it his duty, as a Member of the Government, to take a course independent of any which his hon. Friend might think it right to take. The Government had nothing to do with this Motion, except just as any other person in that House had a right to express his sentiments upon the question, and he protested therefore altogether against the idea that the Government were bound to give a day on the ground of its being a Government Motion. He wished very much the debate had been brought to a close on Tuesday evening; but he thought if a morning were appointed for a renewal
 1262
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he felt it his duty to oppose the Motion. It was now nearly two o'clock in the morning, and it was too much to ask the Speaker and hon. Members to come down again at twelve, and then sit till four or five, and expect the Government to go on with their business after that. It would be impossible for the Government to discharge its functions—it would be impossible for any Ministry to get through the business of the several departments of the Administration, if the Members of it were in this way to be obliged to sit from twelve o'clock in the day until two o'clock the next morning. He trusted the hon. Gentleman would not press the Motion.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the third reading of the Bill would not be taken till the Monday after the holidays. With reference to the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln (Colonel Sibthorp), the object of which was that captains should still be required to have the qualification they had under the statute of George III., he had no objection to that alteration. A further Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member, proposing an insertion in Clause 4, was so inconsistent with the other parts of the clause, that he would not consent to it. The Lord Lieutenant had the appointment of all the officers, subject to the approbation of the Crown. They must all have qualifications either in land, personal property, or rank in the Army.
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, he must deprecate the suggestion that they should dispose of this measure at morning sittings. He felt persuaded that a great deal of bad legislation had taken place at these morning sittings. It appeared to him that at the present advanced period of the Session, they could not proceed satisfactorily with a Bill of that description. Although he should vote for the second reading of the Bill, he hoped it would be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  had no doubt the hon. Member for Boston would accede to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman. He had no doubt the proposition was made to invite the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman. ["Oh, oh!"] If the hon. Gentlemen who cried "Oh" had been present at eight o'clock on Tuesday, the difficulty would not have arisen. There would have been four hours to continue the discussion, and bring the question to a division. But it was known to every one that it was not intended to make a House at eight o'clock. He himself heard it stated. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire, in answer to a remark of that kind, said that he himself must be present. He meant the hon. Member who moved for the continuation (Mr. Newdegate), because his hon. Colleague was absent. And so with the hon. Member for Boston, who, having moved the adjournment, was entitled to precedence on resuming the debate. Every single Member of the Cabinet was absent; and with the exception of the hon. Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Hamilton), every Gentleman in the remotest degree con-
 1257
 MR.CHISHOLM ANSTEY  would then call upon the hon. Member for Boston (Mr. Freshfield) to state what course he was prepared to pursue?
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  wished to ask—or, if it were more convenient to the noble Lord, he would give notice of his intention to ask—whether any negotiations
 1198
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  presented a petition from Pentonville, praying that the measure be not referred to a Select Committee, but that certain clauses be altered.
 MR. THORNELY  said, that under these circumstances he would agree to postpone the Proviso,
 MR. THORNELY  begged to move the insertion of a Proviso at the end of Clause 18, relative to the exemption of the members of the University of London from the operations of this Bill. The system of putting the University of London on the same footing as the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge had already been recognised, and the sole object of his Proviso was to carry out that system.
 MR. WAKLEY  did not concur in the recommendation of the hon. Gentleman that the Bill should be postponed to another Session, because he had received representations from various quarters regarding the evils of the present system; and he thought there ought to be some alteration without loss of time. Without doubt the present Bill was regarded by practical men as a very imperfect
 1223 l l l l l l l l
 MR. WAKLEY  presented a petition, praying that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he would venture to suggest to the hon. Member (Mr. Thornely) that he might damage the cause which he had in hand by pressing this Proviso at the present time. He (Mr. Gladstone) was willing that the Members of the London University should enjoy every exemption which was made in favour of Oxford and Cambridge; but there was this distinction—at Oxford and Cambridge the members were generally resident, but that was not the case at the London University. He therefore hoped that the hon. Gentleman would postpone the Proviso until the third reading.
 MR. KEOGH  did not complain of the proceedings of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner). On the contrary, the hon. Member's proceedings met with his entire approbation. There was not a Roman Catholic Member who would not join with him in saying that the hon. Member was the most harmless antagonist they ever met with. He (Mr. Keogh) was not in favour of a twelve o'clock sitting this day, and he should like to know who was. What was the condition of the Government on this question? There sat the hon. Member for Peebles—he who had jumped through three hoops upon this question. There sat the hon. Member for Peebles, the whipper-in of the Treasury bench, and there sat the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who, with that tone of deep anxiety which had characterised his whole career, said he could not think of asking the Speaker to resume the chair earlier than eight o'clock, leaving the
 1258
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said, he must oppose the Motion, upon the ground that it was not desirable that these small boroughs should have the power of levying rates on exports and imports.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, he considered that this was the simplest and the best Valuation Bill which had ever been introduced into the House. There might be improvements effected in its details in Committee; but he believed that the measure would prove on the whole to be a very useful one. He saw no reason why they should then refuse to read it a second time, although he regretted that it had not been brought forward at an earlier period of the Session. It possessed over all other Bills on the same subject the great advantage of proceeding on a uniform system. With respect to the scale of prices, he should observe that the scale laid down was, to the best of his belief, that which had generally prevailed of late years in the north of Ireland. Under all the circumstances of the case, he should feel much pleasure in voting for the second reading of the measure.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that reference had been made to a possible charge on the Treasury for the carrying out of this Bill, and he hoped an estimate would be given of that charge. Last year he had understood the amount for compensation and the reduction of fees would be very considerable.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had given notice of a Motion to omit Clause 16; but after the course recommended by the hon. Member for Montrose, and seeing the small number of Members present, he would not now take a division. He had opposed the Bill from the first, on the ground that our military defences were sufficient; and, that if they were not so, the Bill would not answer the desired end. Nothing could be so odious to the country as the introduction of this conscription in time of peace; it should only be resorted to in cases of great emergency. He knew that thousands of young men, if drawn in the ballot, would be absolutely ruined. Where was the necessity to justify such a course as this? If the force could not be raised by volunteering, he, for one, was willing to increase the bounty to such an extent as would secure their being raised. But they ought to resort to the pensioners, and those who had been discharged from the Army. He had no doubt that 25,000 or 30,000 men might thus be raised, and they would be far more efficient than 50,000 militiamen. The House had been much misled as to our existing force. No two Gentlemen of the present or past Government had agreed on the subject. He wished to ask the right hon. Secretary at War whether the following statement was not correct: The military force voted this Session, including cavalry and infantry, for the service of Great Britain, Ireland, and the Colonies, was 101,936 men, and of artillery 15,582, making together a total of 117.518. There were in the Colonies 42,208, leaving for Great Britain and Ire-
 1203 l l
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  objected to legislating on so important a subject in so hurried a manner. He feared the system of legislation upon which they were entering would lead to endless ligitation, and place the law in such a state as to be unintelligible to anybody.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, that no person could dispute the gratitude which the public ought to feel towards the noble and learned Lord for attempting to remedy a grievance which was pressing with great severity upon a large portion of the people. No person could dispute the magnitude of the evil, or the necessity of the remedy; but it was quite another thing to say that the Bill in its present imperfect form should be placed upon the Statute-book. He only regretted that the Bill had not long ago been referred to a Select Committee. Very little time would have been lost; but when it was proposed, the Solicitor General said, the delay would be fatal. He recollected that the Bankrupt Bill, which contained 280 clauses, had been passed through the House in about six hours after it had been referred to a Select Committee. In this instance the Bill only contained four clauses; it might therefore be disposed of in Committee in two days, and pass through
 1248 1249
 MR. GROGAN  said, he thought they were much indebted to the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland for the introduction of the measure. In his opinion, his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland had shown that it was the only mode of obtaining a fair valuation in Ireland. He believed that, with the aid of morning sittings, they would have no difficulty in passing the measure through its several stages in the course of the present Session.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  thought it was a mere waste of time to continue this discussion. It could scarcely be expected, considering what the hour then was—a quarter past two o'clock—that the debate could be resumed at twelve that day. He would therefore suggest that the most convenient course would be to put a stop to this desultory conversation, and to endeavour, when the House assembled in the evening, to come to some arrangement with regard to the day on which the debate might be resumed.
 MR. BETHELL  felt obliged to detain the Committee for a few minutes upon this important measure, while he stated the reasons which had necessitated the bringing in of the Bill on the propriety of which they had now to determine. The law of this country in respect to wills, as it stood before the 1st  Vict., 1235 1236 1237 1238 1239 "That so much of an Act passed in the first year of the reign of Her Majesty Queen Victoria, intituled, an Act for the Amendment of the Law with respect to Wills, as enacts that no will shall be valid unless it shall be in writing, and executed in manner hereinafter mentioned, that is to say, it shall be signed at the foot or end thereof by the testator, or by some other person in his presence and by his direction; and such signature shall be made or acknowledged by the testator in the presence of two or more witnesses present at the same time; and such witnesses shall attest and shall subscribe the will in the presence of the testator, and no form of attestation shall be necessary,' be, and the same is hereby repealed: And in lieu thereof, be it, and it is hereby enacted, that no will shall be valid unless it shall be in writing, and executed in manner hereinafter mentioned, that is to say, it shall be signed by the testator, or by some other person in his presence and by his direction, in such manner as that it shall be apparent that the testator intended to give effect by such signature to the writing as his will, and such signature shall be made or acknowledged by the testator in the presence of two or more witnesses present at the same time, and such witnesses shall attest and shall subscribe the will in the presence of the testator, but no form of attestation shall be necessary."
 MR. BETHELL  said, that he would adopt that course.
 MR. BETHELL  moved an Amendment making the clause applicable to the wills of all persons departing this life after the passing of this Act.
 LORD STANLEY  begged the indulgence of the House while he corrected a statement, or rather the impression which would be produced by a statement, which had fallen yesterday from the late First Lord of the Admiralty. That right hon. Gentleman had stated that the British Admiral commanding in the Pacific had sent a ship of war to the Lobos Islands. Having already received communication on the subject, he (Lord Stanley) had felt it his duty to make inquiry, and found that a ship had lately been sent, not to those islands, but to the Guayaquil river; the captain had, indeed, orders, if time allowed, to look in at the islands, and report what was going on there; but the object of his mission was totally different. He might take that opportunity of quoting an expression used by the Admiral, who stated that in his view, the Lobos Islands were as much an integral part of the Peruvian Republic, as the Scilly Islands were of Great Britain
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  explained that what he had stated was, that the ship of war had been sent to the islands, not for the purpose of taking possession of them, but simply for the protection of the British trade there.
 MR. MILES  thanked the Government for giving them the opportunity of bringing the question to an issue. When they considered there would be only four hours for the discussion on the day named, it was in the power of hon. Gentlemen who chose to move the adjournment, and thus destroy their coming to an issue. But now that the Government had kindly given way, and had stated broadly to the country that they thought the question should come to an issue, he trusted the country would see that if the adjournment were again moved on Friday, it would be done only by the opponents of the original Motion, for the sake of delay and of destroying the effect of the House coming to an issue; and that, if the House should come to a division on the adjournment, it should be taken as a division upon the main issue, and that those who voted for the adjournment it should be taken by the country as being opposed to inquiry, while those who should oppose the adjournment should be taken as in favour of inquiry.
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  maintained that there was a sincere desire, on the part of the Opposition, to have the question brought to a satisfactory issue. They deired that the matter should be fairly debated; but in this ambition they were continually thwarted by hon. Gentlemen opposite. They might have made a House on Tuesday evening, but they were absent. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire was himself absent when the Speaker resumed the chair at Eight o'clock. [Mr. SPOONER: Not I.] Well, if the hon. Gentleman was not absent, his Colleague was—and so, too, were those who affected to support him; and all the Ministers. Friday morning was not at the disposition of hon. Gentlemen opposite; it belonged as much to hon. Members on his side of the House. If hon. Members opposite had a sincere desire to come to a conclusion on the matter, let a proposition be made by Ministers that the House should meet tomorrow, at Twelve o'clock, and let the debate be continuously pursued. It did not lie in the hon. Gentleman's mouth to taunt the Opposition with making long speeches, seeing that he had himself favoured the House with a speech of three hours' duration. That speech was full of matter hurtful to the feelings of the Catholic community; but in the debate to which it had given rise, not more than two Catholic Members had spoken. He would suggest that the House should sit to-morrow (Saturday), at Twelve o'clock, for the resumption of the debate.
 LORD STANLEY  would not imitate the example of the noble Lord, in introducing into a discussion in itself sufficiently important, a variety of topics wholly irrelevant to the matter in hand. The question of diplomatic intercourse with Rome was
 1317 1318 1319
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he did not quite agree with the right hon. Gentleman with regard to the duty of Government, and perhaps he could not give a better example of what he considered to be their duty in such circumstances than the practice of the late Duke of York. He well remembered that Sir Robert Peel, in his speech on the death of that Prince,
 1325
 MR. DUNCAN  hoped the fact of his having been a Member of the Committee that sat upon this subject in 1845 would be his apology for venturing to express his opinions in regard to it. From what fell from the right hon. President of the Board of Trade at the last deputation to him on this subject, he (Mr. Duncan) had no hesitation in saying that there was great anxiety on the part of the Government to take off, where practicable, the unjust burdens under which the shipping interest laboured. It appeared from the evidence which had been laid before the Committee of 1845, that the expense of keeping up only 105 lights, amounted to 74,832 l l l 1331 d. s. d.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, that as a
 1348
 MR. COWPER  said, he thought it exceedingly unfair to say a company did not tender for the whole of the service, because they made a difference of 73 miles on the whole voyage. The noble Lord was more influenced than he was aware of by the statements of the company which had not gained the contract, it was natural directors should endeavour to throw the blame the shareholders would fix upon them for not making tenders which could be accepted, on other shoulders than their own; but in their report the directors of the Eastern Steam Company had done more than any company was entitled to do, for they had not only misrepresented figures, but had stated what was absolutely-untrue. The decision of the Admiralty was shown to be correct, and he was glad that Her Majesty's Government supported
 1350
 LORD STANLEY  said, that he did not
 1351 1352
 LORD STANLEY  had not stated that the vessels coaled at no other place than Calcutta, but that the steamers from Suez to Calcutta took in the greater portion of their coals for the double voyage.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if it had been the intention of the hon. Member to raise no discussion, his best course would have been to abstain from making any observations upon this case. The hon. Gentleman had not confined himself to a mere statement of the law, but had entered into the facts of the case, and had altogether done a great deal to provoke discussion. With regard to the course pursued by the Government, the hon. Gentleman had stated that the Government had promised to inquire into this case, and rather intimated an opinion that they had failed in that pledge. [Mr. HORSMAN: I did not intend to convey any such impression.] That was, at least, the necessary inference from what the hon. Gentleman had said; but it would be found that there had been no breach of faith on the part of the Government. It was absolutely essential that the Government should ascertain whether there was any possibility of instituting the inquiry promised, and that, of course, entirely depended upon the state of the law. In order to arrive at a knowledge of the law, the opinion of the legal advisers of the Crown was sought, and that opinion was obtained. It was perfectly impossible for the Government to pledge itself to issue a Commission for the purpose of instituting inquiries into this matter, because any such Commission must have entirely failed of its object. A Commission issued by the Crown was almost powerless; it could not compel the attendance of witnessess, or compulsorily obtain any evidence whatever, and therefore it would be futile to issue such a Commission, which must end in a total failure. As to the law, he was ready to admit that, as far as the hon. Gentleman went, he had stated it correctly. If a bishop instituted
 1356
 COLONEL KNOX  said, the hon. Member for Cockermouth had, on a former occasion, thrown out a sort of taunt that the Government had not fairly inquired into this matter. Now, he wished to know whether the hon. Gentleman had himself inquired into the statements he had made upon several occasions. Several of those statements—though he (Colonel Knox) did not stand there to defend Mr. Bennett-were, to use a mild phrase, perfectly erroneous, and he knew that the hon. Gentleman was in possession of a letter as to those statements which should have led him long ago to retract them. The statements he referred to were in regard to the conduct of Mr. Bennett at Kissengen and at Venice,
 1358
 MR. MILES  moved the insertion of a Proviso to the second clause, the object of which was to except the tithings of Huish
 1363
 MR. MILES  said, that a memorial was presented to the Government last Session, and he had presented five petitions for the exclusion of this area.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, this was a most cruel infliction on the part of the hon. and learned Gentleman. The case was as simple as possible. The Bill involved no principle of importance. It was deemed desirable to form a new bishopric in New Zealand, and for that purpose the bishop had surrendred a portion of his See. Doubts were entertained by the Law Officers of the Crown as to the technical legality of that proceeding; and to remove those doubts, and sanction the arrangement, were the sole objects of the Bill. The case was, therefore, as simple as possible, and so far from the hon. and learned Gentleman occupying the House two hours, he was satisfied that with all his ingenuity and all his ability to occupy the time of the House, it would not be possible for him to occupy ten minutes if he confined himself to the facts of the case.
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER  replied that this matter had been disposed of in the order stated—not, however, by the act of the Government; the hon. Member for Ashton (Mr. Hindley), with whom he had no political connexion, suggested early in the evening that the debate be postponed, and it was adjourned till Friday morning.
 MR. ELLIOT  begged to correct the statement of the noble Lord (Lord Stanley), that the steamers only coaled once for the double voyage from Suez to Calcutta. They coaled also at Point de Galle. It had been said that complaints were made of the Peninsular and Oriental Company; but he was able, from information he had received from India, and from the position he had held under the Government, to bear testimony to their punctuality, and to state that, in carrying out the long line between this country and India, they deserved the greatest credit.
 MR. S. HERBERT  was sure that nothing like a trick was intended by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary; but if such a practice as that which had been adopted was to be sanctioned, a number of measures might be put down, from which any one might be selected and passed in the absence of parties interested in opposing it. He came down with the intention of moving that the debate be adjourned till the 12th of June, feeling convinced that it could be as usefully discussed then as on Friday next, because he was quite convinced that no division would be taken on that day.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that the correspondence for which he had asked was the correspondence which had taken place in the case of Mr. Mather, and not that in the case of Mr. Murray. As the diplomatic correspondence in the case of Mr. Murray had not yet terminated, he did not mean to ask for it at the present stage; but it was otherwise with the correspondence relating to Mr. Mather; and, as the noble Lord seemed to desire that he should give him previous intimation of such Motions, he begged now to give notice that on Thursday next he should move for the production of that correspondence.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he had put a question on the previous day to the noble Lord the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs; but the answer of the noble Lord, though given at some length, was not altogether satisfactory, and did not afford that information he was desirous of receiving, and for which he thought the House and the country had a right to ask. The House was aware of the subject to which he referred, namely, the case of Edward Murray, the son of a British officer, who, for some offence had been arrested at Rome, and, after an imprisonment of three years, had lately undergone some kind of trial, and been condemned to death. He was sure that the case of any British subject in such a position deserved the attention of that House, and he was equally sure it would receive that attention, no matter however mean the condition of the party might be. But this unfortunate person was, he understood, most respectably connected, and he had been informed that, not only had his father served in the British Army, but his grandfather also, and many other members of his family. He was, strictly speaking, a British subject, born in a country under the rule of Her Majesty—namely, at Corfu, in 1823; and, it appeared that he was, with his father, travelling in Italy, about the year 1848. It seemed that he entered the service of the Government of Rome of that day, and was employed in the army there, and afterwards in the police; but he was suspected—as he (Lord D. Stuart) understood from the noble Lord the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs—of being implicated in the murder of some partisans of the Papal Government. He was arrested and sent to Rome, where he was tried, acquitted, and set at liberty. He afterwards proceeded to Ancona; but the Pope having been restored to his dominions subsequently, the unfortunate man was again arrested for the offence of which it had been rumoured he was guilty, and of which he had been acquitted, and was thrown into prison. There he remained for nearly three years; and hon. Members who knew what Italian prisons were, either from having seen, as he had, those places of misery and torture, or from having read the eloquent description of the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr.
 1314 1315 1316
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  hoped that his hon. Friend (Mr. Miles) would not press his Proviso, as he was convinced that if it were agreed to, Burnham might as well be struck out of the Bill.
 LORD NAAS  thought he had some reason to complain of the course which had been taken by the hon. Gentleman in the present case. He had in the first instance given notice of his intention to bring the matter before the House in the form of a question; and then, having allowed the proper opportunity to pass, he had suddenly brought it forward at the present moment; and, upon the mere authority of an anonymous letter in a newspaper, had thought fit to make a statement seriously affecting the character of an officer who bore perhaps as high a reputation as any gentleman in Her Majesty's service. The hon. Member had not even given him time to communicate with the gallant General to whom he had alluded. Of course, under these circumstances, he (Lord Naas) could only say that he knew nothing whatever of the transaction; but, from his knowledge of the gallant General, he believed him to be a gentleman who would never be found committing an act derogatory to his character as an officer in the Army; and that, if the subject was not brought under the notice of the Government in a manner more authoritative than it had yet been, he should not feel it to be his duty to take any more notice of it.
 LORD NAAS  said, that all the hon. Member had read to the House as the foundation of the statement was the anonymous letter in the newspaper.
 MR.O'FLAHERTY  did not regret that the Government had now shown their colours. He saw they were determined to do everything hostile to the interests of the Roman Catholic people of Ireland; and he would tell them that they had earned for themselves an amount of hostility for which they were not prepared.
 MR. WILLCOX,  being a director of the Peninsular and Oriental Company, declined to enter into the merits of the discussion raised by the noble Lord (Viscount Jocelyn), and would confine himself to two statements. The noble Lord had stated that the Peninsular and Oriental Company did not make a tender for the whole service, including Calcutta and China. If the noble Lord had consulted the papers, he would have found that in the conditions the service to Calcutta and China were included. The noble Lord had also said that the Peninsular and Oriental Company had already a service on that line. That was true; but it was only during the season for the conveyance of opium to China, and transmission of specie to Calcutta, that the vessels ran
 MR. HINDLEY  said, that as the subject had already been debated for nearly
 1326
 MR. HINDLEY  asked, whether it was not desirable that some arrangement should be come to; and if the Government would not fix a day for the question?—otherwise he gave notice that he should move that the Order of the Day be read for the purpose of being discharged.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  denied that either he or any hon. Gentleman with whom he acted in this matter, had done anything which was at all calculated to injure the character of that House. Nothing that they had done could be so derogatory to the dignity of the House as that a small section of Members should pursue a factious course, and endeavour to coerce the majority. With respect to the charge brought against him by the hon. Member for Ennis, of not having attended in the House on Tuesday evening, he begged to remind the hon. Member that he had come down to the House and was just entering the door, when he met the hon. Member himself coming out, and was told, to his great astonishment, that the House had
 1299
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was about to rise for the
 1294 1295
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, availing myself of the privilege of reply, I should have risen at once to notice the suggestion of the hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) had I been aware that the noble Lord (Lord D. Stuart) was about to commence a new subject. I have been subjected, in common with other Members of the Government, to the charge of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Taunton (Mr. Labouchere) of not being able to justify our conduct in consenting that on Friday next the House should resume the debate upon Maynooth. No one is more aware than myself how unequal I am to the responsible duties I have unexpectedly been called on to perform; but in the course which I have taken to-day I feel I have done that which my conscience tells me is right, and I am prepared to adopt the responsibility of that course. We have heard appeals not to do anything likely to lower the tone of this House, and to diminish confidence out of doors; but I think
 1310 1311 1312
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was surprised to find in the Report of the Eastern Steam Navigation Company (whose mouthpiece the noble Lord the Member for Lynn had made himself that evening) that he was charged with having cordially concurred in the recommendation of the Committee that the service should be necessarily given to two companies, and afterwards with having turned round and decided against the Eastern Steam Navigation Company. Both these statements were utterly without foundation. The fact mentioned by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, of a deputation having waited upon him on the subject, proved that he (Sir C. Wood) had come to no decision on the subject. In addition to this, the Treasury Minute accepting the offer of the Peninsular Company was not dated until a week after he had left office. Every one knew the meaning ordinarily attached to the word "competition;" but the competition which the noble Lord sought for was, that, at whatever price, there should be two companies to carry out the contract. But what an opening that afforded to jobbing and all kinds of unfair practices! Why, if he were to give one portion of the service to one company, and another to another, without any competition for the same, there would be no limit to the favour, monopoly, and jobbing that might result from it. The accusation of the noble Lord was against him personally, that he had given a decision contrary to his own opinion. The ground on which that charge had been made against him was totally without foundation; and, grateful as he was to the noble Lord for having brought this subject forward, and for his courtesy in having apprised him by letter of his intention to do so, he thought that this courtesy would have been better applied, and his justice too, if, before he had made the charge, he had taken the trouble to inquire whether there was any founda-
 1349 l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  willingly admitted the importance of the subject which the hon. Member had brought under the attention of the House. Although no precise form of examination was established for the diplomatic service, it would be an error to suppose that it was exempted from the tendency of the age to improved education and mental cultivation, the influence of which was felt in all other departments of the public service. For a considerable period arrangements had existed, and were in operation, with respect to appointments to diplomatic offices, the whole subject of which was to improve the diplomatic service of the country, and to give it the character of a profession. The efforts of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton in this direction merited the highest commendation. It was also due to the Earl of Aberdeen to state, that when he held the seals of office, he sedulously occupied himself to effect the same object. It was the noble Earl's conviction that it was our duty to make the diplomatic service a profession. To carry that object into complete effect, a formal education would, of
 1328
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he agreed both with the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland and the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War in thinking that it was not the duty of the Government to inquire into accusations founded upon anonymous communications; and he would go further and say, that he did not think it was the duty of a Member of Parliament to prefer such charges. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) remembered the gallant officer very well when he was a Member of that House, and he must say he did not believe that he could have been guilty of the conduct imputed to him. But, at the same time, if the charge against General Thomas were brought before them in any authentic manner whatever, and if they thought the evidence of a proper character, the Government would of course feel it to be their duty to order an investigation into the circumstances of the case; but he repeated that he did not think it the duty of the Government, and he hoped no Government would ever think it their duty, to investigate charges which were made solely upon anonymous communications. The private letter to which the hon. Member had referred, was a mere copy of what had appeared in the newspaper.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I feel I have reason to complain of the inconvenience of bringing forward notices of this sort without making any Motion in respect to them. Although by the strict rules of the House, I know I have no right to address it upon this question, I hope that, by its courtesy, I may be permitted to enter into a brief explanation. In regard to the general subject—whether it is expedient or otherwise in the Government to assist a great enterprise of this kind by grants of the public money—although I acknowledge it to be one of the greatest importance, and deserving the best consideration, yet it does not appear to me to be a subject at all necessary for me at this moment to enter upon. I agree with the noble Lord in the great advantages of public competition in the public service. I wish, however, to confine my observations to the particular instance brought by the noble Lord under the notice of the House. Now the present Government is entirely responsible for the arrangement made. If it be unwise, the blame is with them. I will not shrink from the responsibility of that arrangement. It is true that this was the first official act which I was called upon to perform. It is true that I was in office only a few hours when the whole subject was brought under my notice, wholly unshackled by any requirements of my predecessors. To
 1345 l l l 1346 l l l l l l l s. d. s. s. s. d. s. s. l 1347
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the statement which he had made, that the aggrieved parishioners should have recourse to the proper authority, did not in any way apply to the Ecclesiastical Courts; it applied to the tribunal provided by the Church Discipline Act—a tribunal easy of access, expeditious for appeal, and the expenses of which were adapted to the spirit of the age. The hon. Baronet, therefore, might really have treated of the courts of India with as much propriety, as far as the people of Frome were concerned, as of the ecclesiastical court of Wells. The hon. Baronet had dilated on the enormity of a Minister of the Crown recommending the parishioners to appeal to the Ecclesiastical Court. That advice was never given. The statement he made was, that the mode of redress was provided by the Church Discipline Act—an excellent Act—adapted entirely to the requirements of the age, and by which expeditious and inexpensive redress would he afforded. And he must express—
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was sure it could not be the wish of the House that Member after Member should make an attack upon a particular Member of the Government, and comment upon a statement he had made, without allowing that Member to say one word in reply. He had risen to explain. He had thrown himself, as he had frequently done that evening, upon the indulgence of the House—his irregular interference being consequent upon the anomalous position in which he was placed. He rose to justify himself against attacks which he must say, had been personal; and the remark he was about to make when interrupted by the hon. Baronet was, that as the hon. Member for Cockermouth had been so fortunate as to secure an early day for the discussion of the question of Mr. Bennett's institution, it could not be necessary that the House should be trapped into a general discussion now.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was quite a mistake to suppose that the Orders of the Day were Government orders. A certain number of orders had precedence; but it was open to every hon. Gentleman to add any order in which he was interested to the Government list. The Bishopric of Christchurch Bill, which they had been discussing, was an Order of the Day put on the list by a private Member; and the Pharmacy Bill was another example. The Motion on Maynooth was not a Government measure, and was not put on the paper by them. Early in the evening a question had been put on the subject of the adjourned debate, when he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) mentioned that they proposed to take it on Friday next. No opposition was made to that proposal by the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished that there should be a fair understanding as to the mode of conducting the public business of the House.
 1369
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, afterwards, with respect to the adjourned debate of Maynooth, if it would better suit the convenience of hon. Members, he would endeavour to fix it for Tuesday instead of Friday.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  did not wish the House to separate for the holydays under a false impression. He had every wish to accommodate hon. Members with regard to the discussion on the Maynooth question; and when they reassembled he should have no objection to postpone that debate to such further day as might be most convenient to hon. Gentlemen opposite. It might be fixed for, say, Tuesday.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that he had never made any statement whatever on the authority of a letter from Sir John Harrington, of which he knew nothing; nor did he know that Mr. Bennett had been at Venice. He said that he had been absent from England during 1851, and not that he had been absent during the whole of that year.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that he had not the slightest intention to reflect upon the Government. He was extremely obliged
 1357
 MR. HORSMAN  rose to call the attention of the House to the statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the result of the inquiry made of the law officers of the Crown in respect of the institution of Mr. Bennett, to the vicarage of Frome. He should detain the House but a very few moments, as he had given notice that on Tuesday, the 8th of June, he should move for a Committee of Inquiry into all the circumstances connected with the nomination of Mr. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome; but he should ask the House in the meanwhile to understand the position in which it stood with regard to the law of the case, of which they had already heard something from the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman said that the Government had intended to undertake the inquiry, but that they had been stopped in the outset by finding that there was a mode of redress under the ordinary law for parties who had any ground of complaint of which the present complainants had not availed themselves; and he therefore came to the conclusion, and invited the House to come to the conclusion, that while there was this mode of redress open, it would be very improper for the Government to institute an inquiry. It was quite evident that if under such circumstances it was improper for the Govern
 1353 primâ facie 1354 1355
 MR. YORKE,  in justice to Mr. Bennett, who, he was proud to say, was a friend of his, and whom he honoured as one of the best men living, thought it right to state that that rev. gentleman had already been judged by the parishioners of Frome. He held in his hand a memorial in the course of signature, and which had already been signed by 1,039 of his congregation, in which they expressed their sympathy for him, and their deep regret at the uncourte ous and unkind treatment he had experienced. They also expressed their admiration and respect for the Christian spirit and forbearance which had characterised his conduct, and their confidence in his sound doctrine and faithful discharge of his duties during the calumnies and falsehoods of which he had been the subject; and they added, that the crowded state of his parish church, and the increased number of communicants, afforded the best proof that he had not been thrust on an unwilling congregation. He (Mr. Yorke) trusted that, after such a memorial as that, the House would be relieved from discussions which partook somewhat of the character of persecution.
 MR. GOULBURN  felt, with the right hon. Gentleman and others on that side of the House, that an inquiry into Maynooth was unavoidable, after all that had transpired; and therefore he was prepared to support the Motion for inquiry, without committing himself to the opinions of the hon. Gentleman who had made the Motion; and if he rose on the present occasion it was only in the hope of reconciling the conflicting opinions which had been expressed just now. The hon. Gentleman had stated that he did not conceive it possible that any satisfactory inquiry could be come to this Session. The object of the hon. Gentleman's Motion would not be advanced, therefore, by agreeing to his Motion. He (Mr. Goulburn) would then suggest to the Government to institute a strict inquiry into Maynooth by means of a Commission, and to have their report ready to present to Parliament when it should again meet; and then the House would have before it the materials whereby to judge whether it should refer that report to a Committee of the House, and so decide upon the joint evidence taken before the Commission and the Committee, as to whether Maynooth had satisfied the expectations of its original founders, or of those who had increased the grant. By that means the desire of the country on the matter would be satisfied, and they should
 1298
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he admired the command of countenance of the hon. Member (Mr. Newdegate), when he talked of the grave nature of these proceedings. The House was not discussing the merits of Maynooth, but a Motion for Inquiry, which every one knew—whatever vote they came to—could neither be commenced nor concluded this Session. He could not but look at this discussion in one grave light. As a Protestant—he hoped a sincere one—he had lived for years in the midst of a Roman Catholic population; and he knew how powerful for evil was the slightest
 1300
 MR. LABOUCHERE  was sorry to be obliged to give expression to sentiments entirely at variance from those which had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for East Somerset. He had heard, with no other feelings than those of sorrow and surprise, the announcement that had just been made by the right hon. Gentleman who was the leader of the House of Commons. It was not the least important of the many duties which devolved upon the person who occupied so elevated and so responsible a position, to protect the character of the House of Commons, and he greatly feared that the proceedings of that House with reference to the Maynooth question were not calculated to raise its character in the estimation of the public. There was no one in that House less anxious than he to evade a genuine, fair, and searching inquiry into the system of edu-
 1296
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he had to express his regret that he had not been present at the commencement of the discussion. With respect to the representations which had been made to him on the part of the shipowners when he held office as President of the Board of Trade, he begged to explain that what he had said was, that if they were satisfied with a commutation of the present amount levied on shipping into a similar amount raised by a tonnage duty, he should he prepared to give a favourable consideration to any such proposition, on this understanding, that the question of the reduction of these dues should not form part of that scheme, that it should be a plan confined to a commutation, postponing the question of re-
 1336 1337
 MR. FRESHFIELD  repudiated the charge of being the cause of any delay in the discussion of the Motion. He had only moved the adjournment at an hour—half-past three o'clock—when the House was close on the period of proceeding with other business; and he had done so to give the House an opportunity of fixing a further day for the resumption of the debate. His Motion was strictly in accordance with the rules of the House, and was, moreover, made to facilitate, and not impede, the discussion of the question at issue.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, he had come to the conclusion that the Light Dues should be paid out of the Consolidated Fund. The country owed much to the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken for what he had done for the coasting trade. As regarded the modification of the Navigation Laws, he (Mr. Macgregor) wished they had been repealed altogether. Never were good ships so much in demand as at present. As a member of a deputation he had met the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, who received them with the greatest courtesy. It appeared that there was a great demand for the Colonies. He hoped the remaining restrictions of the Navigation Laws would be removed, and shipowners left to man their vessels as they best could.
 COLONEL RAWDON  said, he was quite satisfied that no military officer, and especially one of the high character of General Thomas, could be guilty of the indiscretion of which he had been accused; but at the same time, as the accusation had been made, he hoped the right hon. Secretary at War would give the House an assurance that it would not be allowed to escape without some inquiry.
 MR. REYNOLDS  thought the Gentlemen who were so tender of the character of that House were labouring under a false alarm. As to its character for liberality, the less they said about it the better. It would be impossible for any House to have a worse character in that regard; therefore, he trusted they should hear no more about it. It was complained that the time of the House was wasted, and he believed that was a substantial grievance, for it had very little time to spare—its days were numbered; it was likely to live about three weeks, and then it would be entombed with all the Capulets, and this inquiry along with it. He should like to hear a speech from one or two of the Ministers on this question. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had promised them a morning sitting on Friday, and Mr. Miles had thanked him for it. They had to thank him for nothing, for Friday belonged as much to that side as to the other side of the House. But he could not avoid noticing the silence of the hon. Member for
 1302 1303 l l l l l "What makes all doctrines plain and clear? Just twelve hundred pounds a year. And that which was proved true before Prove false again? Twelve hundred more." 1304 l 1305
 MR. REYNOLDS,  seeing the Adjourned Debate on Maynooth stood No. 28 on the Orders of the Day, begged to ask the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) whether he had had any understanding with Her Majesty's Government in reference to fixing a day for resuming the adjourned debate, or whether it was his intention to move that any day should be fixed for resuming that debate?
 MR. REYNOLDS  had put a question to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, early in the evening, whether he had made an arrangement with the Government for bringing on the debate. The answer was, that he had had no communication with the Government upon the subject; it must depend upon what took place when the debate should come on in the course of that night. That was stated in the presence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman had said that all the Orders of the Day were not Government orders, but he found that down to No. 20 they were Government Bills; and yet they permitted No. 28 to be taken out of its order, notwithstanding it was fixed that the debate on that Motion was not to come on till all the other Orders of the Day had been disposed of.
 MR. REYNOLDS  moved that the Debate be adjourned.
 MR. REYNOLDS  was quite willing to leave the matter to be settled by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the originator of the Motion.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, that he did not profess to have a strong opinion, either for or against Mr. Bennett, who was the party accused or prosecuted in this case. Having listened to the interpellations which had taken place that night and on former occasions, he thought that Her Majesty's Government had fully done their duty with respect to this case, and had not failed in any particular that could reasonably be expected from them. What, then, was the grievance complained of in this case? No law had been infringed, but there was a difference of opinion between portions of certain congregations in this country with regard to particular doctrines, and, in fact, with regard to the Articles of the Church. Now, the real question was whether, if a bishop and the constituted authorities in the Church saw no unsoundness in the doctrine entertained by a clergyman, that House should take part with the minority of the congregation, and set itself up as an authority over those who had been heretofore recognised as the authorities in the Church. Now, he thought that upon consideration the House would see that they were not exactly the tribunal to settle these minute and difficult differences of opinion which had arisen, and the existence of which he regretted. He thought they had much better abstain from the attempt; and he believed that the calmness and steadiness with which the Government had viewed this case, and had limited themselves to their proper sphere, would greatly conduce to the correct understanding of the question.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the hon. Baronet had taken a course hardly fair. The hon. Baronet had given a pungent and salient account of the ecclesiastical court of Wells. He (Mr. Henley) happened to have been a Member of the Committee from the evidence given before which the hon. Baronet had drawn his statements, and certainly he had not coloured the picture more vividly than it deserved to be painted. But the hon. Baronet, in drawing this strongly coloured but true picture, wished to make the House and the country believe that that was the court to which any party who chose to proceed against Mr. Bennett must go. That was unworthy of the hon. Baronet, because he knew that in a case of that sort, especially in a case in which the Bishop's conduct might by chance be involved, the case would be certain to be sent by a form well understood to the provincial Court of Arches.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the subject which the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had brought under the notice of the House, was certainly one of very grave importance. He supposed after what had just been stated, that the House would not now hear so frequently as they had heretofore from hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House that the shipping interest was not in a depressed state. Two hon. Gentlemen, who were intimately connected with the shipping interest had each informed the House, that it was at present undergoing a hard struggle. But the House had hitherto been accustomed to hear statements made for the purpose of proving that that interest was in a very flourishing condition. Such statements, he thought, would not be made in that House hereafter with quite so much confidence—at all events, in the presence of those hon. Gentlemen who had done their best to remove this burden from the shipping interest. But he must say that he was somewhat surprised at the tone and manner in which this appeal had been made to the present Government, whom hon. Gentlemen opposite had styled the friends of the shipping interest. He thought the present Government might, with some justice, ask whence it came that an appeal of this sort was not made to the late Government—[Mr. HUME said, the late Government had been appealed to]—when it was known that there was a surplus in the Exchequer, and the dues could have been removed without laying a fresh tax on the community? The hon. Member for Berwick (Mr. Forster) had said that if this burden was not altogether removed by the
 1333 l recoups 1334 "The lighting of vessels, the beacons, buoys, and other accessories in the United States, are not so efficient as the interests of commerce, navigation, and humanity demand. They do not compare favourably with similar aids to navigation in Europe, generally, but especially those of France and Great Britain." "There is no good reason why the Light vessels on the coast of the United States should not remain at their moorings under as favourable circumstances as those of England and Ireland do." "They are defective in size, shape, and distinction, and as a general rule sufficient care is not taken by competent persons to moor and replace them." 1335
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to direct the attention of the House to the Light Dues levied on the commercial shipping, and especially to the correspondence between the United States Minister and Viscount Palmerston, laid before Parliament on the 13th day of February, 1851. It was a duty they owed to those concerned in the navigation of this country to find from them what they were really going to carry out for this interest. He, for one, had always advocated the abolition of the Navigation Laws, as he considered them injurious; but he must state that he had urged their repeal on the distinct understanding that we were bound to relieve the shipowners of this country from all the charges and everything that prevented their free competition; and he regarded the Light Dues levied along the coast upon British shipping as one of the greatest impediments to the development of our trade. Some of these lighthouses were the property of private individuals, and it was proved before a Select Committee upon the subject that the owner of the Winter-ton lighthouse had pocketed 20,000 l d. l l l 1330
 MR. HUME  asked of what avail it could be to proceed with a discussion of this kind, when only two Roman Catholic Members from Ireland had had an opportunity of expressing their opinions, and many more would wish to do so. In what situation were they? It was expected the House would be prorogued about the 20th June—the day fixed for Her Majesty to leave town. On Tuesday, in the Income Tax Committee, he had been unable to collect five Members at any hour during the day. Even if a Committee on Maynooth were granted that night, they could not expect to do anything on a question of such importance. They would hear one side; that evidence would go forth to the country, the witnesses being of the same opinion as the hon. Mover of this Resolution; and this would aggravate the evil that had arisen. He put it to the Government whether it was not better to adopt the suggestion of Mr. Goulburn? Let them appoint a Commission of Inquiry, taking upon themselves the whole responsibility of that inquiry. The Roman Catholic Members had expressed their readiness to meet it. Was it not better that such an inquiry should be free from the prejudice that would attach to it if it were undertaken under the honourable auspices of the Mover (Mr. Spooner)?
 MR. HUME  said, he thought the question of much more importance than the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to think. He quite agreed with that right hon. Gentleman that no Member should bring forward questions upon mere anonymous authority. He (Mr. Hume) candidly admitted that he had brought forward many questions which had originated in anonymous communications, but he had never brought them forward until he had previously satisfied himself that the charges rested upon the authority of persons deserving of credit, and then he brought them forward upon his own responsibility. And this was what his hon. Friend (Mr. S. Crawford) had done in the present instance. He understood that his hon. Friend, finding the charges in an anonymous article in a newspaper, had communicated with the writer of the article, and, having confidence in his reply, had thought it his duty to bring the matter before the House. He hoped the Government would see it to be their duty either to make an inquiry, or at all events to take care to prevent any such abuse in future.
 MR. FORSTER  said, if the Government were not prepared to take off all the burdens of which the shipping interest complained, they might at least distribute them in a more equitable manner. Now that the shipowners' friends were in power, the shipping interest might surely expect relief in the matter of Lights at all events, because Light Dues were a burden which everybody admitted to be unreasonable and unjust. His hon. Friend the Member for Dundee (Mr. Duncan) had mentioned two cases of peculiar hardship; and he (Mr. Forster) would take the liberty of calling the attention of the House to a similar case. The Dublin Steam Navigation Company stated to the Committee of 1845, that they paid as much in lights as would keep the whole of the lights between Dublin and Liverpool. [Mr. HUME: There are eighteen lights.] The Company paid in respect of these lights from 5,000 l l 1332
 MR. P. HOWARD  said, the Opposition had been accused of creating unnecessary delay; but Mr. Spooner should recollect that he at first proposed to adjourn the Motion till the 16th of June; and that it was only at the repeated remonstrances of that side of the House that an earlier day was appointed. He believed that those who had signed the petitions against Maynooth had been led, by want of information, to attack the olden faith; they had done it not from malice, but from ignorance; many who were occupied in daily toil had doubtless taken this step without adequate information. If this question was to be revived, the sooner it was done the more contented he should be; for it would be his duty to refute the arguments and dispel the fallacies that had been adduced by the hon. Mover; and as soon as those arguments were met, they would vanish in smoke.
 MR. SPOONER,  in answer to the ap-
 1297
 MR. SPOONER  said, he had had no communication whatever with Her Majesty's Government on the subject; and as to his fixing a day, it must depend entirely upon what should take place when the Order of the Day on the subject came on.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, that there was one circumstance connected with the tenders for this service, in which the port which he represented was interested. If the tender which had not been successful had been accepted, the Eastern Steam Navigation Company would have landed the mails at Plymouth instead of Southampton. He believed the time had come when the Government ought to take into consideration the claims of Plymouth as a port of departure for the mails. It had natural advantages as great as any port in England for that service, and being the nearest port in the Channel for the arrival of vessels from all parts of the world, there would be a great saving of time if the mails and passengers were discharged there. This difference between Southampton and Plymouth in that respect caused a delay in the delivery of the mails of several days in the northern and western parts of England. He believed the present arrangement would not have continued so long but for the fact of there being no railway communication completed to Plymouth; but that was now effected, and the electric telegraph at work on the whole line, so that in a very short time Plymouth would be enabled to offer superior advantages to Southampton. He would therefore urge on the Government the consideration of the public interests which would be affected by a great saving by the landing of the mails at Plymouth, and the saving of a long Channel voyage to passengers.
 MR. WALPOLE  suggested Tuesday
 1370
 MR. WALPOLE  seconded the Motion. The hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey) had occupied for some length the time of the House; and it did not seem fair that Mr. Speaker should be kept in the chair longer.
 MR. WALPOLE  denied that he had done so. What he had said was, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman had really an objection to its principle, he would not bring it on at one o'clock in the morning.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was only anxious to save time.
 MR. WALPOLE  observed, that whatever the opinion of hon. Members with respect to the Government and their conduct, it ought to be understood, in fairness to the Government, that there was not a shadow of foundation for the charge made. He could assure hon. Gentlemen that the Government did not take the Order out of its course, and had nothing to do with the proposition which was made. The hon. Member who made it made it of his own accord, without communication with the Government; and so far as the Government
 1368
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  thought there must be some exceptions to that rule. Suppose he had risen early in the evening and moved the New Zealand Bi- shops Bill, would he not have been told that such a course was opposed to the practice of the House?
 MR. ANSTEY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had entirely misapprehended the ground of his opposition to this Bill. It was called a Bill—
 "To remove doubts as to the constitution of the Bishopric of Christchurch in New Zealand, and to enable Her Majesty to constitute such bishopric, and to enable Her Majesty further to subdivide the Diocese of New Zealand." 1366
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY : I rise to order. I allowed the right hon. Gentleman to explain, but as he has courted debate he shall now have it.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he must oppose the Motion on account of the lateness of the hour. He would move that the House do now adjourn. If that were deprecated, he would address himself to the principle of the Bill; and he thought it necessary to warn the House that in that case he would probably occupy about two hours.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that the ground of his objection was, that this Bill was the same in principle as the Colonial Bishops Bill. ["No, no!"] The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had last night admitted that it was so.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  observed, that if the hon. and senior Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) had been in the House, instead of at the door, as he admitted he was at eight o'clock on Tuesday evening, the adjourned debate might have been resumed. The country would form its own opinion of such conduct. The hon. Gentleman who made the Motion on the subject of Maynooth, said, that he despaired of effecting any good by it, because it was now too late to inquire. But if that were so, why did the hon. Gentleman, on the first occasion, propose to postpone the question till the 16th of June, which had not yet arrived? The hon. Gentleman now proposed the appointment of a Select Committee to prosecute an inquiry which he says cannot be made. The suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Goulburn) suggested the only possible and unobjectionable mode of inquiry; yet the Government did not say that they would adopt it. The fact was, that not inquiry, but aspersion, was the object of hon. Gentlemen. They wished to create political capital, but they had exhausted and gambled it away. The result of the discussion would satisfy every man, that, however much hypocrisy there might be in the House, there was not one atom of bigotry in it.
 MR. WAKLEY  would suggest to the right hon. Gentleman whether it would not be better to adjourn the subject  sine die.
 MR. BERESFORD  said, that if he had any good reason to believe that there had been an improper interference on the part of the military authorities with the votes of the pensioners, he should certainly be desirous to make a strict inquiry into the
 1324
 MR. EWART  wished to call the attention of the House to the expediency of instituting examinations as a test of the competency of candidates for situations in the Diplomatic Service. He believed that the general nature of the education given to youth in this country was not such as to fit them for the Diplomatic Service. Most of the young men who obtained situations of a diplomatic character were much better versed in Greek iambics and hexameters than in the works of Grotius, Puffendorf, and Vattel. He thought that the change which was corning over the Universities should be introduced into the diplomatic career, and examinations be introduced in order to enable the candidates for such offices better to fill the situations to which they were appointed. Questions of international law and of treaties would soon be more generally taught in our Universities than they ever were before; modern languages, too, were making great progress. It was because he saw the necessity of extending diplomatic education, that he invited attention to this subject, and because he thought that the improvement would be very considerably strengthened by the improvement of our public schools, and the improvement in the education given at the Inns of Court. The latter especially would add greatly to the knowledge of international law. There were many reasons why at this particular time an attempt should be made to institute examinations for diplomatic candidates. The subjects he would suggest for examination would be modern history, modern treaties, and the general rules of international law. It might be said that it would be absurd to subject persons appointed as ambassadors to an examination of this kind; and so it might; but why should not  Chargés d'Affaires attaches 1327
 MR. HAYTER  hoped the House would not accede to the Amendment, as the Bill as it now stood had been approved of by the Board, and if any difficulty of this sort arose, a suitable remedy was provided by law. An inspector, who was sent down, had recommended at first that an area of greater extent should be included in the Bill. Memorials were sent in opposition to this recommendation, and another inspector was sent down, who reduced the area to that now included in the Bill. No other memorial had been presented objecting to this limited area. He (Mr. Hayter) had presented a petition of 120 persons, presenting 120,000 l
 MR. KEOGH  wished to say a few words
 1306 1307 totis viribus, 1308 1309
 MR. KEOGH  said, he understood that in the absence of himself and his friends the adjourned debate on Maynooth College, which stood No. 28 on the paper, had been disposed of, the last order, therefore, having been taken before the other orders. He could scarcely believe that such an advantage had been taken of the absence of the Irish Members. Perhaps the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was above such a trick, would say whether that was the case or not. He was sure the right hon. Gentleman would repudiate such a device.
 MR. KEOGH  asked, whether the right hon. Gentleman meant seriously to say that such was the case? [ A laugh. 1367 from the Ministerial benches.
 MR. KEOGH  begged to move the adjournment of the House, as it was perfectly absurd to proceed further with business at that hour. He felt certain, from the explanation that had been given by the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, that he had had nothing to do with the shabby trick that had been played upon the Irish Members; but the whole proceeding was unworthy of Her Majesty's Government, and would certainly not meet with the approval of English gentlemen.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, he wished to call the attention of the noble Lord the Chief Secretary for Ireland to a most important subject, namely, the interference by a military officer with the votes for a Member of Parliament. A statement had appeared in the public press to which his attention was directed, and which had since been corroborated by private letters. It was stated in the  Belfast Northern Whig, Belfast Northern Whig, 1323
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  begged to observe, that he had a private letter in his possession corroborating the statement he had made.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that he wished to say a few words with respect to the suggestion which had been made by
 1301
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, it had been stated that Parliament was not a proper tribunal for the discussion of these questions. He (Sir B. Hall) would there-
 1359 l l 1360 l l 1361
 SIR B. HALL  explained, that he should not have made the statement he had done, if he had not previously acquainted the right hon. Gentleman that he intended,
 1362
 SIR B. HALL  rose to order, if the right hon. Gentleman in giving an explanation was going to comment on anything he had said.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  was astonished to hear the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman say that they would take no notice of an accusation of this sort. To him it appeared that an investigation was inevitable. He felt convinced that a satisfactory reply could be given, but the case could not be allowed to rest where it was; it was assuredly the duty of the Government to inquire into it.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that as the New Zealand Bill stood first on the Order paper for the Thursday after the Whitsun holidays, it was highly desirable that the House should have all the details that could be collected to enable it to come to a decision upon that measure. By reference to the papers already laid upon the table, it appeared that the Settlement of Canterbury contended that the limit of the proportion payable to the New Zealand Company on land sales was 2 s., l 1292
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he should not have the slightest objection to produce the opinion, were it not for the rule which the right hon. Baronet had just referred to. It was true the papers his right hon. Friend held in his hand did contain an opinion of the former Law Officers of the Crown; but although by accident or negligence that opinion might have found its way amongst the papers laid upon the table, he would submit to his right hon. Friend whether, after his long official experience, he did not think the rule which precluded the publication of the opinions of the Law Officers was not a good one, and if it were not desirable that the rule should he adhered to? He (Sir J. Pakington) was of opinion that it was a good rule: it was also the opinion of Parliament that it ought to he adhered to, and they should be very cautious how they multiplied precedents for deviating from it. Under these circumstances, he would certainly rather decline laying that opinion before the House; and he had the less hesitation in giving that answer, inasmuch as he believed he was justified in stating, that, if he were to lay it upon the table, his right hon. Friend would find that it had not the least reference to the question now at issue. He believed he would find upon reference to it that that opinion related to a question which arose between the Canterbury Association and the New Zealand Company with regard to the payment of 10 s. s.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN : I wish to call it to the recollection of the House that I distinctly stated I did not attribute any unworthy motives to the right hon. Gentleman.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  rose to call the attention of the House to the tenders which were accepted from the Peninsular and Oriental Company on the 27th February, for the performance of the postal
 1338 l l l 1339 1340 l 1341 "Whilst your Committee think that it is but fair to acknowledge the enterprising spirit which has been displayed by the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Company, in the general management of the communication which they have now conducted for some years, they are of opinion that the English and the Indian public have at times experienced considerable inconvenience; and it is certain also, that until the agitation of the question connected with the renewal of the contract brought the matter more prominently before the public, the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Company had done little towards introducing into their line those great and important improvements, as regards speed, which have of late years taken place in ocean steam navigation; of late, however, some of these vessels have undergone considerable improvement, and have been rendered competent to maintain a speed much in excess of the contract rate." "It has been suggested to your Committee, that in order to secure to the public the advantages of these communications, stringent rules should be laid down in any new engagement that may be entered into between the Government and the companies undertaking the service, and that rates of speed and fares should be fixed. Your Committee concur in these suggestions so far as regards the size of the vessels and the speed required, and they are of opinion that the penalties for failure in speed should be such as might be rigidly enforced when such failure cannot be satisfactorily accounted for; but they do not believe that there is any mode by which the full advantage of the communication can be secured to the passengers and traffic of India by the interference of Government in the internal arrangement and management of the affairs of a private company. The only mode in which this can be secured to the public is by the establishment of a wholesome competition." 1342 "Admiralty, Feb. 27, 1852. "Sir—I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to state for the information of the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, that having issued advertisements for tenders for the conveyance of mails every fortnight between England, Calcutta, and Hong Kong, and every alternate month between Singapore and Sydney, and that having so arranged the conditions as to make parties to tender for portions of the service, instead of the whole, if they should prefer it, my Lords have received the following tenders:—1. From the Peninsular and Oriental Company for the whole of the mail services advertised, with the addition of a branch line between Bombay and Point de Galle, not mentioned in the conditions of tender, for the annual sum of 199,600 l l l l l s. d. s. s. (Signed) "W. A. B. HAMILTON. "G. Cornewall Lewis, Esq., &c, Treasury." 1343 viâ 1344
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, this subject being one which relates to the business of the department over which I had recently the honour to preside, I think it right to state, in confirmation of what has been said by the noble Lord opposite, that during the time I was at the head of the Foreign Office I received no information or communication whatever on the subject of this case. Undoubtedly it appears to require explanation why Mr. Moore, in whose district at Ancona the case originated, or Mr. Freeborn, when it was transferred to Rome, did not communicate it to the Foreign Office. An explanation might also be asked why the friends of Mr. Murray in England—for I presume that he has friends and relations here—did not themselves apply to me while I was at the Foreign Office. With regard to Mr. Moore
 1320 1321
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, he must complain that the right hon. Gentleman had not answered the question of the hon. Member for the county of Cork (Mr. V. Scully). He thought that some Gentleman connected with the Government, either with greater knowledge or greater courtesy, should be induced to do so. The question was a very intelligible one, and ought to have an answer. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer said he would not bring forward the Orders of the Day. These were notices of Motion, and his pledge did not affect them. He wanted to know if they would be brought forward at a late hour, or at any hour that night?
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, it was quite true, as had been stated by the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), that that House, by a majority of one, affirmed a Resolution which he moved—that in future, the whole amount of the Land Revenues of the Crown should be paid into the Exchequer; but, unfortunately, the House, to a certain extent, reversed that decision. When the Bill for the Separation of the Woods and Forests was brought forward, he tried the question again, and was unsuccessful. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. G. A. Hamilton) was quite correct in stating that 76,532 l
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, as he was in office when the house was taken for the Tithe and Copyhold Commissioners, he
 1385 l
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, it was very properly stated in the Estimate that this was about 24,000 l l l l 1386
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that the hon. and gallant Member anticipated that the cost of the removal of the marble arch would very much exceed the Estimate. He believed he (Lord Seymour) was correct in saying that the cost of taking down the arch and rebuilding it was within the Estimate. No doubt there were works and other expenses connected with Buckingham Palace which had cost some money, but that ought not to be set down to the account of the marble arch.
 MR. KINNAIRD  wished to know whether any papers were before the House showing the names of the rangers of the parks, what were the duties they performed, and what were the salaries they received?
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that the names of the rangers might be found in the Red Book; and, as to their salaries, that question was easily answered, for they received no salaries at all.
 LORD SEYMOUR  replied, that the ranger received nothing, and the item of 1,506 l
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, the rangers had lodges in some of the parks, which lodges were kept up at the public expense. He again repeated that it was inconvenient to have two sets of servants in the parks, one under the rangers, and the other under the Woods and Forests. He was
 1390
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  did not wish to interfere in the remotest degree with the rights of the Crown. His noble Friend had mistaken what he said. His belief was there were several lodges in the parks which were not occupied by members of the Royal Family. They were occupied by deputy rangers, and kept up at the expense of the public.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  wished to call attention to the fact that of this sum 13,000 l
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that the one amount related to objects connected with
 1393
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  wished to call the attention of the noble Lord the Commissioner of Works to the state of the Parliamentary buildings. At present Westminster Hall was running with water, and there was hardly a part of the House where leakages were not occurring. He also wished to know whether there was now a sufficient supply of water in case of fire? They all knew that expensive works had been erected in Orange-street to furnish a supply of water to the Houses of Parliament in case of fire; but when a case of fire did occur last year, it was found that no water was forthcoming.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, it was true that about a year and a half ago a deficient supply of water did exist, but since that time he had given directions that the water should be gauged twice a day, and that the report should be sent up to the Office of Works every week. This had been constantly done, and there was now no fear of there being an ample supply of water in case of emergency.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  wished to make one or two remarks  on this l l l l l l
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, it appeared that the salaries of the solicitors and their
 1395 l l
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, the item in the Votes was "Solicitor for the Land Revenue, England and Wales (salary of himself and clerks), 3,250 l l l l
 MR. SLANBY  said, that he did not object to discipline of a reformatory character being adopted in our prisons, but he thought it was quite vain to expect that prison or workhouse labour could compete with free labour without that assistance from the county or poor-rates which he did not think it was fair to give.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIPFE  said, the fact was, the sum in both cases was as nearly as possible alike. The prisoners in borough gaols, as well as those in county gaols, were now supported out of the Consolidated Fund, it having been felt that an injustice was done to the boroughs, and this accounted for the greater part of the increase. A further sum was also incurred in sending out 100 boys to the Colonies.
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was the custom to take the vote for the Museum before certain other Votes; and the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ewart), who was an experienced Member of the House, and who, indeed, was seldom absent from his seat, must have been aware of that circumstance. All that the Government wanted was, that the business should be proceeded with.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  hoped that if No. 12 was to be taken first on this Vote, it would in future be placed as No. 1.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  moved the Second Reading of this Bill, which he said it was most important should be advanced a stage. He believed there was no objection to the principle, and the details of it, he suggested, should be discussed in Committee.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he could not consent to that arrangement after the principle stated by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey), after the denial he had most distinctly made of the right of the Crown to appoint any bishops at all. [Mr. C. ANSTEY denied that he did so.] He could not accede to what he understood now to be the proposition of the hon. and learned Member, which would virtually amount to that denial, whatever the hon. and learned Mem-
 1435
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  begged to explain. This was not the Bill of Her Majesty's Government at all, but of a private Member. When he stated that there were principles either to be abandoned or maintained, to which he could not give his assent, he said that, not as a member of the Government, but as an individual Member of the House.
 COLONEL FREESTUN  inquired whether the House would meet at Twelve o'clock to-morrow?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  would remind the noble Lord that rangers of parks were Royal gifts. The Duke of Wellington was ranger of Hyde-park, but had no house. The rangership of Richmond-park was given to one of the Royal Family, and a house was provided. He presumed the noble Lord had no wish to interfere with these Royal gifts.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, a return had been moved for, which, when produced, would show what were the duties of the rangers.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that if the hon. Member for Lambeth would look to the aggregate of the items in this estimate, he would find that there had on the whole been a saving effected; hut in respect to some charges great improvements had been made; for instance, the lighting of the parks had been increased, and there had been a large additional supply of water to the Serpentine. With respect to the drainage and cleaning out of the Serpentine, that was rather a delicate affair to meddle with; his attention had been drawn to it, and plans had been submitted to him. He had also given orders that fresh gravel should be laid down on the roads in the parks where required.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that with regard to the park at Battersea, he had done everything in his power to forward the improvements going on there.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he considered that the suggestion of the noble Lord the Member for Bath (Viscount Duncan) was worthy of consideration, and should be attended to.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, it was impossible but that in the present state of the building, defects would arise from time to time; but when complaints were made, they were invariably attended to. With regard to the supply of water in case of fire, he believed that an ample supply was now provided.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I do hope that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, will, to-morrow or on Monday, consider the statement that has just been made by my right hon. Friend the Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham); for indeed it is a matter which deserves the most serious attention of the Government. I cannot say that I am much surprised that the Votes should present a numerous array of Bills, many of them important, and many presenting strong claims on the consideration of the House, for I know that about this time of the Session there is usually such a jostling of measures of different kinds as renders it no easy matter to select those which may be fairly considered of the greatest importance. This is the case every year; but this Session it is specially incumbent upon the Government not to press on the consideration of the House any measures that they do not believe to be of paramount importance, and calculated to lead to some practical good. Having said this, I wish to advert for a moment to what has been
 1380 1381
 LORD NAAS  said, he could confirm the statement of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Trollope) as to the increase on the Irish Estimate being occasioned by the Medical Relief given under the sanction of the Act passed last Session on the subject.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he must express his regret that one of the most important features in the measure,
 1430
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, that several hon. and learned Members connected with the Court of Chancery, who were not then present, objected to the Bill in its present shape. The Bill
 1431
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he had no wish to throw any obstacle in the way of the Bill; but, having understood that it came far short of the recommendations of the Commissioners, all he wanted to suggest was, that it was an inconvenient hour to proceed with the debate. After what had fallen from his right hon. Friend, however, he would not further object to the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that the hon. Member was very much mistaken in supposing that any considerable amount was spent upon fortifications in the Channel Islands. There was, it was true, a fortification at Alderney; but nine-tenths of the expenditure, as he had just stated, both at Alderney and at Jersey, were for Harbours of Refuge, and all the money hitherto spent upon these would be useless unless the works were completed. The fortifications at Jersey were not even begun. There was a sum of 50,000 l l
 MR. STAFFORD  replied, that the original Estimate of the works at Alderney was 620,000 l l l l
 MR. STAFFORD  said, it was one thing to determine whether it was wise to commence these undertakings, and another to say that it would be prudent to stop works which were partly completed. He had visited the Channel Islands since his appointment to the office which he now held, and he could state that nine-tenths of the works were really required for Harbours of Refuge, which, without doubt, when completed, would be highly useful. But if these works were not completed, all the money which had been already spent upon them would be thrown away.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that he was ready to make an omission in the Bill that would remove all the objections urged against it by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. Anstey). The object of the Bill was simply to render valid the resignation of the Bishop of New Zealand of a portion of his diocese, out of which a new See was to be formed. The hon. and learned Gentleman objected that the terms of the Bill went beyond that intention, and would enable the Crown by Act of Parliament to make a new colonial bishop. He (Mr. Adderley) believed that some of the words might be made to bear that construction, and therefore he would be ready in Committee to omit them, so as to obviate the hon. and learned Member's objections.
 MR. ADDERLEY  could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that he was perfectly willing that the Bill should only render valid the resignation. He would not go beyond that resignation, and would not touch the constitution of the new diocese. He would leave it to the Crown to
 1434
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that he was willing wholly to carry out the views of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. C. Anstey), and to remove the objections that he had stated to the Bill. But the proper time for doing so would be when the Bill got into Committee.
 MR. ADDERLEY  was ready to arrange the alterations in the Bill with the hon. and learned Member in private, so that it might now be read a second time.
 MR. COWAN  said, that the salaries of the seventeen procurators fiscal, which were fixed, appeared to amount to 11,130 l l
 MR. HINDLEY  thought that this Vote should be passed as quickly as possible, for he observed in the public prints that a cheque of the Poor Law Secretary had been refused payment at the Bank of England, because the supplies had not been granted.
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he wished to point out to the Committee that in some districts the provisions of the Factory Act were being violated with impunity. He hoped that the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department would pay attention to this matter, for this violation of the law had given much dissatisfaction.
 MR. PACKE  said, that in the prison in the county with which he was connected, discipline of a most wholesome and reformatory character had for the last few years been enforced, and the consequence was, that whereas criminals used to return to them over and over again, they now very rarely returned a second time.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he was not convinced by the speech of the right hon.
 1406
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he must express his dissent from the remarks of the hon. Member, who, it was evident, was no sporting character. He (Colonel Sibthorp) thought it not undesirable to afford some amusement to the people, especially the lower classes, who took great delight in horseracing; which, besides, tended to promote the breed of horses, and increase the consumption of the produce of land.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that ever since he had a seat in that House he had constantly opposed the voting of any money for secret purposes, and he must now renew his protest against it. He maintained that no money ought to be taken out of the pockets of the people without the people receiving an account of how that money was expended. If the Government wanted a sum for any necessary purpose, let them come forward openly and state its object. He would never lend his sanction to anything that was not all fair and above board.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he wished to know why it was that a portion only of the expenses of the Commission were included in the Vote?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  very seldom agreed with the hon. Member for Lambeth, hut he could not help concurring in what had fallen from him on this occasion, for he really believed the public were improperly debarred from the fair use of the parks. But he rose chiefly for the purpose of expressing a hope that the return for which he some time since moved, and which he understood was already prepared, would soon be laid on the table. He alluded to the charge for the removal and reconstruction of the marble arch. The noble Lord the late Commissioner of Works had said that the expense would not exceed the Estimate, which was 4,056 l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in answer to the hon. Member for Cockermouth, said he did not anticipate the House would go into any business tonight except the Committee of Supply, and it was not his intention to bring forward any Orders of the Day. Generally speaking, it would be more convenient to leave until Monday any questions as to the business before the House, when he should be prepared to give the intentions of Government.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that perhaps the House would allow him to say one word. He had already stated his intention next Monday to explain the views of the Government upon the business before the House, and, after the observations of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), he would still defer until Monday the making that statement. He would merely say now, that upon calmly considering the business before the House, the Government might not be able to accomplish all that they had expected. In explanation he would add that the noble Lord misconceived what he had said about the Committee of Supply, It was not his intention for one moment to deprecate the fullest discussion of the items which would be brought forward—it would be most unreasonable and most improper on his part were he to do so. All that he did deprecate, under the present circumstances, was hon. Members taking advantage of the Motion for going into Committee of Supply to bring forward questions which, however important, wore not urgent, and generally had no particular reference to Supply itself. He had already followed the mode recommended by the noble Lord with regard to the Militia Bill, and he intended to pursue the same course with the Committee of Supply. He hoped to go into Committee of Supply every day without interruption until the Estimates were gone through, and on Monday next he would make a statement to the House, as he originally intended, with respect to the business before it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not think the hon. Member had understood his answer, or he would not have charged him with a want of courtesy. He would not proceed with
 1383
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied in the affirmative.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose and said: Perhaps the House will permit me to make a few observations with reference to the conduct of public business. When the House last met, before adjourning for the holidays, I agreed that the adjourned debate on the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) for an inquiry into the system of education at Maynooth College, should be resumed to-morrow morning. Since that time representations have been made to me by hon. Members from Ireland, who complain that this is not a fair arrangement for them. I regret very much that they did not make those representations at the time that I made my suggestion. Had they done so, I should at once have acceded to it; for when the personal convenience of any considerable number of Members is involved in any arrangement over which the Government have control, I shall ever regard it as a duty and a pleasure to promote the wishes of those hon. Gentlemen so far as it may be in my power to do so. I could have wished that the request of the hon. Members to whom I in this instance refer, had
 1371 1372
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought it was rather strange to say, "We will give you a vote of Secret Service Money if you will let us know how it is spent." Certainly it could be no longer a vote for Secret Services if the Committee was to be told exactly for what various sums were wanted. The proper course would he for the Committee to pass a resolution that there should be no further voting of money for Secret Services. He
 1405 l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : "Gentlemen at large" are so called, because they are free, or "at large," to act upon the orders of the Lord Lieutenant.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was a great mistake to suppose that a Chancellor of the Exchequer was always disposed, from his position, to defend any expenditure of the public money. On the contrary, he would naturally be always anxious to oppose it. Really nobody should understand the value of money, or the necessity for the strictest economy, so much as the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because, from his daily experience of the innumerable applications that were made to him, he must always be painfully impressed with the poverty of his means.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I certainly have no hesitation in telling the hon. Gentleman that it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Ministers to make any investments of the kind he has referred to in the cause of law and order. I appreciate, and appreciate probably as much as any person in this House, the influence of the press; but I have always observed this, that there is no newspaper whoee support is worth having, that will give its support from corrupt considerations.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that this was not a Government measure, and he had no control over it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to remind the Committee of the question before them. That question was the Vote for the combined system of education in Ireland, and as that Vote had been proposed by the Government, and, as far as he could collect, hon. Gentlemen opposite were prepared to maintain that system, the best thing they could do in the present state of Parliament would be to support the Vote. A great deal had been said as to the intentions of the Government on this subject. He might be permitted to inform those hon. Members who had addressed the Committee, that when the Government had to propose any change in a subject of so much importance as that under consideration, they would not do so in a Committee of Supply. They were all anxious that the combined system of education should be properly supported; and whether they thought it should be permanent, or whether they were in favour of modifying it, they were all prepared at present to support it as it existed. It could not be supported without the passing of this Vote, and he therefore hoped the Committee would agree to it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would take care that this should not occur again, but he had only followed the precedent of former years.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated that the Government had no interest in pressing this Vote; but it had always been customary to allow precedence to the Estimate for the British Museum. The late Sir Robert Peel, and the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell)—greater authorities than he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was—had always accorded this privilege to the Estimate for the British Museum.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, perhaps it would be convenient if the right hon. Gentleman would state what business he proposed to proceed with on that night after the Committee of Supply. Three of the Bills with respect to Colonial bishops were very much opposed, and two of them stood for a second reading that night. As the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies intended next Session to legislate upon these matters, and as all these Bills were opposed, he hoped the Government would at once say they would not proceed with them either this evening, or during the course of the present Session.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, that the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland had given notice for leave to bring in a Bill to continue the Act 11 & 12  Vict.,
 MR. P. SCULLY  thought the Committee need be under no difficulty in understanding how this Secret Service money was applied, as far, at least, as the sister country was concerned. The recent Motion of the noble Lord (Lord Naas) now the Chief Secretary for Ireland, must have thrown very considerable light upon that point. They had all heard how certain newspapers had been hired to write in support of "law and order." He objected to the principle of voting public money for such a purpose, and he hoped the Committee would feel it to be its duty to guard against the recurrence of such transactions. He trusted the present Government would carefully abstain from engaging in them.
 MR. P. SCULLY  said, there could be no doubt but Birch was, in the first instance, paid out of the Secret Service Money.
 MR. P. SCULLY  thought the reform of the criminals was the great object to be kept in view in prison discipline. He thought it was the duty of the Government to encourage the employment of the prisoners in useful and profitable labour; for the experience of some of the Continental prisons had shown that to instruct criminals, particularly juvenile criminals, in some useful trade was a most efficient means of inducing them to pursue a course of honest industry after quitting the prison.
 MR. F. SCULLY  wished to know how it was that while there was an increase of 38,000 l
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that one cause of the increase was the increase of prisoners; another cause was an additional amount for their maintenance. These were the principal causes of the increase.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  explained that it was his fault entirely, having at the moment forgotten the usual custom.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he was quite prepared to propose the Vote, under
 1423
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, the present vote included a sum for arrears and deficiencies, carried over from previous years.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that as the salaries of the present procurators fiscal were fixed upon an average of the fees for the five years preceding the change of system, no saving in the sum paid to them could take place during the continuance in office of the present procurators. The saving to be derived from the change was prospective.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, the hon. Member for Lambeth was very much mistaken if he supposed that the people of Ireland had a strong moral objection to horseraces. No people on the face of the earth enjoyed that sort of amusement more than they did. With regard to the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, he must also say that the hon. Gentleman laboured under a mistake. There was no subject with respect to which the people of Ireland had expressed so decided an opinion. They were unanimous in the opinion that that office should be retained. That was proved when the subject was mooted two years ago. So strongly was their opinion on that subject expressed, that the Government then in office deemed it advisable to abandon the Bill which they had introduced for the abolition of that office. The centralised system was in bad odour at the other side of the Channel.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that that subject had been carefully considered in the year 1847; and it had then been thought that as the duties of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners were not wholly
 1396
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he was informed that the arrangement for the payment of the solicitors had been made by the noble Lord lately at the head of the Woods and Forests, and that it had been based on the principle that they ought to receive an amount equivalent to their average receipts during a certain number of years.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  admitted the public convenience would be better consulted by that arrangement, but the sum was placed under this head that the whole amount for public buildings might be seen at once.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that with reference to the last item alluded to by the hon. Member, the lease of the house in which the Royal Irish Academy were located expired last year, and an arrangement was therefore made by which a new house was provided. There could not be a more useful, interesting, and important institution that this was. With regard to the Queen's Colleges, the fact was that in the Act of Parliament by which they were established, no provision was made for their maintenance; and the sum of money originally voted out of the Consolidated Fund for the erection of these colleges having been expended, some means had to be taken for repairing and maintaining them. The sum proposed to be devoted to this object in the Estimates before the House, was a very small one, and he could not imagine that it would be refused.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he believed the noble Lord was mistaken with reference to the increased charge. There were before the separation of the offices seventy-three officers of different kinds, and the salaries amounted to 23,013 l l l l l l l l
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, one of the principal causes of the increase of the Estimates was, the transfer from the Woods and Forests of services which had been before deducted from the land revenues of the Crown. Those services were transferred under the Act passed last Session, in consequence of the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Bath, and they amounted in these Estimates to a total of 76,532 l
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, with regard to the increase of this Estimate, it included Richmond, Hampton-court, and Bushey-parks, which had no place in the Estimate of last year, because those parks were assigned to the Department of Works, while the Bill for dividing the Woods and Works was depending in Parliament, and after the Estimates for the current year had been voted. That would account for 7,827 l l l l l
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, it was impossible any arrangement like that suggested could be carried into effect.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, the particulars would be found in a return which had been presented to the House during the present Session.
 CAPTATN SCOBELL  hoped, if this subject were to be inquired' into, that the dietary question would not escape attention. In some places it was on a scale which positively made prisons attractive, and in the county where he acted the magistrates frequently sentenced prisoners to only two or three weeks' imprisonment, when they might give them much more, because the diet increased so rapidly after that period that these persons thought it a good thing to be in prison. It was well known that the prison dietary was far superior to that of the workhouse, and he believed also beyond that of the peasantry of this country generally.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that there was no ground for dissatisfaction to the attendants under the new arrangement, which had been adopted by the Trustees in conformity with the recommendations of the Report of the Committee of that House. That arrangement was, that the attendants should be paid by salary instead of by fees, and that, in accordance with the principle adopted in most of the public offices, persons appointed to offices, as attendants, should enter in the lowest class, from which they could rise, by intelligence and ability, to the highest class. But the trustees, in making that arrangement, stated that it would not apply to those who had been ^appointed under the old system.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  hoped the Committee would do what they had always done, and allow this Vote to have precedence; but at the same time he must observe that on the present occasion it had not had that precedence it usually had.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  would entreat the Government to consider whether what at first sight might appear to be a desirable alteration in the present system of education in Ireland could safely be made. They might depend upon it that that system was only carried on by mutual forbearance and compromise, and by the cooperation of good men, who were content
 1421
 MR. TUFNELL  said, that by the Estimates, it appeared that there were 1,450 convicts in that Colony, and yet the salaries of the convict officers amounted to 15,200 l
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he considered that the worst argument that could be employed was the  argumentum ad hominem; 1425
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that if the hon. and learned Member asserted that he (Mr. Whiteside) had ever expressed anti-monarchical opinions at any time of his life, he could only tell him it was simply a fiction. He had always maintained monarchical principles. For the twenty years that he had practised at the bar, he bad maintained what he considered true and sound Conservative opinions. The hon. and learned Gentleman had, as many of his countrymen had done before him, drawn, in what he had said, on his imagination for his facts.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman did not intend to instruct the Factory Inspectors to work the law in a more rigid and annoying mode than at present. It was easy to say that the law in all cases was not carried into effect; but where was the law that was? He could bear testimony to the activity of some of the Sub-Inspectors. He had heard of one
 1400
 MR. BRIGHT  said, perhaps the hon. Baronet was not aware that Mr. Horner himself, one of the Factory Inspectors, had intimated to the Secretary of State for the Home Department that it would be advisable to alter those clauses of the Factory Act which related to accidents. At present accidents of the most trifling nature must be reported by the surgeon to the inspectors, and by the latter to the Home Office. A smaller number of accidents of a serious character happened to those engaged in the cotton factories, than to an equal amount of working people in any other occupation whatever. When in the lapse of time thrashing machines worked by steam should be used in Essex, the hon. Baronet would then find that they could be worked without giving rise to all those accidents which he conceived to be the necessary consequence of machinery.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, there was hardly a petty Court in all Europe which did not spend a larger sum than we did for what was called Secret Services, but which in reality were not secret. He knew from official experience that the money was every shilling of it well laid out in obtaining information most important for the State, and having reference to the navigation and commerce of the country, which information could not be had by any other means. He need not refer to the vast sums voted by Austria, Russia, or France for these purposes; but the United States of America and all the free Governments of Europe entrusted their Executive with much larger votes than we did for acquiring this necessary information.
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, he believed every shilling paid by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland to the editor of the  World
 MR. MACGREGOR  said, he had, in an especial manner, referred to the Government of the United States.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  was bound, in justice to the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Works, to state that he (Mr. Ricardo) owed his accident entirely to the bad shoulder of his horse, and to his own clumsiness. If, therefore, the noble Lord had allowed holes to remain in the park in order to catch unwary Radicals, certainly he (Mr. Ricardo) was not caught in that trap.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, he should move that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. STANFORD  said, he could not accept the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, because he understood those attendants would be affected. They said that the recent change made their position
 1417
 MR. STANFORD  said, he had been requested to bring before the Committee the case of certain persons connected with the British Museum, who complained of a grievance to which they had been subjected. The attendants were divided into three classes, one being engaged in the department of antiquities, and others in the departments of natural history, and of manuscripts and literature. By a recent regulation, the three classes were amalgamated, and an attendant, commencing now under the new arrangement at a minimum salary of 50 l l
 MR. STANFORD  said, that he thought that the philanthropic portion of the community who recommended that prisoners should be better treated, and better fed, and be relieved from all hard labour, committed a great mistake, and were guilty of injustice to the honest and industrious poor. In Reading gaol, which was regarded as a model prison, there was no hard labour, but a reformatory system was adopted. He looked upon that as a kind of inverted process, which first allowed a man to commit flagrant delinquencies or gross crimes, and then fed and clothed him, learnt him habits of cleanliness, and provided him with mental entertainment. It was, in fact, offering a premium for the commission of crime, placing a criminal in a position which was infinitely preferable to that of the inmates of workhouses. The hon. Member for Shrewsbury (Mr. Slaney), whose exertions in favour of the working classes he was always ready to admit, had enunciated a principle against employing prisoners in gaols and paupers in workhouses, which was so dangerous in its character, that it ought not to be passed  sub silentio.
 MR. STANFORD  said, he had given notice that on going into Committee of Supply he would draw the attention of the House to the necessity of some legislative enactment to meet the demoralising and ruinous effects of "betting-shops;" but after the appeal of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham), he should not feel himself justified in detaining the House. He trusted, however, if he withdrew his notice in order to facilitate the despatch of public business, others who had notices on the paper would do the like; and he hoped he might have a more favourable opportunity of bringing forward a subject of interest, and stating facts which he had been at some pains to collect.
 MR. STANFORD  thought that horseracing was an innocent amusement. It was an innocent amusement which tended to improve the breed of our horses, and that was a matter of no small moment, for we exported horses to every part of the world. As the subject of horseracing had been introduced, he would ask for the indulgence of the Committee for a few moments whilst he adverted to the demoralisation consequent upon the numerous "betting shops" in the metropolis. Since he had brought this subject under the attention of the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home
 1403
 MR. JOHN STUART  said, that to satisfy everybody on so difficult a subject was hardly to be hoped for; but that this Bill did in the main carry out the recommendations of the Commissioners, he thought that they might all now, on the
 1433
 MR. BAINES  said, he thought it an act of common justice to the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Trollope) to exculpate him from any blame, if blame it was, belonging to so much of the present
 1398 l l l
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, that the inju-
 1412
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, he fully concurred in the observations of the hon. and gallant Member for Bath with reference to the superiority of the prison over the workhouse dietary, and he would instance, as a proof of it, the fact that paupers frequently broke the workhouse windows in order to he sent to gaol.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he was not going to be drawn into a debate upon the Maynooth question, but he wished to put the right hon. Baronet right upon one point. The right hon. Baronet seemed to think it was admitted that there could be no practical good in again bringing on the Maynooth question. [Sir J. GRAHAM: What I said was, that it was admitted there could be no practical result.] He (Mr. Spooner) had admitted that the inquiry could not be entered upon at this period of the Session, but there was something else besides that; he wanted to have the determination of the House, ay or no, whether the subject
 1379
 MR. SLANEY  said, he thought of all the items in the Estimates, this was the one which the public would the least grudge. Almost twenty years ago he moved for a Committee on the subject of providing public walks and parks in the vicinity of the metropolis. Since then, three parks had been gained to the public; and he should be glad to know whether Finsbury Park was likely to be formed, and also what was the state of the im-
 1387
 MR. SLANEY  thought the Crown ought to have the power of appointing to these rangerships, as he believed they were given as equivalents yielded by the Crown. It would not be quite the thing to say that the Royal residences should be let and thus made the most of.
 MR. SLANEY  said, that free labour being worth twice as much in the United States as here, it was evidently much more easy to make a profit upon forced labour in that country. The great difficulty we had in England was to prevent labour carried on in prisons and workhouses competing injuriously with free labour.
 MR. SLANEY  said, he was of opinion that the inmates of the workhouses ought to be constantly employed; but not on labour of that nature which, by the aid of parish bounty, might be brought in competition with the free labour of others. Every one who considered the subject, found that to be a very embarrasing question.
 MR. SLANEY  said, that while they were boasting of the prosperity of the country and of the comfort of the people, an immense increase of criminal offences had of late years taken place in this country, and a material addition to the cost of convict establishments had consequently ensued. In 1805 the number of persons committed or held to bail in England and Wales was 4,600; in 1815 it was 7,800; in 1821, 16,500; in 1831, 19,600; in 1841, 27,740; and in 1848, 30,300. He believed the cause to be, that while the comfort and prosperity of the rich and mid-
 1413
 MR. S. CARTER  said, he hoped that the hon. and learned Attorney General would find equal firmness on that (the Opposition side of the House. He, for one, was totally opposed to multiplying the number of bishops. As one opposed to an Established Church paid out of the revenues of the country, he should most
 1436
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the House might either pass the second reading at once, and leave this question to he dealt with in Committee, or might let the matter stand over, and then see whether the Amendments were necessary or not.
 MR. WALPOLE  moved the Second Reading of this Bill.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had no hesitation in saying that this measure, taken in connexion with the one which followed in the Orders of the Day, would effect a greater amount of practical good in the administration of Equity in this country than had been accomplished since the time of Lord Hardwicke. The Bill came before Parliament recommended by the Report of most able Commissioners, whose suggestions were confirmed by the Lord Chancellor, and sanctioned by all the law Lords in the Upper House. The Bill would, he believed, make that cheap which had hitherto been dear, and substitute rapidity for delay. Under these circumstances he felt justified in calling on the House to read the Bill a second time, and to defer the consideration of its details until it went into Committee. The hon. and learned Member for Southampton was not justified in saying that the Bill had been mutilated. He would undertake to say that no Chancery lawyer would get up and tell the House that the recommendations of the Commissioners in their Report were not fully, fairly, and substantially carried out. There were one or two deviations which had been alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham) at the commencement of the evening. Since that allusion was made, he had spoken to those interested in the subject, and reference had been made to the Lord Chancellor, who, he might state, did not consider those variations as material to the principle of the Bill, regarding them as points which might fairly be considered in Committee; and he might state, that neither the Lord Chancellor nor the Government were going to take their stand upon such variations, in case the House should think fit to change the Bill in those respects. These two Bills were of much importance in three respects—as preventing expense and delay in bringing the cause to a hearing, in the conducting of the cause, and in the consequential inquiry on the hearing of the cause. In these three respects the recommendations of the Report of the Commissioners had been carried into effect; and he hoped this stage of the Bill would not be objected to, reserving to the hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite the ful-
 1432
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could not do better than repeat the observation he had made to the noble Lord the Member for the city of London. He said then it was worthy of consideration whether some portion of that grant might not be applied to those members of the Established Church and others—for there were others in Ireland who objected equally with them—whether some portion of that grant might not be applied to those who, from conscientious motives, objected to the present mode of distribution. He had never intimated that there was any plan on the part of the Government as to the way in which it should be done; but he had said simply that it was a matter deserving of consideration. The term "injustice" he intended to apply to the refusal of preferment and patronage to persons merely on the ground that they would not give their adhesion to the mixed system of education in Ireland. That was an injustice of which he thought they had a right to complain; and in answer to the question of the right hon. Baronet, he might say that the remedy for that injustice was to distribute the patronage fairly amongst those who dissented from, at well as those who were in favour of, the combined system of national education in Ireland; and he believed that the patronage had been so distributed since Her Majesty's present Government had come into power.
 MR. WALPOLE  begged to say a few words in answer to what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), and from the hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. Labouchere). He (Mr. Walpole) was in the recollection of the Committee when he declared that not one word escaped from him by which it could be inferred that the combined system of education was intended to be superseded. On the contrary, he had already stated, in answer to a question put by the noble Lord the Member for the city of London (Lord John Russell), that there was no intention on the part of the Government to interfere with the open system of national education; but he said then what he had said to-night, that he thought when public grants of money were made for the purpose of education, it was but reasonable that every portion of the community should receive a share of that grant; and that it was worthy of consideration whether those who on account of their conscientious scruples were at present excluded from participating in that grant, should not be included in it in future. He had gone on to say that he did think it an injustice to the members of the Church of Ireland who conscientiously objected to that grant, to be excluded from it merely from the grounds upon which they were now prevented from participating in it. That was all he had said—["No, no!"]—at all events, that was all he had meant to convey; and he did not believe a word had ever fallen from him which would justify the inference that the Government had ever intended to supersede the present system of education in Ireland.
 MR. WALPOLE  begged to state that he had never said there was any injustice in the mixed system. On the contrary, he said that the injustice was, that those who objected from conscientious motives to the mode in which the grant was applied, were precluded from any chance of preferment, merely because of their conscientious objection to the mixed system.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the question which the hon. Member for Oldham had asked was, whether any change was in-
 1418 1419
 MR. WALPOLE  said, it was not the intention of the present Government more rigidly to enforce the law, but it was the intention of the Government to see that the law was duly observed. The hon. Member (Mr. Bright) was probably not aware that the information with respect to the few instances in which the law was violated, reached the Government in the first instance, not from inspectors, but from master manufacturers in Manchester, afterwards from the working people themselves, and, subsequently, from a deputation, which had waited on him. The law was violated in distant places by working overtime, so as to make the labour hours of children longer than they ought to be; and the moment an inspector went down by train or carriage to inspect the mills, it was found that information was given at the factories, and whatever was contrary to law was stopped before the inspector could obtain admission. If the present law was to be the law of the land, it was only proper that it should be observed, and that the manufacturers who obeyed the law should not be subject to an undue competition with other manufacturers, in distant places, infringing the law by working children beyond time.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the hon. Gentleman was quite right in stating that there were certain districts in which the Factory Act had not been properly observed; but these districts were few in number. A deputation had lately waited upon him on the subject; and, in consequence of the information which he had received, he had despatched inspectors to those districts where the law had been more notoriously violated than in others; and, if necessary, proceedings would be immediately commenced against the proprietors of such mills. If the law required amendment, Parliament would be asked to make the law sufficiently stringent.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the Vote for the Solicitor to the Treasury did not include the salaries of clerks and other expenses included in the Vote then under their consideration. If all those charges wore added to the Treasury Vote, he believed that Vote would amount to 23,000 l
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he fully concurred in this view of the case. The expenses of gaols and other convict establishments at home and abroad were alarmingly on the increase, which he attributed to the recommendations of the
 1409
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that if the Vote was persisted in, he would move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he must congratulate the hon. Baronet on being in advance of the time. It indicated a favourable change on the part of hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House; but he certainly must say that the hon. Baronet was the last person in whom he could have expected so happy a phenomenon. But the hon. Baronet appeared to him intentionally to mislead the Committee as to the real question before them. The question they had to decide was not the consistency of hon. Members on either side of the House—the question was, What did Ministers mean? In the case of Protection, modification meant Free Trade, and it also meant the restoration of protection: for the noble Lord—[ A cry of 1429
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he would make this proposal. Let the Bill be postponed till to-morrow, and in the meantime the hon. Gentleman could consider the Amendments which he (Mr. C. Anstey) had put into his hands. He denied that, legally, there was any power in the Crown to make any See of New Zealand at all. The words "any law or custom to the contrary notwithstanding" should be struck out.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that the alterations he desired were very material, and before he could consent to the second reading he must see the precise Amendment which the hon. Gentleman was willing to make. The Crown had now no ecclesiastical supremacy over the Colony; but the wording of this Bill would have the effect of indirectly establishing the supremacy.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, there was an excess of 3,000 l 1414 l
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, if the system of transportation, which this money kept alive, were beneficial to the mother country and the Colonies, he would be the last man to object to the Vote; but he believed, that instead of acting as a warning to persons at home, the punishment of transportation was looked upon as leading to a life of comfort, if not of affluence, in another land. He considered that the system of transportation had signally failed; and that at present a strong incentive was held out to criminals to risk detection for the purpose of being sent to the neighbourhood of the gold fields. So strong was this impression in the Australian colonies, that the colonists, who had formerly been the strongest agitators against the continuance of transportation, had lately ceased to make any active opposition to the system, because they believed it impossible that the Government could hesitate a moment as to the expediency of immediately abolishing transportation. The temptation to free emigration, in consequence of the discovery of the gold-fields, was pretty strong, but he believed the temptation to crime was equally strong. The Government had reduced the military force in New South Wales, and the consequence was, that the Governors now dreaded an armed invasion of convicts from the penal settlements of Van Diemen's Land, while they had not force enough at their disposal to keep order. By continuing the present system, they were ruining Van Diemen's Land, and endangering the existence of neighbouring Colonies, while at the same time crime increased instead of diminished.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, it too frequently happened as he had previously mentioned, that, instead of carrying out the sentences on prisoners, those men were given up to the care of the chaplain, or some other inspector of morals, who, after a while, says the hearts of those prisoners are beginning to be touched, and they are then sent to a better dietary; and, of course, under those circumstances, an immense number of conversions are constantly taking place. He thought it would be much better if the prisoners were employed in some useful labour, which would occupy the whole of their time, and which would contribute in some degree to defray the enormous expense to which they put the country. In Reading gaol, for instance, the inmates were infinitely more comfortable than paupers in a workhouse.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he must complain that the Vote was taken out of its proper place. He did not think it fair to the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart), who had a Motion on the paper on the subject.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, there was here another increase of 70,000 l l l
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he did not consider that either the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) or the hon. Under Secretary (Sir W. Jolliffe) had given a satisfactory explanation of the salaries and allowances for religious instruction. If New South Wales and Western Australia made provision for that on the voluntary principle, why should not Van Diemen's Land do the same? He found that there was an unaccountable increase in other items also. For instance, for stores, repairs of hulks and boats, buildings and repairs of buildings, the Estimate last year was 7,420 l l agreed to; l
 MR. THORNELY  said, that the whole amount from first to last which had been spent upon Harbours of Refuge was between 2,000,000 l l
 MR. W. J. FOX  begged to inquire on the subject of Education, whether the Grants for Education would continue to be distributed on the same principle as last year? It was desirable that some statement should be made on the subject, considering the change of Administration which had taken place, more especially as it was believed that the views of the present Government were not altogether coincident on the subject of Education with those of former Governments. He did not know an opportunity so fitting as the present for a statement of their intentions.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and his right hon. and learned Colleague in the representation of the University of Dublin, had hitherto been the most consistent and determined opponents of the national system of education; and now the hon. Gentleman said that he was in favour of a modification of that system. Now, that was exactly the same expression which was applied to every other subject, religious, social, commercial, or political, on which hon. Gentlemen opposite had to touch. He asserted that two-thirds of the Derbyite candidates in Ireland had distinctly pledged them-selves—not to support national education as
 1424
 MR. KEOGH  said, he must beg leave to answer the statement made so openly by the hon. and learned Gentleman, that he (Mr. Keogh) had entered that House as a supporter of the Conservative party. Now he had very frequently heard that same statement made, but not at such a time
 1426 1427
 MR. KEOGH  said, he must remind the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer that he had promised that no business would be proceeded with at that late hour (quarter past one).
 MR. KEOGH  said, after the hon. and learned Attorney General's speech and the constant use of the expression, "I will not allow," it was quite clear that this was a Government Bill. He was anxious not to inconvenience the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and he would, therefore, not press his Motion for the adjournment of the House.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to taking this Estimate out of its regular order. In fact, he had not expected it would come on that night, and had not had time to examine it.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had reason to complain that this item was taken out of its order, but, as he had no objection to the Vote itself, he would not oppose its being proceeded with.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it was astonishing to see the increase in every one of these items. In this item alone there was an increase of 40,000 l l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  believed that the money spent in the Channel Islands was sunk, not upon Harbours of Refuge, but
 1391
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Admiralty had put it to them whether it would be wise for them to abandon works which had cost so large a sum, or to go on expending more in finishing them. Now, he believed that if justice was done to the people, they would abandon those works at once, and save the money which he was sure would never be of any advantage to the public.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  could not understand why 1,500 l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that there was a charge of 80,000 l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  asked, if the rangers received no salaries, whether the noble Lord would explain this charge for the rangers' department of 1,506 l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  was of opinion that the expenditure of 60,546 l l 1388
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he considered the charge of 9,454 l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to a charge of 511 l l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the Civil Service Estimates had progressively increased of late years. These Estimates were very different from the Army and Navy Estimates, which had been allowed to pass without discussion, the Government stating that they had taken them on the authority of their predecessors. The Estimates now submitted had been in the hands of the Government three months, and were signed by the heads of the respective departments. They presented a most extraordinary increase. In 1835, under Sir Robert Peel, they were 2,107,000 l l l l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that he thought the smallness of the amount of profit derived from the labour of the criminals was not creditable to the management of our prisons. He found, for instance, that the nett produce of the labour of 1,300 persons confined at Millbank was only 4,000 l l l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that it seemed extraordinary that the Law Expenses for Scotland should be so much larger than for Ireland, which was only 57,909; and he asked for some explanation of the increase on the Scotch Law Expenses as compared with last year?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it was rather strange to hear the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Macgregor) justifying the example of England by that of despotic Governments.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he could not understand why a charge should be made under this head for Her Majesty's Limner and Clockmaker. There were also items for the Queen's Plate, to be run for at Edinburgh, the Caledonian Hunt, and the Royal Company of Scottish Archers. He could not admit that the people of this country should be taxed for these purposes, especially for the purpose of horse-racing, and, though he would not divide on the present occasion, he should certainly take the sense of the Committee against the item of 1,574 l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  believed the best and most effectual mode of suppressing the evil was to put down horseraces altogether. However, not considering the present Government responsible for the items in the Estimates, and seeing that he had no chance of a majority, he would not divide the Committee. But he must state that he objected most strongly to the pay of the gentlemen ushers and gentlemen at large of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. He wanted to know of what use were "gentleman at large?"
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, there was a long list of the officers of the Household. 1402 l s. l l s d.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must again complain that the Votes connected with this department were constantly increasing. In 1844, the whole sum voted was 757,000 l l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that he noticed in this Vote a charge of 3,900 l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, with reference to the Estimate of 684 l l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he still was of opinion that it would be better to abandon the works, which could never be of public advantage to the hundredth part of what they would cost.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  would ask the hon. Gentleman to state what was the amount of the original Estimate, and how much money had been already voted.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought that the Poor Law officers in Ireland ought not to be paid so highly as those in England, who had more onerous duties to perform.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he should feel it his duty to take the sense of the Committee upon this Vote. He thought that nothing could be more discreditable than that the public should be charged with the expense of an office created for the management of the funds of our enormously wealthy Church Establishment.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he believed the Commissioners had no duties to discharge except duties connected with the management of the revenues of the Church.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the increase in the cost of Poor Law establishments was really astonishing. In the year 1844, the whole charge, for England and Ireland, was 49,700 l l l l l l
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he had always objected to this Vote, believing that the Commissioners, out of their enormous revenues, ought to support their own establishment. He remembered that last year the minority who had voted against it had been a large one. He did not think that the public ought to be called upon to bear any portion of the expenses of a Commission which had to manage millions of Church property every year. On that very Commission there was serving one bishop, who, as it appeared from a return lately laid before the House, had an income equal to the united incomes of the Speaker of the House of Commons, the Secretary for the Home Department, the Secretary for the Colonies, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and the Commissioner of Customs; while there was serving on it another bishop who had an income equal to the united incomes of the Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench, the Chief Baron of the Exchequer, the Chief Justice of the Court of Common Pleas, and the Serjeant-at-Arms attending that House.
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  thought it most desirable to employ prisoners in some profitable work—first, because, if they did nothing, the pressure upon the rates would be heavier; and, secondly, because the best way to make prisons distasteful would be to keep people hard at work while they were there.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he did not think the explanation a satisfactory one.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he had received several letters from his constituents on the subject. He did not expect that in the present position of affairs the Government could devote much of their time to "betting-houses;" but he thought something ought to be done as soon as possible to suppress this disgraceful nuisance.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  believed a portion of that money was at first taken from the Secret Service Fund, but that ultimately all came out of the Lord Lieutenant's pocket. He entirely agreed in the remarks of the right, hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the
 1407
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  thought the country was very much indebted to the noble Lord for having removed the arch, and having placed it in a situation which, in his opinion, made it one of the finest ornaments of the metropolis. With regard to the impediments thrown in the way of the public in the use of the parks, he might state that, in his own case, when Parliament was sitting he was allowed to pass through the Horse Guards, but when Parliament was not sitting he was imperatively refused permission to pass through, and was referred to a list of some privileged names, among which his own did not
 1389
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  considered the management of roads was not a fit matter to be intrusted to the Department of Works. The state of the roads in Hyde-park was certainly very unsatisfactory. An accident had recently occurred to an hon. Member of that House (Mr. J. L. Ricardo), owing, it was said, to some holes in the road in Hyde-park not having been properly filled up.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  still thought that the country was entitled to an explanation of the disposal of this Secret Service Money. He wished to know if there was any probability of this item being decreased in future years?
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he was of opinion that the great object of prisons—the punishment of criminals—was not sufficiently kept in view in some of these establishments, and that the discipline was not of adequate severity.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  trusted the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Poor Law Board would turn his attention to the improvement of the agricultural population and of the agriculture of the country generally. He should be very glad to see the establishment of an agricultural department, under which many most valuable statistics might be collected. One matter to which he particularly wished to direct the attention of the Committee was the large quantity of uncultivated land in this country. Whilst our poorhouses were crowded with able bodied labourers, or means were taken to send them out of the country, there were at least 6,000,000 of acres of uncultivated land in England; and within an hour's ride of the place where they now sat there were not less than 30,000 acres of land lying waste. The administration
 1397
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he was glad that there had been no response to the remarks of the hon. and learned Member in condemnation of the religious instructors.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he considered that a large proportion of the expenditure for the maintenance of prisoners might be avoided, if greater efforts were made, particularly in the agricultural and rural districts, for the prevention of crime. He thought more attention should be given to the selection of the county police. In rural districts he found that great laxity had obtained in this respect.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, it had been his misfortune to differ from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dublin University (Mr. G. A. Hamilton) on former occasions with reference to this Vote; but when he so differed from him, he had to defend a measure of a former Colleague of his, the present head of the Government; and the injustice, if there were injustice in the matter, as alleged by the parties adverse to the grant, was an injustice which was well weighed from time to time. When the Earl of Derby was his (Sir J. Graham's) Colleague, he was not only the author, but the steady defender and supporter of this measure; and he never admitted there was any injustice in the mixed grant.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he had understood the right hon. Secretary of State to say that there were two objections urged on this subject, and that the second objection was not with reference to the application of the grant, but with reference to the distribution of the patronage of the Government. But it appeared to him (Sir J. Graham) that the right hon. Gentleman implied that there was also injustice in the mixed system of education itself, from which 1,700 clergymen of Ireland were conscientious dissentients. Now, what he (Sir J. Graham) confidently contended, and what the Earl of Derby contended on a former occasion, was, that if you departed from the system of mixed education—if you attempted to rectify what was deemed to be an injustice in that system, you must come to a system of separate grants, to be made in proportion to the population of Ireland; and he was much mistaken if the Established Church in Ireland would gain materially by such a mode of distribution. If the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. W. J. Fox) had not pressed for some information on this subject, they
 1420
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he should be glad if the right hon. Gentleman would explain what was intended by the Government? The right hon. Gentleman had
 1422
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  begged to express his earnest desire that this Bill should be read a second time. He had the honour of serving on the Commission from whose recommendations the Improvement of the Jurisdiction of Equity Bill and the present proceeded, and it was with much satisfaction he could state that the Report of that Commission was unanimously adopted, and that all their proceedings were conducted with the utmost cordiality. He was glad also to say, that these two Bills very fully and fairly, in his judgment, carried out the recommendations of the Commission. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State had truly said that in both Bills there were certain things that appeared to be deviations from those recommendations—in both Bills something having been added, and something omitted; but, at the same time, seeing that communications had been made with the highest authorities in the law, and after the announcement made by the right hon. Home Secretary that recommendations would be favourably received by the Government, he was very sanguine in the expectation that before they went into Committee an adjustment might take place, which would enable the Commissioners to state that they were satisfied, not only in the main, but even with the particular shape assumed by these Bills. Surely, under those circumstances, it would be most desirable to give them a second reading, and thus assist in effecting a reform in the law which would confer honour on the Parliament that passed it, honour on the Government which proposed it, and in which he, for one, rejoiced that he had had the honour of sharing.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, I am anxious to take this opportunity of addressing a few observations to the House
 1373 1374 1375 1376 1377 1378 sine die.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that this was the first year of the new establishment in Western Australia, when larger expenses would necessarily be liable to be paid, that were not to be properly included in the usual current expenses of the establishment. Moreover, the establishment had been built for a much larger number of convicts than was now in occupation of it; and, taking all things into account, the sum sought in the Vote did not form a fair criterion of what were to be the average annual expenses under this head. However, his attention had been called to the large amount of the expenditure which was incurred in these Colonies, and he would see whether by any means it could be reduced.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, with regard to the Vote now under consideration, there was no increase beyond the gradual increase which might be expected from the increase of business. With respect to the employment of the poor, and their general condition, particularly as it was affected by the Law of Settlement, he could state to the Committee that the subject had engaged a large portion of his attention, and also of the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Hull (Mr. Baines). In the ensuing Session he should be prepared to take the whole subject into consideration, and hoped to be able to effect a legislative settlement which would be satisfactory to the country and beneficial to the labouring classes. With respect to the cultivation of waste land, that was, in his opinion, a subject on which no Governmental department could enter. It must be left entirely to individual enterprise. He would merely add that he hoped he might be able, at the end of his stewardship, to give as good an account of it as his predecessor had done.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, the increase in the items with regard to Ireland was attributable to the Medical Charities Act passed last year. With respect to England, no new offices or salaries had been created; the increase was owing to the progressive increase of clerks' salaries.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, in reference to accidents by machinery at mills, that the official report showed they had occurred to the number of 2,800. He imagined that if this horrible amount of maiming had taken place in agricultural districts, the hon. Member for Manchester would not have been so silent on the subject.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  trusted that the agriculturists in Essex would at any rate never be found watching the railway trains, when inspectors were sent down, for the purpose of defeating justice.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, he regretted that the debate bad taken this personal turn, but he did not think that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Athlone (Mr. Keogh) was entitled to lecture Her Majesty's Government, or Members on that, the Ministerial, side of the House, on modification of opinion, unless he could show some consistency in his own personal conduct. Now he had a strong recollection that the hon. and learned Gentleman, when he first entered the House, took his opinions from the moderate level of the Carlton Club. If that were so, why was he not now sitting on this side of the House? Besides, if he (Sir J. Tyrell) was not mistaken, the hon. and learned Gentleman looked up to a superior, and took his opinions from the Synod of Thurles, and his Holiness the Pope, who had' denounced the system of mixed education which was so much patronised by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham), and the Members of Her Majesty's late Government. If the Government felt that there was an injustice is a portion of Her Majesty's subjects being debarred by their conscientious opinions
 1428
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  then proposed that 52,343 l
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that he had only followed the precedent of last year. He left it to the Committee to decide whether he should go on with this Vote.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that this year's Vote for Western Australia included, also, certain arrears of expenditure incurred last year.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  explained that the increase in the Vote was owing to its being found necessary to have a new convict establishment in Western Australia, where there were now 1,450 convicts. With regard to the salaries and allowances for religious instruction to which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. C. Anstey) objected, hs begged to say that there were only three Colonies in which the expense was incurred, namely, Bermuda, Gibraltar, and Van Diemen's Land. In New South Wales and Western Australia no public provision had yet been made for the religious instruction of the convicts. He was sure that the House and the country would not agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman, that although there were 21,000 convicts in Van Diemen's Land, it was only necessary to provide religious instruction for 4,000.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that in consequence of the difficulty of disposing of our convicts which had been felt for the last few years, the Government had been driven to increase the convict establishments both at home and abroad, which had necessarily led to an increase of expense. The adoption of a system of discipline of a reformatory character had also tended to increase the charge. The convict was now kept in solitary confinement for a year; he was then sent to one of these establishments, where he was kept to hard labour for a year and a half, and then if his conduct had been sufficiently good, he was sent out to a Colony with a ticket of leave, or under such regulations as the. Secretary of State might appoint. All this entailed additional expense, but he trusted that the system was operating beneficially upon the persons submitted to its influence. A portion of the Vote for the Convict Establishments for the present year was for the cost of the new prisons; for instance, that at Dartmoor (which was only occupied in the spring of 1851), and that of Portsmouth.
 1410
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, the attention of the Government had been drawn to the subject. He believed that this evil greatly militated against the welfare of the lower classes, and the mode of suppressing it engaged the anxious attention of the Government.
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, that the Estimate was in a certain degree retrospective, and included the salaries of officers under the Irish Poor Law Board for a year and a quarter.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, when the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) spoke of the exclusion of the clergy of the Established Church from all hope of preferment, he seemed to forget the enormous amount of patronage in the hands of the bishops of the Established Church in Ireland, and a great part of which had, in past times, been sedulously employed by them for the encouragement of resistance to that combined system of education which successive Governments, down to the present time, had thought it their duty to defend.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he would take that opportunity of vindicating the character of the University of Cambridge, which had been termed sectarian. He himself saw a Dissenter attending lectures at that University.
 VISCOUNT MAHON  said, he might, per-
 10 l. l.
 MR. COGAN  begged to call attention to the smallness of the sum (1,500 l.
 SIR JOHN PARTINGTON  said, he could not accede to the proposition for the postponement of the clause. Nothing could be more generally acknowledged than that the regulation of the Post-office was an Imperial concern. It was so here, and he could see no reason for a departure from the universal practice in this case.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  wished to know if it was likely any difference could arise in the legislation respecting Europeans and natives.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he was glad to find they had got in the noble Lord a new recruit on Colonial affairs, because the great cause of complaint was that so few persons in that House had taken an interest in them. He must say, however, that he was surprised and astonished at the alteration of tone on the part of Her Majesty's Ministers, because hitherto they
 57
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWOTH  said, the right hon. Baronet was hardly treating them fairly. The debate had been entered into that evening, as far as he was concerned, with the understanding that the minority should yield to the majority, because they were all anxious to carry this Bill. There were many clauses in it to which he strongly objected, and if he had opposed them separately, the Bill could not have passed. But he had not done so; and on every occasion when he found himself apparently in a minority, he had yielded. He now asked that the right hon. Baronet, if he found himself in a minority, should in like manner yield. He and those who agreed with him on this question were prepared,  bond fide,
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER : Has the hon. Baronet any objection to the postponement of this clause until the remaining clauses have been agreed to.
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, he wished to referto a deputation which had waited upon the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to point out the importance of establishing a museum of economic and practical geology in Edinburgh. The right hon. Gentleman, in reply to the deputation, admitted the importance of the subject, and he wished now to ask whether the Government had taken any steps with reference to it.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he should move that the words "Post-office" be struck out of the fifth division of the clause.
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he thought the observations of the hon. Gentleman (Mr, J. E. Denison) would be deserving of more support if the Colony of New Zealand were now dealing with the land question, without being encumbered with the decisions of the various companies who possessed land there. He did not desire to impede the progress of the Bill; but if he might suggest the postponement of this clause, he thought it would be very desirable, as it was a most important one, and should be reconsidered. He also objected to that part of the Bill which related to post-offices and the carriage of letters, as he thought the term "Post-offices" a very ambiguous one. Another point which he thought was not sufficiently explicit in the Bill, was that relating to the erection and maintenance of lighthouses.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the papers laid on the table respecting the outrage committed on Mr. Mather, a British subject, by an officer in Tuscany. It would appear from the papers that the Government entirely disavowed the proceedings of Mr. Scarlett, at least so be read the papers of Lord Malmesbury. It seemed the noble Lord disapproved of the arrangement. He wished to ask whether he was right in reading those papers in that light?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he had no intention to make another speech, or to ask another question, but to set the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer right, as he had misunderstood the question which he (Lord D. Stuart) had asked or meant to ask. He wished to know whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to take any further step to obtain redress for the outrage committed on Mr. Mather or not?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, the
 67 Cries of and
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he was not much in the habit of taking part in colonial debates, but it seemed to him that some hon. Gentlemen who had expressed their views upon the formation of a Constitution for this Colony were too apt to consider that Constitution as thoroughly complete, and not in the light more or less
 56
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it was certainly very desirable that a Bill should be passed during the present Session which should confer representative institutions on New Zealand. There were, indeed, several points in the present Bill on which he might entertain a different opinion from that of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Colonies, yet he did say, that upon its principal points there was a great concurrence of opinion, both on his own part, and generally on the part of the House. Therefore he should wish to interfere as little as possible with the progress of this Bill through Committee, and he would apply that wish to the statement made by his hon. Friend the Member for Southwark (Sir W. Moles-worth). Their general opinion was, that there should be one general representative Legislature for New Zealand, and that there should be local bodies, having more or less powers, and partaking more of a municipal than of a supreme legislative character. He (Lord J. Russell) would have preferred that they should have begun
 35 36
 LORD NAAS  did not think the hon. and learned Member for Athlone was in earnest when he said he would oppose the Bill in every stage, seeing that when the measure was introduced in 1847 by the then Home Secretary, the hon. and learned Gentleman had voted at every stage of the proceedings in favour of the measure.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  denied that only one case of hardship had occurred under the present system. He knew many himself, which he was only prevented from detailing by the late hour of the night. He hoped the Bill would not be allowed to pass without this clause.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, that seeing the amount was gradually diminishing, and that Parliament was pledged to maintain the grants to the present incumbents, he intended to support the Vote.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, he could not vote for the withdrawal of the grant, because it included others besides theological professors.
 MR. ADDERLEY  was understood to observe that there were quite as many precedents for the permanence of local governments gradually united under one head, as of one Government originally so established remaining united. The hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark might have recalled the instance of this country, which was once a Heptarchy, and afterwards became a United Kingdom; the Provinces of France now a Kingdom; or that of the United States of America, which subsist under a Federal Government. There were, in fact, many such precedents of Provincial Governments ultimately concentrating under one head. The proposition of the hon. Baronet seemed to him (Mr. Adderley) to differ only in degree from that of the Bill before the Committee, and ultimately to arrive very much at the same point. In both cases it seemed to be the wish that those functions which were absolutely and purely local should be discharged by a local body, whether it be called a municipality or by any other name, and that the Central Government should attend to those matters which applied to the whole of the colony. When the hon. Baronet referred to the wishes of the colonists, he (Mr. Adderley) fully agreed with him that that was the right quarter to appeal to; but when he said that the colonists agreed with his views, he (Mr. Adderley) thought that the hon. Baronet was mistaken, and that he had taken an erroneous view of the documents to which he referred. At various meetings in different places, the colonists had expressed a wish for local self-government; and in using the word "municipal," they had said that they did not employ it in its strict and limited meaning, but in a larger sense, expressly citing the Rhode Island precedent as an illustration of the large powers they so designated. He was not now al-
 34
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he thought that the fact of the members of the upper chamber being nominated for life, was, perhaps, a saving clause; and he thought it just possible that it might render them sufficiently independent of the Crown. For he did not think the Governor would dare to swamp them by increasing the number of the chamber, nor that he could do so if
 55 sub judice, sine quâ non
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he should support the clause, because he felt that at the commencement of the working of these institutions the Provincial Councils would require greater scope than they would need afterwards.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the Colony was most grateful to the right hon, Gentleman
 45
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that so important a measure ought not to be discussed at that late hour. He moved that the debate should be adjourned.
 MR. COWAN  said, he regretted that the House had rejected a Bill doing away with the tests required from professors in the Scotch Universities, which would have removed any objection to this Vote. The pittances allotted to the professors were most miserable; as a consequence, they were apt to be tempted away by more lucrative situations. The Treasury had been memorialised by the University of Edinburgh on this subject, and he hoped the matter would receive the attention of the Government.
 Mr. NEWDEGATE  willingly admitted that many of the Roman Catholic laity were actuated by the charitable spirit evinced by the hon. Member (Mr. P. Howard), but he did not think the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church were influenced by a similar spirit.
 MR. SPEAKER : The noble Lord is not strictly in order. On the question before the House the noble Lord is not entitled to make another speech, but he might put a question.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I should propose, then, if convenient to hon. Members, to take it on Thursday, after Supply.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his answer to the very irregular inquiry of the noble Lord was, that the Government had placed on the table of the House all the papers relative to the subject, and that among those papers there was a despatch describing the ulterior steps which Her Majesty's Government were prepared to take with respect to that circumstance.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : said, the Government had placed on the table all the papers connected with the circumstance referred to, and now the noble Lord asked Government what opinion he was to form respecting them, and what conclusion he was to come to. That was really an extraordinary inquiry. The pa-pears would soon be in the hands of every hon. Member, and they must be left to form their own opinion respecting them. He thought it would be satisfactory, but he certainly could not answer for the opinion the noble Lord would form.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would consent to that course, but thought that the Committee might proceed with the further discussion of the Bill on Monday morning.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: As this question of the New Zealand Company is not necessarily connected with the legislation which is now before the Committee, I beg to suggest that the best course which we could take would be to postpone the discussion of that question until the bringing up of the Report. We should then come prepared to deal with that subject — to form an impartial opinion, and give an impartial verdict. If the hon. Baronet will agree with that suggestion—if he will reserve the discussion of that question till another occasion—we shall be able to get through the remaining clauses of the Bill. If we should fix the discussion on the con duct of the New Zealand Company for the bringing up of the Report, that controversy could be entered into, and every other topic excluded.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought there could be no strict rule laid down on a subject like this, as it depended on the circumstances of the Session, and other considerations of that kind. In the present state of Parliament, they must not be very nice as to their hours, and must sit up later than at ordinary times. The Government had already passed over several of their measures that night without advancing them a stage, on account of the lateness of the hour, and had indeed brought forward no subject that would lead to discussion. The hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. An stey) had, however, moved the adoption of a measure which was sure to provoke debate, and he certainly thought it unreasonable in him to press it. At the same time, he could not pledge himself that next week he might not, at a late hour, bring forward Government measures; though he would not do so if he found that it was not agreeable to the wishes of the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was no attempt at present to advance this Bill a stage; and he must say it was not to the honour of the House that their discussions should end every evening with an unseemly brawl. The disorder was become almost chronic. A great deal of time would be saved, and they would get on much better, if they went on with the transaction of business with good temper. The hon. and learnod Member for Youghal seemed always prompt
 75
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, they were met there to do the business of the nation, and they could not have a distinction drawn between English and Irish business. It could not be said that Irish Members were to go home when English business was brought forward, or that English Members should go to bed when Irish business was brought on. They must bring on the business of the country at the best time they could. It was never his intention to bring on a question of this importance when a discussion could not be taken, The hon. and learned Gentleman shall have a full opportunity of discussing the Bill.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the representations of the deputation which waited upon him were most ably supported by the hon. Member; but the fact was, there were other claims of a similar character which had also been made on the Government, and considerable attention was required before the Government could arrive at any satisfactory decision. There were, however, many causes which induced them to hope that some steps would he taken for generally establishing scientific museums in the more important places in the United Kingdom. He could assure the hon. Gentleman, the subject was altogether one which had received, and would receive, the attention of the Government.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, as the hon. and learned Member would insist on a division, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would now move that the Chairman do report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, these sums, if they did not appear in the Estimates, appeared in the Finance accounts, which was the answer he was prepared to give when the hon. Member for Lambeth brought forward the Motion of which he had given notice.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he should always appreciate the kindness of the hon. Member in withdrawing the Motion at his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) particular request. There was great difficulty in making any arrangements; but it was his intention to give the hon. Member a fair opportunity of bringing forward the question, and he would see if it could be managed on Thursday.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  considered that the suggestion of the noble Lord was a very valuable one. He thought, however, that the whole question of the establishment of public galleries of art in this country was one which must come, without much delay, under the consideration of Parliament. Fortunately the subject had engaged the attention of that illustrious Prince who had done so much towards elevating public taste for art in this country; and be (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) entertained the hope that, with the sympathy and assistance of the House of Commons, and with the sympathy of the country generally, they might ultimately be able to erect a building for the reception of works of art which would remove, what he might almost call, a stain upon the national taste. He hoped that at no distant period the suggestion of the noble Lord would receive that consideration to which it was entitled.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he had heard the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Colonial Secretary with great satisfaction on many points; but one argument used by him did not appear to carry any great weight with it. The right hon. Baronet said, that if we gave this Central Legislature any very considerable powers, he feared it would be very l0th ever to part with the powers so confided to it to a subordinate jurisdiction. Now he (Mr. J. E. Denison) thought the great objection to the establishment of this Central Legislature was the difficulty of communication between the various parts of the Colony, which was such that he had believed it would be impossible to get men of standing to give their time in the performance of legislative duties in this central meeting. If, however, he understood that these difficulties might be overcome, he thought the
 37
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, the question of land was the master question in every new settlement. For his part, he rejoiced that the right hon. Gentleman the Colonial Secretary had placed this question under the control of the Central Legislature, as he was satisfied that, when the transfer was once made, all questions regarding the price of land, and a hundred other subjects, would speedily be put an end to. The Colonial Legislature would have power to settle the price according to the natural principles of supply and demand; and he had no doubt that the proceedings of the New Zealand Legislature in this respect would set an example worthy to be followed by the other Colonies.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, the Central Legislature had power, by the 69th Clause, to alter the provisions of this Act; and if the regulations of the Post-office were found not to work well, they might be altered.
 MR. MOWATT  said, that this clause constituted the essence of the Bill, and if it was retained in its present shape, and the Upper Chamber was nominated by the representative of the Crown, however perfect the Bill might be in the rest of its machinery and details, it would be utterly valueless for the purpose which that House had in view—to satisfy the colonists. An effective upper chamber was found in the case of the Senate of the United States to infuse a conservative element into the Legislature of the country; and he believed that a check upon the popular body in the Lower House could be obtained in the mode proposed by the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Molesworth), or by other means, as efficiently as by the system of nominees.
 48
 MR. MOWATT  said, he would admit that an elective Council was against the general usage of our Colonial policy; hut the consequence of that policy was, that, instead of our Colonies being really an outlet for our population, we found that 99 out of every 100 emigrants betook themselves to other Colonies instead of our
 58 by.
 MR. MOWATT  apprehended that, in the first instance, there would be a great struggle for supremacy between the Local and Central Legislatures under this Bill; for though a power of veto was given to the Central Legislature, yet he feared that would not be enough.
 MR. MOWATT  said, here was more evidence of the unhappy disposition of the Colonial Office in this country to encumber the Colonies with its interference. The Post-office, it had been said, was always matter for Imperial legislation. That was so in Europe; but to make it absolutely so in a case where it would take six months or more to get an answer on such a trifle as changing the office from one house to another in the same town, was ridiculous. What possible harm could result from striking such a clause out of the Bill? So, too, in the case of a lighthouse, what danger to Imperial interests was to be apprehended because a point of this kind was not referred to the Central Legislature?
 MR. MOWATT  said, that notwithstanding the extraordinary circumstances in which the House found itself with regard to the amount of business which had to be transacted before the termination of its existence, and notwithstanding the deprecation of obstruction, or even criticism, that had on that plea been urged, he could not let this Bill pass without submitting a few observations, taking, as he did, a deep interest in the welfare of our Colonies, and possessing some practical knowledge of the real character of their wants. He had hoped that the disadvantages resulting from the want of experience on the part of the present head of the Colonial Department, would have been in some measure remedied by the advantage of finding that right hon. Gentleman unprejudiced and unfettered on the subject of Colonial legislation. But he was sorry to say that the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman, since he had entered upon his present duties, had confirmed the opinion which he had long entertained, namely, that it was hopeless to expect that the
 38 tabula rasa; habitues 39 Times
 MR. MOWATT : I beg the right hon. Gentleman's pardon. What I said was, that the Colonies simply desired a measure which would enable them to legislate for themselves, and not a piece of detailed legislation like that now before the Committee. I am surprised at the statement of the right hon. Baronet as to the large powers of self-government which had been conceded to the Colonies, when it is well known that not a shilling of their revenue can be expended except in such manner as is directed by the officers of the Imperial Government.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, that what they complained of was, that when an Irish Member asked when certain business would be brought forward, they did not receive an answer of yes or no. Irish Members had a right to complain that Irish questions were brought on at so late an hour. They ought to receive an assurance that no important Irish business should be brought forward at an unreasonable hour. If the right hon. and learned Gentleman had only told his (Mr. Soully's) hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Keogh), that this Bill would not be proceeded with, the Irish Members might have gone to bed long since.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, the Government quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman on the importance and value of that survey; but 1,500 l.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, the non-subscribing association were a body of Presbyterians in the north of Ireland, who were allowed to make their own arrangements.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he ap-
 7
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, that theological instruction would be as easily attainable if this Vote was struck out as it was now. He should support the Motion in its amended form, as it did not interfere with the larger grant for secular education.
 MR. AGLIONBY  begged to express his thanks to the right hon. Gentleman for the attention which he had paid to this subject, and for the liberality of his views and intentions in conferring a good constitution on New Zealand. He considered that many of the Amendments alluded to by the right hon. Gentlemen, were decided improvements in the Bill, and he trusted they would be accepted by the House. There was one point, however, to which he wished to call the attention of the House, and that was the claims and position of the New Zealand Company, to which the right hon. Gentleman had adverted. He (Mr. Aglionby) was willing to pay a tribute to the ability and industry which the right hon. Gentleman had devoted to this entire subject, and he believed that it was his sincere wish to do justice to the New Zealand Company; and they asked nothing more. He sympathised in the remark of the right hon. Gentleman that it would be wrong to place the New Zealand Company in a better position than it occupied in the year 1847; but at the same time he (Mr. Aglionby) must say that it would be monstrous to place it in a worse position. He wished that the right hon. Gentleman would take some advice
 26 in toto, 27
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he was also in favour of a uniform price for the land. At first that price was fixed at Wellington at 20 s. s. s. s., s.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he preferred the Clause to the Amendment of the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Molesworth). He considered it was unwise to lay down rules and to attempt to legislate for the Colony.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he agreed that, in order to encourage the upper classes to become Colonists, it was right to hold out all the inducements possible; but yet he thought the present clause was the blot upon the Bill. He should like to know from the right hon. Colonial Secretary, who had told the Committee that he had been in communication with gentlemen connected with our Colonies, whether any of these gentlemen had sanctioned this mode of proceeding by a nominee Council? He had no objections to the existence of a second chamber as a check on hasty legislation; but he would ask whether there was no other mode of constituting this intervening body which it was desirable to have? Was there no way of introducing a property qualification in the constitution of that chamber, so as to effect a nearer resemblance to the House of Lords in this country? He declared, from his extensive correspondence with those parties who had emigrated to this Colony of New Zealand, that nothing was more odious than a nominee Council; and it was a fact that the persons summoned to the Council by the Governor refused to be his nominees, on the ground that they would have been looked on with suspicion as the tools of the Government. He strongly urged upon Her Majesty's Ministers the reconsideration of this clause, and the question which had been raised upon it.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that the present Government, whatever its merits or demerits, was not responsible for the transaction to which the hon. Baronet alluded. That matter was settled by an Act passed in 1847. He concurred in the remark made by the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies deprecating a renewal of old discussions. He regretted that at the commencement of the debate he had been led to introduce bygone transactions, to which it would have been better had no reference been made. He objected to the clause, not as surplusage, but as tending to cause doubts.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that unless this clause was retained (with such amendments as he hoped the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Colonial Office would agree to), Parliament would commit a gross breach of faith. Amendments on Clauses 74, 75, and 76 had been drawn by counsel, with the view of securing sufficient protection to the New Zealand Company. Those Amendments had only been submitted to the right hon. Baronet on the previous day, and it was impossible that he could have fully considered them. He (Mr. Aglionby), therefore, suggested that progress should now be reported.
 MR. AGLIONBY  hoped that so early a day would not be fixed for the resumption of this discussion.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, the history of the matter was this: in the year 1836, after some inquiry by a Committee of that House, the attendants were divided into three classes, and the generality of appointments were made in the lower classes, though the trustees occasionally made appointments in the upper classes. The objection of the hon. Gentleman was untenable, because, if a man of superior capacity was placed in the lower class, he would still rise to the higher classes. The only difference since 1836 was that the attendants, instead of being paid daily pay, now received salaries. Formerly, if any attendant was absent, no matter from what cause, the day's pay was deducted. That did not appear just to the Committee when they looked into the affairs of the Museum, and all the attendants were placed upon salaries, from which no deductions were made; therefore, a material benefit was conferred upon all persons employed in the Museum. On that occasion the trustees again made a rule for dividing the attendants into three several classes, accompanying it with a notice that it would not affect injuriously those who were previously in the service of the Museum.
 MR. SADLEIR  said, he must admit that it was not only most inconvenient to attempt to press upon Parliament the consideration of important measures at an unreasonable hour, but most futile, and led to those unseemly brawls to which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had alluded; but the right hon. Gentleman had misunderstood his
 76
 MR. STANFORD  said, he wished for some further explanation with regard to the new arrangements of the classes of the attendants at the British Museum, by which persons merely carrying wands were placed on the same level as those of superior qualifications.
 MR. WALTER  said, he hoped that no apprehensions as to the fate of this Bill would deter hon. Members, who, like himself, shared the objections of the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark (Sir W.
 61
 MR. HENLEY  said, that this clause had been brought forward for the most extraordinary reason, because the hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. W. Brown) had not stated a single case of hardship that had occurred under the existing law. The Amendment, he believed, instead of being advantageous to the shipping in-
 72
 MR. NAPIER  said, one of the Bills of which he had given notice was to continue an Act at present in force for a limited time, and he was surprised when he heard that it was the intention of certain hon. Gentlemen to oppose its introduction. When he was asked if he would go on with the Motion that evening;, he said it was his intention to do so at any hour the House permitted him; but when be heard afterwards the arrangements suggested by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, of course he felt that he should submit to the views taken by the leader of the House. With respect to the lecture of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Keogh), he should only say that he would treat every person in that House as a Gentleman, and neither threats nor anything else should prevent him from doing his duty as a Gentleman and one of the Law Officers of the Crown.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he should now post pone till Monday next the notice he had given to move for leave to bring in Bills to continue the Act 11 & 12  Vict,,
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he had voted against all grants for religious purposes in the Colonies; he felt justified in doing so; and he should vote with the hon. and learned Member (Mr. C. Anstey) because he did not see any reason whatever why the people of this country should pay for religious instruction in the Colonies. If the Colonists wanted spiritual food, they ought to supply themselves.
 MR. FORSTER  said, he wished to know what had been done towards colonising Vancouver's Island, which had been ceded to the Hudson's Bay Company. That Company was a trading and not a colonising Company, and he feared the island had been greatly prejudiced by being placed in their hands.
 MR. FORSTER  said, he should support the clause, and knew not on what ground the power of appeal could be refused.
 MR. FORSTER  said, he must express his concurrence in the views which had been stated by previous speakers with reference to the injurious effect of the nominee system. He had rather have the sole responsibility of the Governor than that of the nominee Upper Chamber, which was generally used merely as a screen for the exercise of his authority. He believed that the clause as it at present stood would have a most mischievous effect in the Colony, and would give great dissatisfaction.
 MR. P. HOWARD  said, he should support this grant upon the plain and simple ground that what was contributed by all should be shared by all. He would not take advantage of this grant to followtheex-ample of hon. Gentlemen opposite, who had attacked the College of Maynooth, and to raise a theological discussion. He might remind those hon. Gentlemen that on the other side the Channel Protestant ministers were supported by the Government, and were better paid than the Roman Catholic cures, although the majority of the people were Catholics.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  believed the noble Lord's inquiry was a little premature. He had no doubt when the papers were on the table, and when the noble Lord's question was repeated, as he hoped it would be, that Her Majesty's Government would be able to give a most satisfactory answer, and that the answer of Lord Malmesbury to the Tuscan Government would be found to be most grateful to this country.
 MR. SLANEY  thought the management of the Post-office was properly confided to the Imperial authority. A proof of this was afforded by the cheap postage of this country. The price of land, too, was properly left to the governing body; were it otherwise, the municipalities might bid against each other.
 MR. MANGLES  said, that whenever the hon. Member brought forward his charges, he and the representatives of the New Zealand Company were fully prepared to meet them.
 MR. S. CARTER  said, that it appeared from the statement of the hon. Baronet, that these Universities demanded this grant for the purpose of recompensing themselves for their contribution to the general revenue. This, he did not think just or proper. The Universities were the most richly endowed institutions in the
 6
 MR. S. CARTER  hoped the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Molesworth) would divide the Committee on this question, because he regarded it as the most important clause in the Bill. It was an attempt to establish a bungling imitation of the House of Lords in a new settlement, or, what was worse, to create an oligarchy of fifteen in the Colony. The most effective and satisfactory way of proceeding would be to make the members of the Upper Chamber elective.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that one argument that had been used against this clause convinced him that the clause ought to be agreed to. The argument of the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat was, that the effect of this clause would be to have a Legislative Council independent of the people, and also of the Crown, as represented by the Governor. Now, that was the very object of an upper chamber— to guard against crude and hasty legislation, reflecting too rapidly the premature opinions of the people, before they were well digested, and admitted as sound opinions by the country at large, while, on the other hand, it operated against any undue encroachments on the part of the Crown, which, by its preponderance, might press on the liberties and freedom of the people. But, in addition to that, what the hon. Gentleman had stated in reference to precedent ought to weigh very strongly with the Committee in their decision upon this question. It was right they should assimilate the institutions of every part of Her Majesty's dominions, as far as circum-
 54
 MR. WALPOLE  said, by Clause 53 it was competent to the General Assembly, except as after mentioned, to make laws for the peace and good government of the Colony, provided such laws were not repugnant to the law of England. Then, by Clause 71, power was given to the Governor to cause the laws, customs, and usages of the aboriginal inhabitants to be observed, so far as they were not repugnant to the general principles of humanity. The reason for the clause was, that there were portions of New Zealand where it would be advisable to maintain the customs and laws of the natives until the whole Colony had become more or less incorporated with the European inhabitants. It was not advisable to say at once that the General Assembly should make no laws except such as were consonant with the laws of England, and so at once destroy all the usages and laws which the native inhabitants might think it desirable to retain.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he wished to know whether Her Majesty's Ministers could assign any reason for not including in this clause a provision for excluding Jews from the House of Assembly in New Zealand. Some of the Members of Government had certainly distinguished themselves for their Christian zeal for the exclusion of Jews from the House of Commons of this country, and here was an admirable opportunity for the exercise of the same zeal to exclude Jews from an assembly not yet in being, with this difference—that in the House of Commons of Great Britain and Ireland the Jews had a right by law, whereas in New Zealand they had no right whatever. He trusted, therefore, that some Christian Gentlemen on the Opposition benches would get up and move the insertion of a provision to exclude Jews from the House of Assembly in New Zealand; and he (Mr. C. Anstey) should have great pleasure in voting against it.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  moved the Second Reading of this Bill, which he said contained only two clauses—the one being to give County Courts jurisdiction in actions for bribery penalties, and the other to enable any Royal Commission, in case of corrupt practices being proved against any particular district, to inflict exemplary punishment upon it; and also to make the guilty parties pay the costs.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he wished to know by whom it was desired that the Constitution of this country should he imitated as far as possible in the Colonies? Was it by theorists on this side of the ocean, or by the Colonists themselves? He had never been able to satisfy himself that there was any occasion for a second House at all; but if two Houses there must be, the second ought to he like the House of Representatives, an elective one. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Colonies, and the noble Lord the Member for Colchester (Lord J. Manners) spoke of the necessity of having a nominated chamber, in order to keep down what they were pleased to term the democratical element. Had either of them seen how this principle had operated in colonics where it had been tried? He (Mr. C. Anstey) had been in a Colony where the prerogative of the Crown had been exercised by the nomination of a Legislative Council, and he assorted that not a single gentleman of landed property or consideration in the Colony found a place there. The persons who wore originally named refused to sit in it, and the places were filled up with adventurers who happened to be in the
 59
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, the complaint against the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland was, that he had informed Irish Members that he would bring on this business at any hour; but finding the Opposition benches tolerably filled, he now postponed it till Monday. That left the impression that the right hon. and learned Gentleman was fishing for a night when he might bring it on with no opposition, and that was not a seemly way of conducting business, especially Government business.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he must complain that this grant was only applicable to a certain section of the Protestants of Scotland—the members of the Free Church, as well as Roman Catholics, being excluded from the Scotch Universities. He considered that these Universities were exclusive, and he, therefore, would oppose the grant. Besides that, there were included in this sum the salaries of various professors of divinity. Now, as he was against pensioning any religion at the expense of another, he found an additional reason for the course he was pursuing. And considering that the religion of about one-half the people was proscribed within the walls of these colleges, he did not think that the Committee would assent to this vote. The Free Church had set a noble example. In the course of a few years they had raised a sum of nearly 3,000,000 l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he must maintain that the grant, when originally made, had been made by the Crown in its capacity as trustee for the Realm at large; and Parliament had always exercised a supervision over the application of the money. Either these supplies ought to be granted to every persuasion, or to none. Where an institution was founded solely for the benefit of one class of believers, it had no claims to support out of the national funds. He should, therefore, persevere in taking a division against the Vote, and against the whole of this class. He might observe, however, that the University of London, to which the hon. Baronet had referred, was not a sectarian establishment, but a national institution, open to all persons, without distinction of creed or class.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY : That is an institution which opens its doors to every class and every creed; it is not sectarian.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he must oppose this Vote. He considered that as long as the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge were mere sectarian insti-
 3
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that it was his painful duty to renew his objection to this Vote. He did not object to the latter part of the grant, which was 700 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he would adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), and move that the grant be reduced by 595 l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  maintained that Parliament had a perfect right to deal with the grant in any way it deemed proper.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that
 12 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, his objection did not rest upon the grant being applied exclusively to one body of men. He objected to any such grants, and he should have just as much satisfaction in cutting off any grant to the Roman Catholics as to any other persuasion.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, before the question was put, he wished to draw the attention of the Government to a very material omission in the Estimates, by which a great number of very objectionable items did not appear there at all. A paper which he had moved for early in the Session, and obtained with some difficulty, threw some light upon the subject; for it appeared from that return that the following allowances were made annually (he believed) out of the funds in their passage to the Treasury, without any warrant from Parliament for their being so withdrawn from supervision and control:—Her Majesty's Commissioners to the General Assembly, 2,000 l. l. l. 17
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, the hon. Baronet did him great injustice in accusing him of selecting grants to the Church of England for opposition. He opposed grants of every kind. He had voted against grants to Presbyterians and Episcopalians, and he should vote against grants to Roman Catholics. He considered the hon. Baronet's statement quite beside the question, and he should certainly divide the Committee.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that it was stated that this Estimate was less by 10,000 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, perhaps the hon. Baronet would supply the reason why we paid 400 l. l.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that when the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark talked of this clause giving effect to his (Mr. Gladstone's) views, and not to those of the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Colonies, he thought that the hon. Baronet was more than just to him, and less than just to the Secretary of State in carrying out the views which he entertained. He should have been very glad if the Bill had given effect to his views, because he had great faith in the full application of the principles of local government to New Zealand; but he must observe, that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State appeared to have followed the principles of the Municipal Corporation Act of England. It did not exhaust by a catalogue the subjects of legislation, with which the Local Legislatures were to meddle, but it gave them general powers to enact bylaws for the order and good government of the corporation, reserving to the Government the check of a veto to be exercised within forty days. In the present instance the Secretary of State had gone still further—further, indeed, than he thought was wise—for he reserved the check of a veto which might be exercised any time within two years. He had objections to the measure; but he looked at the Bill as a whole, and he felt that its great merit was this— that it would allow the deliberate will of the colonial community to settle the institutions of New Zealand as they might think proper. If the intelligent public feeling of the Colony should be in favour of the local principle of government, he had no doubt that the local principle would in that case gain full scope, and override those powers, giving the Central Legislature a check over the Local Legislatures; but if public opinion should be in favour of a Central Legislature, then the central legislative power would limit, curtail, and cut down the powers of the Local Legislatures. On these grounds he was willing to support the clause as it stood at present.
 MR. W. BROWN  said, it was impossible than an emigration officer could be a competent judge of all the miscellaneous subjects which he was required to examine into in the course of his inspection of a ship; but if he were of a vindictive disposition he had the power of harassing the owner or the captain of a ship in a manner against which they ought to be protected. It was exceedingly hard that such a power should be vested in any individual without an appeal being allowed to some tribunal unconected with the accused; and it was, therefore, to provide such a check that he brought forward this Amendment.
 MR. W. BROWN  moved the following Clause:?—
 "Provided always, that whenever the owner, charterer, captain, or consignee of the ship shall be dissatisfied with the decision of the Emigration Officer, in any matter in which such decision is rendered authoritative by the provisions of this Act, then, and in every such case, it shall be lawful for the owner, charterer, captain, or consignee to apply to two Justices of the Peace having jurisdiction in the Port; and such Justices, or one of
 68 69 70 71
 MR. KEOGH  said, he should therefore move that the House do now adjourn, for he considered that they had been treated with very great discourtesy by hon. Gentlemen opposite. It being the intention of a number of Irish Gentlemen to oppose the continuance of the measure to be proposed by the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland, they had asked him what hour he should consider too late for proceeding with the measure in question; they had been answered that no hour could be fixed as too late. They were decidedly opposed to proceeding with Irish business at half-past one or two o'clock in the morning. The right hon and learned Gentleman would neither expedite public
 74
 MR. KEOGH  said, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Adderley) had recently proposed a very important Bill at a much later hour. He had been there since twelve in the morning to half-past one at night. Now, what did the Government think about the proposed adjournment? If they thought it too late an hour then to proceed with public business, he should support the Motion for adjournment. He was the more anxious to obtain their opinion because he had been unable to learn from the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland at what hour he should think it too late to bring on two important measures regarding Ireland, which were not only at the bottom of the list of Orders of the Day, but also
 73
 MR. KEOGH : I told the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland that I would oppose the Bill at every stage, and in every line.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, whenever complaint was made of the amount of this item, the answer always was that no new appointments were made, and as the old Justices died off the vacancies were no filled up; but he could not discover that the lightest diminution had taken place. Had he not seen the result of two or three divisions to-day, he would divide the Committee upon this item.
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, the Motion of which he had given notice was to call the attention of the House to the fact that 7,000,000 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, his principal complaint was that the sum was not charged to the Colonies. The Justices might be quite necessary, but the Colonies ought to pay for them.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he should not vote with the hon. and learned Member, because all sects had had their fair share of assistance, and an understanding was some time ago come to, that as these persons died off, the sums paid to them would not be renewed to their successors. That accounted for nothing appearing under the head of the Roman Catholic Bishop of Newfoundland. If the hon. and learned Member for Youghal went back only a year or two, he would find the Roman Catholic Bishop of Montreal in the receipt of a very large amount.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that he felt deep regret that these two national Universities should come annually to Parliament for a grant. He regretted the circumstance the more when he remembered their great wealth. The revenues of the University of Oxford alone amounted to about 75,000 l. 4 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that it was most unusual to proceed with Supply at
 2
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was glad to state that this Vote had been productive of great public benefit, and that twenty-one Schools of Design, assisted by this grant, had been established throughout the country.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS,  while admitting the benefits which the public had derived from the Scotch Universities, was opposed to the principle of charging these grants on the national revenue; he would suggest that the opposition should be confined to that part of the Vote which was for professors of divinity.
 SIR EDWARD BUXTON  said, that the Local Assemblies had not the power of inflicting any disabilities upon the natives of New Zealand to which Europeans were not equally liable. This restriction, as he understood, did not at present apply to the General Assembly. It seemed to him that no course could be so dangerous as, in a case where the natives were so numerous, intelligent, and warlike as in New Zealand, to give power to any portion of the Colonists to establish an internal superiority over the natives. He trusted, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies would take care that some words were introduced which would extend the limitation in question also to the General Assembly.
 MR. F. PEEL  said, he ventured to suggest an Amendment in one paragraph in this clause, the object of which would be to give the Local Legislatures the power of controlling the sale and letting of the Crown waste lands situated within the limits of their respective provinces, and also the appropriating the land fund arising from their disposal. As matters stood at present, the Crown—subject of course to the rights of the New Zealand Company—was at liberty to appropriate the proceeds of the land fund; but it was proposed by this Bill to transfer that power to the authorities within the Colony, and it therefore became a fair question to consider whether it would not be preferable that the local councils should exercise that power rather than the General Assembly. Now, he was of opinion that it would be, on the ground that where it was required that persons should pay a price for their land higher than its intrinsic value, they were entitled to receive an equivalent in the form of some moral or material advantage, directly and personally beneficial to themselves, and that they could derive that advantage only from this power over the produce of the land sales being conferred on the local councils. If they gave it to the General Assembly, he had no doubt that it would be exercised for the general benefit of New Zealand. But that general benefit might have a very remote and distant bearing on the interests of the particular settlement where the land was situ-
 43 s. 44
 Mr. F. PEEL  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Colonial Secretary declared that he desired to assimilate the constitution of the Colonies to that of the mother country, and would be no party to the adoption of a different course. Now it was very natural that we, who knew by experience what was the advantage of living under institutions so nicely balanced and justly proportioned as our own, should desire that our descendants in the Colonies should participate in what we found was so great a boon to ourselves. But then he thought we should give the Colonies not only the form but also the substance of the English Constitution. Now, he failed to perceive what was the practical advantage to be derived from having a nominated Upper Chamber. The advantage of an Upper Chamber was generally supposed to be that the passage of a measure through two chambers gave time for deliberation, and prevented crude and hasty legislation, and what was merely the reflection of the transient impulses of the moment. Another great advantage of a second chamber was, that it prevented the representative of the Crown from coming into direct collision with the will of the people, which would be the case if there were only a single chamber, and he was obliged to veto any objectionable measure which it might have passed. If, however, the Upper Chamber was to resist the current of popular feeling, it must have some inherent force and vitality in it that commanded the respect of the country, and in some sort enlisted on its side the prejudices and feelings of the people. Now the House of Lords in this country was qualified to discharge functions of this sort, because it was composed of persons having large territorial possessions, and who had been ennobled for services they had themselves rendered to the country, or which had been rendered by those who stood in the line of their ancestry. But what resemblance would a nominated upper chamber have to the House of Lords? The Governor was to select whom he pleased for its members, without respect to territorial possessions, or to any other condition of eligibility. He did not think that a body so
 51 52 ex officio 53
 SIR GEORGE CLERK  said, that if any class of professors ought to have an exception in their favour, it was the theological professors, whose revenues were subject to a variety of charges. The Scotch Universities had no funds of their own; they were open to all sects; and none had derived more benefit from them than the Roman Catholics of England and Ireland. These Universities had been endowed by
 8
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to know how the Exchequer was to recover back the sum lent to the New Zealand Company?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY : Have these loans been repaid? [An Hon. MEMBER: No!] Then the Exchequer has sustained a loss.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had endeavoured to do justice to the New Zealand Company and no more, in making that provision in the Bill, and he could not help expressing a hope that it might not be made a ground for reviving bygone differences. The loans in question were cancelled, and he was afraid the state of affairs between the Exchequer and the New Zealand Company was all the other way, and not as the hon. Baronet supposed. The truth was, the Crown was a
 65
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that in several instances in the course of the discussion that evening, he had acted upon the principle of the hon. Baronet, and had yielded to what appeared to be the wish of the majority. At the commencement of the discussion, also, he had agreed to several important alterations; but he begged it to be understood that he could not say, and that he should not be justified in saying, on the part of the Government, that he would give up anything with regard to what he considered to be the important principles of the measure.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he fully appreciated the motives of the hon. Baronet in making this suggestion. He (Sir J. Pakington) could hardly imagine that the Central Legislature would desire to pass any law which would bear hardly upon the natives, considering what those natives were; still less could he imagine that, even if they did pass any such law, the Governor-in-Chief would hesitate to disallow it. Besides which, it would have to come home for ratification. At the same time he could conceive it possible that there might be
 64
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, this Bill was to consolidate and amend the laws with regard to the conveyance of emigrants, and was brought in at the recommendation of a Committee which sat last year. In the previous Acts there was no such appeal as that proposed by the hon. Member at the instance of the shipowners of Liverpool. The Committee to which he alluded recommended no such appeal, and, what was more, there had never been any complaint as to the want of this appeal. The present was not a moment, when emigration was so much increased and increasing, to do away with any of those securities which existed for the preservation of life among passengers by emigrant vessels. He would rather abandon this Bill than consent to the proviso which would destroy the object contemplated by the measure.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that, whatever decision the Committee might come to, he could not subscribe to the opinion which had been expressed by the hon. Member for Penryn (Mr. Mowatt), that this clause was so important as in its present form to render the Bill entirely valueless. He thought that was attaching a most exaggerated importance to the clause, and that it was a view which would not be entertained by any Colony under our rule. When he heard the statement of the hon. Member for Tavistock (Mr. S. Carter), that this was a bungling and abortive attempt to create a House of Lords in the Colony of New Zealand, he could only suppose that that hon. Gentleman, having only just entered the House, had never ascertained what was the constitution of the Legislative Assemblies in those Colonies in which representative institutions existed. This was certain, that whether the alteration which was now pressed upon the Government was or was not a good one, it was an experiment which had never yet been tried in the British dominionsl;
 49 50
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that when the right hon. Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith) spoke of his (Sir J. Pakington's) creating six little Republics, he begged to repudiate the term. What he had proposed would no more make little Republics, than every city in this Kingdom was a Republic. After the spirit in which the Bill had been met, he could not help expressing a very earnest hope that the great majority of that House would be disposed to act in, the manner which had been announced by the noble Lord the Member for London. The noble Lord had stated that there was great weight in the reasons which he (Sir J. Pakington) had given for a nominee chamber, and said that, though he might be disposed to agree with Earl Grey in preferring an elective upper chamber, certainly he should not be disposed by any vote of his to endanger this Bill upon that point. That was what the noble Lord had stated in very distinct terms. He could not help saying once more that he had heard nothing in the course of the debate to support some of the statements which had been made of dissatisfaction on the part of the Colonists. The petitions which he had laid on the table that evening, begged that, as the Bill was, so it might pass. He begged also to remind the Committee, that it was not only throughout Canada, and not only in the West Indies, that the nominee Legislative Council existed, but by the constitution of the Australian Colonies, as reconstructed
 60
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, no one was better acquainted than the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. F. Peel), with the peculiar circumstances which regulated the sale of lands in the two settlements to which he had alluded. But he was not disposed to yield to the suggestion of the hon. Member, because he intended the concession as a boon to the Colony, and he was unwilling to impair its value by subdivision. He agreed that it would be most desirable to have one uniform price for the lands; and the most likely way he thought of obtaining that end, would be to have all the lands under one management. Another important consideration was, the economy with which these lands might be managed; and he certainly thought that economy would be better consulted by having one central management, than by diffusing it Over the different Local Legislatures.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had little to say in addition to what had been said by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford. He thought the sound and liberal principle was to allow the different municipal bodies to legislate for the good of their respective localities, restricting them only in the case of subjects of general and imperial importance, and that it would be far better to
 42
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that in the event of the Central Legislature passing any enactment, that enactment must receive the consent of the Crown. As to any differences being likely to arise in legislation, as it regarded Europeans and natives, the whole spirit of this Bill, and the whole spirit of his intentions with regard to it, was to put the natives as completely as possible on a footing with the Europeans.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that in deference to what had been said by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord J. Russell) in an earlier part of the evening, he was quite ready to strike out the words limiting the number of the Legislative Council to fifteen.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must protest against the application of the last speaker's observation to New Zealand, because he believed that nothing would be so painful to that Colony as to be left alone. It was because he had a deep conviction that New Zealand required this Bill, that He had undertaken to introduce it, and it was because he believed he was taking the course most acceptable to the Colony that he preferred the shape that the Government had given to the Bill, to the shape proposed by the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir W. Molesworth), great as was his authority on these subjects. Looking at our past experience of Australia and Canada, he thought it was wiser to give the Colony municipal institutions at once, rather than to expose their creation to risk and uncer-
 40
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  having presented several petitions from persons connected with New Zealand, said, those petitions were all of them to the same effect, expressing strongly the desire that this Bill should be allowed to pass. The petitioners called attention, some of them to one part, some of them to another part of the Bill, but the general conclusion of the whole was that the Bill should pass. The last of those petitions was from Mr. Gibbon Wakefield, the prayer of which was particularly directed to the question whether there should be provincial Legislatures, or whether there should be a Central Legislature and Legislatures for particular localities. With his usual ability, Mr. Wakefield discussed the subject, and earnestly
 18 19 20 21 22 l. 23 l. s. 24 l. s. s. s. 25
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  wished to say he had made no remark that could be regarded as an attack on the hon. Member, or on the New Zealand Company. He earnestly implored the House to reserve the discussion until they were in Committee.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he could only repeat the answer which the hon. Member said was always given, because it was the only answer of which the case admitted. The sum was reduced 2,000 l. l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must express his regret that the hon. and learned Gentleman should consider all grants for the support of ministers of the Church of England subjects for complaint. There was a chaplain at Sierra Leone as well as at Gambia. The only difference was that from the smallness of the latter colony assistance was necessary, whilst the charge in the former was borne by the revenues of the Colony.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the hon Member for Lambeth had approached in a very fair spirit, and, unlike the hon. and learned Member (Mr. C. Anstey), had shown that he understood what he was speaking about. If the hon. and learned
 13 l. l. l. l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must beg to be excused himself from entering into
 14 l.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : No; the University of London is not sectarian, hut it is worse than sectarian, because it is nothingarian. He found on the Votes Estimates for 3.957 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he was most unwilling ever to hear the Church of England described as a sect, and that such Votes as this were intended to support a sectarian establishment. The hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey) ought to recollect that if these expressions had been used twenty-five years ago, he would have had very little chance of ever sitting in that House. It was because a great profession was made that it was not the intention of those members of the Roman Catholic religion, who sought admission within their walls, that they would not avail themselves of the opportunity which their position in that House would give them of assailing the time-honoured and cherished institutions of this country, that the decision in favour of their admission to seats in Parliament was mainly influenced. He would now advert more directly to the specific charge of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal against the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. That hon. and learned Gentleman said that these demands ought to be met from the finances of the Universities themselves. He (Sir R. H. Inglis) contended that was a grant made originally by the Sovereign of England, and not by that House, as a dotation to science and literature, when the Civil List was not in its present mutilated form. It was contended, then, that it was most injurious to the interests of those Universities to bring under the discussion of that House the making of such allowances, inasmuch as the Crown could by its own unfettered act make the grant. He knew sufficiently well the minds of those learned bodies to whom the Vote was to be given, to be certain, that if that House would consent to relinquish the tax in the form of stamp duty upon degrees conferred by the two Universities, the Universities would cheerfully abstain for asking for this small vote. There were more than 2,600 l. 5
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that in reference to the attack of which the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby) had spoken, he had no remark to make as to the way in which the New Zealand Company had managed their affairs; but what he was prepared to prove was this proposition, that the Company had obtained their Act of 1847 by misrepresentation and by the concealment of the truth; and, if the House liked, he would proceed with his proofs now. [ cries of
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he rose, in pursuance of notice, to move the omission of the 2nd Clause, and all subsequent ones before the 32nd Clause, and, in their stead, to insert—
 "It shall be lawful for the General Assembly, by Act or Acts, to incorporate the inhabitants of any district within the said colony, and to establish in such district a council for the local government thereof; such council shall have power to make orders and by-laws for providing for any matters which shall be specially subjected to the direction and control of the said council by any law of the said General Assembly." 29 30 31 32 l. 33
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that seeing that he was in a decided minority, he would not put the Committee to the trouble of dividing.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he had to propose an alteration in this clause, the effect of which would be to strike out the general powers conferred by the Bill on the Local Legislatures, and to give them power only over certain enumerated subjects, such as were contained in the Australian Constitution Bill. If they left in the Bill the powers now conferred by it on the Local Legislatures, they would not be creating simple municipalities, but they would be carrying out the views entertained by the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone); for as sure as the Bill passed in its present state the various Provinces would become States very nearly as independent as the States of the American Union now were. He would suggest, therefore, whether it would not be better to confine the powers proposed to be conferred upon the municipal bodies to certain enumerated subjects, and to give the general powers to the Central Legislature. With this view he proposed to leave out all the words in this clause after the words "all such laws and
 41
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that the great object of a second chamber was to obtain a Conservative element of a character to gain and deserve the respect of the people. The only way to make the upper house effective, was having it elective by the people, and allowing its members to sit for a longer period than those of the lower. Supposing they took six provinces, gave to each two members, elected them for eight years, and made half go out every four years; such a house, as shown in the States, would, and does truly, represent the natural Conservative element. That element it was impossible to obtains by means of Government nomi-nature. There was a strong feeling against nominees everywhere—in New Zealand as in Australia. Take the most popular man and make him a nominee of the Crown, he at once ceases to be popular; he is considered a mere tool of the Government. By making nominees he was certain that they did not get what they wanted, and that they offended the sense of the people. He protested against this nominated second chamber as being contrary to that sound principle of balance of power which he thought ought to exist in every Government formed on an analogy to the Constitution of England or of the United States.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, it was his intention to move that the clause be omitted.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he took objection to the clause on the ground that, as it then stood, the Governor of New Zealand might take any portion of the Colony and make it a native district, and then establish all the native laws and customs there.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : None at all.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that it was his intention, at this stage of the Bill, to discuss the conduct of the New Zealand Company.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said. he was very sorry to say that he could not agree with the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman. He could not consent to the adoption of this clause.
 MR. BERNAL,  seeing the right hon.
 102 103 l. 104
 CAPTAIN SCOBBLL  begged to explain that he did not charge the late Board of Admiralty with haste in the general management of naval affairs, but merely used the word in connexion with the news arriving just as the Admiralty were leaving office. He disclaimed having been requested by any individual to mention the subject. Upon gathering the facts of the case from the despatches and other sources, it struck him that two or three cases had escaped that notice which in justice they ought to have received.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that he was not in a position to answer all the questions which had been put to him by the hon. Gentleman. The reason why the South American Consul Generals wore more highly paid than those in Europe was that in the majority of the South American States there was no resident Minister, and consequently that various diplomatic duties devolved on the Consular Agent. It was especially desirable that, Government should have responsible persons who could keep them regularly informed of the course of public events in those remote countries, with which there was so little private communication. The salary to the Consul General at Tripoli had been taken into consideration, and reduced in amount no longer ago than last year. As to the Consul at Boulogne, since the reduction of the price of Foreign Office passports to 7 s. d., l.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  would admit that the noble Lord's (Lord Stanley's) statement was satisfactory, though he could not see why the Consul General at Lima was to have more than any other Consul General in any other part in the world. He wished to know why the Consul at Warsaw had such an unusually large salary as 1,000 l.
 LORD STANLEY  could not explain why the Consul at Warsaw received that sum, but the Committee would remember that the remuneration of these officials must depend a great deal upon a variety of circumstances—on the nature of the localities where they were sent to reside, on the expense of living there, as compared with other places, the quantity of business done, the amount of fees, if any, appertaining to the office, and the degree of responsibility attendant upon the duties which had to be performed. The only rule that could be laid down was, that the sum fixed should be the lowest for which the services of a well-qualified person could. be procured; and that was a rule which, in each instance, could only be tested by experience. It was, therefore, very difficult to say, offhand, why one Consul received more than another. The general duties, too, of British Consuls were well known to the Committee. He believed they were invaluable in affording information to the Government; they often performed diplomatic services; they attended to the claims of commercial men, and not only protected the property, but, as in a very recent instance, were often called upon to protect the lives of British subjects abroad.
 LORD STANLEY  said, the practice of Government in this matter had been to help those who helped themselves. Where-ever there was a small English community resident in any place to which a Consul was appointed, and who were willing to pay half the expenses of supporting a chaplain, it had been the general practice of the Government to pay the other half, subject to certain regulations which had been laid down.
 MR. BINGHAM BARING  said, if the noble Lord (Viscount Duncan) who had spoken with regard to the consular establishment at Warsaw had ever visited that city, he would know that it was one of the most expensive capitals in Europe. He would also have learnt that this country had no better agent in the world than Colonel Duplat, and that the diplomatic business which that gentleman had to transact was of the greatest importance.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he was not aware of any rule binding the Government to continue the old salary when they filled up a vacancy. The matter was, he believed, invariably left to their discretion. All he could say for the present Government was, that in any such case of a vacancy being filled up, they would consider whether a diminution of expenditure was possible, and make all such reductions as could be effected consistently with a due regard to the efficient performance of a very important part of the public service.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that in the altertion, instead of an increase, there had on the whole been a considerable reduction of expense. It was true that the increase of salary referred to had taken place, but that was in consequence of the diplomatic agent formerly resident at Buenos Ayres having been withdrawn, by which a saving had been effected which more than counterbalanced the augmented salary of the Consul General.
 LORD STANLEY  said, the apparent increase in the cost of the establishment at Hong-Kong was nominal, and not real, 3,000 l. l.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  would suggest that the Vote should be allowed to pass, with the understanding that the whole amount of salary to be paid to the Governor should be debated when the question of the cost of Consular Establishments generally came under consideration.
 LORD STANLEY  said, it was impossible to obtain the services of persons so readily, or so cheaply, for an unhealthy climate as for a healthy one. As regarded the case of soldiers, the Committee were aware that soldiers in India received a much higher pay than soldiers at home.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he would agree to the Vote on the understanding that the total amount of Consular salaries was to form the subject of discussion thereafter.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that he had already stated that the rule was to pay one-half the salary of a chaplain where the British residents paid the other half; or in some exceptional cases, such as Constantinople, where the British population were few in number, to appoint a chaplain to the Embassy.
 LORD STANLEY  could not at that moment give any opinion as to the statement of the noble Lord. All he could say was, that the matter would be inquired into. It was of the utmost importance that British subjects resident in any city abroad should have constant and immediate access to their Ministers.
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, he wished to call attention to the return which had been laid on the table on this subject, from which it appeared that the whole amount for compensation and retired allowances in all the public offices on the 31st December, 1851, was 687,581 l.
 CAPTAIN SCOBBLL  said, he must enter his earnest protest against the practice of granting retiring allowances to men in the very prime of life. He believed there was no portion of the public service in which so many reductions of expenditure might be advantageously and properly effected as in the Votes then under their consideration.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that a difficulty
 119
 VISCOUNT DUNCAN  said, that in the City Article of the  Times "It is a curious fact, illustrative of the way in which the official business of the Government is sometimes performed, that a check drawn by the Poor Law Board, and signed by Sir John Trollope (President), and Lord Courtenay (Secretary), was dishonoured to-day at the Bank of England. Its amount was 149 l., Times
 LORD STANLEY : In answer to the question of the noble Lord, I have to state that a conference has been held, and a protocol signed by the representatives of the five Great European Powers, in reference to the rights of Prussia over Neuf chatel. The existence of such rights, and their recognition by the Treaty of Vienna, cannot be disputed; and I must observe that it is not the least important feature of this transaction, that in it the territorial settlement of Europe, as arranged in that treaty, has, for the first time, been recognised by France under her present ruler. I may add, that no communication will, for the present, be addressed in consequence of the protocol in question, to the Government of Switzerland. With regard to the papers, I am afraid it will he impossible to lay them upon the table.
 MR. HEADLAM  intended to vote against the third reading; and would press upon the House to reject the Bill, on the grounds that it was ineffectual, and was open to the most grave objections. He was willing to admit that the Government had some excuse in the public clamour and in the act of their predecessors; and that they had, in their difficulty, endeavoured to make their Bill as unobjectionable as they could; but that was only a reason why, looking at this Bill, he thought that no measure of the kind ought to be brought forward. In the first place, it was not based on the true principle of a militia. It was based rather on the principle of a regular force than on that of a militia. The measure of the noble Lord the Member for London was based more on the principle of a militia; but he should also have opposed that measure, although, for reasons quite distinct from those which induced him to vote against this Bill. He would admit that there was some argument for increasing our means of defence, in the improvement of modern science, and in the increased facilities of transit; he did not believe that there was any hostile feeling to us on the part of France; and if such feeling did exist, this measure was so inefficient to meet it, that it was a mere waste of money. His objection to that part of the Bill which
 167
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, there were two questions for the consideration of the House: first, whether in the present state of the country and of Europe it was necessary to strengthen our national defences; and, next, was the militia the fittest means of so strengthening those defences? The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had referred to the authority of Mr. Pitt and other eminent persons in support of his views; but if the House were to regard authority in the matter, the Bill before the House would not stand without support, for the great Soldier who commanded our Army, and the distinguished General now at the head of the Ordnance Department, concurred with every statesman of the day that at the present time it was essentially necessary to add to our national defences, and that it was by a militia that that addition should be supplied. By the Ministry of the late Sir Robert Peel the necessity was recognised, and instructions were given to prepare a Bill on the subject; and the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) at the head of the late Government thought it necessary to introduce a Bill which, though different from the measure of the present Government in some of its details, distinctly acknowledged the principle of an increase of our defensive force by means of a militia; and it could not be denied that the time had arrived when it was the common duty of Government to bring forward a measure for that purpose. But hon. Gentlemen had that night directed their opposition, not so much against an increase of their defensive force, as against the present measure, and they argued in favour of an increase of the regular Army in preference to a militia. He could understand their argument if the increased defences were asked for after a sudden emergency,
 180
 MR. VERNON SMITH  also inquired whether it would add to the expense of the country?
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Where is the necessity for any alteration? In what manner does the present system work ill?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished to call the attention of the Government to the subject of our mission to Tuscany. He was not going to enter into Mr. Mather's question, but he wished to state that he had been informed by a gentleman of the highest respectability who was in Florence at the time of the assault on Mr. Mather, that great dissatisfaction was felt by the residents at Florence with regard to the mode in which the business of the mission at that place was conducted. This gentleman stated that our  Charge d' Affaires
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he thought that this measure was very unpopular; but if the safety of the country required such a measure, its unpopularity was no argument against it. Looking at the course that had been pursued by different Governments with regard to the question of a militia—by the Government of Sir Robert Peel—by the Government of the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord John Russell), who actually brought forward a proposition similar in its effect though differing in its details—and by the present Government; and when the responsible Executive declared that such a measure was necessary—he did not feel justified as a Member of the Legislature in rejecting the measure which Her Majesty's Ministers pressed upon the House for the purpose. He was not, however, satisfied with the Bill, as he thought it was not sufficient for the purposes for which it was intended. If there were any alternative proposition, he should vote in favour of that alternative; but he was unable to vote against the only measure that had been laid before the House. On these grounds he should think it his duty to support the third reading. He did not think the regular forces of the country were sufficient for any emergency which might arise. He regretted that the Government had not yielded to the wishes of the country, and struck out the clauses relating to the ballot; and it was his intention to vote for the omission of those clauses; but at present he should give a reluctant vote in favour of the third reading of the Bill.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to continue and amend the Metropolitan Sewers Act. It was simply a Continuance Bill, and he proposed in it to exempt agricultural land from three-fourths of the charge, which, he thought, had most unjustly fallen upon it.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  asked of the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs (Lord Stanley) whether any communications had been received by Her Majesty's Govern merit respecting a recent Conference between the representatives of the great Powers of Europe, with reference to the claims of Prussia upon Neufchatel; and, secondly, if the noble Lord knew if there would be any objection to lay the papers on the table of the House?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it gave him great pleasure to hear from the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Admiralty that it was their intention to keep up the slave squadron. If that squadron were kept up in the present state of efficiency, he had very little doubt that, in a few years, the slave trade would be entirely suppressed.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he could assure the hon. and gallant Member that the present Board of Admiralty paid the strictest attention to the subject of the description of vessels proper to be sent upon the service referred to. With regard to the encouragement of the officers engaged in this service, no one could be more alive than himself to their risk and danger; the, service in that quarter had unhappily been fatal to one who ought to be mentioned with special commendation—Commander Forbes. It was impossible to give any
 108
 MR. STAFFORD  said, the reports, on the whole, from Commodore Bruce were satisfactory in that respect.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, the present Government had not found any marks of the haste which the hon. and gallant Member (Sir G. Pechell) alleged. There were marks of the greatest attention in every case which had occurred under the late Government, whether on the eve of their leaving office or previously.
 MR. STAFFORD  replied, that it would not occasion one farthing's additional expense; and that the measure would apply to seamen on foreign stations.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that by the present Bill the pay of seamen of the Royal Navy was never to be more than three months in arrear, instead of six. The latter arrangement was unpopular with the seamen, and contrasted unfavourably with the practice in the merchant service. The provision for six months' arrears was passed as a precaution against desertion, and as such it was now found to be unnecessary, since the condition of the seamen of the Royal Fleet had been so much improved.
 MR. STAFFORD : Yes.
 MR. ADDERLEY  rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether the despatches just arrived from the Cape announced the passing of the constitution ordinances, including the alterations of the franchise against which the Attorney General protested; what information had been received relating to the rumoured advance of Praetorius against the Zoolus; and whether treaties were actually entered into with the Caffre chiefs for the termination of the war? The papers and letters just received were full of the importance of the expressions of Lord Derby last year, when he said in the debate on the Cape in the House of Lords—
 "I might have hesitated as to the introduction of so large a measure of representative government as is contemplated in the plan disclosed by these papers. But I say that, inasmuch as the question has been raised, and has been raised upon such high authority, and has obtained the sanction of so large a portion of the colonists, and the sanction of the Grown, I say that any risk is to be encountered, and I will not bate one jot of the extent of free institutions proposed to be conferred upon the colony, however much I may look with anxious apprehension to the working of these institutions—at all events in the first place."—[3  Hansard,
 MR. TENNYSON D'EYNCOURT  supported the Amendment. The Bill as it stood made the ballot possible at any time and under any circumstances; which was repugnant to the genius of the British constitution and to the age in which we lived. The Amendment, if agreed to, would impose an important and salutary check. He hoped the hon. and gallant Member would take the sense of the House upon the Amendment.
 MR. HINDLEY  said, it might in that ease be said that, having refused to give the party concerned 3,000 l.
 MR. HINDLEY  wished to know whether, in the event of any new appointments, the former salaries would be given as a matter of course, or whether the Government would pay regard to the nature of the duties to be performed?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that a circular had recently been issued by the noble Lord at the head of the Foreign Office, which would render it impossible for Her Majesty's subjects in future to suffer any inconvenience on the
 117
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Speaker, I promised to state to-day to the House the views of Her Majesty's Government with respect to the business that is before the House, with the view of expediting its despatch. It was my intention originally to have selected this day to express those views. I thought that as soon after the holydays as prac-
 134 135 "This assembly, which has been the great landmark of representative government and the great example of representative assemblies throughout the world, will be brought into disrepute;" data 136 137 138 139 140 141 142 143 144
 MR. DAVIES  said, some of clergy who were educated at this College were ornaments to the Welsh Church, and most popular with the people, and better preachers could not be heard. He was astonished at the assertion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, which he begged to deny, that they were a set of idle, ignorant men, paying for sermons composed by other
 124 in toto,
 MR. MORRIS  said, he thought the hon. and learned Member opposed this small sum to the College of St. David's with a bad grace, when thousands upon thousands had been granted for the education of the priests of his (Mr. C. Anstey's) peculiar faith. The College was established to enable persons of the middle classes in Wales to receive a sound classical education. The Principal was a gentleman who had taken the highest classical honours at Oxford. The Vice-Principal was a gentleman of high literary attainments. The Bishop of St. David's was the Visitor; and those three persons must combine to carry on this fraud. Of course he (Mr. Morris) was not prepared to meet the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman; but he submitted to the Committee it was most improbable a man in so dignified a station as the Bishop of St. David's would lend himself to so atrocious a misrepresentation.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  replied that the allowances to the French refugees were
 120
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  hoped the hon. and learned Member would not insist on dividing; if he did, he should move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that the clergy in receipt of these pensions were refugees, and it was only in that character they received assistance.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he was aware that there was no branch of the public service which more required watching than this; and he could state that his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Treasury would give the utmost attention to it. There was an increase in the Vote, chiefly owing to the transfer of items formerly paid from the the Woods and Forests revenue, and the payment of compensation allowances on the abolition of offices at the Mint; but there was also the ordinary and legitimate
 118
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  observed that the present Government had not admitted these, nor indeed more than one retirement, at the Woods and Forests.
 MR. G. W. HAMILTON  would consent that the Vote should be passed on the understanding stated, and that no such argument as that just mentioned by the hon. Member for Ashton should be used on behalf of the Government.
 MR. G. W. HAMILTON  said, if the hon. Member for Montrose had requested the postponement of the Vote, the Government would most probably have conceded his wish. The question, however, of the emoluments of the Consul at Hong-Kong was not raised by this Vote, which had
 114
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he thought this Vote should be postponed until after the discussion of the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) with regard to the Consular establishments generally. The Committee would remember that a division took place on this very item last year. A promise was then given that the matter should be reconsidered this year; and he hoped the present Government would consider whether it was really necessary that the Governor of Hong-Kong should have 6,000 l.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he considered that he had reason to complain that the salary of the Consul at Buenos Ayres was proposed to be raised from 800 l. l.,
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, however deadly the climate of Hong-Kong might he, it was clear that 6,000 l. 115
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he must find fault with the scale of promotion of the officers engaged in the affair at Lagos, which he attributed to the accounts arriving just as the late Board were quitting office. He would refer more particularly to the large number of killed and wounded in proportion to the force engaged, to the gallant conduct displayed, and the sustained nature of the effort, and would suggest whether there might not be room here and there for further promotion.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  concurred in thinking the Bill, as far as it went, would make the Navy popular. He wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty whether it affected seamen on foreign stations—because most of our Navy served abroad?
 MR. GOULBURN  asked the House to consider what would be the effect of the proviso proposed. He understood it was an Amendment to Clause 35; and, that being the case, the effect would be to exclude the miners of Cornwall from the ballot, while the ballot was rendered applicable to every other class of men in the country, He hoped the House would negative the proposition.
 MR. RICH  said: Before entering on the discussion of this Bill, I beg for a very few moments to refer to the charge of inconsistency which it has been attempted to affix on those who having voted for the introduction of the Local Militia Bill of my noble Friend the Member for the City of London, have found it their duty to vote not against the introduction, but against the second reading of
 145 146 147 148 149 150 s. d. 151 152 153 l. l. l. 154 155 156 l. 157 s. s. 158 159 160 161 162 163
 MR. BRIGHT  thought that the Owen's College, Manchester, which was in many respects a kindred institution to those which it was sought to exempt from the operation of the clause, ought also to be included within the exemption. There was also a large college in the neighbourhood of Manchester, intended for the education of ministers of the Independent body of Nonconformists, as well as several others in different parts of the kingdom. He could not discover any reason why those colleges embraced in the proviso of the hon. Member (Mr. Thornely) should be exempted, and why other colleges of much the same character should be differently treated, especially those where young men were being trained to the Christian ministry.
 MR. MACGREGOR  could distinctly state that public opinion out of doors was against the Bill; and he could not but wonder at the hardihood of Her Majesty's Ministers in going to the country after passing a measure so unpopular. He would assure that House that out of doors no fear of an invasion existed. He would take, as an instance, London; and the proof of his assertion would be found in the fact that the funds were, above par, and that at this moment enormous sums were being transmitted to France for investment, as he could state on authority, in the public works of that country. Never, did he believe, was there a period in history in which France was more desirous of being at peace with
 166
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  said, the College was founded in 1827, for the avowed purpose of qualifying young men for the office of clergymen of the Established Church in Wales. It was built by private subscriptions, and by a grant from Parliament of 6,000?. A Royal Charter was given, and by Act of Parliament of George IV. six livings were appointed for its maintenance. From the year 1826, 400 l. l. l. l. l., 125 l., l., l., l., l., l., l.
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  explained that he had not defended the system of education, but merely said the young men could preach in the Welsh language.
 MR. LOVEDEN  said, as Member for Cardigan he thought it very singular that he had never heard of these abuses, which if they existed, must have reached his ears.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that as he had never offered any vexatious opposition to this Bill, and had opposed it only by a. silent vote, he hoped that, before the measure was finally passed into law, he might be allowed to say a few-words on the subject. For the last five hours hon. Gentlemen had risen to record their opinions against the principle of the Bill; but they had been unsuccessful in obtaining any response from the Government bench; and the hon. and gallant Member for Bedford (Sir H. Verney) seemed to have taken upon himself the defence of the Bill, and the responsibility of passing it into law. He (Mr. B. Osborne) must say, that if there were no other reasons for the measure than those that had been adduced by the hon. Baronet, then the dislike with which the country now regarded the measure, was not likely to be lessened in future. He had never heard a more warlike speech expressed in blander terms than that which was just concluded by the hon. Baronet. Not content with voting for the third reading of this Bill, the hon. Gentleman called upon the Ministers to put the Martello towers in order—to produce the swivel guns that had been laid up since the last war, and then they might laugh to scorn a French invasion. He (Mr. B. Osborne) must say, that he believed no money had been more completely thrown
 171 172 173 l. l. s. d. l., l. s. d. l., l., l., l. s. 174 l., l. l. 175 An Economical Defence of England from Internal Tumult and Foreign Aggression "Quern recitas mens est, O Fidelline, libellus, Sed male cum recitas, incipit esse tuus." 176 aplomb 177 émérités, 178 "It takes two or three months to bring new men acquainted with their duty; it takes a longer time to bring people of the temper and genius of these into such a subordinate way of thinking as is necessary for a soldier." "Our situation is truly distressing…The militia, instead of calling forth their utmost efforts, are dismayed, intractable, and impatient to return. Great numbers of them have gone off, almost by whole regiments. With the deepest concern, I am obliged to confess my want of confidence in the generality." "If every nerve be not strained, the game is pretty well up, owing in great measure to the insidious arts of the enemy, but principally to the ruinous policy of short enlistments, and placing too great a dependence on the militia." 179
 MR. WALPOLE  said, if they exempted the Universities of London and Durham, they ought likewise to extend the exemption to the members and students residing at St. David's College, Lampeter, and he begged to move accordingly.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the so-called College of St. Bees was rather a school than a college. With respect to the colleges referred to by the hon. Member for Manchester, they would be exempted in virtue of their connexion with London University.
 MR. WALPOLE  reminded the House that the clause had been amply debated in
 185
 MR. WALPOLE  objected to the proviso. This question had, he thought been finally settled by the division which had just taken place.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, though the last division had been upon Clause 18, it appeared upon the notice-paper as on Clause 16, and he was sure many hon. Gentlemen had voted under the impression that they were voting on the 16th Clause, which related to the administration of oaths to volunteers. He did not think, therefore, that that division afforded a fair test of the feeling of the House, and he requested the hon. and gallant Member to press his Amendment to a division.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, the item was one of an important list of items the omission of which he intended to press. But he wished to know whether the sum of 700 l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he had on former occasions expressed his opinion unfavourably to voting money for Roman Catholic purposes, and if the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) was present when the 600 l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, it did not appear from the Estimates who these clergymen were, or why they received these allowances. He could not understand why, now that order was restored in France, and the blessings of a despotic Government, they should persist in living in a heretic and infidel country like England. If the item was in the slightest degree of an ecclesiastical character, it came within the range of his objections to all such Votes. There was another item of 89 l. s., l. s. l. l. 121 l.; l., l., l., l., l., l. l., l. l. 122 l., l. l. l. l. l. l l. l. l. l, 123 l.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that there was included in this Vote a sum of 6,000 l., 112
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that neither in Vienna nor in Turin were the English residents numerous, and yet no chaplain was provided for the Embassies at those places.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that the explanation given by the noble Lord was not satisfactory, because in some Roman Catholic cities, like Lisbon, where there was a very large and wealthy English population, the expense of a chaplain was paid out of the public funds.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, some of the items appeared to him to require explanation. He found that out of about thirty Embassies there were but just six which enjoyed the luxury of an allowance for chaplains and chapels; and it was some of the richest Embassies that were thus privileged. There was 300 l. l.,
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  wished to know whether this grant was made for ecclesiastical purposes? If it was, he would oppose it.
 MR. THORNELY  then moved that the following proviso be added to Clause 18, which provided, that where men could not be raised by voluntary enlistment, Her Majesty in Council may order a ballot, namely—
 "No member of the Senate of the University of London, nor any examiner, professor, tutor, or lecturer of the said University, or of any college, school, or institution connected with the said
 184
 MR. EWART  thought the College of St. Bees stood in the same category with reference to the claim of exemption.
 MR. EWART  said, the strong and paramount objection to this measure in his opinion was, that, though introduced by the Government, it bore upon it the stamp of insufficiency. If the Government could show that further defences were required for the safety of the country let them come forward and make out their case, and the House would afford ample means for them. If an accession to the Army were required, it would be granted, and that would be a course worthy of the country. He would add to the artillery—a branch which he believed would be the great arm in modern warfare. For himself, he believed that some means of defence might be necessary. He was satisfied, considering the advance which science had made of late years, and its application to military purposes, that any future war that might arise would be of such a gigantic character as to throw all past wars into the shade; and really when he heard of such a ridiculous measure as the present being devised to meet the possibility of such, he was reminded of the old lady in the farce, who, on having an insult offered to her, exclaimed—"I would advise you to take care, I have two cousins who are colonels in the militia." He objected to this measure further, that it was not worthy of the times in which they lived. Adam Smith had, in considering the question of national defences, expressed a decided hostility to the militia, which he said Was only the resource of barbarous countries, and that the more civilised men be-
 168 Geo. "The country rings around with loud alarms, And now in fields the rude militia swarms, Mouths without hands maintained at vast expense, In peace a charge, in war a weak defence. Stout once a month they march a blustering band, And ever, but in times of need, at hand. This was the morn when issuing on the guard, Drawn up in rank and file they stood prepared Of securing arms to make a short essay, Then hasten to be drunk—the business of the day."
 MR. MACKINNON : Sir, it is a singular fact, that upwards of two centuries ago a Motion was made in the House of Commons (in 1642), much resembling the present. It was moved in the Long Parliament to this effect: "That this House should consider the condition of the Militia of the kingdom, that such force or army could be drawn together for the defence of the kingdom if it should be invaded;" which was opposed by Mr. Hyde, who said, "There never yet appeared any defect in power, and we might reasonably expect the same security in future." Now, therefore, it appears that even 200 years ago, the same apprehension of invasion existed: in fact, this dread of invasion seems to have been a sort of monomania in the English people for several centuries. The real question seems to be, Does greater danger now exist of our being invaded since the use of steamboats and railways than formerly? The answer is, that no doubt exists that the embarkation of troops, and the assembling of them at any given spot, is more easy now than formerly; it is also apparent that steam vessels can convey troops with greater celerity and certainty than when sailing vessels were in use: so far, therefore, facilities are given to an aggressive power. At the same time, however, greater facilities for defence are found in the country attacked, if possessed of similar means for defence, particularly if they have a superior naval force. The defensive squadron can always meet its opponents; and whatever part of the coast is threatened with disembarkation by foreign troops, can in a few hours be defended by all the disposable military force within 100 miles of the spot. It appears, therefore, that in the present day, the means of defence are increased in a greater proportion than the means of attack. It has, I believe, been stated by the highest military authority in this country that the nation possessed of railway communication may save half its military
 164 165
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that he saw in daily and nightly attendance in that House hon. Members who were much more advanced in years than nineteen out of twenty of the persons who were stated to have retired from our public offices from infirmity and old age. These allowances were full of abuses. There was one case, for instance, of a messenger to the First Lord of the Treasury retiring on account of ill health, on 360 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to an item; "The Bishop of Chester, for tipends to two preachers in Lancashire, 92 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, perhaps the Committee were not aware that in the time of Henry VIII. all the rectorial tithes, especially of South Wales, were taken away from the Church, and given to laymen, to a College at Oxford, and in other ways diverted from the Church. The consequence was that the livings of the Church in Wales were always known as the poorest in the Kingdom, not on account of the country being poor, because if the Church in Wales had her due she would be as rich as any other part of the Church of England, and perfectly able to maintain herself. The greatest benefit had been conferred on the Church in Wales by the establishment of this College, and by the superior system of education pursued, which had elevated the character of the Welsh clergy. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. C. Anstey) had denounced the heads of the College as fraudulent beggars. He (Mr. W. Williams) was not surprised as such an observation. The hon. and lerned Gentleman had denounced almost everything in any way connected with Protestantism. But, knowing the present Bishop of St. David's, and the Principal and Vice-Principal of the College, he would undertake to say more upright and more honest men were not to be found; and he would challenge the character of those gentlemen with the character of any persons connected with the hon. and learned Member's Church, beginning with the Pope, and concluding with the hon. and learned Member himself. The hon. and learned Member last year did not say a word against a vote of 600 l. l. l. 126 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  moved to leave out from the word "enrolled" to the word "whenever" in Clause 18. [Several VOICES: Clause 16.] It was Clause 16 in the original Bill, but it was Clause 18 in the amended Bill. The clause would establish a system of conscription, which ought not to be endured by the people of this country.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  believed, that but for the chapel attached to the Embassy at Constantinople, English Protestants in that city would have no place for public worship.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, what he complained of was, that the Governor of Hong-Kong received 3,000 l. l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  objected to the expense of the establishment at Hong-Kong. The same individual received 3,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he still must contend that all the duties ought to be performed for 3,000 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to several of the items. They paid 750 l, l. 110 l. l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was glad to observe that there was a reduction in this Vote as compared with previous years, and he hoped that they might look forward to a further and a considerable reduction next year. The charge of 600?. for the Bishop of New Zealand, and 590 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that after the gratifying statement of the right hon. Gentleman, considering that the Vote was now reduced to 10,000 l., l.,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not know how many of these islands there were, but seeing that the total number of inhabitants was about twenty-six, he thought the amount proposed was excessive. He admitted that the position of these islands would be an important one in the event of a war, and that it was necessary, therefore, to retain them; but he would suggest whether, by combining offices, it might not be done at less cost. He hoped to have an assurance from the right hon. Gentleman the Colonial Secretary that some considerable reduction would be made in this Vote in future years.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that he could, from his own experience, concur in the remarks of his noble Friend. He had himself been put to considerable inconvenience at Turin by having to wait several days before he could obtain a renewal of his passport, from the want of some better system than that which existed at our Embassy there. He believed that a notice had been given by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs that would prevent the recurrence of such complaints as those referred to.
 SIR B. HALL  thought that where offices were abolished, as at the Mint, the gentlemen should be employed in other departments.
 SIR B. HALL  said, he was glad to perceive that the ages of the parties receiving these allowances were at present usually given in the public returns. But he regretted that that practice was not universally observed, and that the ages of the retiring clerks in the Mint were not published. Now, he happened himself to know that some of those gentlemen were still in the prime of life. It appeared, too, that some of the retiring clerks in the Woods and Forests, who were to receive large pensions, were persons between forty and fifty years of age, while they were succeeded by young nephews or other near relatives. He looked upon that as a very gross abuse.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he thought the question of charging the agricultural districts with a smaller amount of rates was one of too much importance to be opened in a mere Continuance Bill. He should, therefore, give that part of the measure the most strenuous opposition, and he hoped the other Metropolitan Members would do the same.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  then moved a proviso to Clause 35, to the effect that the ballot should not be resorted to except in time of war, or when the danger of an invasion was imminent.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  desired to know if it were intended by this Bill to leave three months' pay in arrears instead of six months'?
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he considered that Government might make more use of these Consuls. When the difficult question arose with respect to the Channel fisheries, it was suggested that three Com-
 111 l.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he should be glad to know whether the same support was received from the United States and France as when the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) was in office? It was understood that America had withdrawn one vessel, and although we had received some very valuable assistance from America, it was well known nothing could be more unfortunate to an officer in that service than to bring a slave prize either into New York or Boston.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, that this Vote related to a subject which had not been for some time past very popular with the country; but for his own part he had always supported the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) in endeavouring to secure the efficiency of the squadron on the coast of Africa. That noble Lord having left office, it was desirable to know whether the same active system was to be kept up as in his time. The only fault he (Sir G. Pechell) had to find during that noble Lord's tenure of office was, that vessels were sent out which were inefficient and unable to cope with the slavers, and had not the slightest chance of coming up with one in a chace. He considered that more encouragement was due to those engaged in such a service, and that more efficient vessels should be placed on the station.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  thought very nearly the same amount of force would be demanded by the Liverpool merchants for the protection of trade on the coast of Africa if the attempts to suppress the slave trade were abandoned. The vessels engaged in the slave trade would become pirates, and our ships would be obliged to lie inside instead of outside the ports, which of itself would be a great disadvantage.
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  said, that the advantages diffused by means of those educated at St. David's were such that he only wished the grant were not so small.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  wished to ask the Colonial Secretary whether the letter addressed to him on May 1, by the Hon. Mr. Hincks, and which was published in the  Times
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  supported the Bill, which he was the more inclined to do after the explanations which from time to time had been tendered from the Ministerial benches, and especially from the Home Secretary, as to the precautions that were to be adopted with regard to the force. He thought that the Bill would be useful as a means of training the population to arms, which was one of the most satisfactory measures of national defence that could be adopted. He trusted that every care would be taken to enforce such regulations as would prevent the admission
 169 170
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I can assure the hon. Baronet who has put this question to me, that so far from having any objection to answer it, I feel greatly indebted to him for having afforded me an opportunity of giving the explanation he has requested. The letter to which the hon. Baronet has adverted, is founded entirely upon a mistake. I have no knowledge how that letter found its way into the public prints; and I must say I think I have reason to express at least surprise that such a letter, forming part of a series of correspondence, should have been inserted in the newspapers of this country without any of the documents that preceded or followed it. The natural result
 128 129 "Give him an early appointment. This matter is one of very great importance, but I should wish, if possible, to see, together with Mr. Hincks, the representatives in this matter of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia." "I left his Lordship in the confident hope that I should receive an early communication of the intentions of Her Majesty's Government." 130 131
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the question of which the hon. Member had given notice embraced three points, to which he had added a fourth, and, in replying, he (Sir J. Pakington) would take them  seriatim. 133
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  could not say that he was in a position to give any such assurance; but he would beg to call the hon. Gentleman's attention to the fact, that more than half the amount now asked for was for a debt due to the Admiralty for provisions and supplies landed at the islands.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was decidedly averse to giving any distinct pledge; but, seeing the reduction already made in the Vote, and that next year it would be further reduced, it was hoped, to 5,000 l.,
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I was not in the least aware of the intention of my hon. Friend to make these observations upon this painful and deeply interesting subject. If I had known that he intended to call the attention of the House to the subject, I would have made myself better prepared with regard to details than I can possibly be under these circumstances—and would have made my answer more satisfactory. The subject being brought forward in an unexpected manner, I think my hon. Friend will feel that all I can do is to meet his observations by a general answer. But I must assure him, and assure the House, that I do not think there is any man in this House more painfully alive than I am to this distressed and exhausted condition of these colonies. My hon. Friend, I am sure, will not fail to recollect that this is a subject to which I had given attention long before I came into office; and my attention has been painfully kept alive by the representations I have constantly received since I have been in office; and at a very recent date I have had interviews with a body of delegates, gentlemen whom my hon. Friend well knows, who are now in this country in order to represent the state particularly of Jamaica; and both from those gentlemen and from private persons, owners of estates, I have constantly received the most painful representations of the distress existing in Jamaica, with explanation also of the particular causes of that distress to which my hon. Friend has adverted. So far as the dreadful ravages of the cholera and the present difficulties arising from smallpox are concerned, I am sure he will admit that these are visitations of Providence, and that as such, while they excite our sympathy and make us more anxious to afford relief if we can, they do not in any way touch the legislation or the policy of this country. But I have never shrunk from stating my opinion that, irrespective of these visitations of Providence, the great distress of our West India Colonies must be traced in a large degree to the policy that was adopted by this country in 1846. When we first came into office, it became, of course, a grave question for the consideration of the Government whe-
 105 106
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he should have no great difficulty in explaining the matter to which the noble Lord referred. The circumstance arose from mere inadvertence on the part of the accountant who transacted the monetary business of the Poor Law Board. The accounts of the auditors would be sent in very soon, and money had been voted by the House in the course of the Session; but the accountant had, by some oversight, omitted to make the usual application to the Treasury to transfer the amount to the account of the Poor Law Board. This was an error which he (Sir J. Trollope) would take good care should not happen again, for the check he had put upon the mode of paying the accounts rendered its recurrence impossible. He must say, however, that the officer who transacted the business of this department was a very old and valuable servant of the public, having been in the public service for about eighteen years without ever making a similar mistake; and he (Sir J. Trollope) really thought it was hardly worth while to trouble the House with such a subject. At all events he believed the House would agree with him that it was not a matter which called for the censure of that House upon Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. PETO  was sure that not a man in the House felt he. could rely on the proposed force with confidence. While talking of the means of invasion which had sprung up recently, they forgot that they had also obtained new means of defence. They could speak to their allies, to Vienna or to the sister country, in one day, and bring all their friends to assist them in case of danger. It could not be denied that the Government were by this measure disturbing the industry of the country. It was an attempt at a species of defence which was calculated to alienate the feelings of the people; while, at the same time, it was a measure that must prove utterly inefficient in the event of an actual invasion. There existed throughout the
 181
 MR. HUTT  said, the expense was 750,000 l.
 ADMIRAL STEWART  said, the promotions underwent the most deliberate and the most liberal consideration. Whatever was the number of killed and wounded in comparison to the number engaged, he was
 109
 ADMIRAL STEWART  said, he thought that the exceptions taken by Gentlemen 'sitting at home at ease "to the salary of this or that Consul would come with much better effect and with a much better grace from merchants who had establishments on the spot. They might depend upon it that if a Consul did not do his duty, they would soon have plenty of complaints against him. They would never get good and efficient men to represent them abroad unless they paid them fairly. It was all very well to talk of the expense of Hong-Kong; but the climate of Hong-Kong was the most deadly one in the world to European constitutions, not excepting the coast of Africa, and it was besides a very expensive place to live at. The Chinese, too, were a most difficult people to deal with, and they could not have an efficient man to live there unless they paid him as they ought to do. As a sailor who had been in different parts of the world, he maintained that no money was better laid out than that which was paid to secure efficient, able, and honest Consuls. Why, at that moment, there were three revolutions in Central America; and without proper Consuls, how could the liberties and lives of British subjects be otherwise than in danger?
 ADMIRAL STEWART  thanked the Government for bringing forward the measure, which would be very gratefully received by the seamen. Take the seamen on board the  Excellent;
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  remarked that the Act in its present state was quite unworkable, from the amount of legal technicalities with which it was embarrassed, and with which no exertion on the part of the officers engaged in carrying it into effect would enable them to cope. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether he was borne out by the opinion of the Commissioners of Sewers with respect to the
 190
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he was glad to hear such sound principles laid down by Members of Her Majesty's Government. He recollected a period when they joined hon. Members behind him in an attack on salaries and emoluments—and the effect of such conduct was, he believed, to injure very much the public service.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that when he had been connected with the Government the practice had been adopted of making as much use as possible of the old clerks before younger men were appointed in their places. He should say that the appearance of the present list was anything but satisfactory.
 MR. YOKKE  wished to explain. He had ceased to be churchwarden of St. Barnabas in 1848, and was not aware of the circumstances of the case of the daughter of the late Recorder; but his impression was that the young lady herself had always been restrained by Mr. Bennett from going her own way to the Church of Rome. [ Laughter, and
 MR. ELLICE  saw all the difficulties and objections to the course which was proposed, but he perceived no other remedy for the evil complained of except an inquiry by a Committee, which was not, as the right hon. Gentleman had stated, an inquiry directed against the personal conduct of the Bishop—which was not so much either into the personal conduct and character of Mr. Bennett, but which was intended to be an inquiry into all the facts of the case, in order to ground upon them further proceedings with respect to the state of the law, which gave no relief to parishioners suffering from these grievances. Upon these grounds he should vote in favour of the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Horsman).
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it behoved the House to consider what was the real nature of this Motion, and how it affected the law which unquestionably existed. Let him remind the House that there was nothing in this Motion which at all involved the conduct of Mr. Bennett—the Motion applied in terms to the circumstances attending the institution of that gentleman to the vicarage of Frome. It was directed against the conduct of the Bishop of Bath and Wells; but after the luminous and able statement of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone), and the discussion which this question had undergone, he should not say one word in reference to that right rev. Prelate, except to state that that right rev. Prelate had done an act as to which he had no choice, in which he was bound to do according to the law of the country, and that if he had not so acted he might have exposed himself to serious consequences. It had been stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that a remedy existed by the law of this country for the grievances of which complaint had been made by the hon. Member for Cocker-mouth; and he (the Solicitor General) repeated without any fear of contradiction from any learned Gentleman in that House,
 323
 MR. DEEDES explained : He certainly had not understood the Chancellor of the
 326
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, he begged to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer if there was any truth in the report that a picture, said to be by Titian, which was recently purchased for the National Gallery at Marshal Soult's sale, for 2,400 l, l.
 LIEUT.-COLONEL BOYLE  said, that, having the honour to represent the borough of Frome, he was anxious to address a few words to the House upon this most painful question. He could have wished that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxford University (Mr. Gladstone) had been a little more charitable to the persons who signed the protest against their rector, Mr. Bennett; for, if he mistook not, the right hon. Gentleman did not think it out of place to insinuate that they were actuated by unworthy and selfish motives. Now, he (Colonel Boyle) was acquainted with almost every one of the fifty persons who had signed that protest, and he believed that not one of them had been actuated by the motives which the right hon. Gentleman had attributed to them. He had heard it said that one of the protesters had applied for the living, and being disappointed in not getting it, had therefore protested against the appointment of Mr. Bennett. Now he knew not to whom the right hon. Gentleman alluded—he knew not whether it was true or false—it was not unlikely that there was a party in the town of Frome connected with a clergyman living in the neighbourhood, a most respectable party in that town, a family which had long exercised a great and deserved influence there, who might have applied to the noble patroness in favour of a very deserving clergyman—probably they did apply to the noble patroness, and were refused; but even if they did so, he would venture to say that it was not that circumstance which had induced them to sign the protest, and that they were not more actuated by unworthy motives in signing that protest, than the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) himself was actuated by unworthy motives in appearing in that House as the advocate of Mr. Bennett. With regard to the popularity of Mr. Bennett's doctrines in the town of Frome, he (Colonel Boyle) had received a letter from a gentleman residing there, which stated that he did not believe there was any change in the feeling amongst the inhabitants relating to the appointment of Mr. Bennett, unless it was a more decided resolve on the part of the intelligent, and those representing the property of the
 312 313
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Sir, I am one of those who think it necessary to provide a remedy for the evils of the present state of the Church. I cannot express the pain that I feel at the recurrence of these debates in this House; and every fresh instance of such matters being discussed
 324
 MR. OSWALD  hogged to ask the hon. Member for North Warwickshire what day he proposed to fix on for resuming the debate on the Maynooth question?
 MR. HINDLEY  agreed with the hon. Member for Salford, and appealed to the Government for support.
 MR. MOODY  said, he did not conceive the law was open to the parishioners of Frome. It was not possible that a Commission could issue from the Bishop of Bath and Wells, or from the Bishop of London, against Mr. Bennett—not from the Bishop of Bath and Wells, because it was clear that before Mr. Bennett's induction, and perhaps not since, he had committed no
 322
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he begged to return his thanks to the hon. Member for Cockermouth for the very able statement he had made in bringing this case before the House. The hon. Member's principal allegations against Mr. Bennett remained unrefuted; they were in fact further corroborated by what had passed. It had, however, been stated, on high authority, that the Bishop of Bath and Wells had no power legally to do otherwise than as he had done, and he should regret anything
 318
 MR. NEWDEGATE  declared his intention to take the sense of the House on the Motion of his hon. Colleague, when the debate was resumed. The hon. Gentlemen who desired to speak on the question had every opportunity given to them to discuss it, but there appeared to be a distinct understanding amongst some hon. Members that they would defeat the question not by a direct vote, but by a system of factious opposition. The proceedings of that morning justified that opinion, and the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton) favoured that attempt to quash the discussion of the question. But that attempt would not succeed, and whenever the dropped notice for an inquiry into Maynooth came on, he would ask the opinion of the House on the Motion for inquiry, and divide the House against any further adjournment of the debate.
 MR. SPEAKER  resumed the Chair at Six o'clock.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member for Nottingham has been so long a Member of the House that it is unnecessary for me to remind him that no Member can be permitted to interrupt the debates, and I am sorry to say that the hon. Member has so habitually violated the rules of the House that, if he further persists in this course, I shall feel it my painful duty to call the attention of the House to the hon. Member by name, and it will then be for the House to take such ulterior steps as may prevent the repetition of such misconduct.
 MR. SPEAKER : I now must call on the hon. Member by name. Mr. O'Connor, you are now called upon to apologise to the House; and if you have any apology to offer to the House, now is your time to do so.
 MR. SPEAKER : I call upon the hon. Member to retract the expression he has just used.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member made use of the expression, that the statement made by an hon. Member was not true; that language is unparliamentary.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, there is no truth whatever in the report that a picture in the possession of a London dealer, said to be by Titian, was shown to the trustees of the National Gallery, and offered to them for
 243 l., l. l.; l. l. l. l.; l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was sure the hon. Baronet must, on reflection, feel that it was not in the
 244
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I did not rise after the statement made by the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman), because it was understood to be the wish of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) to make a statement on behalf of the Bishop of Bath and Wells; and I felt it was better, both for the convenience of the House and of the Government, that we should be favoured with that statement on the part of the right hon. Gentleman. This discussion has, I think, very much cleared the case since the period when it was first brought under the notice of the House. To-night I think we have very completely investigated the position of the Bishop of Bath and Wells with respect to these circumstances, and I be-
 319 320 321
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  certainly must say he thought they had sat quite long enough.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, it appeared to him that he could answer the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman in three words. It was as if certain parties are brought to the bar, accused of murder, and a friend of theirs comes forward to propose an inquiry into the state of the law on capital punishment. That was the ingenious device by which the experienced Member for the University of Cambridge attempted to lead the House away from an inquiry in which they were very much interested, and
 327 328 caveat caveat; quare impedit; bene decessit.
 MR. HORSMAN  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for "a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances connected with the institution of the Rev. Mr. Bennett to the Vicarage of Frome." The hon. Gentleman said, that in asking the House to resume that discussion, which might be said to have been adjourned on the 20th of April, he thought it would be proper that he should, as shortly as possible, recall to the attention of the House the condition in which the question was then left, that they might know the situation in which they now stood when they invited them to resume it. On that occasion he made a Motion in that House that an Address should be presented to Her Majesty, praying Her to inquire whether due respect had been paid to the decrees, canons, and constitutions ecclesiastical of the Church of England in the recent institution of the Rev. Mr. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome. Now the object and aim of that Motion could not be misunderstood. It was aimed at the act of institution, an act for which the Bishop of Bath and Wells solely was responsible—an allegation having been made to the Bishop that the presentee was an unfit person to he instituted, and the Bishop having proceeded to institute him in spite of that allegation and the evidence adduced in support of it. From the terms of the Motion there was no doubt of its intent. From the manner in which it was received and debated by the House, still less was there doubt about its object and meaning. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, on behalf of the Government, moved the Amendment to the Motion that he proposed, and the right hon. Gentleman showed that he had not misunderstood the object of his (Mr. Horsman's) Motion. The ground on which the right hon. Gentleman's opposition to that Motion was based, was twofold. First he stated that the mode in which he (Mr. Horsman) proposed to pro-
 246 "I have always understood, and I cannot help believing, that there must be an appeal from the prelate who acts in contravention of the canons of the Church to the Archbishop. If there be an appeal to the Archbishop, if the conduct and decision of the prelate is subject to that superior revision, that surely must be a reason why the House of Commons should not interfere before that appeal has taken place."—[ 3 Hansard, "He was quite certain that, this question having been raised, the country would demand that it should be fully investigated. It was a question that, having been raised, must be dealt with; and although he should wish to leave it in the hands of the Government to decide how the investigation should be made, so that they, in the proper and due exercise of the privilege vested in them of advising Her Majesty, should indicate the proper course to be taken in the matter, he yet begged them not to imagine that the question could be passed over without satisfying the public by a full inquiry.—[ Ibid., 247 "Assented to the proposition which had been made by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that this question having been raised it ought to be dealt with. He felt not only that this was a question which ought to be raised, but that, having been raised, it ought to be dealt with; and he would say for himself, as well as for every other Member of the Government, that this question ought not to be allowed to rest in its present position, but that unquestionably there ought to be an inquiry instituted and a remedy provided.—[ Ibid.,925. 248 bond fide 249 250 251 "It is painful to me to be brought forward as a witness in this case, but as the facts were undoubtedly stated by me, though not for publication, I do feel bound in honour to confirm what I have said; and though my letters were not intended to be published, I am still prepared to come forward and substantiate every word I said." "It seems to me that the simplest course, if he denies what I have stated to be true, will be to send to Kissengen, where conclusive evidence can easily be obtained. There must be fifty persons at least who can say if they have seen or have not seen him at mass. I have stated the evidence I can give. I have been dragged into the matter by the hasty letter of Mr. Pratt, and being in it I am bound to substantiate every syllable, and am willing to pay the whole expenses of any person who can go over to Kissengen, where the question can be easily decided of the attendance of Mr. Bennett at the Roman Catholic Service, and
 252 Roman Catholic Directory Roman Catholic Directory, Battersby's Directory 253 Battersby's Directory 254 "Rectory, Trowbridge, Jan. 31, 1852, "Rev. Sir—The enclosed letter [this was the letter of Mr. Pratt] I have copied from the  Achil Missionary Herald "Rev. W. Bennett." "Rectory, Trowbridge, Feb. 12, 1852. "Rev. Sir—On Saturday, the 31st of January, I addressed a letter to you, directed Vicarage, Frome.' The object of that communication was to afford you an opportunity of seeing a letter signed 'John 0. N. Pratt,' a copy of which I enclosed, and which has since appeared in several of the English newspapers. This letter was naturally the subject of much conversation among the clergy of the neighbourhood, and I had hoped in writing to you to be enabled, on your authority, to contradict the statements therein contained. Your silence, however, so opposed to that courtesy by which your conduct, as I am informed, is characterised, compels me to conclude that it is not in your power to afford the desired explanation. I regret this the more as it tends to confirm those who were willing to pass over what had occurred in your former parish in the adverse opinion they entertain respecting your appointment to any office in the Church of England, inasmuch as your
 255 Rectory, Trowbridge, April 24, 1852. "My dear Sir—Enclosed are copies of the letters promised; you are at liberty to make what use you please of them. I may observe my object in writing them was to afford Mr. Bennett an opportunity of contradicting the report of his attendance upon the Romish worship in preference to that of the Anglican Church, particularly as I was informed by a friend of his who had requested me to call upon him that his views were very much changed. It was the intention of myself and several of the clergy around to have called upon him, had this statement proved true. Just at this time Mr. O. N. Pratt's letter appeared, and I thought it advisable at once to communicate with Mr. Bennett on the subject. I am truly sorry that, by his taking no notice of either letter, he has left an impression on my mind, as I have stated to him, that he could not refute the statement, and, consequently, had not changed his views, thus precluding myself and others from paying him that courtesy which belongs to a brother clergyman coming into the neighbourhood.—I am, my dear Sir, yours very truly, "J. D. HASTINGS." 256 were "The mean man's actions, be they good or evil, they reach not far; they are not greatly inquired into, except, perhaps, by such as dwell at the next door; whereas, men of more ample dignity are as cities on the tops of hills—their lives are viewed afar off; so that the more there are which observe aloof what they do, the greater glory by their well-doing they purchase, both unto God, whom they serve, and to the State wherein they live." 257 caveat caveat caveat. caveat, 258 caveat in extenso 259 caveat 260 261 "My Lord—I request that my counter-signature to this testimonial may he considered as simply the expression of my opinion that the clergymen who sign it are beneficed in my diocese, and that they testify to your Lordship that which they verily believe. But I think it my duty to state, that in December, 1850, Mr. Bennett resigned the perpetual curacy of St. Paul's, Knightsbridge, and that I accepted his resignation because I was of opinion that the peace and good order of the Church in my diocese would he seriously interrupted if he remained incumbent of that curacy. For the reasons of that opinion I beg to refer your Lordship to the correspondence between Mr. Bennett and myself, which was published in the  Times "CHARLES JAMES LONDON." "The Hon. and Bight Rev. the Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells." 262 263 "It only requires him first to approve, that is, before he licenses; and, in so doing, it virtually requires him to exercise his conscience, duly informed upon the subject; to do which he must duly, impartially, and effectually inquire, examine, deliberate, and decide. Here the duty of examination is again pointed out. The bishop is to find out whether he is learned, capable of teaching, moral, and of a right understanding in religion; and, therefore, the court would require of him that he should institute some proper mode of examination by which the learning, dexterity in teaching, morals, and the religion of the candidate may be ascertained. The word of the statute is 'approve,' and he must exercise that approbation according to his conscience, upon such means of information as he may obtain; and every thing that can properly minister to his conscientious approbation or disapprobation, and fairly and reasonably induce his conclusion on such a subject, though it might not be evidence that would be formally admitted in a court of law, may, I am of opinion, be fitly taken into consideration." 264 265 ex animo. 266 in animo imponentis, in animo imponentis, 267 "If, now, there arise any matter of grievance between the pastor and the people that are under him, they have their ordinary, a judge indifferent, to determine their causes and to end their strife. But, in case there were no such appointed to sit and to hear both, what would then be the end of their quarrels?… But the hurt is more manifestly seen which doth grow to the Church of God by faults inherent in their several actions; as, when they carelessly ordain; when they institute negligently; when corruptly they bestow church livings, benefices, prebends, and rooms es-
 268 Eccl. Polity, b. 269 270 271 a fortiori, 272 273
 MR. HORSMAN  explained: I did not say Mr. Bennett used those words. I quoted the memorial of the parishioners of Frome, who put that passage before the Bishop. I gave no opinion upon it.
 MR. YORKE  wished to justify himself with regard to the proceedings which had taken place respecting the petition presented from Frome. The address in reply had been drawn up by Mr. Cruttwell from first to last—one of Mr. Bennett's uncompromising foes. That gentleman stated—
 "That the churchwardens and other persons canvassed for and obtained signatures to the address at tables placed for the purpose within the church itself when it was open for divine service; that it was signed by many persons who did not belong to the congregation, nor even to the parish, nor even to the diocese; that it was signed by little boys and little girls, and by persons who did not know what they were signing; that it purported to be signed by persons whose names were affixed without their knowledge; and, lastly, that it was taken to public-houses, where signatures were obtained thereto. The mode in which the address was got up would have disgraced the proceedings at a contested election. It carries no weight with it here, where these things are known, but it may be otherwise at a distance. I pledge myself to prove all this, and more, if the signatures be produced." "The whole proceedings were honest and open as the day; and that all the signatures were obtained by the churchwardens and five of the congregation, who were prepared to substantiate all he (Mr. Miller) stated. He declined submitting them to Mr. Bennett's opponents, not from the slightest fear of the result, but to shield the persons who had signed from the persecution that would certainly follow." "He was glad to have the opportunity of disclaiming any participation in Mr. Horsman's proceedings in the House of Commons, which to his (Mr. Cruttwell's) certain knowledge, were not instigated by any party in the town." 314
 MR. FEARGUS O'CONNOR : I beg the pardon of the hon. Gentleman, and now I apologise to the House. I beg pardon.
 MR. FEARGUS O'CONNOR  immediately rose and addressed the Speaker in a most excited and incoherent manner.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY : I shall take the same view of the proposed inquiry that has been taken by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, and by the hon. Member for Boston, and which was followed up by the hon. Member for Kerry—all Gentlemen whom I believe to be perfectly sincere in this matter. There can be no sort of objection to an inquiry of a fair character, just as suggested by those hon. Members, that will not extend itself into a discussion of the tenets of the Catholic religion, or into the doctrines and discipline of that Church. There is no doubt whatever, that with this one salvo, an inquiry can be made by the existing visitors, to the fullest extent, and also upon oath. The inquiry need not even he so restricted as that, because an inquiry can take place into the doctrines and discipline of the Roman Catholic Church by the present visitors, if the Lord Lieutenant orders it. Under the words of the Act of Parliament, such an inquiry can be made by the Roman Catholic visitors, in the presence of the Protestant visitors. I am sure the House will not expect me to follow the hon. Member for North Warwickshire through all the doctrines of De La Hogue and of Bailly, to which he has referred. The mode in which the hon. Gentleman has brought forward his Motion had equal reference to the doctrines of the Roman Catholic
 225 l. 226 227 228 ex-officio 229 ex-officio 230 l. 231 bourses bourses, 232 "Memorialists were formerly obliged to resort to foreign countries for education, especially to France, where they had procured many valuable institutions. Four hundred students were constantly maintained and educated therein for the ministry of the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland. But in the anarchy which affects that kingdom, these establishments had been necessarily destroyed; and even though lawful authority should be restored, the loss would be irreparable, for as the profligate principles of rebellion and Atheism may not be speedily effaced, memorialists would not expose their youth to the contagion of sedition and immorality, nor their country to the danger of thus introducing the pernicious principles of a licentious philosophy. Although the mode of education practised in the University of Dublin may be well adapted to form men for the various departments of public business, yet it is not alike applicable to the ecclesiastics of a very ritual religion, and not by any means calculated to impress on the mind habits of austere discipline so indispensable to the character of a Roman Catholic clergyman." "They humbly beg a royal license for the endowment of academies or seminaries for educating and preparing young persons to discharge the duties of the Roman Catholic clergymen in this kingdom under ecclesiastical superiors of their own communion." 233 "In 1795" that great and lamented statesman said, "the reigning sovereign was George III. The Minister of England was Mr. Pitt; the Secretary of State was the Duke of Portland, afterwards Chancellor of the University of Oxford. That was a critical period the year 1795. In a speech made to the Irish Parliament at the opening of the Session, the Lord Lieutenant said—' We are engaged in no ordinary contest. The time calls for great fortitude. You are engaged with a Power which was always highly formidable to the neighbouring nations. Lately this Power has assumed a new shape. To guard his people from the enterprises of this dangerous Power, His Majesty has availed himself of every rational aid, foreign and domestic. He has called upon the skill, courage, and experience of his people, wheresoever dispersed.' In that same speech, made at this most eventful epoch, the Lord Lieutenant said—'It is hoped that your wisdom will order everything in the manner most beneficial and best adapted to the occasions of the several descriptions of men which compose His Majesty's faithful subjects in Ireland.'"—[See 3  Hansard, l. Geo. 234 "At that period of 1795,"says the Duke of Wellington, "the French Republic had already commenced. The arms of that republic had already conquered the Low Countries on the left-hand side of the Rhine, had overcome parts of Germany and Italy, and were established on the frontiers of the Pyrenees." 235 "They (the Visitors) cannot dissemble their painful feelings on observing their principles and conduct daily misrepresented in the public prints. They consider the indiscriminate censure and abuse of the Roman Catholic body as unseasonable and impolitic, as it is certainly unjust and unwarranted; and they apprehend that the disaffected of all religious persuasions will avail themselves of it to foster a spirit of discontent, distrust, and irritation amongst the ignorant, the credulous, and the needy. To deceive them is the constant object of all leading agitators, who use every means to excite jealousies, and cherish them for their own selfish and seditious purposes." 236 "You must make provision for the full establishment of 400, which was what the E. C. Bishops calculated as necessary to keep up the parish priests and their coadjutors. British subjects, educated in foreign institutions, whether in Italy, Spain, or Portugal, where they still abound, may, and most probably will, imbibe all the prejudices of their worst days, and propagate them. A door will therefore be still left open to admit Popish priests of the old description amongst us. They will, of course, be the most devoted to the See of Rome, and, being its greatest favourites, will have the greatest weight, and thus you will have a distinction between Government priests, and the Catholic priests, from which the most disastrous consequences must flow to the country. I would consider it a most unwise measure, to suffer the education of the Roman Catholic clergy to return to the old course, from which so much mischief has flowed to the empire. On that event they must either go for education to countries hostile to England, where, in addition to their religious prejudices, they would imbibe those civil prejudices, and that spirit of hatred and resentment, of which France and Spain have uniformly availed themselves, ever since the Reformation, to raise a party for themselves, and excite domestic disturbances in Ireland, or they will be left to pick up such an education as they can at home amidst poverty and ignorance. So far from it being a wise measure to diminish the number of students to be provided at Maynooth, the number necessary for the supply of the parochial clergy should be maintained to its fullest extent. 237 Geo. 238 bond fide bourses bourses; 239 240 l. l. l. l. "There can be no doubt of the absolute necessity of finding some means for educating Roman Catholic priests for the service of the Roman Catholic mission in Ireland. It was stated at the time this institution was founded, that the population of Ireland was 3,000,000. It had advanced, in 1841, to 8,175,000, and probably it is now 8,500,000, and of that number, about seven-eighths are to be considered as Roman Catholics." Ducdame, 241 "In a public newspaper which was supposed to be the organ of a large portion of the Protestant population of Ireland, including many of the
 242 Courier,
 MR. GOULBURN  would not detain the House with any lengthened remarks; but he felt, in common with many hon. Members who had spoken in that debate, very considerable difficulty as to the course which it would be best for the House to pursue. From the manner in which the Motion had been introduced, it was clear that it was intended as an inquiry into the conduct of the Bishop of Bath and Wells, and in the course of the debate he thought it had been satisfactorily established upon the best legal authority that, so far as the Bishop was concerned, there were no legal grounds for impeaching his conduct. He felt, at the same time, most strongly, that the state of the law as to the institution to benefices was extremely defective, and that it certainly ought to be amended in order to provide a remedy against the recurrence of abuses that would lead to discussions in that House calculated to inflame the public mind, and to occasion dangerous consequences to the Church of England. Feeling, therefore, that what was wanted was not an inquiry into a particular case, but into the state of the law, he would propose as an Amendment to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, that the inquiry, instead of being made into the circumstances of the institution of Mr. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome, should be made into the state of the law affecting the institution to benefices in the Church of England.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, that he had not intended to intrude himself upon the attention of the House; but having given notice of an Amendment, which he found the forms of the House would not allow him to propose, it had been his intention to give a silent vote against both the Motion and the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Anstey). His object in rising was to add his recommendation to that of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that the Government should adopt the course pointed out by the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge. If the real object of this Motion was fair and legitimate inquiry, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire could not resist the proposition; and he would show his sincerity by withdrawing the Motion, on which he admitted inquiry was impossible. It had been objected by the Chancellor of the Exchequer that a Royal Commission would not have the power of compelling unwilling witnesses to give information, and that therefore it would not be satisfactory to the people of this country. Now the noble Lord the Member for the City of London stated that he considered the very worst tribunal before which an inquiry of this nature could take place was a Select Committee of the House of Commons. In that opinion he most cordially joined; but the difficulty would be solved by adopting his (Mr. H. Herbert's) Amendment, which had reference to inquiry by the visitors. The Home Secretary said the reports of the Maynooth Commissioners were meagre, and contained no information; that proved that inquiry was unnecessary. If an architect reported that no repair was needed in your house, the report might be called meagre. At present,
 220 221
 MR. FRESHFIELD  would have been content to allow the question to go to a division in its then state; but, having moved the adjournment of the debate, it formed a part of his duty to address to the House a few observations on the subject under discussion. He was at a loss to discover on what general grounds the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) could be resisted, or the Amendment that had been proposed to it adopted. His hon. Friend had stated his facts in perfect sincerity, and only asked the House to inquire how far they were true; and if they were so, how far they were consistent with the interests to be maintained by a Protestant people. It had been objected that the language used and the case stated by his hon. Friend, and the confidence he had expressed, tended rather to a repeal of the Act of 1S45, than to support a Motion for inquiry; but certainly this was the first time he had ever heard the confidence expressed by the mover
 215 to 216 217 218 219
 MR. BROTHERTON  moved the adjournment of the House.
 MR. BROTHERTON  denied that it was his wish to get rid of any question; his object was to get rid of the House after a fourteen hours' sitting. If they proceeded with the Orders of the Day, they could not get away before four o'clock.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the question was One of importance to a great number of fishermen; for the law, which was intended to prevent poaching on oyster beds, was so severe, that it prevented their catching a particular kind of oyster, which many persons would be glad to eat in the close season. Now there was a penalty against having dredges in the boats, but there was no penalty for having the oysters in their boats, or, on their landing, selling or eating them. The memorial praying for
 245
 MR. SPOONER  replied that it was not optional with him to fix any day for the purpose; he should now wait until in the course of business it came to his turn to bring on the question.
 MR. WALPOLE  begged to be permitted to say one word after what had fallen from the hon. Member for East Kent (Mr. Deedes), who had entirely misapprehended the purport and object of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer's answer to the appeal of the hon. Member for Cockermouth. He (Mr. Walpole) had looked most carefully into the words of the notice, to see whether the Government could accede to the inquiry asked for; and that inquiry he undertook to say would have been acceded to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if it had been instituted, as was suggested by the hon. Member for Coventry (Mr. Ellice), to discover what improvements could be made in the law to remedy the difficulty which it presented. But when they listened to the speech of the hon. Member for Cockermouth, and saw that he distinctly placed the issue upon the conduct of the Bishop of Bath and Wells, the result of such an inquiry must either be a direct censure by Parliament of that conduct, or an impeachment to be instituted by a Member of that House against that right rev. Prelate; and seeing, as he did from all the arguments that had been addressed to the House, that it was totally impossible that the Bishop could have refused institution under the circumstances that had been stated to the House, without incurring the risk of a double action by  Quare impedit duplex gucerela
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  trusted that the hon. Member for Salford would not persist in his Motion of adjournment. He wished the Maynooth question to be brought to a decision as soon as possible, and would be no party to getting rid of it by a sidewind. Were they to let five or six other orders drop in order to escape this one? It was most important that there should be a decision before the dissolution.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I am sure the House will not permit its attention to be distracted from this important discussion by the painful scene which has just taken place; and I will commence by expressing my regret that I am called on to follow the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Horsman) without any intimation from Her Majesty's Government as to the course which they intend to take on this question; because, although I, being personally acquainted with the eminent individual who is the object of the hon. Gentleman's charge, have
 275 276 A laugh 277 278 prima facie 279 "I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Lordship's letter of yesterday's date, and will proceed to answer the inquiries therein contained, fully, fairly, and impartially. The appointment of Mr. Bennett is not unacceptable to the body of the parishioners. This I boldly assert—this I am prepared boldly to maintain. The inhabitants of Frome are under many and great obligations to the house of Thynne, but there is none they more cheerfully recognise or more gratefully appreciate than the blessing bestowed on them in the regard manifested by that noble family for their spiritual good in nominating Mr. Bennett vicar of Frome. I assert, and without the slightest fear of contradiction, that since Mr. Bennett commenced his ministry the morning congregations have increased at least one-third, and that as to the evening services, there never were so many persons assembled within the walls of St. Peter's Church. The lowest calculation last Sunday evening was 2,000. At the commencement many may have been attracted by curiosity and the love of novelty; but at the end of three months there is not only no diminu-
 280 281 282 283 locus standi l. l. 284 quare impedit duplex querela. quare impedit duplex querela caveat. 285 caveat caveat caveat? caveat caveat. caveat 286 caveat 287 Times 288 289 290 291
 MR. GLADSTONE : I beg pardon, but the hon. Gentleman forgets he reverted to it in another part of his speech. I wish to be strictly accurate; and certainly the hon. Gentleman imputed either that Mr. Bennett, or the parishioners of Frome under Mr. Bennett's teaching, entertained the belief that the Bible was a fiction and absurdity, or words to that effect. What I want to put to the hon. Gentleman is this: with regard to a common opinion of the great mass of the bishops and clergy, no matter whether right or wrong, could the Bishop rationally hope, in suspending Mr. Bennett, that would be admitted as a valid reason by the courts of law to which the patron or presentee would appeal? I laid it down with emphasis at the commencement of these remarks, that we must be governed by the law, and not by private opinion. If we hold fast that doctrine, I shall not be afraid of any result at which we may arrive. What I am afraid of is, that, as the law represents the spirit of one period, and we represent the spirit of another period, having suffered the laws to continue unadapted to the purposes for which they were originally intended, we shall measure our judgment by our own opinions when called on to consider the conduct of a high judicial public officer, and not by the opinion of the law, by which standard alone he is bound to per-
 292 293 caveat caveat 294 * prima facie 295 sim pliciter, 296
 MR. GLADSTONE : No; J. did not say that; not his family.
 MR. GLADSTONE  begged to say, in explanation, that he never meant to vindicate the conduct of Mr. Bennett at Kissengen; and he wished to add that the Bishop of Bath and Wells never became acquainted with the proceedings at Kissengen till long after the institution of Mr. Bennett. [ Cries of
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he did not understand the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the same sense as that attributed to him by the hon. Member who had just sat down; but the more he (Mr. Gladstone) saw those subjects discussed, the more his convictions were strengthened that there was a crying and immediate necessity that the question should be placed on such a footing that the members of the Church of England should have the means of redressing grievances of this kind without coming to the House of Commons, which was, by its very constitution, a most unfitting
 325
 MR. GLADSTONE  explained that he had never said that, and had already contradicted a similar statement.
 MR. DEEDES  was disappointed at the answer of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as to future legislation in respect to the ecclesiastical law, and the speech of the Solicitor General as to the state of the law, which had not encouraged any hope of something being done to place it in a more satisfactory condition. It was shown that the law was inaccessible to individuals, and that, therefore, snmething was necessary to be done. He regretted the state of things which had been disclosed as to the position of the Church. He was anxious to put an end to it, and at the same time was anxious not to impute blame to any party unjustly. But as there was no hope of any alteration of the law, he must, in order to promote this, object to vote for the Motion.
 MR. MAGAN : If the hon. and gallant Member withholds the name, the only conclusion to which this House can come is, that the statement is not true.
 MR. MAGAN : I only made use of the words in a Parliamentary sense ( Laughter.
 MR. MAGAN : I used the expression with reference to the letter, not to the hon. and gallant Member.
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER : For the twenty years which he had sat in that House, he had never made a statement which he could not prove. They who advocated the inquiry had been charged by hon. Members opposite with bigotry and other feelings, which he hoped would never find place in his or any other hon. Member's breast. He would read another extract from a communication by a highly-respectable gentleman, which would prove the effect of the teaching at Maynooth. ["Name!"] Hon. Members should have the name if required. The writer said—
 "I entertain no doubt that the disorders which originate in hatred of Protestantism have been increased by the Maynooth education of the Roman Catholic priesthood. It is the Maynooth priest who is the agitating priest; and if the foreign educated priest be a more liberal-minded man, less a zealot, and less a hater of Protestantism than is consistent with the present spirit of Catholicism in Ireland, straightway an assistant, red-hot from Maynooth, is appointed to the parish. In no country in Europe, no not even in Spain, is the spirit of Popery so intensely anti-Protestant as in Ireland." "As I departed from the college, I could not but reflect with melancholy interest on the prodigious moral power lodged within the walls of that mean, rough-cast, and white-washed range of buildings; what a vomiting of fiery zeal for
 224
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  considered it was the duty of Government to give sufficient information to the House on the subject, in order that the House might come to a proper decision on the question. He had intended to say a few words—not in vindication of his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire, for he needed no vindication—but the remarks of the hon. Member opposite rendered that course unnecessary. His hon. Friend had not brought forward any Motion for the purpose of suppressing Maynooth, but only for an inquiry into the system of education pursued in that institution. The college was supported by a grant from the Imperial Treasury, and Government were responsible for the proper application of the grant. The college was established for educational purposes; and when it was a matter of doubt whether the education at that seminary was such as it ought to be, when those who were educated there were of one sect, and professed a religion which was not the religion of the State, it was but right that the State should exercise a power of supervision—which it ought to exercise, more especially as it had endowed and become responsible for the institution. The object of that institution was to bring up clergymen for the Church of Rome.
 222 "The Church retains her jurisdiction over all apostates, heretics, schismatics, although they no longer appertain to her body; just as a military officer has a right of decreeing severe punishment against a soldier who deserts, even though his name may have been erased from the muster-roll." 223 Cries of and
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  believed that the question now before the House was a grave constitutional question. It was because he felt most deeply the vast importance of the general subject, and the mode in which the feelings of the people of England had been justly excited upon it, that he was the more jealous of being led away into any departure from the strict constitutional mode of dealing with it. He said, the feelings of the people of England were justly excited—for what had occurred? Those who had sworn to be the pastors of our Church had been found to have availed themselves of their high position to corrupt the principles of the members of that Church. In one case, in particular, the clergyman had acted with such baseness as to have gone over to the Church of Rome on the very Sunday after he had performed the morning service in a Protestant church, taking with him the two children of the organist, who had been intrusted to his care. He had heard of other cases equal to this in baseness. The unfortunate man who had taken the lead, in this secession to the Church of Rome, commenced by writing a work by which he taught that a person might hold all the doctrines of the Church of Rome, and yet continue to hold preferment in the Church of England. That tract, which had led to so much of this miserable hypocrisy, he should be as ready to denounce as he should be to denounce the conduct of those who had pursued this course, or adopted any portion of the Articles or Liturgy in what they called a non-natural sense. Unfortunately, the adoption of the non-natural sense was not confined to one side. He was afraid, amongst the various divisions which had disturbed
 304 305 quareimpedit. 306 caveat? quare impedit; 307 quare impedit quare impedit 308 quare impedit quare impedit, duplex querela. l.; 309 quare impedit? "The distinction between that case and the case of a clerk is this, that in the institution of a clerk the bishop has only to follow the direction of the canon—he has no discretion whatever, but is bound by the law to institute or to make good by testimony any reason he gives for not instituting a clerk—and that is a totally different case from the present." "The best advice I can give a bishop is this—to stand perfectly quiet, and take no part either the one way or the other; but simply to institute the party who is presented to him, unless on examination he find cause to which he can make answer in a  quare impedit" caveat." 310 caveat, 311
 SIR B. HALL  rose and said; Sir, I rise
 274
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  had not understood the right hon. Gentleman to have done so, or he would not have made the statement; but the right hon. Gentleman certainly did say that Mr. Bennett was travelling as a chaplain to a private family; and that, in the eye of the law, a chaplain and a family constitute a congregation—but in this instance Mr. Bennett was not a chaplain, and the supposed congregation
 317
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  expressed his surprise that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had not come forward on an earlier occasion to defend the conduct and proceedings of Mr. Bennett; for he (Sir B. Hall) understood that the hon. Gentleman had been Mr. Bennett's cimrchwarden. The document to which the hon. Member referred bad been signed at Frome by 1,000 or 1,100 persons sitting in public-houses, smoking and drinking, who considered themselves such admirable judges of points of doctrine, that they expressed their conviction of the soundness of Mr. Bennett's principles. That was the way in which the document had been got up. [Mr. YORKE: I deny it.] The fact was asserted by Mr. Cruttwell, and denied by Mr. Miller. The former gentleman had written a letter, dated the 4th of June—[Mr. YORKE: Mine from Mr. Miller is dated the 7th of June]—in which he proposed that an inquiry should be instituted into the manner in which the signatures to the address had been obtained. His suggestion was that two gentlemen should be nominated, one by Mr. Miller and the other by himself—that the original signatures should be produced before them, and he pledged himself then to substantiate the truth of what he had stated. The hon. Member stated that his letter was dated June 7th; that was true enough, but the contents of that letter had nothing whatever to do with the manner in which the address was concocted. He (Sir B. Hall) had corroborative proof (if proof were wanting) in another letter, from which he would read an extract:—
 "I cannot conclude without a remark on the absurd address lately got up in favour of Mr. Bennett. Mr. Cruttwell lately sent an explanation respecting it to the  Times. 315 316
 SIR GEORGE CLERK  begged to put a question to the right hon. President of the Board of Trade with respect to the oyster fisheries. By the convention with France, both English and French fishermen were prohibited dredging for oysters in the months of May, June, July, and August, but the terms of the convention had been modified so as to allow London to be supplied with oysters in August. The fishermen of both countries had of late been fishing, not on the coast, but in mid-channel, for oysters which were in good condition in the prohibited months. As a memorial had been presented to the Board of Trade on the subject, and the subsistence of the families of some very industrious men on the coast of Kent and Sussex was involved, he wished to ask if the Government had considered the matter with a view to modify the law in concurrence with France, so as to allow them to dredge for deep-sea oysters in May and June which were in excellent condition; and also if the right hon. Gentleman would lay copies of the memorial and the correspondence on the subject on the table of the House, as on a former occason he had stated that he would do?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I understood my right hon. Friend to say—a chaplain with the family—not his family—but the family to which be was attached, formed a congregation. If my right hon. Friend meant anything by that, I presume he meant that the Rev. Mr. Bennett was in propriety, as a minister of the Church, exempted from attending the Protestant worship of our own Church in the place where he was, because he was acting as the chaplain of a family. And what was the family? Why, the family was Sir John Harrington's—the churchwarden of the rev. gentleman at St. Paul's, Knights-bridge—a gentleman who distinguished himself, perhaps with more zeal than discretion, in the correspondence connected with Mr. Bennett's dismissal from that church. I must protest, as far as my opinion goes, against the propriety of any chaplain so situate being thereby exempted,  in foro conscientiw, 302 303
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The hon. Member for Cockermouth, who has brought this subject forward, referred in the course of his opening speech to some language which I held when he first brought this subject before the House; and, although it is not my intention now to detain the House by going into the subject at any length, I should, in consequence of that reference, have risen when he sat down to state—which I am now prepared to do distinctly—the feeling I entertain upon the specific Motion which he has proposed to the House, had it not been for the announcement made some time ago by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), that whenever the subject was again brought before the House he should feel it his duty to take that opportunity to vindicate the conduct of the Bishop of Bath and Wells. The right hon. Gentleman has done so with his usual ability; and he certainly has gone very far to justify the course which the Bishop of Bath and Wells took in this case, acting, as he has very truly said, judicially, and bound judicially to decide—ay or no—whether, after the patron of this living had presented Mr. Bennett to it, he would have been justified in refusing to institute that gentleman. The manner in which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Horsman) has twice brought this subject before the House, and the deep attention the House has on both occasions paid to it,
 297 298 Battersby's Catholic Directory. 299 300 Battersby's Catholic Directory, 301
 SIR ROBERT PRICE  begged to ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, in case of Private Bills being prevented from passing the House of Commons by an early dissolution of Parliament, any steps will be taken to facilitate their being passed in the next Parliament, so that the great expense incurred in respect to them, up to their present stages, may not be thrown away?
 The MARQUESS of BLANDFORD  had expected Her Majesty's Government would have some declaration to make on the subject; and his object being to obtain a declaration of opinion from them as to the necessity of some such measure, he was quite prepared to adopt his right hon. Friend's suggestion.
 The MARQUESS of BLANDFORD  said, it was the opinion of those hon. Gentleman who had assisted him in bringing this Bill forward, that he should give way to the proposition of Her Majesty's Government, and he was quite willing to do so, because it was also his own wish, formed after communicating with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), and because it was the general wish of the House, that that course should be adopted. He would not now go into the question further than to refer to one or two circumstances which had been touched upon by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. S. Herbert) with regard to the abolition of deans. The right hon. Gentleman said the abolition of deans, or rather the absorption of their offices into the duties of bishops, could not be carried out, because the two offices of dean and bishop could not be combined. He, however, would remind the House that his measure was consistent with itself, for the principal duty of dean was the management of the estates of the Church, and this duty he proposed to transfer to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners—thus making the dean's office virtually a sinecure. In ancient times the duty of the chapter was that of council to the bishop; and the bishop, dean, and chapter had property in common. The bishop was the principal person in the chapter, and, as Burns expressed it, the chapter had to advise him in spiritualities, and restrain him in temporalities. In the progress of time the property and duties of the bishop became separated from that of the chapter, and a double interest was created; the consequence was, that the deans assumed a position in the chapter which was perfectly irreconcilable with
 350 "If they laid down a good plan for the improvement of the Church, they might confidently reckon on the friends of the Church, and that funds would not be wanting. One of the principles of Church extension was to increase the property of the Church by putting forward the property it possessed as an inducement for others to come forward with voluntary subscriptions. He would earnestly beg Government to consider what were the actual requisitions of the Church, and not to consider that the four new bishops would meet all the existing wants."—[See 3  Hansard, 351
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, he would not retract the expressions which he had used on a former occasion, though he admitted experience had taught him wisdom. He had received letters from the under sheriff of Yorkshire, for the West Biding, and from the deputy clerk of the peace, stating that there would not be the least difficulty in taking the polling under the Bill in that district in one day, and he felt confident that every objection made to the measure could be fully answered in Committee.
 MR: LOCKE KING  said, that the Bill was supported by the representatives of very large constituencies—-by the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Lord R. Grosvenor), by the hon. Members for Lancashire and for the West Riding. That alone seemed a sufficient reason why the House should go into Committee.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he had mot the honour of representing a county, and probably never should, there-fore perhaps he ought to apologise for addressing the House on a subject which, as had been said by his. right hon. Friend the Home Secretary, belonged more especially to county Members. It appeared to him that the-noble Lord the Member for Middlesex had not satisfied the House as to the pressing necessity of this measure at then present moment. He (the Attorney General) did not say that it might not be convenient to have one. day's polling for county elections; and if there was time to arrange the machinery, he should not oppose their going into Committee on the Bill, because he thought it desirable that there should be. one day's polling in elections, for counties as well as in boroughs. He was not much moved by the argument that it might tend to deprive some persons who had votes in different counties of their right of voting. But what principally influenced him was the difficulty he had
 360
 MR. MILES  said who listened with. much pleasure to the suggestion of his hon. Friend who had just addressed the House. The magistrates assembled. in quarter-sessions could not at present make provisions for securing the necessary number of polling places the next election; but that objection would be ob obviated by Suspending the operation of the measure for a period of twelve months. He was
 363
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  would be no party to this Bill if he thought that its effect would be to deprive any elector of the right of going to the poll and giving his vote in the manner he did at present. The fact was, that every election was disposed of on the first day of voting, and therefore it was quite clear that all electors who came to vote on the second day had their trouble for nothing. He believed that there had been only a single instance since the Reform Bill, in which the voting of the second day had reversed the decision of the first day. If space were wanted, the sheriff had power to make as many additional booths as might be required, and the difficulty of bringing up voters would not be increased by the voting being limited to a single day. The under-sheriff of the West Riding of Yorkshire had informed him that at the last election, which took place at the time when the days we're shortest, the largest number of voters had been polled during the early hours of the first day, and that on the second day the polling booths had been nearly empty for several hours. The under-sheriff had also stated to him that he would engage to poll the whole of the electors in three hours. It was, therefore, quite unnecessary that the public should be kept in Suspense during the whole of a second day, and that working men should be kept away from their labour for that time. All the objections urged against this Bill had been urged against the Bill
 366
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  was of opinion that the bribery oath could not be administered' to all the voters.
 The ATTORNEY'GENERAL  said, he believed that the bribery oath might be administered to as' many voters as either of the' candidates pleased—
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  rose and said: Mr. Bernal, really, Sir, when the hon. and learned Attorney General, the first Law Officer of the Crown, rises to speak in this House, and when an hon. Member is called to order, and replies by thrusting his hand into the face of the hon. Member who so calls him to order—when that is the case, Sir, I think it demands the interference of the House. I take this opportunity to state that I have experienced great inconvenience, and have also observed other hon. Gentlemen suffer as much inconvenience from this behaviour; and I must say that, in my opinion, we have endured this annoyance With great goodwill for a very long time. But, Sir, there is a point beyond which it would he unworthy of us and of this House to submit. I regret being the individual who is obliged to make these observations; but in doing so I believe I Speak the feeling and opinions of hon. Gentlemen in general.
 MR. BERNAL : As I have been appealed to as Chairman, I beg to state what I conceive to he the extent of the duty of the Chairman of this House. On representation being made to me, I hold it to be my duty to report the nature of such representation to the highest authority in this House—namely, the right 'hon. Gentleman the Speaker. If any hon. Gentleman considers I should report the conduct of any hon. Member, I shall he prepared to do so accordingly.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, he had no intention of disfranchising any person; and the whole effect of this Bill would be to oblige the greater proportion of voters to take means for registering their votes on the first day. He would have the poll taken in all cases in the shortest possible time, so that voters in one part of a district could have no knowledge of what was going on in another part, and that object would be effected by the present Bill. He believed that the deputy-sheriff possessed the same power as the sheriff of suspending the poll in case of a riot. With respect to the extension of the hours, he (Mr. B. Denison) must say that he felt so thoroughly convinced that there was no necessity for it, that he must vote against his noble Friend on that point.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL : We all witnessed the conduct of the hon. Member for Nottingham last night, and I think we cannot hesitate to come to the conclusion that the hon. Member is master
 369
 CAPTAIN FITZROY  said, the object of the retiring pension was to induce the retirement of Judges who, from age and other causes, should be incompetent. If the hon. Gentleman had moved that the pension should be given only in cases of infirmity, or having served fifteen years, he should not have objected to it.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, no one disputed the desirability of increasing the polling districts, but that did not touch the question. He objected to the clause proposed, because it would increase the polling booths unnecessarily.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that if the county electors had excessive distances to travel for the purpose of recording their votes, it rested with the justices of the quarter-sessions to remedy that evil by increasing the number of polling places. But as the justices could not immediately proceed to cause additional polling places to be constructed, he would suggest that the House should pass the Bill with the addition of a Proviso to the effect that it should not come into operation until after the lapse of twelve months. There could then, he thought, be no reason for opposing the Motion that they should go into Committee on the measure. Hon. Gentlemen opposite might ask for delay before the House gave its sanction to the Bill; but he believed that they only wished to see it, permanently defeated. They had always opposed it, and he feared: that they would always continue to do so.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  did not rise to prolong the discussion, but he wished to say a few words on the nature of the proposals with which the Government had to deal. In the first place, he thought the noble Lord (the Marquess of Blandford) would do well to accept the proposal of the Government; and he would add, that from the conciliatory and moderate tone always expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, there was no man in whose hands he would more readily trust the question with a view to adjudication. But it was obvious that great difficulties beset this question of Church reform. His own opinions went a great length, greater perhaps than many Gentlemen who sat around him; but he was convinced that the Government and the House must exercise great forbearance, because having such immense difficulties to cope with, they could only settle those points on which they could obtain almost universal assent, and which no opposition could affect. No extreme views could be successful. This question of Church reform included the extension of the episcopate, the diminution of the numbers of the chapters, the abolition of the deans, and likewise the restoration to the chapters of the duties which they were originally intended to perform, which he rather thought the right hon. Gentleman had omitted to mention. With regard to the first of these points, the number to be added to the episcopate, he thought too high an estimate had been taken. He not only saw, however, that a very large addition was necessary, but he saw the difficulties in the way—be-
 346 347 l. l. l. 348 sine què l; 349
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that he had been under the impression that all objections to the principle of the Bill had been completely disposed of by the almost unanimous assent of the House to the second reading. He found now a notice on the paper, given by the hon. Member for South Leicestershire (Mr. Packe), who intended to reopen the question of the principle. He should, therefore, simply move that Mr. Speaker leave the Chair without then entering into any explanation of the alterations he proposed to make in the Bill.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  trusted, as his name was on the back of this Bill, that he might be allowed to express the gratification which he experienced when he heard the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman that it was the intention of the Government to deal with this question. He was quite aware how utterly impossible it was for an independent Member to have carried it to a successful termination. The country was deeply indebted to the noble Lord (the Marquess of Blandford) for having brought forward this Bill. The fact that the Government had taken up the measure, proved that it was very difficult to make any serious objection to it.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, it was his intention that the Bill should come into operation immediately. He regretted that this should be viewed in some degree as a party question; he did not say that one party would gain more than another by the proposed change. It was said he had shown no strong grounds for the measure proposed; he had not thought it necessary to make a long speech in its favour, after several Members of the Government had admitted its necessity, and the principle of the measure had been acted on by the Legislature ever since 1832. The hon. and learned Attorney General had said they were legislating in the dark. He differed from this; he had seen much of contested elections, and was convinced that a great' deal of the disorder and intoxication prevailing at elections was owing to the continuance of the poll for two days. If the measure was brought. forward late in the Session, that was not his fault, for two measures embracing the same principle as this had been before the House, and had been withdrawn. It was fallacious to contend that the polling could not be taken on one day. In fact, it was done so now; for no voter set out on the Monday, in order to vote en the Tuesday. Therefore, it could not be urged that it was impracticable for the voters to get to the poll. Allusion had been made to the
 365
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said he had no objection to make it an enabling instead of a compulsory Clause; but if the
 374
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  then moved a clause to enable the high sheriff to make such provisions in the polling booths that not more than 300 electors shall be polled at the same compartment, instead of 450, as is the rule at present.
 MR. OSWALD  said, he could not sympathise in the complaint of the hon. Member for South Leicestershire (Mr. Packe), and of the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln (Col. Sibthorp), who wanted to be seven gentlemen at once. It so happened that he (Mr. Oswald) had himself three county votes; but he would be happy to give up two of them for the attainment of a public advantage. He wished the Bill might be made to extend to Scotland, with the addition of a Proviso to the effect that in the case of the more remote islands of that country, the additional number of polling days should be allowed. He sincerely sympathised with the constituents of the hon. Member opposite (Sir B. Bridges) on account of the difficulty of travelling in the districts to which he had alluded, the state of which must be very bad indeed, when they could not go sixteen miles without having forty-eight hours to do it in. He cautioned large landed proprietors against resisting such a measure as the present. By Opposing it they were seeking to give property not only its fair and legitimate force, but a force which it ought not to have. The effect of keeping up two days' polling was to increase the expense and diminish the number of candidates who could stand for counties.
 MR. OSWALD  said, as a member of the Church of England, he agreed in much which had fallen from the hon. Member for Cockermouth; but there was one subject which he, in common with other Members who had addressed the House, seemed to overlook. They seemed to propose that this House should resolve itself into a lay
 344 l. 345
 MR. PACKE  said, he had had no opportunity in the previous stages of the Bill of stating the strong reasons he entertained against it, and he had hoped that the noble Lord would have given some reason for proceeding so rapidly with the measure. He thought it was a measure fraught with mischief, and would be the cause not only of inconvenience, but of great injustice to county electors. Only two reasons had been stated for limiting the poll in counties to one day. In the first place it was said that there was more bribery on the second than on the first-day. Although there might be a greater pressure of voters on the second day, he did not believe it was the result of bribery.
 353 "He thought it politic to, reduce the expenses of contested elections within a certain limit; and that limit was the consideration due to the full and free exercise of the franchise. The paramount consideration was not whether the expenses of candidates could be reduced, but whether such reduction was consistent with the full and free exercise of the franchise. He was bound to say he did not think it was, trying the present measure by that test. He perfectly agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Mr. B. Denison), that the analogy between counties and boroughs could not be sustained. No Bill had ever met with greater approbation than that for abridging the time for elections in boroughs. But it must be observed that
 354 bonâ fide Hansard, "He had made that admission; but that was
 355 3 Hansard,
 MR. SPEAKER : It is perfectly competent to the House to take the course suggested by the hon. Member for Whitehaven. It is usual, when a charge of misconduct is made against an hon. Member, to hear any explanation which that Member may offer. On that account I suggested that the hon. Member for Nottingham should be ordered to attend in his place; but if the House should be of opinion that the offence which the hon. Member has committed is flagrant and culpable, and admitting of no apology, it will be competent first, without directing him to attend in his place, to order him to be committed to the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he could not but express his surprise that this Bill, of which the operation would undoubtedly be to restrict the exercise of the most valuable of all political privileges, the franchise, should have emanated from the Opposition side of the House, where professions of "liberalism" were of such frequent recurrence. He had the good, or it might be the bad, fortune to be entitled to seven county votes, in Northumberland, in Yorkshire, in Lincolnshire, in Middlesex, in Hertfordshire, in Nottinghamshire, ad Bedfordshire, and how would it be possible for him, with all the assistance he might derive from railways (for he grieved to think that he would be under the miserable necessity of riding by rail at the next election) to exercise the franchise in respect
 359
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  seconded the Motion.
 MR. FELLOWES  said, he was at a loss to understand how the noble Lord, who professed himself in favour of an extension of the franchise, could bring forward a Bill which would assuredly have the effect of restricting it. He proposed, indeed, to add two hours to the time for polling; but if the elections took place, as they often would, in winter, it was evident that those persons who were inclined to not and disturbance would avail themselves of the darkness; and that the Bill would lead to confusion and tend to disturb the elections, instead of producing peace and good order. He should vote for the Amendment.
 MR. HORSMAN  fully concurred that, after what had been stated, it would be inexpedient to enter upon any lengthened discussion on this question, or to force the Government into explanations or details when they were not prepared to legislate immediately. He was quite sure that if the right hon. Gentleman had not express-
 340 341 l. l. 342 343
 MR. HORSMAN : How about the 37th Clause—that relating to the management of the property?
 MR. AGLIONBY : Sir, I have closely observed the Conduct of the unfortunate Gentleman who is the subject of discussion, and I entirely disagree from the hon. and learned Attorney General in the conclusion at which he has arrived respecting him. I Can be no party to any proceeding which would treat the hon. Member for Nottingham as a free agent, in the ordinary sense of the words. I am free to admit, that when you, Sir, last night called on the hon. Member to Make an apology for his conduct, he immediately did so; but we see that the apology has been followed by a repetition of the offencce. If art order for the hon. Member's commitment would have the effect of placing him under the care of medical attendants and the protection of his friends, I would not hesitate to assent to it; but; if otherwise, it would be abhorrent from my feelings, believing as I do that the hon. Member labours Under an aberration of intellect, to consent to his being committed for Contempt. I think that while providing for Our own protection and the maintenance of the dignity of the House, we should Use Our power with due regard to humanity.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he was of opinion that this Bill would promote the convenience of candidates, and would operate very much to the inconvenience of the great body of electors. The hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. B. Denison) had stated that he had been informed by the under-sheriff of that district that he
 367
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that the county he represented was placed in peculiar circum-stances, and the electors, would he prejudiced by the operation of this Bill. He trusted he might be allowed to state those circumstances. [Lord R. GROSVENOR: The Bill does not apply to Scotland.] If the Bill did not apply to Scotland, he had nothing to say on the subject.
 MR. STANFORD  said, before the Committee took any step to increase pensions, they should have some good reason. He would beg to move to add the following words:—
 "Provided that such Judge, at the time of such resignation, shall have served the office of Judge for a period of not less than fifteen years."
 MR. STANFORD  said, they had already provided for bodily infirmity, and what be wanted to do was to prevent pensions being granted to Judges who have not served for fifteen years.
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  said, that the Welsh clergy were also deeply indebted to the noble Lord for his exertions upon this subject. They trusted that no clergyman would be elevated to the episcopal bench who was unacquainted with the language of the people; and they attributed the separation of a large body of the population from the Church of England to the fact that a contrary policy had hitherto been adopted.
 MR. HENLEY  wished to ask whether the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. B. Denison) would propose to disfranchise the electors who voted on the second day of the election? Was the hon. Member aware that in the counties of Middlesex and Rutland two elections had taken place since the Reform Bill, both of which had been decided by the second day's polling. The hon. Member stated that he would be no party to this Bill if he was sure that it would have the effect of preventing parties from voting. Now what was to be done in case a not should take place? When riots occurred in towns, they necessarily happened under the eye of the returning officer, who could suspend the polling. But if there were twenty or thirty places of polling in a county, he (Mr. Henley) should like to know whether the presiding officers in these separate districts would have power to suspend the poll in case of persons being prevented by a not from exercising their franchise? If not, it was very probable that parties would mob the hustings in order to prevent voters from registering their votes.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the expediency of taking the votes in a county in one day's poll must depend much on the divisions of each county, and the number of voters. Numbers alone formed no difficulty in getting people up to the poll, but there was a difficulty in getting carriages. Where the arrangements of a division of a county were framed with reference to the facility of getting carriages for two days' polling, there would be great inconvenience in polling those places in one day, without giving an opportunity to such counties to consider the difficulty, and endeavour to remedy it at quarter-sessions. Time should be given to look to the arrangement of the county, and to see the numbers of voters assigned to a district who came up in one day. He did not understand that the noble Lord's machinery dealt with that question so as to operate on the next election. It would be impossible for that to be the case unless it was provided for in the Bill. The next quarter-sessions would be on 1st July, and the notice required by the present law could not be given, for let this Bill have what facility it might in passing, it could not become law many days before the end of the Session, and, therefore, could not operate on the next election unless it provided some machinery for the purpose. That being so, he was disposed not to proceed further with the Bill. If, however, it contained the required machinery
 358
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not see what advantage it could be to a voter fourteen miles from the polling place to know that some other more fortunate person lived immediately near it. In the boroughs, seven miles formed the maximum distance from the polling places.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that as that was the repealing clause of the Bill, he wished, before they adopted it, to ask the noble Lord who had charge of the measure when he proposed that it should come into operation? He wished to know whether the noble Lord would postpone that period until the justices in quarter-sessions should have had time to provide additional polling places? He could tell the hon. Member for the West Riding, that, with the present number of polling places, many county voters would either abstain from exercising their franchise, or would have to walk or to get themselves conveyed a distance of fourteen or fifteen miles; such, at all events,
 364
 MR. JACOB BELL  would ask whether it was of any use to proceed in this way against a Gentleman who, it sufficiently appeared, was labouring under an affliction of a very severe nature? The House had better refer the case to two medical men.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that, although the polling districts might extend over an area of fourteen miles, the average distance which the voters would have to travel could not amount to more than seven miles. Many of the electors would be in the immediate vicinity of the polling places.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that in the borough of Aylesbury the distance was considerably more than seven miles.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he thought the remarks of the Members of Her Majesty's Government were quite enough to induce the House,. without a moment's delay, to go into Committee, for they had all admitted the principle of the Bill. Only two hon. Members had spoken against the measure; and the House must remember they were not asked to read the. Bill a third time, but. merely to go, in to Committee upon it. It had been stated by two hon. Gentlemen who had addressed the, House, that they had each seven votes, and their apprehension was that they would not be able to exercise their franchise in seven different places unless the poll were kept open for two days. Now, seeing how many people, in this country had no vote at all, and remembering that the hon. Gentlemen to whom he alluded were generally found voting against the extension of. the franchise to their fellow-countrymen, he did not think any great weight would be attached to their arguments. It was well known that even in the most sharply-contested elections the result might be considered to be practically decided before two o'clock on the first day. He found that in, the West Riding of Yorkshire upwards of 4,000 electors had voted between
 361
 MR. R. C. HILDYARD : Mr. Speaker, I concur with the hon. Member who has just addressed the House in thinking that
 370
 MR. SLANEY  said, the House would have heard with great satisfaction the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that Government were willing, in a spirit of fairness, to undertake the consideration of
 333
 MR. S. CARTER : I think, Sir, the right hon. and learned Gentleman's last Observation is an answer to his first. If he thinks that you; Sir, or any other Member of this House, is in danger from the hon. Member for Nottingham, he Surely cannot believe the hon. Member to be in a state which would render him responsible for his acts. If a person in a state of mind resembling that of the hon. Member for Nottingham should be unfortunate enough to commit a crime, not a jury in the metropolis would hesitate to acquit him on the ground of insanity. The hon. Member has acted in a Court of Justice as he has acted in this House; but the result which the right hon. and learned Gentleman thinks inevitable did not follow. It was stated in the newspapers recently that the hon. Member visited the Law Courts one after another, exhibiting in each marks of eccentricity. No one wishes to prevent proper charge being taken of the hon. Member; but I would have this done in a way which would not reflect on the common Sense and humanity of the House.
 MR. S. CARTER  said, the only alteration would be, that instead of having a certain number of booths—say two for 900 voters, or one for each 450—they would have three booths, or one for every 300. It would not be necessary to alter the polling divisions of the counties at all.
 MR. WALPOLE : I move that the hon. Member (Mr. F. O'Connor) be ordered to attend in his place.
 MR. WALPOLE : Mr. Bernal, after what had taken place last night I think the House had reason to expect that the
 368
 MR. WALPOLE : I am sure Sir, the House will in this Case, as in every other, act humanely as well as justly I have throughout this Session witnessed the hon. Member for Nottingham conduct himself so disrespectfully towards the Chair, and so disorderly towards the House; that in my opinion the time has come when we are bound to take notice of the matter. It must be observed that, from the circumstance of the hon. Member's having been allowed during the Session to sit and Vote in this House, we have hitherto been justified in treating him as a person who knows what he is about. Under these circumstances I think it my duty, without further debate, to move that Mr. Feargus O'Connor be committed to the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms, for disorderly conduct and contempt of this House.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, this Amendment would prevent pensions being granted even in cases of permanent infirmity rendering the Judge unfit to fulfil his office.
 MR. WALPOLE : I do not think the House should call on the Government to pledge themselves to any details, till they have had an opportunity of fully considering the subject; and I hope the House will not, seeing that I have given a distinct undertaking that we are willing and anxious to take up the subject, and give it our fullest consideration, press further discussion.
 MR. WALPOLE : I know not whether I am strictly in order; but perhaps, after the remark of the hon. Gentleman, I may be permitted to say a few words. Now, the view I take of this Bill is this: I consider it involves four essential points of detail. First, the abolition of deaneries and the consolidation of the office of dean with the office of bishop; second, by a further reduction of the number of canonries; third, by the means to be acquired by those alterations, to add to the episcopate of the country; and, fourth, to make provision for the better management of the capitular and episcopal revenues. Now, with regard to the first—the abolition of deaueries—I see no reason, and on looking at the Bill of the noble Lord as it is, the hon. Gentleman will, I think, see that it would be impossible, to consolidate those two offices with advantage. We ought to keep the dean at the head of the chapter; and as to the suppression or reduction in the number of canonries, I think you would find it extremely doubtful whether, with a view of keeping up your cathedral institutions in efficient force, you can further reduce the present number. But we ought not to forget that through the instrumentality of recent Acts you have suppressed all sinecures—you have suspended 300 prebendaries and canonries, and applied some 78,000 l. 334
 MR. WALPOLE  said: With reference to this Bill, I think the state of the Session will not allow us to go on with a discussion so large, even if there were not parts of the measure to which I have serious objections. But, independent of this circumstance, I have had, since the Bill was introduced, an opportunity of consulting the heads of the Government, and conferring with the highest authorities in the Church, and those who take an interest in these subjects; and I am now prepared to state that Her Majesty's Government are willing to undertake the consideration of the subject with reference to capitular revenues and capitular bodies, and to deal with them so as to make them more extensively and more practically useful than they are at present; and also with the view of extending spiritual instruction and education which might be advantageously carried on by these bodies, and of putting them generally on a more satisfactory footing than they now are. That being the cause, I do not know whether the noble Lord (the Marquess of Blandford) will wish to go on with the Bill; but what I would suggest is, that he should move to discharge the order of the day, leaving to the Government the consideration of this question, which they are willing to undertake. If the noble Lord will assent to this suggestion, without my being required to state my objections to parts of the Bill, I should certainly prefer it.
 MR. WALPOLE : The wording is not finally settled.
 MR. WALPOLE : Yes.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to state on the part of the Government, that they thought this a question which rather concerned the county Members than the Government, and he was now about to express only his individual opinion with regard to it. After the second reading of the Bill had been assented to by the House, he was not prepared individually to oppose its going into Committee; but he wished to warn the noble Lord (Lord R. Grosvenor), as he had done on a former occasion, of the difficulties he would have to encounter in Committee, in taking care that the Bill should be workable for the purposes of the ensuing election. By the first Act which regulated elections after the passing of the Reform Bill, the 2 & 3  Will. TV., Will. TV., 357
 MR. WALPOLE  said, in answer to the right hon. Baronet, the Committee of Privy Council on Education had prepared a Minute, admitting the relaxation of the management clauses in one respect, which he thought very important, and a copy of that Minute should be laid on the table as soon as it was finally settled.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for South Leicestershire (Mr. Packe) that it would be indiscreet to sanction the extension of the hours of polling from Four to Six o'clock; but that was a matter for consideration in Committee. He agreed with his noble Friend (Lord R. Grosvenor) in wishing the polling at county elections to be confined to one day. It appeared by a return for which he (Mr. Alcock) had moved, that there had been contested elections in only twenty-two counties since 1840, and which required two days' polling. The hon. Member for South Leicestershire had laid great stress on the argument, that if there was only one day to poll, many persons who had votes in different counties would be unable to give them. But the facilities of locomotion were very different now to what they were at the time of passing the Reform Bill. It was only after the opening of the Great Northern Railway that he (Mr. Alcock) was enabled to give his vote in the county of Lincoln. If this Bill was passed, it would enable a county election, when the nomination was on a Wednesday, to be concluded on a Saturday; whereas now it
 356
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY : I rise Sir, to suggest a middle course, which, I understand, has been adopted in some cases, namely, to sequester the hon. Member from his seat in Parliament. By adopting this course we should enable the hon. Member's friends to take charge of him, and prevent his doing mischief, while, at the same time, it would be a less severe
 371
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : I think, Sir, I was partly responsible for the proceedings of the hon. Member. I was sitting here (on the front Opposition bench), and after conversing with the hon. Member, who talked an extraordinary quantity of nonsense, he gave me a blow in my side. I said to him, "If you repeat this you will get yourself into a scrape, and will get yourself shut up;" upon which he laughed and turned round to the hon. Member on his right (Mr. B. Denison), and struck him in the face. It is a painful and difficult question—whether, if a man would do such an act after the warning he had just received, he can be a free agent. I should say that he is not. To call upon the hon. Member to make another apology after what took place last night, really appears to me to be a waste of time. 'Then again, supposing the hon. Member should say that he will not appear in his place in obedience to our summons, what are we to do in that case? I am of opinion that it is necessary for the House to take decisive measures at once, not only for our own sakes, but also for that of the hon. Member himself.
 MR. W. BROWN  said, that as the representative of one of the largest constituencies in England, he begged to state that he was sure the proposition to confine the polling at elections to one day would meet with the concurrence of his county, inasmuch' as it would tend to diminish the opportunity of exhibiting many of the bad feelings which were too often excited on such occasions.
 MR. DEEDES  hoped the hon. Member for South Leicestershire would take the sense of the House against proceeding with the Bill The fact referred to by the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. Alcock), that since 1840 advantage had been taken of the second day to poll in not more than twenty-two contested county elections, was a proof, not that this Bill was necessary, but that it was not required.
 MR. DEEDES  said, as the principal difficulty would be the paucity of polling booths at the ensuing election, he would give notice of a clause that the sheriff shall on the requisition of the Court of Quarter Sessions increase the number of polling booths.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  joined in thanking his noble Friend for bringing forward this question, and he hoped that next Session such a Bill would be brought in under the auspices of the Government as should place the whole temporalities of
 337 l. l. 338 l. l., l. l., l. 339 l. s. d,
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES  thought the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary did not go so far as the hon. Gentleman seemed to infer; at all events, it was desirable that the House should know how far Government intended to carry out the views of the noble Lord.
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES  said, he thought that that House ought to consider the convenience of electors rather than the convenience of Members. The hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) had cast reflections on those county voters who allowed themselves to be taken in carriages to the polling booths; but it should be remembered that whether they were taken at their own expense or at the expense of others, carriages for their conveyance should still be found. The hon. Gentleman had also stated that in some of the boroughs there were electors who were placed at as great an average distance from the polling booths as the county electors. But he could inform the hon. Member that in the county which he (Sir B. Bridges) represented, Kent, there was a town of 20,000 inhabitants, in which all those who had votes for the county were fifteen miles from the polling place. He believed that the House ought not to be asked to pass such a measure as that at the present advanced period of the Session; but he would not further discuss the question whether or not it might be desirable to adopt it on some future occasion.
 SIR DAVID DUNDAS : Sir, it is impossible to determine accurately what is the state of the hon. Member's mind; but, having noticed him for some time, I am clearly of Opinion that he knows enough of the Consequences of his actions to be answerable for what he does. But, be the hon. Member's mind in the state in which the hon. Member who Spoke last supposes it to be; will any one tell me that if a man in that state of mind Were to act in a Court of Justice as the hon. Member for Nottingham acts here; the Judge presiding over the Court would hot immediately take measures for preventing the Court from being outraged? He would do so to maintain the dignity of the Court, for the protection of suitors; and for the protection of the individual Himself. This is the way in which I feel We ought to act. It is consistent with justice to put by a man who, in the opinion of some, is unable to take care of himself; and, at all events, we are bound to take care of ourselves. It is my opinion that the hon. Member for Nottingham is in a state of mind in which he might do much mischief. From what I have seen of the hon. Mem-
 372
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, that the borough of Shoreham embraced a district of twenty miles long, and ten miles wide; and yet he had never heard that there had been any difficulty in getting any of the voters there to poll in a single day.
 SIR JOHN DUCKWORTH  thought there should be an increase of polling districts rather than of polling booths, so that the voters would have to travel shorter distances to give their vote's.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I have no hesitation in saying that I feel it my painful duty to second the Motion, I this day witnessed the conduct of the hon. Member for Nottingham towards my hon. Friend the hen. Member for the West Riding (Mr. B. Denison), and previously I witnessed his conduct In the lobby to a right hon. Friend of mine, hot how present; and his conduct on both those occasions, added to
 373
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I rise, in confirmation of what has been said by my right hon. Colleague, to state that accidentally I observed what was the exact conduct of the hon. Member; and, after observing that conduct, I have no hesitation in saying; however painful it may be, that it is indispensably necessary, not only to the dignity of our proceedings, but to the conduct of public business, that this painful matter should not be passed over. I have, therefore, no hesitation in recommonding that we should suspend for a short time our proceedings, in order to report to the highest authority in this House what has been the conduct of the hon. Member in question.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : But the principle is settled.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : It is finally settled.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he would take that opportunity of asking the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department a question,
 352
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  concurred in what appeared to be the general feeling, that it was not expedient, after the declaration of his noble Friend that he intended to comply with the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, to continue the discussion upon the Bill before the House. While expressing his thanks to the right hon. Gentleman for the general view he had stated on the subject, there were two or three expressions which fell from his right hon. Friend, by which, by the cheers with which they were received by some hon. Gentlemen, he thought more was understood than was intended to be conveyed. He referred to those passages of his right hon. Friend's speech in which he talked of relieving the bishops from worldly or temporal cares. He was sure his right hon. Friend did not moan to apply those observations-—though he believed they had in some quarters been so understood—so as to convey an intention of separating in any way the Church
 336
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  was desirous of expressing his thanks to his noble Friend opposite (the Marquess of Bland-
 335
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that silence by no means gave consent. [Mr. T. DUNCOMBE: Remember your speech.] Yes! he remembered the proposal made in 1840; but he never heard a complaint that the postmasters were in a worse position than before. But there was one thing he was ready to recommend to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer—that if the parties thought they were worse than before, they should be put back as they were before.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he wished to hear something from the Government respecting the sum that had been voted for the Naval Reserve. In the Estimates laid upon the table a sum was included for the purpose of forming a Naval Reserve. But two days ago, in answer to a question that had been put by a gallant Officer, they were told that the Admiralty had abandoned that scheme, and would not carry it into effect. There was a sum of 38,000 l l 401
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, the right hon. Gentleman had not answerered the most particular part of his question, and probably the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty would answer it, namely, had the Vote for last year been exceeded?
 MR. COGAN  begged to assure the Committee, that if these hospitals were in any way interfered with, the result would be most injurious to the medical scheols of Dublin.
 MR. WEGG-PROSSER  said, he thought that these endowments were in the end prejudicial. To be giving them first to one religion, and then to another, was certainly prejudicial to the character of the State which imposed upon itself a semi-infidel character when it began to support simultaneously half-a-dozen religions. It would be worth while for the Committee to consider whether they proceeded on any established system with respect to the Established Church. In England the Established Church was the Church of the majority of the nation, and might, he presumed, be considered by the State and the Parliament as teaching religious truth. There was here then no anomaly, speaking legislatively even. The moment, however, they passed the Tweed, they found a Church teaching totally different and partly antagonistic doctrines— [An Hon. MEMBER: And in a minority]—and, as the hon. Member said, though of that he was not himself aware, not in a majority. Here was an anomaly. In Ireland they had the same Church as in England, but, as every body knew, it was there in a minority. They had then no clear principle, for neither truth nor majority could, in these cases, be assigned. He spoke legislatively, not theologically, and he was not speaking of any particular mode of dealing with the Established Church in Ireland. But he said this: Until you are prepared to deal with it on a large and grand scale, it is absurd to withdraw particular grants from either this sect or that. He thought the times were now so much altered from what they were a few centuries ago, that, supposing a fresh state of things starting up, no states-
 424
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, his opinion from the first had been, that it would be preferable not to proceed with this Bill without some inquiry; and certainly, if they were to go into the consideration of the question which had been raised by the hon. Member for Southwark, the proper course would have been, before coming to any resolution upon it, to have submitted it to a Committee of the House. He did not think that the right hon. Baronet the Colonial Secretary had given any sufficient reason for a departure from the Act of 1847. He said himself that the clause which he introduced he had found in an Act intended for a totally different purpose. Why then introduce it here? The right hon. Baronet said, that he was bound to do so, because he was creating a new Legislature in New Zealand; but that was no reason, unless he were creating a Legislature which he entirely distrusted. The simple question for them to decide was, whether they should put the New Zealand Company in a better position than they were in 1847, because the right hon. Baronet could not deny that the clause which he now proposed did place that Company in a better position. By the Act of 1847 their claim was indefinite; it was merely a claim after the expense of surveys and emigration, and it might be large or small; but the claim which the right hon. Baronet now gave them was fixed and definite, from which there was no departure. That Company, he contended, without meaning, of course, to impute any bad motives, had been throughout merely a trading Company, and he argued that they had no claim whatever upon this country. Could they show that they had made any sacrifice for the public good? They had sacrificed their money in a bad speculation, he admitted, and that had been strongly represented by the present Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1847, when he described them as an insolvent Company, and spoke of them as "destitute shareholders." If that were the case in 1847, he was afraid that their position was not much improved in 1852, for he found that their scrip was at a discount of something like seventy-five per cent. The Company then had no claim beyond that of strict justice. Strict justice had been done them, as they themselves considered, in 1847; and he saw no reason for departing from that Act, unless the Government had the most utter distrust of the integrity of the new Legislature, which, by the present Bill, they were
 454
 MR. P. PEEL  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had complained that no reason had been given why, in the present Bill, there was a departure from the arrangement made in the Act of 1847; and as the arrangement included in the present Bill was made under the auspices of Earl Grey, when he (Mr. Peel) held a subordinate appointment in the Colonial Office, he might be allowed to state briefly why he considered that that arrangement deserved the support of the Committee. There was no doubt of the existence of a debt due to the New Zealand Company. He thought the hon. Member for Southwark had shown no ground why they should in any way repudiate that debt, and it seemed to him the question for them to consider was, how they could discharge it with the least burthen to the colony of New Zealand. There could be no doubt that the Imperial Treasury should incur no liability with respect to it. It was equally clear that it could not be charged upon the general revenue of the colony of New Zealand. The debt had been charged upon the land of New Zealand, and he presumed that by the land it ought to be discharged. The Committee had two courses before it—the plan of the Government, and the plan of the hon. Member for Southwark. The hon. Member for Southwark appeared to think that the plan of the Government was all in favour of the Company, and all to the detriment of the colony. To him (Mr. Peel) it appeared on the other hand to be not unattended with considerable sacrifices on the part of the Company, while it was of obvious benefit and advantage to the colony. He set aside altogether Canterbury and Otago as special cases, and dealt with specially by this Bill. With those exceptions, the land of the colony was situated either within or without the settlements of the Company. As to the land within those settlements, the Company were entitled to receive 5 s. 455
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, that the Bill would not have this effect, as it would leave untouched the existing arrangements with respect to these two settlements.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, he must express his regret at the manner in which the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark had brought forward these charges against his former Colleagues, and his surprise that he should have done so without any previous communication with those whose characters they were calculated so seriously to
 461
 MR. J. A. SMITH  would suggest that the sum to be paid to the New Zealand Company for all lands, both town and suburban, should be fixed at  5s.
 MR. E. ELLICE  would suggest, that after what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Walpole), his hon. Friend should not proceed with the nomination of the Committee, the composition of which was unknown to the Government. His solo object in supporting his hon. Friend's Motion was to remedy a great grievance, but not to found an impeachment against the Bishop of Bath and Wells.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he thought his hon. Friend had forgotten the circumstances of the Vote of the other night. There was a distinct proposal to examine into the state of the law, which the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsrman) refused, and which at his instance the House negatived, and the hon. Gentleman stated that there were charges brought against an individual which that proposal was meant to get rid of. He (Mr. S. Herbert) said, in common justice to the Bishop of Bath and Wells, who had been charged with malversation—in common justice to the culprit—let them have the charges stated in writing, that they might know what they were, and whether he was guilty or not.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, in explanation, that he had not intended to charge the hon. Member for Cockermouth with a desire to shuffle out of the charges; what he had intended to convey was, that the House ought not to put itself in a false position with reference to the matter.
 LOUD DUDLEY STUART  said, he hoped the postmasters would obtain that amount of relief which they were on all grounds of equity and justice fairly entitled to. He thought if the proposition of the hon. Member (Mr. T. Duncombe) was adopted, the loss to the revenue would be small, and the relief to the postmasters very great. There was one point to which he wished to call the attention of the House. There was a Bill before the House called the Metropolis Burial Bill. One of the greatest difficulties experienced in introducing Burial Bills was to devise means whereby the poorer classes could have their relatives buried decently at a small expense. If anything could be done by legislation to facilitate that object, a great good would be done. A general desire existed to cheapen the cost of funerals, and that desire might be partly accomplished by taking off the duty on carriages employed at funerals.
 MR. STAFFORD : No.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he believed that the proposition which had been just made would be favourably received by the inhabitants of the Canterbury settlement.
 MR. FREWEN  would suggest that all carriages carrying mails should be free from the duty to which they were liable if they carried passengers. This, he believed, would confer an advantage on the public, without decreasing the revenue, for what the Government would lose in the way of duty, the Post Office would save in the expense of carrying the mails, which cost that establishment about 10 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was very true that he had the honour of receiving a deputation from the postmasters of the country in the presence of the hon. Member for Finsbury, who did full justice to the interests of his constituents. That was a deputation that did not merely profess to represent the postmasters of the metropolis, but professed to represent the general trade throughout the country. He must admit, that with very great ability they had brought forward the scheme of finance by which they sought to get relief; they declared that no material injury would thereby be done to the revenue; but his (the Chancellor's) opinion was, that in all schemes of that kind which were devised by a suffering interest, the relief was more certain than the security to the revenue. There was one point which the hon. Gentleman had forgotten—namely, the main ground on which those individuals had applied to him. The main ground on which the appeal for relief was founded, was the common opinion that was prevalent, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was in possession of a very large surplus. There was supposed to be a surplus of more than 2,000,000 l 398
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was glad to hear from the hon. Gentleman the willingness which exits on his part to support any well-matured scheme for at last preparing some receptacle for the works of art possessed by the country. Any suggestion made by the hon. Gentleman was entitled to respect, because he had always exhibited the greatest liberality where the interests of the arts were concerned. The question of providing a proper receptacle for the reception of works of art, was exciting increased interest in the public mind, and the contributions which had been made by that late eminent artist, Mr. Turner, and other individuals, should alone be sufficient to force the subject upon the attention of the Government, even if the Government were not inclined to give it the attention which it deserved. The House, he thought, would agree with him that it was of the most critical importance that they should make no mistake in the next effort they embarked in of this kind. From the dis-
 391
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought he had distinctly stated that the rate of expenditure did not exceed the Estimate.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there would be no inconvenience to the public service in replying to the right hon. Gentleman with as much frankness as he had used in putting the question. He perfectly agreed in the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman with respect to the Accountant General, who was as highly appreciated by the present as by the late Government, and it was under his advice and guidance they had acted. There was no foundation whatever for the idea—as far as he had heard, and of course he would have heard it if there was —that the rate of expenditure had exceeded that which it ought to be, according to the Estimates which Her Majesty's Government had adopted. He had no reason for believing that the Estimates which they had adopted from their predecessors would be at all exceeded, so far as he could judge from the rate of expenditure now adopted. As to the question of the Naval Reserve, it was not proceeded with by the present Administration, for certain reasons which swayed them; but it was not desirable at present to enter into any debate on the question. The answer that they had not exceeded the Estimates was an answer also to the observation of the right hon. Gentleman with respect to the transfer of the sum of 38,000 l 402
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The subject of those medical schools I have already noticed in the course of the Session. We look with great interest to those establishments, and should be sorry to see any falling off in them. I think, at this hour, the best thing I can do is to move, Sir, that you do report progress.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I promised that I would make a statement to the House this evening with reference to the Vote for the Kafir war. In consequence of the expense of the Kafir war having been much less consider able than we anticipated, and in consequence of the Treasury Minute that no expenditure should take place for extra ordinary military services until the Votes for ordinary military expenditure had been exhausted, I have the satisfaction to state to the House that I do not feel it necessary to call upon them for that Vote of 200,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had received a deputation on the subject from the coachbuilders of the metropolis, but that he felt it impossible to give any promise to enter into the subject in detail at the present moment. He hoped the hon. and gallant Gentleman would avail
 418
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the grants to all the Irish hospitals were under the considera-
 419
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that this resolution was not a sudden one, as stated by the hon. Gentleman. It was announced by the Government three months ago, and under existing circumstances they felt that it was impossible for them to adopt any other course. The proposition was only to continue the Commission for one year.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must object to the Government being made responsible for the expenditure of past years. When he was in Constantinople some years ago nearly 300 persons attended divine worship in the English chapel. The chapel was built for the use of the English residents and visitors in that city; but as the Committee wished for information on the subject, he would willingly consent to the postponement of the Vote.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  regretted exceedingly that the hon. and learned Gentleman was not happier in his geography. Pera was that quarter of Constantinople in which the British Ambassador resided. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had not stated that 300 merchants but that 300 persons attended divine worship when he was there, which was now a good many years ago. Perhaps there were not more than thirty English merchants in Pera. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had proposed that the Vote should be postponed, in order that his noble Friend (Lord J. Manners), who was unavoidably absent, might give to the Committee the information for which the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had expressed a desire.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as the hour (nine o'clock) had arrived at which the Committee of Supply was to cease, he thought better to keep to the proposed plan, and begin with this Vote on the next Supply day. He should therefore move that the Chairman report progress.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Government did not at all complain that the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman) had not sufficiently consulted them on the subject. His own opinion was, that the resolution to which the House had come, was an unfortunate one; but, having adopted it, the Government desired that the inquiry should be full and impartial. What, under the circumstances, he would suggest to the hon. Member for Cockermouth was, that he should ask the permission of the House so to alter the terms of his Motion, as that inquiry should be made into the grievances of the existing law, and not into the conduct of an individual, whom all now seemed to be anxious to hold free from attack. By adopting this suggestion, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) thought the House would disengage itself from a very embarrassing situation, and place itself on a better footing with respect to the inquiry.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) pressed a little too
 464
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he would now beg to nominate the Select Committee on Frome Vicarage. ["Oh, oh!"] He hoped the House would allow the Motion to proceed, as, unless the Committee were nominated to-night, it would probably be delayed till Monday, and it was most desirable to avoid anything that might give rise to an impression out of doors that the House wished to shirk the inquiry. He had endeavoured to make the Committee as fair a representation of both sides of the question as possible. He was sorry to find, however, that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the City of Oxford (Sir W. P. Wood), the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Loftus Wigram), and the hon. Member for South Leicestershire (Mr. Paeke), declined to act; but he was quite ready to substitute such other names in lieu as might be suggested. The names proposed by the hon. Member were—Mr. Horsman, Mr. Secretary Walpole, Sir David Dundas, Mr. Gladstone, Mr. Strutt, Sir William Page Wood, Sir Benjamin Hall, Mr. Solicitor General, Mr. John Abel Smith, Mr. Loftus Wigram, Mr. Evans, Mr. Packe, Mr. Langston, Mr. Newdegate, and Mr. Shafto Adair.
 MR. HORSMAN  thought it would be more desirable they should come to some understanding as to the nomination of this Committee before the House adjourned.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he did not wish to oppose the payment of the salaries of the Commissioners, but he must say that as the Government when in Opposition had opposed the Commission, their decision, as regarded the continuance of the Bill, was sudden, and astonished the greater part of their own supporters from Ireland. One of the ablest pamphlets against the measure, in fact, was, he understood, written by a legal Member of the Government.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  thought it extremely satisfactory that Her Majesty's present Government had undertaken to consider the decision of their predecessors on this subject; and in common with the other Irish Members who had opposed the course taken by the late Government, he felt thankful to their successors, and if they were prepared not only to suspend that decision, but to alter it, he would support them.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  observed, that he should not have risen upon that occasion, but for the insinuations thrown out by the hon. and gallant Member for Derry (Capt. Jones), to the effect that the Presbyterians of Ulster were more loyal subjects than the Catholic inhabitants of other parts of Ireland. He, for one, would never sit silent under that or any similar imputations which some hon. Gentlemen were so much in the habit of casting upon the Roman Catholic people. The hon. Member had intimated that he could scarce restrain himself from expressing more plainly his real sentiments; but he (Mr. Scully) thought it was always better to be outspoken in such matters, for the mischief
 425 "What is the condition of Ireland? No description can describe it. No parallel exists or has ever existed to illustrate it. No province of the Roman Empire ever presented half the wretch-
 426 "The Irish people, physically and intellectually considered, are one of the most active and restless people in the world. In every colony in our empire, and among the motley multitudes of the United States, the Irish are distinguished by their energy, their industry, and their success. They are industrious and successful everywhere but in Ireland. Hut at this moment there is a state of war in Ireland. Do not let us disguise it from ourselves. There is a war between landlord and tenant—a war as fierce, as relentless as though it were carried on by force of arms. Such is the frightful, the appalling result of our long government of Ireland. We have made it—I speak it deliberately—we have made it the most degraded and the most miserable country in the world, and we wonder that the Irish should rebel against such a system of misgovernment! All the world cries shame upon us; but we are equally callous to our ignominy, and to the results of our misgovernment." 427 Book of Common Prayer, 428
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, the hon. and learned Member for Youghal had spoken of the Government bribing the Presbyterians of Ireland by this grant; but he must know very little indeed of that body, if he supposed that they would suffer themselves to be bribed by any Government. The ministers of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland could not be bribed by any thing which that House could offer to them.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he had only to remark that, if this Vote could not be sustained upon grounds of policy and justice, he felt sure that the independent character of the Presbyterians of Ireland was such that they would reject the grant. No doubt there was no explanation of this Vote upon the Estimates; but there lay upon the table a lengthy statement, which would give the hon. and learned Gentleman all the particulars that he might desire respecting it. That document would inform him that, in the time of James I., several Presbyterians left Scotland for Ireland with the view of planting Ulster, on condition that Parliament should give stipends to their ministers. That express stipulation had been since solemnly ratified by Acts of Parliament. The Dissenters of England, therefore, in this respect, stood upon a ground totally different from that occupied by the Presbyterians of Ireland; and he felt confident that the Committee would not refuse to agree to this Vote.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  would say nothing on the subject of past Votes, but he had to remind the Committee that the chapel at Constantinople was destroyed by fire two years ago, and it could hardly be denied that it was their duty to rebuild it. The chapel was for the Ambassador, the Consul General, and other British inhabitants of Constantinople.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  begged to remind the hon. Member for Montrose, that the Act by which the Board of Health had been established would come under the revision of Parliament in the course of the next two years, and if there was any necessity for making a change in the number of inhabitants permitted to memorialise the Board of Health, then would be the proper time to discuss the question. In the absence of the noble Lord who was at the head of the Woods and Works, he was, of course, not prepared to enter into any details with respect to the charge of mismanagement. He could state, however, that the Act had been applied to no less than 130 towns, and that there had been 231 petitions received from towns to be included under it.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  explained that, in the particular hospital now before the Committee, the inmates were very old and infirm, and consequently could not go abroad to Divine worship.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he would beg to offer a few explanations to the Committee on the different items to which the hon. and learned Member had objected in this Vote. If the hon. and learned Member were to refer to the appendix to the Report of the Committee on Miscellaneous Expenditure, over which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith) had so ably presided, he would find all the points to which he had alluded very fully explained there; and from that Report he (Mr. G. A. Hamilton) had derived any information he had to communicate to the Committee. With respect to the Vote to the French Protestant refugees, he found that he had fallen into a mistake in the statement he had made upon that subject on a former day. He had said that he had believed that Vote had taken its rise in the assistance given to the refugees from Franco at the time of the French revolution. But it appeared that the Vote had, in reality, had its origin at a much earlier period. The fact was, that the allowance had first been made to
 406 50 l l 407
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not take a partial view of the subject, but would consider it upon the broad scale of taking off the duty altogether. Its pressure was severely felt in the city he represented.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, he had looked into the amounts expended for erecting a residence for our Ambassadors at Constantinople, and he found that, since 1843. it had amounted to no less than 83,765?. It was too bad, therefore, to come forward now and ask that House to erect a room for the Ambassador's private devotions; and he would divide the Committee against it.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he must decline to say whether or not the Company were protesting parties against the Bill. They found themselves in such a position, that they thought it best to take whatever they could get.
 MR. AGLIONBY  believed that the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington) intended to do justice towards the Company, but in that particular he gave them a very short measure of it.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he did not know whether it would be convenient for the Committee that he should reply at that moment. He was sorry to say that he could not do so very shortly, unless the Committee should agree, as he hoped they would, that it was utterly impossible that they could be a proper tribunal to inquire into and decide upon the question, involving, as it did, not only very important interests as regarded the Crown, the country, and the settlers, and still more as regarded the character of gentlemen as high in station, as independent in principle, and as high in honour as the hon. Baronet who had brought forward the question. Being connected with the Company whoso character and honour had been assailed in the speech just delivered, he felt compelled to follow the hon. Baronet, who, he must say, had not treated the Company fairly in bringing forward his charges upon the authority of Mr. Cowell, an individual who bad been relieved from the duties of his office by Lord Grey, on ground that did not redound to his credit, for it was discovered that he had been in the habit of taking private notes of confidential conversations among gentlemen without their knowledge, with the intention of using them against the Company. The difference between the settlers at Nelson and the Company was referred by the directors to the decision of Mr. Cowell and Mr. Godley, a gentleman of the very highest character, and now connected with the Canterbury Association. When it was discovered that a cabal was being got up against the Company in order to make an attack upon them in the House of Commons, Mr. Godley was asked if he had taken the notes of the confidential conversation; and that gentleman replied, "Certainly not," and that he would as soon have thought of taking notes of what was said by his wife, Mr. Cowell thereupon brought out of his pocket writ-
 447 448 449 450 l l l l
 MR. AGLIONBY  would not say whether the Company were consenting parties or not, to the arrangement proposed by the Government, hut he would be quite willing to take everything that he was forced to take.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he had voted in the morning against the abolition of the duty on post-horses, because he did not think that when they were about to consider the great question of direct and indirect taxation, this was a fitting moment to deal with any particular branch. If, however, the hon. and gallant Gentleman persisted in dividing upon the modification of the tax, he would vote with him, but he could not consent to vote for the total repeal of the tax.
 MR. KERSHAW  wished the country could get rid of this scrambling for public money by different religious bodies. The English Dissenters had protested against the annual grant of 1,695 l
 MR. ELLIS  hoped that the Government would look very closely into the working of the Board of Health, as much dissatisfaction had been occasioned by their proceedings.
 MR. STANFORD  said, that as an independent though humble Member of that House, he was constantly placed in a most embarrassing position, in consequence of the extraordinary anomaly which existed in the British Constitution with regard to our ecclesiastical system. He had but one clear and intelligible course to pursue. It was, that being a member of the Established Church, and of opinion that the connexion of the Church with the State most conduced to the peace and hapiness of the community, he must throughout maintain that principle. When, therefore, he was called upon to vote money for Nonconformist or for Roman Catholic ministers, he asked himself, as he now asked hon. Members, how are we to maintain our established system, and yet, at the same time, grant money for the maintenance of doctrines entirely opposed to it? They must, in consistency, either declare themselves ready to maintain the principle of an Established Church, or to resort to the voluntary system. Being opposed to the voluntary system, he felt himself entitled to vote with the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, should he press for a division.
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  said, that if the authorities of the College had only agreed to make the returns for which he had moved two years ago, this unfortunate discussion would have been prevented. After a trial of twenty-six years, and the expenditure of 6,000 l l l 412 l l l l Times, Suggestions, l l 413 
 
 Llanddewi Velfrey, nett annual value, 200 l. 
 Llangeler nett annual value, 244 l. 
 Nangle nett annual value, 157 1. 
 And the vicarages of— 
 Llangoedmoro nett annual value, 329 l. 
 Llanedy nett annual value, 258 1. 
 St. Peter's, Carmarthen value, 176 1. 
 Total, 1,364 l. l l l l l 414
 MR. J. WILLIAMS  said, that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer must know there was no class so oppressed with taxes as the licensed victuallers and postmasters.
 MR. HUME  said, that, for the reasons given by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. G. A. Hamilton), he would support the Vote. He hoped the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey) would not persevere.
 MR. HUME  said, he believed that St. David's College was in a very bad state, and he called on Her Majesty's Government to revise the Votes altogether, many of which were only originally acceded to conditionally.
 MR. HUME  said, he was sorry that the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, with the view of inducing the Committee to discontinue this grant, had criticised rather severely the character of some of the recipients of it. Why, would not anybody take money if it was offered to him? It was quite true that the money was first granted in the time of James I.; but since that time what important changes in our policy had there been. The time had come in which the Presbyterians of Ireland were as capable as any other religious body of supporting their own ministers. Why should not the Dissenters of Ireland, as well as those of England and Scotland, support their own pastors? What justice or consistency could there be in endowing the ministers of the minority in Ireland, and giving nothing whatever towards the support of the Roman Catholic priests, who were the clergymen of the great majority of the people of that country? Every man should in his (Mr. Hume's) opinion par for his own clergyman, just as he did for his own doctor. The hon. and learned Member for Youghal had referred to the endowment of Maynooth as a thing to be done away with as well as this grant; but he (Mr. Hume) did not think that a Vote for education, and the Vote now under the consideration of the Committee should be placed in the same category. The north of Ireland contained a rich population, and he did not think it
 422
 MR. HUME  said, he must complain that places were put under the supervision of the Board without sufficient grounds. He contended that no application should be made to the Board by any district, before the sense of the ratepayers had been taken on the question. If he had known this Vote had been coming on, he should have made quotations from a collection of cases which had been sent to him, which would have astonished the Committee, and he hoped an early opportunity would be taken to amend the present Act by requiring a greater number of inhabitants than one-tenth to concur before a town was subjected to the expense of a preliminary investigation under the direction of the Board of Health. It frequently happened that the inhabitants of a town were surprised by the appearance of a surveyor among them, and, in a few weeks after, they found themselves placed under the supervision of the Board, contrary to their wishes, and without being able to see the names of the
 429
 MR. HUME  said, he did not want to abolish the Board of Health, which he thought was capable of doing a great deal of good, but he wished to put the Board in such a position that they should not be enabled to act upon the representations of one-tenth of the inhabitants of a town.
 MR. HUME  said, that as the name of the noble Lord at the head of the Board of Works was at the foot of the Estimate, perhaps more information could be obtained from him on the subject. The Committee ought also to be informed how many English residents there were in Constantinople.
 MR. HUME  thought a detailed estimate of the expense should be laid before the House.
 MR. HUME  said, he must ask what became of the Courts of Law in Ireland, now that there was this Commission, which had in a great measure superseded the jurisdiction exercised by them? The experiment of the Incumbered Estates Court had been tried, and he was told that it had been very successful. Were the Courts of Law in Ireland incompetent to deal with this description of business— and was it proposed to make any reduction with respect to them?
 MR. HUME  said, he considered that he had reason to complain that the sum voted for the Colonies had, within the last few years, increased from 2,000,000 l l 390
 MR. HUME  said, he must call attention to the fact that from all parts of the country they had applications from individuals who declared they were anxious to proceed to Australia, where labour is wanting, and to pay for their passage, if Government would make the necessary arrangements. Though no person could be more averse than he was to the application of public money to forward projects of this kind, he would put it to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies whether, after the applications he had received, both from abroad and at home, this case might not be taken as an exception to what was the general rule in political economy. They had men among them who were anxious to be taken off the poor-rate, and who were desirous to maintain themselves and their families by their labour; they were deprived of the means of doing so by causes over which they had no control— the introduction of machinery had interfered with one class, and the introduction of produce from abroad had interfered with the employment of another class, and it was desirable that they should be enabled to emigrate. They might adopt with respect to them an arrangement similar to that which had been formerly adopted with reference to emigrants to North America: let the emigrants engage to refund at a subsequent period a portion of the expenses of their voyage, as had been done when the Government undertook to assist the emigrants to North America; and he might remark that such advances had been very seldom repudiated by the North American emigrants, or lost to the country. It was also a question whether the Government should not co-operate with the in-
 393
 MR. NAPIER  said, that this Court had been established to enable incumbrancers to obtain their money in an expeditious way. This mass of business the Court of Chancery could not get through, although there could not be a more enlightened and able Judge than the present Lord Chancellor of Ireland. In the Incumbered Estates Court, incumbrances to the amount of 28,000,000 l l
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he should oppose the grant as a foolish and mischievous mode of keeping the people quiet, if that was the object with which the grant was made. If the object was the support of truth, all experience told them that truth was not to be supported by a grant of public money. He objected, then, on every ground, to the grant, and would support the Amendment. He considered any attempt as to keeping the people of the north of Ireland quiet by bribing their ministers, was perfectly ridiculous; and a Government could not fail to be despised which attempted to do so.
 MR. BELL  said, in reference to the hon. Member who had been the previous day taken into custody he begged to inform the House that he had obtained two certificates from medical men, which he had placed in the hands of the Serjeant at Arms. These certificates fully confirmed the opinion that the hon. Member for Nottingham required medical advice, and he had thought it his duty to take that step, because he considered that as the hon. Member had been placed in custody for an offence for which he was not responsible, and that the step had been taken in the belief that he was of unsound mind, it was only proper that the House should be in possession of the fact upon medical authority—more particularly as the House was aware that the medical and legal professions were at issue as to what was the precise line of demarcation between soundness and unsoundness of mind. In the present case the medical men had pronounced the hon. Member to be of unsound mind; and should any person think proper to sign an order to the keeper of a lunatic asylum, he would be admitted, but in that case the person signing the order would be responsible. He had not interfered in the matter as the friend of the hon. Member, but simply because he understood that he had no friends, and he was desirous that the facts of the case should be known, and justice done.
 MR. LOVEDEN  said, after the explanations that had been given, he felt bound to call on the hon. and learned Member for Youghal to withdraw his opposition.
 MR. LOVEDEN  said, he thought it was most extraordinary, if those abuses did exist in the College of St. David's, that they had never heard of them from any person educated there.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he was satisfied that the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) did not wish anything but justice done. One fact was clear; the right hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring) had intended to pass a measure for the relief of the postmasters; but that measure had unfortunately had just the reverse effect from that which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer attributed to such schemes as had been suggested by the postmasters. The relief to them had been by no means certain; the benefit to the revenue had been quite certain. If the intention of the right hon. Member for Portsmouth were carried out, the postmasters would, he thought, be satisfied. It was a strict question of justice.
 MR. SLANEY  had been requested by his constituents in Shrewsbury to support the proposition of the hon. Member for Finsbury; and, after the statement of the hon. Gentleman, and the answer of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, he hoped the subject would be duly considered with a view to the redress of a grievance which he conceived to exist, and which might be removed without much difficulty.
 MR. MANGLES  said, after Earl Grey had given the New Zealand Company a deliberate acquittal on the charges brought against them, every man of honour must protest against being again arraigned on such charges. He was as anxious as any one that the Colonists should have the full and speedy benefit of the Bill, and would not willingly take any step calculated to postpone its passing. With respect to the arrangement of 1847 and the Act of 1847, the negotiation of the Government was conducted by the late Mr. Charles Buller, the then Judge Advocate, who was entirely cognisant of the affairs of the Company, none of which could have been concealed from the Government. The hon. Baronet (Sir W. Molesworth), in throwing dirt upon the Company, was throwing far more on a gentleman who was his personal friend; and if he felt thus disposed to treat his deceased friend, how would he be likely to treat his living enemies? The hon. Baronet had been, as he (Mr. Mangles) was, a director of the New Zealand Company, but when they were in difficulties in 1843, the hon. Baronet found it inconvenient to remain with them, and left them in the lurch. He (Mr. Mangles) would not leave those gentlemen,
 456
 MR. MANGLES  said, he was satisfied that if the New Zealand Company brought their case, under the Act of 1847, before a Court of Equity, they would obtain a
 463
 MR. S. CARTER  said, that the English Dissenters were opposed to the grant, and he contended that, as it came annually under discussion, there would be no hardship in withdrawing it. He would vote for its withdrawal, and in doing so he would express a hope that the Government would withdraw other objectionable grants to ecclesiastical establishments.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that without intending to thwart the decision at which the House had arrived on this question, he could not, on the part of the Government, assent to a Committee the composition of which was unknown to the House. Not only had the hon. and learned Member for the City of Oxford (Sir W. P. Wood), and the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Loftus Wigram) voted in the minority, but the other hon. Member (Mr. Packe) had done so; and for these Gentlemen the hon. Gentleman bad named no substitutes. Now, he
 465
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. Anstey) was not justified in representing the late Secretary of the Treasury to have said that this Vote was granted as a bribe to the Presbyterian ministers in Ireland. Had the Secretary of the Treasury made use of such language in that House, he (Captain Jones) should at once have protested against it. No man in that House, at all acquainted with the Presbyterians of Ireland, could assert that their loyalty and good conduct were dependent upon Parliamentary grants. The hon. and learned Member for Youghal had asked what good resulted from this Parliamentary support to the Irish Presbyterian ministers? The favourable contrast which the Presbyterian presented to the Roman Catholic counties of Ireland, ought to be a sufficient answer. Let the hon. and learned Member compare the constabulary expenditure in the latter with that in the former counties, and he would see what good had resulted from this grant.
 MR. ALCOCK  seconded the Motion.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he could not conscientiously do so, and that he felt bound to press his Amendment to a division.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  moved the reduction of the Vote by 260 l 415
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  would not persevere in his objections to the Vote. But in a city like Dublin, it was disgraceful to the Churches of Rome and England that their clergy would not minister to their aged and infirm without receiving an emolument.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he was perfectly aware of the protest which had been referred to by the hon. Member for Herefordshire (Mr. Booker). It contained the names of forty-two incumbents and two curates; most of these individuals had actually no knowledge whatever of the proceedings in the College, others were quite incompetent to judge on the subject, while some were especially interested in upholding the authorities; and it was handed about at the visitation of one of the bishops, when the clergy were informed "the bishop wished them to sign it."
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he should move that the Vote be reduced to 2,669 l l 403 l l l s.; l l s.; l Times, l 404 405
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY : I never said that they could be. What I said was, that the Secretary of the Treasury, in support of this Vote last year, made such a defence of it that I was justified in putting upon it the interpretation that the Government wished to bribe the Presbyterian ministers by offering to them this grant. But, I added, that I did not think they could be bribed.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that he had an Amendment to propose on this Vote. He objected to this celebrated or rather infamous  Regium Donum 420
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he objected to the Vote. It contained a sum of 3,500 l
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he should have thought after what he had said, no hon. Gentleman could have stated that he (Mr. C. Anstey) charged the Presbyterians of Ireland with disloyalty. He said the grant was given to them as a bribe, but he had never said they received it as such.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that he must again object that out of a sum of 10,000 l l
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that
 432
 MR. BOOKER  said, that he had heard with much surprise the statements of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal with respect to the College of St. David's—a surprise, however, which would have been enhanced tenfold if he had not been acquainted with the course which the hon. and learned Gentleman had of late pursued on every question relating to the Established Church. The hon. and learned Member had opposed the grant to the College on the grounds that fraudulent returns had been made by the heads of the College, that the education given in the College was insufficient, and that the heads of the establishment were grossly neglectful, and unequal to their duty. Now, as a resident for thirty years in the Principality, he (Mr. Booker) could undertake to bear his unequivocal testimony in opposition to the charge of inefficiency and mismanagement which the hon. and learned Gentleman had brought forward against the heads of the College. The hon. and learned Gentleman had quoted the statement of the Archdeacon of Cardigan, that the College had been a blight and a curse on the spiritual and intellectual energies of the Principality, and a slaughterhouse of the rising talent of his country. But it should be remembered, that, after the publication of that statement, a meeting of residents in the Principality had been held, in which a resolution had been adopted to the effect that the statement was entirely groundless, and that the College had already conferred great benefits on the Church in South Wales. Then, again, the examiners of the College, who had been appointed by the Vice-Chancellors of the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and who were among the most learned men in the University, had signed a document expressing their dissent from the opinion of the Archdeacon of Cardigan, and their belief in the useful and efficient manner in which the College was conducted. The hon. and learned Gentleman had attempted to show that the Principal of the College (the learned Dr. Llewellyn) was himself but imperfectly acquainted with the Welsh language. But he (Mr. Booker) had received a letter from the Vice-Principal of the College (the Rev.
 408
 MR. BOOKER  begged to say that he had had a communication with the Bishop of Llandaff on the subject of the ordinations to which the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) had referred: and he could assure the hon. Baronet that that right rev. Prelate had told him that no candidates were presented to him that he might not with perfect fairness have passed, but it was because he had been Vice-Principal of the College that he was able to detect some little inaccuracies.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he would refer to two authorities in support of the Motion he now brought forward, namely, the Report of a Committee which sat in 1838, and a statement made in 1840 by the right hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring) when Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman then said'—
 "He also proposed a very small relief to a class of persons who, from no fault of their own, but from circumstances by which every other class of persons was benefited, were placed in a situation of considerable difficulty and distress—he meant the postmasters. They had represented to him that they were obliged to keep postchaises and carriages, on which they paid a heavy tax, but from which they derived little remuneration, and suggested, that if they were at liberty to keep different classes of carriages at a reduced rate of duty, they might, by opening fresh lines of trade, receive some compensation for the injuries they had sustained. The tax now upon hack chaises
 396 l s., l s. l s. l s., l Hansard, l l s. espionage l l l l l l l l l 397 l
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he believed his right hon. Friend opposite sincere and honest in his intentions. He had not stated that he would bring forward a proposition on the subject in November, but that in some future Budget he hoped to be able to deal with it, so that the undertaking of the right hon. Gentleman was somewhat vague, and a vote on a question of this kind would go to strengthen his hands, and the hands of any other Chancellor of the Exchequer. It might be asked what the right hon. Member for Portsmouth had to state. The silence of his right hon. Friend gave consent to all he (Mr. T. Duncombe) had said.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he understood that it was intended on the part of the Government to move certain Amendments in this clause; if that were so, it seemed a matter of some consideration how his hon. Friend behind him (Sir W. Molesworth) should make his Amendments. He would submit whether it would be more convenient to the Committee for the Government to make their Amendments in the first instance, and for his hon. Friend to be heard afterwards; or whether it would be more convenient to hear the statement of his hon. Friend first, before the Amendments of the Government were proposed. As he understood it, the Bill proposed one plan, the Government another plan, his hon. Friend another plan, and the New Zealand Company a fourth plan. In the general hustling and jostling of so many plans, the question which should have precedence ought to be determined.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I do not wonder at all that the Committee and the Members of the Government should be desirous to arrive at a decision on this question; hut while I am aware that it is one of the most unpalatable subjects of discussion to which a Committee has ever been doomed to listen, I must also say that it is one of extreme difficulty and delicacy, and that the Committee would not he justified in letting the matter pass without taking every pains in its power to arrive at a just decision. Now, there are, as I stated at the commencement of the evening, four modes of proceeding before the House. The first is that which is embodied in the Bill, according to which it is proposed to give to the Legislature of New Zealand the control over the waste lands in the islands, subject to the obligation to pay  5s. l 5s. 457 5s. 5s. 458 5s. 459 460 s. s.
 MR. GLADSTONE  here called the hon. Baronet's attention to a passage in a volume which he placed before him.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he now proposed to add words subjecting that payment of one-fourth to the limit of a maximum. He thought, when they had the case of a body who had a large indeterminate claim, with imperfect remedies, the best mode of dealing with that claim was to get rid of the matter so indeterminate, and to give the New Zealand Company a perfect command and certainty as to what they were to have, but at the same to bring the burden within reasonable limits. He was not at all sure that the Legislature of New Zealand would consider themselves strictly bound in honour by our Legislature. He thought the Now Zealand Company was entitled to expect that we should give them provision that their claim should be in no way liable to evasion, especially that we should give them that which we intended to secure to them. He must, however, confess he thought the amount which the clause, as it at present stood, proposed to give them, was too large. He proposed, therefore, to insert words to the above effect following those to which the Committee had just assented on the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington).
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he wished to know whether the New Zealand Company were protesting parties against the Bill as proposed by Government, or merely against his Amendment. If they protested against the whole Bill so far as it related to them, he, for one, was not prepared to legislate compulsorily for them, and in that case he would withdraw his proposal.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Still there are many lots of land to be sold where the price would run above 1 l s.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that his name appeared on the list of the Committee, but nothing, save the express order of that House, would, induce him to serve on it, and for this reason, that that House had not been led to act on a constitutional principle. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hors-man) had brought certain charges against the Bishop of Bath and Wells—a high officer of the State, and acting judicially— for a breach of the law and corruption in the exercise of his office. If those charges were proved, they carried with them an impeachment. And with regard to the impeachment and matters of a minor character, it was the uniform and recognised practice that when that House proceeded to entertain such charges, they should be brought forward in a definite and tangible form. It was the uniform practice that the man who was charged in that House by a Member of the House, in reference to the exercise of his judicial office, founded on perverse motives or deliberate purpose, should know whether he was or was not acquitted of the charge brought against him. No such security was afforded by the hon. Gentleman's proposition. Before he could vote for the proposition he required a security that they should know whether the Bishop of Bath and Wells did that of which he stood charged. Under any circumstances he must have served on the Committee with the greatest pain and reluctance; but he totally protested, unless on the order of the House, to proceed with the grave charges made against a great officer of the State acting judicially, unless those charges were defined. And therefore, acting on precedents and on the principles of uniform practice, it was his intention, at the proper time, to move that the
 466
 MR. GLADSTONE  wanted to know, were the Company, or were they not, consenting parties to the arrangement proposed by the Government? Unless he was informed on that point, he was not prepared to legislate.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that under those circumstances he should press his Motion.
 MR. EWART,  as a Member of the Commission appointed to inquire into the best site for the National Gallery, begged to state that the situation pointed out by the hon. Member (Mr. Hume)—the site of Kensington Palace—naturally first suggested itself to the Commission; but it was felt to be so peculiarly a subject for the Royal consideration that before any suggestion could be made with respect to it, the clear and unmistakeable feeling of Her Majesty upon it must be understood. Setting aside that, therefore, as a subject almost eliminated from their consideration, the Commission considered all the situations around, and it was their unanimous opinion that the best site would be to the north of Kensington Gardens, looking to the Uxbridge Road, and enclosing round the building such a portion of Kensington Gardens as might serve the purpose of an ornamental garden; because the Commissioners felt that the ground about a National Gallery should be of such a character as to be illustrative of the arts, and that there should be, as abroad, an ornamental garden with fountains and statues,
 392
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, that two aguments had been urged in favour of the Vote—-one being the antiquity of the grant, and the other that there was no feeling in Ireland against it. Now, with regard to the first of these, it was a fact that before the Union the grant had amounted not to 38,000 l l 423
 MR. HUGHES  said, he never before had heard that persons who had taken orders from the College of Lampeter, were deficient in the Welsh language. The complaint was made by the Rev. Archdeacon Williams, who had a rival establishment.
 MR. KEOGH  agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, that the Vote ought not to be postponed. Besides the large sum which had been voted for the residence, the Ambassador at Constantinople received more than 12,000?. a year, besides other allowances. If the merchants at Pera, which was on the other side of the Straits, were so numerous, they ought to provide a place of public worship for themselves.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he also begged leave to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies to the subject. He did not know whether the right hon. Gentleman had ever referred to the return which had been moved for by the Secretary for Ireland in the year 1850, by which it appeared that there were then in the workhouses of Ireland 18,000 females between the ages of fifteen and forty that had been in the workhouse for more than a year, and who, therefore, might be considered to have made it their permanent home. They were persons who had taken up their lodging there, and had as little idea of leaving it as the right hon. Gentleman had of leaving his own house. The attention of the Government should therefore be directed to the subject, both for the sake of the individuals themselves and of the ratepayers. A statement had been made by the right hon. Gentleman the other day with respect to complaints that had been made respecting the conduct of some of the female emigrants; but he (Mr. Monsell) thought that the right hon. Gentleman would confirm the statement which he (Mr. Monsell) would now make in reference to the general conduct of those emigrants; and he might refer in support of his statement to the letter of the Lieutenant Governor of Van Diemen's Land. It appeared that the best possible account had been received of those emigrants. He believed, however, that a large number of persons had been sent out from the Union of Belfast that should not have been sent out, and the character acquired by them had been attributed to the rest of those Irish emigrants. He should be much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman to say he could confirm the statement he (Mr. Monsell) now made, that the female emigrants sent from the Irish workhouses generally had given satisfaction.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that last year the Vote of 1,696 l l l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to voting any public money to the charities of Dublin. Parliament was called upon annually to vote sums of money for the maintenance of eight hospitals in Dublin, while no institutions of a similar kind in England or Scotland were thus assisted;
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  objected to the postponement of the Vote.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, that he had not been applied to serve on the Committee, and was not aware that his name had been put on the list; but when he heard that he had been named he declined to serve.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, he would take the earliest opportunity of explaining, that in the remarks he had made relative to the institution of Mr.
 416
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he believed he was as well acquainted with the Principality as his hon. Friend who had just addressed the Committee; and having paid a great deal of attention to the subject of St. David's College, he should say he believed that the allegations made in that case by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey) were substantially correct. The allegations were borne out also by statements made by the Archdeacon of Cardigan, one of the most distinguished literary men of the present day, who had been rector of the High School of Edinburgh. He (Sir B. Hall) believed that anything coming from such a
 409 410
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  wished to call the attention of the Government to the Metropolitan Interments Act, which had become a nullity, and which was to be superseded by a Bill now before the House. The only thing done under the Act was
 430 l
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he had been requested by a right rev. Prelate to make a statement that would prevent the possibility of any misapprehension taking place in the public mind with respect to what had passed on the preceding day. The noble Lord the Member for Woodstock (the Marquess of Blandford) having moved the second reading of the Episcopal and Capitular Revenues Bill, he (Sir. B. Hall), after making one or two suggestions to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, said—
 "There was also another point to which he wished to direct attention, and that was with regard to the management and control of cathedral establishments. They were all governed by cer-
 395 Hansard,
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he did not wish to shuffle out of the charges that had been made. The hon. Member for Cockermouth had made certain charges, which he believed to be correct, and it was only fair he should be allowed an opportunity to prove them. In justice, therefore, to all the parties concerned, it was right
 467
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  moved, as an Amendment, that the House resolve itself into Committee on the Carriage Duties for the purpose of affording some amelioration of them.
 MR. GROGAN  wished to call the attention of the Committee to the state of this hospital; in his opinion it was a charity having very strong claims upon the Government. He objected to any diminution of the annual grant by Parliament.
 MR. GROGAN  begged to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the fact that the existence of the medical schools of Ireland was involved in the Vote before the House. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would say that the views of the Government coincided with those of the late Government, and that no further diminution would be made in the grants for the medical schools of Ireland.
 MR. GROGAN  said, that the English hospitals were largely endowed by Royal grants made many years ago, and that but for this circumstance they also would be dependent upon the liberality of Parliament.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he wished to call attention to a letter which he had received on this subject from the Chairman of the Board of Guardians in Dublin, who had sent him a return of male and female paupers, all of whom were anxious to go to Australia. It appeared there were 200 young females, from fifteen to twenty-five years of age, who were described as being exceedingly well-conducted, and desirous to work if they had an opportunity of doing so.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he was fully aware of the hardship of the tax to which the postmasters were subjected, and his hope was, that the right hon. Gentleman would, in the next Parliament, be able to bring forward a proposition for their relief.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he wished to know if the question of the grants to the Irish hospitals had been formally considered and agreed to by the present Government? The late Government had considered the question, and he wished now to ascertain if the reduction in the grants was to be progressive or suspended?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must express his regret that the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) was not in his place when this subject was under consideration in Committee of Supply, because he thought the House must feel that their object now should be to get, as speedily as they could, into Supply, and he trusted it was the desire of the House to do so. He did not mean to show any disrespect to the hon. Gentleman by not entering at any length into the question before the House. He had stated over and over again the importance of this subject, and he had given repeated assurances that it was engaging the serious consideration of Her Majesty's Government. In reference to what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, he would observe that he had given an answer on this subject not long ago, in which he stated that the Irish proportion of emigrants was largely in advance of the proportion from the other parts of the Kingdom, but that, notwithstanding such was the case, they were still continuing the emigration from that country, and sending out as many as they could. As to the suggestion that had been made by the hon. Member for Montrose, with respect to the Government paying the expense of passage, and recovering subsequently from the emigrant a portion thereof, he begged to assure the hon. Gentleman that the Government would not lose sight of the importance of that subject; but he would remind him that the cost of sending emigrants to Australia would be much greater than the cost that had been incurred for sending emigrants to North America.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought the most convenient course would be, to follow out one of the suggestions of the right hon. Gentleman on the question, that the 74th Clause stand part of the Bill, for his (Mr. Gladstone's) hon. Friend (Sir W. Molesworth) to state his plan to the Committee.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I have listened to the two speeches that have been addressed to the Committee by the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark (Sir W. Molesworth), and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby, with a deep feeling of pain, as regards this subject, in which I think the Committee also must have participated. Having heard the speech of the hon. Baronet, I felt that the better course to take was to remain silent until I should have heard a reply to that speech from some hon. Gentlemen connnected with the New Zealand Company. Having heard the accusations of the hon. Baronet, and the reply of the hon. Member for Cockermoth, I think I shall be able to show the Committee that
 451 452 l
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he could not consent to separate the land clauses, neither could he give his assent to the proposal for handing over the land without providing for the satisfaction of the claims of the New Zealand Company; and still further, he could not consent to strike out the whole of the land clauses. With these opinions he felt it his duty to press the clauses as they stood in the Bill.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the circumstances under which the Company might have been at one time entitled to claim one-tenth of the proceeds wore totally different now.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  proposed to substitute for the words "sums after the rate of 5 s.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he never understood the New Zealand Company to be protesting parties against the Bill.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he felt the extreme injustice of fixing so low a maximum as 5 s.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, in his opinion "one-tenth" ought to be substituted for "one-fourth" in the Motion of the right hon. Gentlemen (Sir J. Pakington), on the ground that if the colonisation speculation of the New Zealand Company had succeeded, their beneficial interest in the proceeds of the land sales would have been equal to one-tenth instead of one-fourth.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that not one of the charges which he had brought forward against the directors had been met. He denied that he had brought the subject forward without due notice, and he should be fully prepared to support them upon any other occasion. It was not his intention to divide the Committee on his Amendment.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : My right hon. Friend has pointed out to me some circumstances which he thinks makes the case worse against the Company; but I leave him to settle that. What I mean to say is, that the Government will have to satisfy all liabilities of the Company which existed in 1846 to purchasers of allotments at Nelson, which have not since been can-
 445 Vict., 446 "That in Clause 74, all the words be omitted after, 'And,' to 'Provided,' and the following inserted, 'Nothing in this Act, or in any Act, Law, or Ordinance, to be made by the said General Assembly, or by any Provincial Assembly, shall affect or interfere with so much of an Act of the Session holden in the 10th and 11th year of Her Majesty, cap. 112, 'to promote colonisation to New Zealand, and to authorise a loan to the New Zealand Company,' as relates to a, certain sum, with interest, to be charged upon and paid to the New Zealand Company, out of the proceeds of all future sales of demesne lands of the Crown in New Zealand, after deducting the outlay for surveys and the proportion of such proceeds which is appropriated to the purposes of emigration.'"
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : The reason why I propose the Amendment of which I have given notice is this. It is proposed by this clause that a change should be made in the legal charge which the Company has upon the waste lands of New Zealand under the Act of 1847. I propose that no such change should be made, and that in transferring the management of the waste lands from the Colonial Office to the General Assembly of New Zealand, the strict legal rights of the Company, and no more, should be reserved. Now, what are those legal rights? By the Act of 1847 a sum of 268,000 l 434 435 l l l l s. l l l 436 l l —"to he charged upon and paid to them out of the proceeds of all sales of land in New Zealand, after deducting the outlay for surveys, and the proportion of such proceeds which is appropriated to the purposes of emigration;" —"upon condition of the Crown satisfying any liabilities, to which the Company may then be liable, under their existing engagements, with reference to the settlement at Nelson." "Claims of Settlers on the Company, which they (the Company) conceive to be good against Government in the event of the Company breaking up? With the grounds of both these claims and their amount. Nature of settlers' claims." 437 l "The site chosen for Nelson had been found wholly inadequate to the fulfilment of the Company's liabilities;" that there was a "general impression that it was not the intention of the Company to fulfil its contracts, or to make any compensation to the purchasers." 438 "Their own personal conviction had been distinctly confirmed by counsel of eminence to the effect that they had not failed in the performance of any contract with their Nelson settlers which they could be legally called upon to fulfil." l l l l 439 "He had much satisfaction on coming to the conclusion that the directors of the New Zealand Company must he entirely acquitted of having concealed in their negotiations with the Government any claim which they believed to have any foundation." "That he never had any expectation at the time of the negotiations with the Company in the early part of 1847, that claims could be advanced by the Nelson settlers with any reasonable prospect of success, of the indefinite character and to the vast amount described by the Commissioner for the affairs of New Zealand." 440 l l 441 "Counsel of eminence had confirmed the personal conviction of the Company that they had not failed in performing any contract with their settlers at Nelson, which they could be legally called upon to fulfil." "has been sufficiently promulgated by me to dispel a notion on the part of some of the purchasers that it would not be unwise for them to seek compensation by legal proceedings; "and he added," the case of repurchase by the Company of land-orders in this settlement had given hopes to many who would now prefer to have their money again; that the directors had found the Company responsible on the point—the partial disclosure of the legal opinion, with an assurance that it had been only taken with a view of deciding on the above named point"— 442 —"has had the effect on some of inducing them to accept the proposed terms." 443 l 444 l l l l
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  begged to call the attention of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer to the effect of the duty upon the carriages employed in funerals. It was desirable to take the dead from amongst the living, and the Government should encourage every facility that was offered for the purpose.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that some of the complaints which had been made were owing to a decision of the House, that in these cases the majority only was not to be represented, but that a very small minority of the inhabitants should be entitled, on application, to command an investigation by the Board of Health. As the inhabitants, however, were only exposed to the expense of a preliminary inquiry, the expense could not be very great. The average cost of these inquiries was 120 l l
 LORD EMLYN  said, he would admit that the Archdeacon of Cardigan was an excellent classical scholar, but there were circumstances which made his opinion respecting this College of less authority. He would suggest that the Government should pay due attention to this subject, and place the College on a better foundation; and he trusted that the hon. Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall) would unite with
 411
 LORD STANLEY  said, he could not produce such a return as the hon. Member asked for, because no such return existed. The subject of education for the Diplomatic service had for some time past engaged the attention of Government; but, as yet, no definite scheme of examination for entrance on that service had been framed. They had, however, done what they could: their Ministers and Diplomatic agents at foreign Courts had been instructed to report upon the nature of the qualifications required from persons entering on the service in question in other countries; by these means a large body of evidence was being brought
 529
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  opposed the omission of the clause, on the ground that the adoption of printing would both diminish inconvenience and save expense.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  moved its omission, stating it was often necessary to file a bill at a few hours' notice.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  suggested that it might be sufficient to require the consent of the Court within some short time after the filing of the bill.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  conceived that this might in some measure meet the difficulty.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  suggested the postponement of the clause.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  objected
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, that the Amendment would fetter the discretion of the Judge. No matter how urgent the case might be, whether it was for an injunction to prevent the pulling down of a house, or any other case requiring speedy action, the Judge could not call it on if the Amendment were agreed to.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, the effect of this clause would be, that the mode of taking evidence in the Court of Chancery would be entirely altered, and heavy additional duties be thrown on the examiners. A Committee which sat in 1833, relating to the salaries of officers of the Court of Chancery, recommended the
 533 l l
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  suggested that the examiners would not often be called upon to perform these duties; when they did they would, of course, be paid.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought there was weight in the objection of the hon. Member for Southampton, as the process of writing down question and answer would greatly delay the cross-examination, the questions in which, everybody knew, ought to be followed up as rapidly as possible.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that this practice of reducing the evidence into the form of a narrative was uniformly adopted by the Judges of the common law courts.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  remarked that in the common law courts the Judges had an opportunity of observing the demeanour of the witness, which was not the case in the Court of Chancery. Still the mode suggested by the Bill was a great improvement on the existing one.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  rather recommended that, in the case of a witness refusing to sign, the depositions might be signed by the examiner, who might report to the Court any special matter which he might think fit. Certainly the witness should not have the power of invalidating the proceedings.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  asked whether a witness alleging that the deposition as taken down was inaccurate, and on that ground refusing to sign, was to be indicted for perjury? He was of opinion that the matter, which was most important, should be maturely considered.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that most mature consideration had been bestowed on this clause, but it was impossible to enact that there should be no appeal from the decision of the examiner as to the admissibility of evidence, either directly or indirectly. Therefore, it would he useless to provide that the matter should be decided by the examiner in the first instance. Substantially, the clause would have the same effect as the alteration proposed, and he hoped it would pass without that alteration.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, that his hon. and learned Friend had misapprehended the clause. The examiner was merely to put down the question and answer; but where a witness refused to answer a question that was put to him, on the ground that it might relate to a confidential communication, or tend to self-crimination, those were the only questions on which there was to be an appeal. If the examiner were to be allowed to decide conclusively on the admissibility of evidence, the costs would be greatly increased, for the whole case must then be gone into by him. This clause only referred to objections to questions in the nature of demurrers.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the evidence would be transmitted to the Record Office in the usual manner.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  objected to the clause, as it appeared not to come at all within the scope of the Bill. The object of it was to enable the Courts of Common Law to send cases into the Equity Courts to have their decisions upon questions of equity. This increased the evil which the Commission had reported had arisen from sending cases from the Equity Courts to the Common Law Courts. He thought every Court ought to be able
 538
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  agreed with what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, and would acquiesce at once in his suggestion that the clause should be struck out of the Bill.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  moved the addition of the following clauses, which were unanimously agreed to:—Clause to follow Clause 47—No suit in the said Court shall be open to objection on the ground that a merely declaratory decree or order is sought thereby, and it shall be lawful for the Court to make binding declarations of right without granting consequential relief. Clause to follow Clause 57—(Court of Chancery not to send cases to law). It shall not be lawful for the said Court of Chancery in any cause or matter depending in the same Court, to direct a case to be stated for the opinion of any Court of common law, but the said Court of Chancery shall have full power to determine any questions of law which in the judg-
 539
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, that as the clause now stood, the Masters in Chancery were to continue to have all the powers conferred upon them by any Act of Parliament or otherwise vested in them, which they might be required by the Lord Chancellor still to execute. He proposed that the office of Master should be declared abolished entirely, except for the mere purpose of winding up the business of their offices.
 MR. HEADLAM  moved the omission of the clause.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  moved an Amendment to release two instead of four Masters from their duties.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL,  on the part of the Government, would not oppose the Amendment, if it met with the general concurrence of the Committee.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, the great complaint hitherto had been the pressure of business in the Masters' Offices, and he did not see how that was to be remedied by allowing even two of them to retire before they had wound up the business in their respective offices.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, the continual complaint hitherto, with respect to the Masters' Offices, had been, that they were so overcrowded with business that the Masters could not get through the business assigned to them. Now, if that complaint was well founded, surely the more Masters to perform the work the better for the public, as far as regarded the despatch of business in the Masters' Offices. He, therefore, suggested that the whole of the Masters should remain in office until the business already assigned to them had been disposed of. He would embrace that opportunity of tendering his thanks to the Gentlemen who had undertaken to be
 540
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  moved a verbal amendment, and said he had been informed that day by one of the Masters that he had sent 300 letters to different parties to proceed with their suits, and out of 130 answers that he had received, 115 of them were to state that the causes were at an end. This proved that there was an appearance of arrears which did not actually exist.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  observed that whilst this clause gave power to the Lord Chancellor to provide chambers for the Vice-Chancellors, it was proposed by-Clause 48 to dispose of the Masters' Offices in Southampton Buildings. Now he was of opinion that the chambers in Southampton Buildings would he more convenient for chambers than any others which they were likely to obtain in Lincoln's Inn, which would probably he some distance from each other. He therefore proposed to alter Clause 12 so as to carry out this view.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  agreed with his right hon. Friend as to the importance of having the chambers attached to the Judges' courts, but the clause did not provide for this. It only provided that chambers should be taken somewhere in Lincoln's Inn.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  suggested that the choice of the site of these chambers should be left to the discretion of the Government, who would of course be anxious to consult the convenience of the Judges; and he proposed to omit all the words relating to the locality of the chambers.
 MR. E. ELLICE  did not see why the Lord Chancellor should have the duty imposed on him of providing courts or chambers, any more than the Chief Justice or the Chief Baron.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  hoped his right hon. Friend the Master of the Rolls would leave the matter in the hands of the Government.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, the existing Masters would do as long as they remained in office.
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS : The
 543
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said,
 545
 The MASTER or THE ROLLS  proposed to insert the following clause after Clause 43: A. (Pensions to Chief Clerks and Junior Clerks in cases of permanent infirmity.)
 "It shall be lawful for the Lord Chancellor, with the consent of the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, by any order made on a petition presented to him for that purpose, to order (if he shall think fit) to be paid to any person executing the office of chief clerk or junior clerk to the Master of the Rolls, or any of the Vice-Chancellors, who shall he afflicted with some permanent infirmity, disabling him from the due execution of his office, and shall be desirous of resigning the same, an annuity not exceeding two-third parts of the yearly salary which such person shall be entitled to at the time of presenting such petition, and be paid and payable at the same times, and out of the same funds, as compensations under this Act are directed to be paid."
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he felt obliged to the hon. and learned Member for Youghal for having brought this question before the notice of the Committee. He really thought the country ought not to be saddled with the payment of these sums. One of the complaints of his hon. and learned Friend was, that the Government did not go methodically to work, because he, with great justice said, if they paid the bishops for one visit, why not pay them for all? Many visits were paid for, and many visits under exactly similar circumstances were not paid for. He thought the Government ought to give some explanation.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR,  in seconding the Motion, said, he had intended to trespass on the attention of the House for some time, but considering the time already occupied, and having reference to the able speech which they had just heard, he should content himself with a single observation. He had regretted to observe the impatience manifested during his hon. Friend's address, because he was aware that an idea prevailed in the country, not only amongst the working but even the highest classes, that that House was not disposed to entertain such grievances when they were brought before them, but rather to pass to more exciting and agreeable topics. He knew that there was some cause for impatience when they were all anxious that the business of the Session should be speedily terminated. He had not mentioned the subject with the view of casting reflection on that House, with which he had so long had the honour of being connected; but when he found a resolution, "That this meeting were very anxious to make provision for the education of ragged children, a class which rarely attracted the attention of statesmen or legislators," adopted by a meeting, not of Chartists, but of the middle classes, at which he attended, for the education of ragged children, he could not but say that he trusted, when the present Motion was brought forward, the endeavour would be made to put an end to the idea that this House did not take an interest in those persons to whom the Motion related. The House would regret to learn that this was the final and farewell address of his hon. Friend the Member for Shrewsbury; and it was the more desirable that the Government should take up this question, because the House had not the advantage they had once derived from the presence of his noble Friend, formerly a Member of that House, now Lord Shaftesbury, who had been so long and so usefully engaged in bringing forward important measures
 516
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he thought there were grave objections to the latter part of the clause, as it might open the door to great delay and expense. The evil lay at the root of the system, and resulted from having the evidence taken by one Judge, and decided upon by another. He must say that they would not amend the procedure of the Court of Chancery until one and the same mind received the evidence and determined upon its effect. However, that was not intended to be done at present; and, therefore, he thought it would be better to direct the examiner to take down all the evidence, whatever the nature of it might be, and to transmit it to the Judge, who would strike out those portions of the evidence which he thought inadmissible.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  suggested that the signature of a witness to his depositions should not be made imperative.
 MR. OSWALD : Yes, the House of Lords will find the messengers; but we are to find the money. Were not the clerks who would be appointed under this Bill competent to make the three bows?
 MR. OSWALD : I have given a hint which I hope will not be forgotten, and that the three bows will not cost the country more than they do at present.
 MR. OSWALD : And who afterwards?
 MR. OSWALD  asked who were, after the measure was passed, to convey messages to this House from the House of Lords? Who were to make the three bows on approaching the Speaker, in future?
 MR. OSWALD  said, it appeared that the first clause of the Bill abolished all the Masters in Chancery, and that the present clause reinstated them. He wished to see an end to the Masters' Office, and instanced a case in which he had been himself concerned to show the delay and expense which attended it.
 MR. PACKE  said, he should most deeply regret the absence of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury from amongst them, although they sat at different sides of the House, and were politically opposed to each other. When the commercial policy of 1846 was adopted, there was nothing more strenuously insisted upon than that it would materially tend to the elevation of the condition of the working classes. However, this result, so ardently anticipated, had not followed. The House was now informed that crime had increased threefold to what it was in former years; and also that sickness and poverty had increased. Those facts certainly showed that the working classes were not at present placed in a perfectly satisfactory condition. He felt, however, that at the present period of the Session, they could not properly consider the Motion of the hon. Member for Shrewsbury; and he could not, therefore, support that Motion.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, an attack had been directed by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Youghal against the Established Church. [Mr. C. ANSTEY: No!] He was for supporting the Established Church, though he entertained liberal opinions towards the Church of hon. Gentlemen opposite. He must condemn the pettifogging and mean spirit which dictated objections to paltry votes; and he called upon these hon. Members, if they  were l s. d.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  called the attention of the Committee to the situation of examiners under the clause. It appeared that the old practice of hearing evidence by paid commissioners was to be abolished, and that that duty was now to he discharged by the examiners, who were officers of the Court. That would be a very great reform, as it appeared that these commissioners were often paid in a way that induced them unnecessarily to protract their sittings. But this new arrangement would add much to the labour of the examiners, and therefore he thought some provision ought to be made for their remuneration.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, it was not an easy thing to draw up a narrative of what a witness had stated. He suggested
 535
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that he was afraid that the mode suggested for taking evidence in equity, under this Bill, would tend to perpetuate expense and delay. There would be an appeal to the Court on exceptions to evidence, and this would necessarily occasion expense and delay. He begged the Committee to consider the question of whether it would not be better to have a competent officer to decide on all such questions of evidence as might be raised, as had been recommended by the Lord Chancellor in his evidence before the Committee. This would save the suitor the expense of these disputed points of evidence. By so doing they would materially decrease the delay and expense, which would be increased by the plan proposed by this clause. The costs of the suit were the greatest hardship to the
 536
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said that, under this new system, all sorts of questions would be put and objected to, and there would be an opening for a large source of business to the profession, because the examiner could not decide at once as to the matters in dispute, but there was an appeal allowed. There was no appeal from such questions in the County Courts, and he thought it would be better to give the examiner the same power as the County Court Judges.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, there was a sworn clerk in the registrar's office, and his duties would no longer be required now this Bill was passed; but the examiner was to forward the evidence to the Record Office under this clause, and this officer might be used for that purpose, as otherwise he did not see how the evidence could get to the Record Office.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would be extremely glad if he could facilitate the inquiry that had been ordered by the House; and if he could learn from the hon. Gentleman then, or in the course of the evening, that there was any prospect of proposing a Committee, the nomination of which would not lead to a protracted discussion, he would certainly do what he could to suit his wishes. At present he could not take upon himself the responsibility of allowing a question, which would apparently lead to a long discussion, to interfere with the progress of public business. Both the morning and evening sittings were at the present moment ap-
 530
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the first Vote in Committee of Supply related to the Chapel of the Embassy at Constantinople, on which yesterday there was a discussion. He had considered that case; his attention had been drawn to it by the conversation which took place; and it appeared to the Government to be one that required considerable inquiry. The enormous expenditure which had taken place on the residence of the Ambassador at Constantinople, appeared, on the surface, indefensible. They did not wish to make any censure on the conduct of those who preceded them. He was aware that, with respect to many items of expenditure in distant places, a very injurious habit had grown up, and had not been sufficiently disturbed, which allowed the expenditure of large sums, without the inspection which in the present day was indispensable; and when an expenditure of 85,000 l
 MR. HORSMAN  said, it had been suggested by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford that when he moved the appointment of the Committee in the case of the institution of the Rev. Mr. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome, it would be proper to lay on the table the heads of his allegations; and the right hon. Gentleman added that he could show that this was according to precedent. At the moment he could not give the right hon. Gentleman an answer; but he had since considered the matter, and he was prepared now to say that if the right hon. Gentleman could satisfy the House that what he proposed was in conformity with precedent, he would bow to the wish of the House, and comply with his suggestion. He begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he would allow him to nominate the Committee either in the morning sitting of Monday, or at the afternoon sitting, because otherwise it would not come on till after the other orders, when it was doubtful if it could be nominated; and at that late period of the Session it was desirable that no time should be lost?
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  stated that he wished to ask the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland a question of which he had given him notice. In order that the House might understand the question he was about to put, he should remind it of what was called the Irish rebellion of 1848. In consequence of being concerned in that affair, Mr. Smith O'Brien and some other persons were sentenced to transportation, and had been undergoing that punishment up to the present time. Their friends in Ireland had considered it quite
 526 527
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, these payments were only made by the Treasury on the authority of a Secretary of State, who regulated them. For instance, the 50 l
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  trusted the
 520
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he was sorry to hear that the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to negative this Motion; because, though a Standing Committee might do no good, it certainly would do no harm. He was quite aware that the House was anxious to go into Supply; but this Motion was the best kind of supply, for it would supply contentment and progress, and assist in promoting union between the rich and the poor. He was quite sure that a Standing Committee would prove most useful; it would digest the information it received much better, and in a more practical manner, than that taken by Committees of that House. With regard to the self-reliance which the poor ought to be taught, the poor had as great a claim upon that House, as the rich; and, as they suffered under grievous injuries inflicted by legislation, they had a right to ask the House to remove, or at least to alleviate,
 519
 MR. AGLIONBY  agreed with the hon. Member (Mr. Headlam) that the first clause was unnecessary and unintelligible, and that it might be omitted without prejudice to the operation of the Bill.
 MR. AGLIONBY  admitted that that was the case.
 MR. AGLIONBY  did not think the right hon. Gentleman had answered the objection of the Master of the Rolls.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, things had come to such a pass, that they must abolish either the Courts of Equity or the Masters, and they had determined to abolish the Masters. Every one knew how suits were bandied from the Court to the Master, and from the Master to the Court again, and to get rid of that system he was willing to pay a great deal.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, if these Masters were all to retire upon full salaries, the Bill would confer very little benefit upon the public.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, he was glad to hear the opinions which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman. Having presided as Chairman of the Committee on Official Salaries, he remembered that the subject of the expenses of the Embassy at Constantinople had strongly pressed itself on the notice of the Committee, though he
 521
 MR. HENLEY  said, the public would gain by it the advantage of cheap justice, speedily administered. These Masters, when appointed to their present office, were in the enjoyment of large professional incomes, and, if the country determined on removing them from office, it was but just to compensate them.
 MR. HENLEY  observed that the Judges in the Court of Chancery were of a different opinion, with the exception of the Master of the Rolls.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the pounds, shillings, and pence was only a subordinate view of the question. The object of the Bill was to give the public a cheaper and more ready access to justice than they had at present. They could not propose to remove persons who had been taken out of a profession and placed in a quasi-judicial position like the Masters without compensating them.
 MR. HUME  said, as they voted a round sum for these purposes, the only opportunity of finding fault was when the account was rendered. The best mode for preserving the funds of the Established Church was to take care they were applied properly, and not to call on the country to pay charges with which they had nothing to do. The late Duke of Cambridge left upwards of 5,000 l l l
 MR. HUME  said, these charges had been objected to every year for the last twenty years. He thought the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman had answered his hon. and learned Friend behind him (Mr. C. Anstey), was not becoming the situation he held. He had made use of remarks little calculated to produce that good understanding and good feeling which they wished to see prevail in that House. The right hon. Gentleman, as a Member of a Government advocating economy, said it was most unjust for this or that bishop to be called on to pay these expenses out of his own pocket, He (Mr. Hume) thought it more unjust for the people of England to be called on to pay them. No bishopric had been established abroad without the assurance that the expense would be borne by the Colonies; and when the Government had attempted to pay the passage out, it had never passed without remark. He really thought the time was come when the whole expenses of the Colonial Office should be revised, and the principle laid down, whether ecclesiastical charges were to be borne by this country, or those they were intended to benefit. The Government could not help seeing that the general feeling of the country was against these partial charges. If these were defensible, let them be made general. He could not sit still and allow his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. C. Anstey) to be taunted and treated as he had been by the right hon. Gentleman, and that was what induced him to rise and express his approbation of his hon. and learned Friend's proceedings. He hoped be would persevere. He (Mr. Hume) used to do his duty. He was not able to do it now; but he hoped other Members would not allow any Minister whatever to taunt any hon. Gentleman who thought it his duty to object to these Votes.
 MR. NAPIER : Sir, I will state all the facts of which I have any cognisance with respect to the memorial to which the hon. Gentleman has referred. The Solicitor General for Ireland (Mr. Whiteside) and myself were counsel for Mr. Smith O'Brien. Mr. Whiteside defended him at his trial, and I at the House of Lords. I also presented a petition in his behalf on occasion of his transportation. I have the pleasure to be on terms of intimacy with his two brothers, the Rev. Mr. O'Brien, who is one of my constituents, and the hon. Baronet the Member for Ennis (Sir L. O'Brien), and several other relatives of Mr. Smith O'Brien, are amongst my most esteemed friends. Immediately after the accession to office of the present Government, I received a letter from the Rev. Mr. O'Brien, who subsequently waited upon me entirely as a private friend. He and I talked to-together about the case of Mr. Smith O'Brien, and had some conversation as to the prospect of procuring any mitigation of that unfortunate gentleman's punishment. We conversed as intimate friends; and I am sure that the House will not expect that I should detail anything that may have passed between us at an interview which was strictly private and confidential. I told Mr. Smith O'Brien's friends and relatives most distinctly that, in my official capacity, I could not in any way connect myself with their proceedings, and I even expressed to them my conviction that the Government could not take any move in the matter, as their doing so would be imputed to a political and electioneering purpose. I did not, however, take upon myself to indicate, either directly or indirectly, what the Government would do in the matter; and from first to last I disconnected myself, from my official capacity, while speaking on the subject with Mr. Smith O'Brien's friends. I will not, however, hesitate to admit, that I had, and still have, a very strong feeling of sympathy for Mr. Smith O'Brien. The next communication that I received on the sub-
 528
 MR. P. HOWARD  said, that there were already two Commissions in existence devoted to the consideration of the physical and mental condition of the working classes. There was the Education Commission and the Sanitary Commission, and there was a third Commission, namely, the Emigration Commission, which was appointed to give information and assistance to those who were anxious to cast their fortunes in another land. It would be much better to give those Commissions more extensive powers, than to appoint another. The statement respecting the increase of crime ought to be received with some abatement. The greater number of commitments arose from the increased vigilance of the police; but there was no proof that the more serious crimes had increased in proportion to the population.
 MR. SLANEY  said, he should move as an Amendment on the Question, the Resolution of which he had given notice. He had attended to the subject of the condition of the working classes very anxiously ever since he had been in Parliament. The question had nothing whatever to do with party; but it interested deeply the welfare of the community, and that was the reason it had engaged his attention so constantly. He would refer to Reports laid before that House from time to time to prove his case. A great difference had occurred during the last forty years in our social system; the comforts of all classes and the wealth of all classes had materially augmented, not, however, in equal proportion. But it was the working men—the labouring classes—by whose agency all these blessings and all this wealth had been mainly produced; and the question was, had the condition of the labouring classes improved in proportion to the benefits conferred by them upon other classes? He believed the reverse was the fact— that, instead of improving, their condition had retrograded; and it could be traced to the indifference or neglect of those whose duty it was to look after their interests. The working classes were divided into two great bodies—the agricultural and the manufacturing classes. The agricultural labourers had deteriorated in consequence of want of due attention to their condition. If there had been a department to take this important matter into consideration, the evils he now deplored would not have existed. Committees had been from time to time appointed to inquire, among other things, into the mode of payment of wages, and strong condemnation had been passed on the abuse of paying wages out of the
 511 512 513 514 l l l l l l l l l l 515 l
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  admitted that the courts of law and equity wanted a mutual adjustment, and that there were many of the jurisdictions of the courts of equity which ought to go to courts of law, in order that the latter might have complete jurisdiction over the causes they had power to deal with; but he believed they would be acting contrary to the first principle of the division of labour—they would be abandoning the useful result of long experience, if they were to attempt to unite the whole of the business now done by the courts of law and equity in one and the same system. In point of fact, this had not been attempted to be done in America; there the real distinctions between law and equity were quite preserved. He hoped the question, when it was raised, would be considered, not only with the view of abolishing useless, but with the view of preserving useful, distinctions, and of maintaining a just division of labour.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, that the same rule ought to be adopted in equity as in the case of an examination by a commission at common law. He thought the clause would work well.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  thought it would be contrary to the principle that House had always acted upon towards vested interests—namely, to secure the whole amount of salaries which otherwise would be secured to them for life—if they adopted the Amendment. He thought, however, that if full salaries were paid, parties receiving salaries ought to perform services for them either in their own office or in some other office.
 MR. S. CARTER  proposed as an Amendment to reduce the salary of the officers appointed under this clause from 3,000 l l
 MR. S. CARTER,  on Clause 5, which was entirely new, being brought up, proposed an Amendment to the effect that the retiring pension of Masters should not exceed two-thirds of their salary.
 MR. S. CARTER  said, seeing that the Masters were to be paid for their dues the salaries they now enjoyed, he thought they ought to do some duty, and as chief clerks
 541
 MR. S. CARTER  thought that the country would be entitled to the services of the youngest of the Masters in the intended new offices of chief clerks to the Chancery Judges. Men in the prime of life ought not to be handsomely paid for doing nothing.
 MR. S. CARTER  did not agree with the reasons urged for giving the full salary as pension. It was notorious that the country did not ask these gentlemen to abandon their practice, but that many others were willing to undertake the duties of the office in question.
 MR. S. CARTER  remarked that, according to this proposal, the clerk would receive for his own life, by way of compensation, what at best, and in his safest tenure of it, he was only entitled to hold till the death of the Master.
 MR. S. CARTER  thought that the Amendment of the hon. Baronet was a valuable one, although the present might not be the proper clause on which it ought to be brought forward. Those who knew the Court of Chancery must be aware how difficult it was for the younger members of the bar to bring any Motion on.
 MR. S. CARTER  said, that, agreeing in much that had fallen from the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, he dissented from the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman with respect to a Committee or Commission of the kind proposed. It would form the nucleus of a system for obtaining and digesting information, and, being a permanent body to which the poor might complain, hon. Members could on special occasions move the appointment of a Select Committee. The two methods of proceeding might co-exist.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, everybody must admit that the sincere zeal and benevolence which the hon. Gentleman who brought forward the Motion had always manifested towards the working classes, deserved the warmest encouragement; and, if he (Mr. Walpole) thought the Motion would tend to advance the social condition of those classes, he certainly should have desired, on the part of the Government, to give it his assent. He regretted extremely the retirement of the hon. Gentleman from that House, and was certain the country would feel that the hon. Gentleman was ending as he began—that he was exerting his intellect and energy in behalf of those who had no opportunity of being heard for themselves. The present proposition of the hon. Gentleman, however, appeared to him to be not only useless, but detrimental to the interests of those for whom he proposed it. One of the objects of the hon. Gentleman was to obtain the appointment of an unpaid Commission—
 "To consider, suggest, and report from time to time preventive and remedial measures, to benefit the social condition of the Working Classes, and for removing social and other obstacles to their improvement." 517 518
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman that the Government had no wish to anticipate the decision of the House. The reason why there was no Vote this year for the repairs of Maynooth College was, that the late Government did not consider there were any circumstances which required such a Vote being asked for, and therefore omitted to place it in the Estimates which the present Government had adopted. The House would recollect that last year, when the annual Vote was proposed, it was carried by a very narrow majority of only one or two; and in the present state of parties the Government would have had little chance of passing that Vote, unless they could have shown a very strong case of the necessity of repairs.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, no such provision could be made without previous notice. He quite agreed that the new mode of taking evidence would throw on the examiners more arduous and responsible duties than they had hitherto discharged; and, that being the case, it seemed unreasonable that the remuneration should remain the same. As the Bill stood, the chief clerk would receive 200 l
 MR. WALPOLE  ultimately, in deference to the opinion of the Commissioners, withdrew the clause.
 MR. WALPOLE  concurred to a great degree in those observations, and promised to consider them before the Report.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the Amendment of his hon. Friend would apply to the present clause. If his hon. Friend knew as much of the Court of Chancery as he did, he would see that his Amendment would not at all answer.
 MR. WALPOLE  admitted that delay might arise in some instances, but yet thought the provision would be useful. Some power was required to prevent an improper person from being put in as next friend.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that one of the great improvements in this measure was that every defendant would have in a convenient form such a statement of the suit as should be legible and easily understood by him.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the clause applied to cases where a demurrer was taken by the witness to questions that were put to him. Such case3 seldom occurred. He did not think it would be desirable for the examiner first to decide on such a question, and then have it taken to the Court by an appeal.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the whole Bill depended upon the fact that the office of Masters in Chancery was to be abolished.
 MR. WALPOLE  opposed the Amendment. The office of the clerk was dependent on the life of the Master, and every clerk accepted his appointment on the express understanding that it was to lapse with the life of the Master. This being so, it was unreasonable to require that compensation should be given for this as for a permanent office.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would adopt the principle of the hon. Gentleman's Amendment.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that before the Bill was reported, he was anxious to express on the part of the Government, and particularly on the part of the Lord Chancellor, the profound appreciation which both entertained of the great learning, ability, and assiduity displayed by the learned Commissioners to whom the important duty was assigned of drawing up the Report on which were founded the two measures the details of which had occupied the House that evening—measures of which he would not hesitate to say that none had ever been introduced so well calculated to effect an improvement in the administration of the law in this country. He would only add, that it afforded him a personal pleasure to bear testimony to the high appreciation by the Government of the services rendered by the Lord Chancellor in carrying out the suggestions of the Report.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Masters were all abolished by the first clause, and by the third so many of them only were retained as were necessary to conclude the business at present in the Masters' Offices.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the present Vice-Chancellors' Courts in Lincoln's Inn were never intended to be more than tempo-
 542
 MR. WALPOLE  said, they could not place any of those gentlemen in inferior offices to that which they had already held: and it must be remembered that in the present case one of them was retiring after a service of twenty-eight and the other of twenty-two years.
 MR. WALPOLE  considered that they had no right to give gentlemen who had taken office on the understanding that they would hold their offices for life, less than the sum which they had received for the offices for which they had resigned lucrative business at the bar.
 MR. WALPOLE : The House of Lords will find their own messengers.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  thought it would be unwise to part with those four Judges, and tol ose all control over them, as proposed by the clause. The effect of the clause was to give a boon to the gentlemen who were to retire—it was, in fact, to increase their retiring allowance. He
 544
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he thought the Government had exercised a very wise discretion in omitting that Vote from the Estimates. It was his duty to oppose it last year, as he believed no sufficient grounds had been shown for the former grant. He wished the Government had exercised the same sound discretion with respect to other Votes of a similar nature.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he rose to object to the following items in this Vote: The expense incurred by the Bishop of Barbadoes in his visitation to the islands of St. Vincent and St. Lucia, 32 l s. d.; l s. d.; l l Reynard, l s. "Non mssura cutem, nisi plena cruoris hirudo."
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he should move to reduce the Vote by 300 l 523
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he was quite willing to add to the Motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth the 300 l
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  moved to omit after the words "it shall be lawful" all the words to the end of the clause, and to substitute the following:—
 "For every person who on the first day of Hilary Term, 1852, held the office of chief clerk to any of the Masters in ordinary of the said Court of Chancery, and who is not hereby appointed a chief clerk to the Master of the Rolls, or to one of the Vice-Chancellors, under the authority of this Act, upon the Master to whom he shall be such chief clerk being released from the duties as such Master, under the authority of this Act, to continue to be entitled to receive during his life, by way of retiring pension, the full amount of his salary as such chief clerk, such salary to be paid and payable out of such funds and in such manner as hereinafter in that behalf directed."
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  was satisfied with the right hon. Gentleman's statement.
 MR. EWART  begged to ask the noble Lord the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether any measures had been adopted for the examination of candidates for appointment and promotion in the Diplomatic service of the country; and whether there would be any objection to lay before the House a return explanatory of such measures, as had been done in the case of the different revenue boards, the Navy, the marines, and more lately (by the Duke of Wellington) in the case of examinations of candidates for the Army?
 MR. KEOGH  asked whether every defendant in a suit was to be served with an entire copy of the bill?
 MR. MONSELL  said, he understood
 510
 MR. MONSELL  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department, having a bearing upon the College of Maynooth, though not at all connected with the discussion which had recently occupied that House. In 1845, when the Act of Parliament was passed for the permanent endowment of the College, the late Sir Robert Peel stated that it would not make provision for the annual expense of the repairs, but that item would be the subject of an annual Estimate to be laid before Parliament. He believed, in every year since that Act was passed, a Vote had been taken, to the amount of 800 l l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had objections to several other items. He objected to 600 l s. d. l l l s. d. l s. l s. l l s. Sphynx Nemesis, l l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, there was an item of 819 l s. 525
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, as the father was usually dead, all the children infants, and the mother executrix and an accounting party in the suit, the application to the Court would be necessary in almost every case for the selection of a "next friend" to institute the suit.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, that Mr. Walton, a master in one of the commons in law courts, had recommended, from experience, that evidence should be taken in the way suggested in the clause.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  observed that none of the Masters wished to retire, and as they had been appointed during good behaviour, they had a life-interest in their offices. If, therefore, it was considered that the abolition of the office was for the public advantage, the holders ought to receive full compensation.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  hoped this would be the last time the expenses of the bishops would appear in the Estimates. If no other plan could be devised to save them from the pain of these discussions, he would suggest that the expenses should be paid out of the secret service money. But seriously he considered that any expenses incurred by the bishops going to and fro from island to island ought to be defrayed from the Colonial Fund.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that ordinarily not more than three copies of the bill were required; and in this case the printing would be much dearer than the engrossing. He should be glad to hear whether he stood alone in the Committee
 531
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  moved that it be expunged. He believed that many persons conversant with the business of the Equity Courts, including the highest authority in them, were of opinion the course proposed would be inconvenient, that it would promote delay, and lead to expense in printing all bills and preliminary documents in the Court of Chancery.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  moved an Amendment, to the effect that Motions should be set down in a certain order, and should not be called on out of that order, that the parties might know when their cases would be called on.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, this subject had been fully considered by the Commission, and there appeared to be between the retention and rejection of the clause a choice of difficulties. His own opinion, however, was in conformity with that of
 532
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  observed that the proposed alteration, which he supported, would throw great additional labour on the examiners; and a question would arise whether the two present examiners would be able to discharge those additional du-
 534
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, the matter was fully discussed by the Chancery Commission, and the arrangement proposed by the Government was considered the most convenient one.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  entirely concurred in the propriety of the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman. He was sorry that doubt should have been thrown from any quarter on the
 546
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he
 524
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON,  said, the question about Mr. Blackiston was not in his department. The case of the Bishop of Victoria came within the principle he had explained.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he could not agree in any of the views which the hon. and learned Gentleman had taken. The word "bishop" appeared on all occasions to raise some objection in the mind of the hon. and learned Gentleman. But this was no new question. It came under the consideration of the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord John Russell), in 1840, when he was Secretary of State for the Colonies, and he had to decide whether it was fair to call on the Bishop of Newfoundland, out of the limited income for his professional exertions, to pay the expenses of visiting other parts of his diocese at a distance of 1,200 miles. It was
 522 l
 MR. BETHELL  differed from the Solicitor General, as he believed that these duties would often require to be discharged. He concurred with the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, that this would be a most important reform, and would save many hundreds of pounds to the suitors, as compared with the present practice; but with regard to remuneration, he thought the Lord Chancellor would have power under the 60th Clause to settle that question; or if there was any doubt of his power, it might be made plain when they came to that clause.
 MR. BETHELL  also objected to the depositions being taken down in narrative form instead of in the usual way of question and answer. He thought at least the cross-examination ought to be taken down in that form.
 MR. BETHELL  recommended that where a witness refused to sign his evidence, the examiner should be competent to certify the depositions, and the witness be personally examined, if required, before the Court. Otherwise, the witness, by refusing to sign, might hinder the cause ever coming to a hearing.
 MR. BETHELL  regarded the Bill as effecting a great improvement in the English law.
 MR. BETHELL  suggested, that the practice of common law should be substituted for this form of demurrer, as great delay and expense would arise from it to the suitor. He thought that the party whose question a witness refused to an-
 537
 MR. BETHELL  stated that it had been his intention, but for the special circumstances of the present Session, to move the presentation of an Address, praying Her Majesty to issue a Commission directing the members of both the common law and the equity courts to consider expressly the propriety of consolidating and uniting the various jurisdictions, and also of consolidating the statute law.
 MR. BETHELL  thought the clause would be at once nugatory and obstructive. It would entail the necessity for that most objectionable and onerous proceeding an  exparte
 MR. BETHELL  expected that printing would put an end to that rambling form in which bills were too frequently now constructed, for every one knew that the appearance of matter in printing led to much greater accuracy of statement. The defendant, by the adoption of this provision, would be informed at the very first step in the suit of the charge which was made against him, and he would be informed of it in such a manner as would be apparent to a mind of the most ordinary capacity, without resorting to professional aid. Again, the Bill would be printed with probably greater celerity than a parchment copy could be prepared; and, instead of great expense, it would involve a less amount of cost. As to the probability of the exposure of private affairs by printing, he thought this was an idle objection. His only regret was, that this introduction of printing had not been carried throughout every stage of the clause. He trusted the Committee would be of opinion that the beneficial change proposed was one which would work well for all parties.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he thought it would be better to leave the law as it was, to be decided by a competent tribunal, than to interfere by the introduction of new clauses. But a far more important question than the abstract rights of the New-River Company was the supply of water to the metropolis; and he was compelled to notice a passage in the letter from the Board of Ordnance, accompanying these clauses, because the same opinion which it expressed had been repeated to-day by the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance. The passage was, that as the whole of the water for the supply, of the metropolis must be filtered, the: water might as well be taken from the; stream below the Government works, and that it would be as pure as if taken from
 592
 MR. COWPER  said, he did not think the 68th Clause would meet the point, because, although no greater quantity of water was to be taken than was before authorised, it would be taken with greater rapidity than at present. It might be desirable the Company should have the water, but they ought not to rob the mills of it, without paying proper compensation. He supported the clauses because they would do justice to all parties, and inflict no injury upon the New River Company.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, a Committee of the House had reported on this subject; but, as every one knew it was not difficult to get recommendations upon such questions on both sides, he sent down Mr. Walker, the engineer of the Admiralty, to report on the subject, and he reported that it was impossible to get rid of the passing tolls and maintain the harbour. Under these circumstances, he (Sir F. Baring) advised certain alterations to be adopted by the commissioners and trustees of the harbour, with a view to obviate certain complaints that were considered to be well founded. But it was stated that those grievances could not be removed without an Act of Parliament; and this Bill was for the purpose of enabling the commissioners and trustees to carry those alterations and improvements into effect. He was undoubtedly of opinion that it was better the harbour should be managed by the parties themselves, than that the management should be thrown on the Admiralty or the Government; for if the passing tolls were abolished, the harbour would have to be maintained out of the public revenue.
 MR. BENNETT DENISON  said, he was opposed to the Bill, because the parties to be taxed under it had had no opportunity of being heard before the Committee against it. The shipping and colliery interests had a large stake in the country, and their representation of the grievance they would sustain under this Bill, deserved the serious consideration of the House. The Bill ought certainly to be rejected, especially as the Government had promised to consider the subject with a view to legislation in the ensuing Session.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, as the representative of one of the largest seaports, the shipping of which was most affected by the Bill, he should offer his strongest opposition to the third reading.
 SIR BROOK BRYDGES  said, that the harbour of Ramsgate was of great advantage and convenience to the coal shipping trade, inasmuch as in severe weather as many as three hundred sail frequently found refuge within it.
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he must express a hope that in the Bill to be brought forward by the Government next Session, the passing tolls would be altogether done away with.
 MR. BERBSFORD  begged leave to inform the hon. Member and the House that immediately after the first conversation upon this subject, which took place preceding the Whitsuntide holydays, he felt it his duty to make the inquiry which the hon. Gentleman now called upon the Government to institute. The hon. Gentleman had now renewed the accusation against Major-General Thomas, and had brought forward a memorial signed by a pensioner named M'Kinley, which memorial reiterated certain accusations against Major-General Thomas, but which accusations he (Mr. Beresford) had long known to be unfounded, and which, by documents he should now proceed to show, were so. Not only had he himself made inquiry into the matter, but Sir Edward Blakeney, the commander of the troops in Ireland, had also made inquiry, and he had now before him the whole of the correspondence. And when he (Mr. Beresford) should have read that correspondence (which he was about to do) he trusted, if it should appear from it that the Lieutenant General commanding the forces in Ireland was satisfied of the falsehood of the accusations brought against Major-General Thomas, that that gallant officer would be considered to have come out of the inquiry in a perfectly honourable manner. The correspondence commenced by a letter from the assistant military secretary to the lieutenant-general command-
 599 "Free Hospital, Dublin, May 24. "The enclosed copy of the  Freeman's Journal  By order, "CHARLES FORESTER, "Assistant-Military Secretary." "Belfast, May 25. "Sir—I have but this moment returned from my inspection of the troops at Londonderry and previous stations, and hasten to acquaint you, for the information of the lieutenant-general commanding, with the circumstances that really did occur upon the occasion referred to in the paragraph of the  Freeman's Journal, 600 "HENRY THOMAS, Major-General." "Royal Hospital, Dublin, May 26. "My dear Sir—I am directed by Sir Edward Blakeney to write and say that he regrets very much any allusion whatever to the forthcoming elections should have been made by you on your meeting with your old comrades at Enniskillen, as it gives a foundation for any exaggerated statements to be published by those who are continually watching for such opportunities. "Sir Edward desires me to add, that you cannot be too cautious on this point, and he is quite satisfied you will be so for the future. "Believe me, yours very faithfully, "CHARLES FORESTER. "Major-General Thomas, C.B., &c., Belfast." 601 602
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  wished to say that the Committee must not suppose that there was no answer to be given to these statements against Sir James Brooke, he (Mr. Drummond) was himself in attendance to give an answer to them; but, looking at the time (a quarter to 4 o'clock), he would not attempt to do so then.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  rose, according to notice, to put a question to the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, and said: I will state as briefly as I can the circumstances which have suggested the question of which I have given notice. The National Society, which is one of the great establishments for the promotion of education, and which is more particularly connected with, and maintained by, the Established Church, is managed by a Committee, of which every one of the bench of Bishops is a member, and of which also there are many other members, lay and clerical. During the last few years there has been an almost perpetual discussion and controversy going on between the Committee of the National Society and the Committee of Privy Council of Education, in reference to the management clauses under which schools receive assistance from the Committee. Up to a very recent period the Government refused all attempts to change those management clauses in pursuance with the request of the Committee of the National Society. But it is understood that recently the Government have decided on making changes in those Minutes such as meet the views and requirements of a section of the members of the National Society. It is unquestionably believed that the Government have consented to make certain changes in the Minutes of the Committee of the Privy Council which meet the views of certain members of the National Society. The Archdeacon of Taunton has publicly stated that he has seen a rough draft of those Minutes so altered; and, further, that those altera-
 612
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  complained that his name had been placed upon the Committee without his sanction.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL,  of course, must exonerate the hon. Member for Cockermouth from having made unwarranted use of his name. When, however, the time arrived for the appointment of the Committee, there were two questions of which he should give full notice to the hon. Member before he (the Solicitor General) could consent to serve.
 MR. CORNEWALL LEWIS  said, that in the course of last autumn the usual circular was sent by the Treasury to the different departments, calling on them to furnish their answers with respect to the Estimates for the ensuing year. Before the late Government went out of office, an answer was received from the Irish Board of Works, in which there was a sum proposed for repairs to the College of Maynooth, amounting, according to the best of his memory, to the sum of either 1,000 l.
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, it is not a duty which devolves on me to vindicate the general conduct of the present Government from those grave and sweeping, though I must say most unfair and unfounded, charges, with which the noble Lord has thought fit to conclude the review of a Session which he may he excused for regarding with no particular complacency. In the subordinate post which I occupy, it is not my duty—it is not my privilege— officially to explain, or officially to defend, the measures of a Conservative Cabinet. But when a distinct and personal charge is made by the noble Lord, first, against the head of the Government, for differing, as the noble Lord alleged, in opinion from some of his principal Colleagues; and when the noble Lord goes on to make another personal charge against my noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, of incapacity to conduct the business of his department (for the noble Lord's words im-
 644 645 646
 LORD STANLEY  resumed: The noble Lord undoubtedly alluded to it briefly, hut he alluded to it as a tribunal from which justice was not to be expected. But then the noble Lord came to what is really the most material point in the case. He took up the case at the point where the tribunal of preliminary inquiry having substantiated the story of Mr. Mather, that tribunal and the Tuscan Government declared that their power was limited—that it stopped there—that they had elicited the facts, and that they could do nothing more. Two questions then arose for the consideration of the Minister at Florence and of the British Government. These questions were—first, from what party reparation for the outrage that had been committed was to be sought? and, secondly, what should be the nature of that reparation? Now, I must say, that I look upon the first question—namely, the question as to the party who was to be held responsible in the case, as even more important, if possible, than it was represented to be by the noble Lord. I look upon it, however, as important in a different point of view from that taken by the noble Lord. I look upon it in that light
 647 648 649
 LORD STANLEY  continued: But the noble Lord stated, and I think we have Lord Granville's assurance to the same effect, that the Government of the noble Lord intended to apply to Tuscany in the first instance, and that if they failed in obtaining reparation from Tuscany, as they must have done, they would then have been prepared to go to Austria, and to hold Austria responsible. But what would have been the results of that course? The noble Lord professes to dread any increase in the influence of despotic Governments in Europe. But the noble Lord and his Colleague would have taken the very course most calculated to increase the power of these despotic Governments. The noble Lord would have recognised that which we objected and refused to recognise from the first—the absolute military occupation of Tuscany by the Austrian troops. I say that the noble Lord who professes so much jealousy of the increasing influence of despotic Powers—who professes himself, and I dare say, justly, to be a warm advocate of liberal government throughout Europe—I say that the noble Lord has acted in a very extraordinary and inconsistent manner in recommending such a step. Again, turning to another part of the question, it must not be forgotten by the House, that whatever may he thought of the nature of the trial, and of the justice and impartiality of the tribunal before which the officer was brought—it could not be denied that he had been tried by a court comprised in accordance with the laws of his country, and that by that court he had been acquitted. [Sir A. COCK BURN gave marks of dissent.] I will not enter into a legal controversy with the hon. and learned Gentleman; but I imagine that a court-martial was the regular and legal tribunal to try military officers. I believe it would have been impossible, under the circumstances, to bring an Austrian officer before any other tribunal. Under these circumstances, and admitting, for argument sake, that the Austrian Government was to be held responsible instead of the Tuscan, I think there could be hardly a more difficult question for diplomatists and Cabinets than to say what
 650 651
 LORD STANLEY  continued: That was certainly implied in the words of the noble Lord. But we will say that in his opinion the result, at least, of the language employed by my noble Friend was to damage the character of Mr. Mather, Now I do not think that has been the case. If it had been, I am sure the Government ought to take the earliest opportunity of fully and frankly bearing their testimony to the conduct and character of that gentleman. Throughout this whole transaction Mr. Mather suffered much pain, anxiety, and annoyance; and even if, acting as he did, sometimes with a partial knowledge of what took place, and sometimes under the influence of feelings naturally excited—-even if, under these circumstances, he did not always do justice to the conduct of the Government, that is no reason why the Government should not do justice to him, I do not think there is anything at all reprehensible in the conduct or the demands of Mr, Mather. I admit fully the difficult position in which that gentleman was placed by the demand made on him that he should name the amount of his own compensation. But I think that upon that point there was, on Mr. Mather's part, something of a misunderstanding. Mr. Mather evidently took the national view of the question—that an Englishman had been insulted—that it was a premeditated insult on the part of a foreign Government, and that on that foreign Government a fine should be inflicted—I will not say proportionate to the insult, for it is difficult to measure the extent of an insult, but—sufficient to express the indignant sense of injury on the part of the British Government, I dare say—I am willing to believe—that was the view which Mr. Mather took of the transaction, and in that case I do not think there is anything unreasonable or exorbitant in his demand of 5,000 l 652 l. l. minimum l. Mr. Scarlett to the Duke of Gasigliano, May l l. 653 "Although Her Majesty's Government were; willing to consider that Mr. Scarlett, under a combination of difficulties, acted to the best of his judgment when he agreed to receive a sum so much smaller than the  minimum
 LORD STANLEY : No; but Lord Malmesbury does. That despatch was sent from the Foreign Office to Sir II. Bulwer on the 29th May. I am endeavouring to show that Mr. Scarlett was not disavowed for taking 222 l l.
 LORD STANLEY  explained: He never intended to say that Mr. Mather's character might not have been damaged; but he said there was not the slightest intention to damage it on the part of the Government, and that Mr. Mather had borne testimony to the fair and candid way in which the noble Lord had acted towards him.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : Sir, it is not my intention to enter into this part of the question that has been brought before us by the noble Lord the Member for London, or to make any remarks on Mr. Mather's case; but I am very desirous of making a few observations on the subject of the commercial policy which, for the last few years, has prevailed. And I am the more anxious to do so just now, inasmuch as an election is imminent, and I may not have another opportunity of addressing this House on the subject before that event shall have arrived. I must say that there never was a time when so many rash and reckless statements were made, of the advantages which, it is alleged, we have derived from the adoption of the commercial policy of 1846; and I really am anxious that the country should know what is its present position in a commercial point of view, in order that the people of this country may he able the better to decide whether that policy shall be maintained, or not. And I say that, if it can be shown that that policy has benefited the people of this country at large, it should in that case, be continued, and carried out gradually to its full extent; but if it has had, and will have, as I in my conscience believe it has and will, an evil effect on all classes in this country, then I say that that policy should be gradually modified, and eventually reversed. The noble Lord
 659 l. l. 660 661 l. l. 662 l. l. l l. l. 663 l. l. l. l.
 MR. ELLIOTT  said, it was the most unfair proceeding he had ever heard of, to propose a division on such an important question at that hour and in the then state of the House. It was clear the Government wanted to steal a division, so as to make a show out of doors.
 MR. F. SCOTT  begged to express his satisfaction at the prospect which seemed to be held out by the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies that so large an establishment would not be kept up as hitherto for the Colony of Hong Kong.
 MR. ELLIOT  said, he was anxious that an inquiry should take place into the state of Maynooth; and whenever a fair Motion came before the House for that purpose, he would support it. He protested, however, against the course pursued by the hon. Members for North Warwickshire, as an understanding had been entered into that no business to which there was an opposition would be entered upon.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the absence of Members proved the unexpectedness of this discussion, at least on the Opposition side of the House, at the same time he would suggest the impropriety of the Government consenting to allow any division to be taken at that hour of the night. The noble Lord the Member for
 699
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that with respect to the charge which had formerly been brought against Sir James Brooke for improperly using the force under his command as Governor of Labuan to put down certain tribes who were supposed to be carrying on a trade in rivalry with him in the Eastern Archipelago, he (Mr. S. Herbert) at the time expressed his opinion that the charge against Sir James Brooke was unfounded; but he availed himself of the opportunity of asking whether Sir James Brooke was in any way connected with mercantile speculations, because he (Mr. S. Herbert) understood, that on his appointment by the Government, Sir James Brooke bad no connexion with such matters. He was represented as having gone out to that part of the world in his yacht for pleasure; that he was a man of great energy; that he established for himself an advantageous position in Borneo; and that he was actuated in all his proceedings by philanthropic views. He (Mr. S. Herbert) did not dispute Sir James Brooke's philan-
 610
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the services of a very old and faithful officer of the Government, now employed at Hong Kong, Mr. Alexander Johnson. Mr. Johnson went out as secretary to Lord Napier, and was appointed one of the Commissioners for superintending trade, with a salary of 2,000 l, l. l. 604 l.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  regretted that the noble Lord the Member for London should have added the postscript to this Motion, as it gave an opportunity to the right hon. Gentleman opposite to get up a corn law and an education debate. Without the speech of the noble Member for Stamford, the country was aware of the differences that existed in the Cabinet on these subjects. He, however, was anxious to call back the attention of the House to the more legitimate topic for consideration—the case of Mr. Mather. Any one who road the despatches upon the subject must feel, despite any respect they might entertain for Lord Malmesbury's private character, that if it had been his Lordship's object to lower the country in the estimation of the world, and sacrifice the character of Mr. Mather, he could not have
 695 696
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Mr. Scarlett does not say that.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Not the object.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I said that both Governments were responsible.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I said nothing against that Commission of Inquiry.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  rose, according to notice, "to call the attention of the House to the case of Air. Mather, and generally to the present state of Public Affairs." Sir, I am at all times unwilling to bring questions relating to the foreign policy of the Government before the attention of the House; for I think that, generally speaking, it is difficult to judge of the conduct of the Government with respect to particular transactions in which they may have been concerned with foreign Powers on terms of amity with this country; and I am so little disposed to press the Government upon this subject, that when, the other day, I asked the noble Lord (Lord
 617 618 "I have now received a report from Mr. Scarlett, stating that at his request and ii> conformity with a desire expressed by Mr. Mather, the Tuscan Government has consented to a judicial inquiry. I have, therefore, no official instructions to address to you; hut if this inquiry is not fairly conducted, and influence is used to suppress the truth, the British Government will be obliged to ask for reparation for this outrage upon an unoffending and unarmed British subject, from Austria, and to express the confident expectation of Her Majesty's Government that such reparation will he promptly afforded by the Austrian Government." Hansard, "The British resident had already taken steps to comply with the request of the injured gentleman to procure a judicial investigation of inquiry."—[3  Hansard, 619 "On the forenoon of the 29th of last month a detachment of the infantry regiment Kinsky was marching down the Via dei Martelli, preceded by its band. The usual crowd of persons accompanied the music, some of them (including Mr. Mather and his brother) walking between the band and the troops. An obstruction was created in a narrow part of the street by the passage of a carriage. Mr. Mather came accidentally in the way of the commander of the detachment, Lieutenant Forsthüber, and admits that he may possibly have touched that officer. He then received a blow from the flat of Mr. Forsthüber's sabre on his back, and on turning round indignantly to expostulate, was struck in the face by another with his fist. While staggering from this blow he received a sabre-cut on the head from Lieutenant Forsthüber, which wounded him so severely that his life is still in danger. He was then taken to the hospital, and still lies there." "The detachment of infantry which, preceded by military music, was mounting guard, was passing through the narrow street which leads from the Via Larga to the Piazza del Duomo. There was a stoppage, and many people were pushing themselves between the music and the troops, insomuch that the latter were forced to shorten step. One man in particular walked the whole time precisely before the officer, who being in command of this detachment was in the place prescribed to him by our military regulations, and prevented him from continuing his progress. The officer told him politely in Italian to give place to him, at the same time touching him with his sabre in order to make him understand that he was speaking to him. This man thereupon turned round, looked at the officer, but continued to walk in the same manner. After this proceeding had been several times repeated, the officer became angry, and forcibly thrust aside the man who prevented him from continuing his march, and who he could not but think did so with mischievous intent, as he did not attend to words spoken politely. "Another officer who accompanied the guard, without being on duty, gave (under a like impression) another blow to this individual, who turned round with an irritated look, and was no other than Mr. Mather. Upon that Mr. Mather putting himself in a boxing attitude advanced with his fist uplifted towards the officer—who was on duty, and had his sabre in hand. The officer, who certainly could not submit to be treated after such a fashion, and who was exposed to the risk of receiving an outrageous insult at the head of his detachment,
 620 "On the 29th of December last, First Lieutenant Forsthuber, marching at the head of his detachment directed to occupy the post at the Palace, was passing through a narrow street. At that instant the Englishman Mather placed himself between the band and the commander of the detachment. The latter, inconvenienced in his advance, intimated to him to withdraw, first by a slight pressure with the flat of his sword, and afterwards with his left hand, the first intimation having been ineffectual. In complying with this injunction, Mr. Mather, apparently without intention, knocked against Lieutenant Baron de Karg, who, not being on duty, was walking by the side
 621 "Although the civilians heard as witnesses by the Tuscan authorities do not represent the matter exactly as I have stated it, inasmuch as they pretend not to have remarked, or at least not to have perceived, the menacing attitude assumed by Mr. Mather against First Lieutenant Forsthüber, that circumstance is not the less proved by the depositions of the soldiers; and there is the less doubt attaching to it, inasmuch as all the civilian witnesses assert that Mather was walking between the band and the detachment, and one of them expressly declares that he had observed that a sharp dispute had taken place between him and the officer in command. "The character and previous conduct of First Lieutenant Forsthüber not allowing me to suppose that he acted without sufficient reason, I am of opinion that that officer was perfectly in the right, and that he absolutely did nothing but what he was bound to do to defend himself from an outrage and its inevitable consequences. "That being the case, it is my opinion that, saving better information, the conduct of First Lieutenant Forsthüber is fully justified. "Unfortunately, I cannot say so much for Lieut. Baron do Karg, who, by striking an Englishman in the face, without cause, necessarily excited in him a degree of passion easily to be accounted for, and who must consequently be considered as being the principal cause of the menacing gesture of Mr. Mather. "Although, in general, the previous conduct of Lieut. Baron do Karg is equally altogether blameless, and although the proceeding of that officer, who is moreover well-conducted, cannot assuredly be attributed to anything but hastiness, I have nevertheless caused him to be put under arrest for a week." jura negat sibi nata, nihil non arrogai artnis. 622 "Although it would unquestionably have been more satisfactory to Her Majesty's Government, and in their opinion more conducive to the ends of justice, if the party aggrieved had been allowed to be present, either in person or by his advocate, during the examination of the various witnesses, yet as it is stated that such a course would have been inconsistent with the practice observed in Tuscany in regard to such matters, Her Majesty's Government are content to take the evidence as it has been communicated to them, and they readily admit that as far as they can judge by the documents, the Tuscan authorities engaged in the inquiry appear to have been actuated by a sincere desire to elicit the truth. "Now the evidence which has thus been obtained conclusively establishes that a most unprovoked outrage was committed on an unarmed and unoffending British subject by an officer in command of a military party acting for Tuscan purposes in the Tuscan dominions. "But Her Majesty's Government have such entire confidence in the honourable and just sentiments by which the Grand Duke of Tuscany is distinguished, that they are satisfied that the Government of Tuscany must be anxious to mark their abhorrence of this outrage inflicted upon an innocent individual by a becoming reparation. "And even if Her Majesty's Government could take a lenient view of the conduct of the Austrian officer, and consider the blow inflicted by him as the result of a misapprehension on his part, still it would be impossible for Her Majesty's Government to release the Tuscan Government from the performance of an international duty by making reparation to Mr. Mather for the personal insult and bodily suffering which he has sustained." "Her Majesty's Government entirely agree with his Highness that there is no reason to believe that any national feeling of animosity to
 623 "Assuming therefore with his Highness that it was caused by a 'concourse of fortuitous and unfortunate circumstances' ( concours de circon-stances fortuites et malheureuses), "Count Buol also stated that during the occupation of the northern provinces of France by the Allied Armies, the soldiers were not under the civil tribunals of that country. Count Buol added, that as the question at present stood, he did not see that he could do more than wait for information from Tuscany as to the line that Government had taken upon the reply they had received from your Lordship; and in the meantime he would recommend an arrangement upon the principle of compensation, not for an insult—for, according to your Lordship's correspondence, that was not the ground upon which you placed this question—but for an unfortunate accident in which no nationality was concerned; and he would at the same time state the disposition of the Emperor (upon such an understanding) to come forward himself with the proposition I have already mentioned for the arrangement of this question." "You will thank Count Buol for his amicable offer respecting the Mather case, and state that I
 624 "I have before stated that there is no reason whatever to suppose that malice or any anti-English feeling stimulated the act; but certainly ninety-nine out of a hundred would, under the circumstances, have only struck the supposed offender with the hilt or flat of their sword. It was, therefore, a brutal act, although unpremeditated; and as I understand the skull of the sufferer is injured, and he is not in opulent circumstances, a pecuniary compensation is both an equitable and a legal demand on his part." "I have the satisfaction of informing you, by the direction of the Earl of Malmesbury, that after long and vexatious negotiations with the Tuscan Government, Mr. Scarlett has succeeded in obtaining for your son a practical atonement for the unmerited and brutal treatment he received at Florence, by the payment by that Government of the sum of 1,000 francesconi. Although Her Majesty's Government do not consider that this sum is equivalent to the injury which Mr. Mather suffered, or to that which an English Court would have awarded him as damages for his sufferings; and although it is less than Mr. Scarlett was instructed to demand, Her Majesty's Government have reason to believe that Mr. Scarlett acted to the best of his judgment in thus concluding the controversy." 625 "We are, however, entirely in the hands of your Lordship and the British Legation here. If it be deemed best, for reasons of state which I do not understand, to take such a course, or any other, by our receiving official authority and instructions how to act, as far as we are concerned, they shall be promptly and willingly obeyed. What may be fitting for the honour and satisfaction of our country, of which your Lordship in such a case is the guardian and judge, cannot but be so for us." 626 "Lord Malmesbury having been pleased to indicate that he thought personal reparation should be obtained for Mr. Erskine Mather, and to desire Mr. Mather's opinion on this point, he begs to state that it is with the utmost pain that he addresses himself to it, and that nothing but the official commands of his Lordship should have made him deviate from the uniform course which he and his unfortunate son have invariably taken in this matter, of refusing to make it a personal question, but one of a higher and more important nature. "Mr. Mather taking into consideration the grievous injury inflicted; the risk of his son's life; his sufferings; the continued injury to his health; the eventual uncertainty of future results; the party that inflicted it being the officer of a Government which has been implicated by his act; and the probability that an appeal for reparation in an impartial court, and on the principles universally recognised, would have produced a large amount of reparation in such a case; Mr. Mather names to his Lordship 5,000?. as what seems to him, under all these circumstances, just and proper, and is not overvaluing the injury and its probable consequences to his son. "Mr. Mather again begs to repeat to his Lordship that this is the most painful part of the duty imposed upon him in all the trying circumstances with which this unfortunate affair has been attended, and that respect for the views and wishes of Lord Malmesbury have alone induced him to express an opinion upon this point of the question." 627 l. l. l. l. l. l. 628 "You must, if possible, got 500 l. "The sum asked by Mr. Mather is exorbitant; but you will be able to judge what can be got. A pecuniary compensation is at least tangible. You must hold firm language on both subjects. I do not think we should take less than 1,000 l. 629 "It now becomes necessary for Her Majesty's Government to point out in what that reparation should consist, and it may facilitate the settlement of this question on the part of the Tuscan Government if they are informed that the father of Mr. Mather (who is a minor) is himself inclined to consider that the injury done to his son may be atoned for by a pecuniary payment on the part of the Tuscan Government. On this point the undersigned is instructed to stats to the Duke of Casigliano that Her Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs having heard from Mr. Mather's father, subsequently to that gentleman's return to England from visiting his son at Florence, the representations which he had to make upon the subject of the injury done to his son, requested him to put in writing the nature of the reparation which he demanded on behalf of his son, who is under age; and Her Majesty's Secretary of State shortly afterwards received from Mr. Mather's father a statement that he would he satisfied if a sum of 5,000 l. "Her Majesty's Government, however, consider that sum to be greater than they ought to demand of the Tuscan Government to pay." "The undersigned is therefore instructed to state to the Duke of Casigliano that Her Majesty's Government expect and require that a sum proportionate to the sufferings and indignity inflicted on Mr. Mather, jun., should be paid to Ins father, as compensation for the outrage inflicted on his son." "Her Majesty's Government have seen with deep regret that the Tuscan Government do not appreciate the arguments you have used and the spirit you have shown in advocating Mr. Mather's just claim to a pecuniary compensation, when all other opportunities of redress which independent and civilised nations afford to injured persons have been denied him. "It is impossible for Her Majesty's Government to abandon the demands they have made, and although they again repeat that they consider Mr. Mather, sen's valuation of 5,000 l. l. l. 630 l. l. "If I treat the Mather question by itself, my instructions absolutely prevent mo from consenting to any minimum but that of 500 l. "The only way in which I could venture to take upon myself the question of fixing a sum more nearly approaching to yours, would be by persuading Monseigneur the Grand Duke to exorcise at the same time his gracious clemency in favour of the Messrs. Stratford." "Mr. Barron informs Her Majesty's Government that Mr. Scarlett has brought the negotiations which have so long been pending on the Mather case to a close, by receiving from the Tuscan Government a compensation of 222 l. "Her Majesty's Government cannot for a moment doubt the zeal which Mr. Scarlett has uniformly shown in carrying out till now the various orders which he has received from this office, bearing upon questions of a difficult and vexatious character, and they are ready to admit that in this last transaction Mr. Scarlett has acted to the best of his judgment. "I should not, however, he strictly performing my duty were I not to express to you that Her Majesty's Government regret that Mr. Scarlett should have taken a view of what was expedient in the settlement of Mr. Mather's compensation, as much at variance with his instructions as with sound reason and equity." 631 632 Chargé d'Affaires "Should you find the Tuscan Government absolutely resolved not to agree to the sum named to Mr. Scarlett as the minimum which Her Majesty's Government would consent to accept, you are at liberty to refer the amount to arbitration; but if the Tuscan Government should be so ill-advised as to refuse all payment whatever, you will then inform the Tuscan Government that Her Majesty's Government can no longer recommend Her Majesty to allow Her representative to sanction an act of such great injustice by his presence at Florence, and you will close Her Majesty's mission at that Court. You will also state to the Tuscan Government that ulterior measures will be adopted by Her Majesty's Government to obtain redress. 633 francisconi, "Surely it becomes the British Legislature to step forward and say that the Foreign Office of England is not England—that the high-minded, generous feeling, of this great people is opposed to measures such as have been taken by the Government of the country—that we separate our actions from theirs—our feelings from theirs— our views of justice and good faith from theirs."—[3  Hansard, 634 635 636 637 638 l. l l l. l 639 l. l. 640 641 l. l. l. l. l. l. 642 643 Sir Lucius O' Trigger Captain Absolute, Captain Absolute
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that after hon. Gentlemen had refused to read his Bill in respect to polling places in counties, on account of the lateness of the hour, it was most inconsistent to press this question at ten minutes past two o'clock. He should, therefore, move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that he also had some explanations to give to the Committee on the subject; but, for the same reason as that assigned by the hon. Member for West Surrey, he should not trouble the Committee on that occasion.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he felt it to be his duty to say a few words with reference to this Bill. Following up the investigations of the right hon. Gentleman lately at the head of the Admiralty (Sir F. Baring) the present Government had come to the conclusion that it was indispensable to make some new arrangements respecting it. Hon. Members who opposed the
 596 pro tanto,
 MR. FREWEN  said, he had given notice of an Amendment on the third read-for the abolition of the tolls except on vessels entering Ramsgate Harbour. Two years ago a Committee had reported that the harbour could be kept in repair without the passing dues, and that they should cease.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he should object to the passing of the Bill, on the ground that it would interfere with a suit pending in a Court of Law on the subject, and should move the postponement of the third reading until Friday next. With respect to any disabilities which had been incurred by Mr. Alderman Salomons, he had incurred them with his eyes open, and well knowing the consequences of his acts.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the House would recollect the character of the last discussion on this subject. It was intended on the last occasion to defeat discussion, and he had expressed his determination to take the sense of the House on the question. He should consider that those hon. Members who voted for the adjournment were opposed to inquiry.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that it had been intimated to him that this Motion was to be talked out of the House, and seeing that the time had come when it was necessary to have some decision, he had given notice that it was his intention to take the next division, whether upon the main question or upon an adjournment, as a final decision.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, it was only the factious opposition which the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Spooner) had met with that had induced him to declare that, whenever the subject again came on, he would proceed to a division on the question.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he objected to the Vote. He would not avoid commenting upon the wickedness and, folly of that Exhibition, which was instituted in
 697 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought it right to state, in justification of the Solicitor General, that he had had no communication with the hon. and learned Gentleman since he had suggested that his name should be placed upon the Committee. What he had said to the hon. Member for Cockermouth was this:—"If all the other Gentlemen mentioned by you have consented to serve, I have no doubt you may put the Solicitor's General's name down." He had, however, certainly understood that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) had specifically promised to serve.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, as the hon. Member had referred to the conversation he had had with him, he wished to state that, it was certainly his desire to facilitate the appointment of a Committee; and if he could be sure that no discussion would take place, he would willingly waive the privilege of the Government with respect to the order of business. But be was not satisfied, from the inquiries he had made, that there would be no discussion, and therefore he felt it his first duty, as there was a great deal of business that must be attended to, to watch over the progress of the Government Bills, many of which were of the greatest importance. He would, however, endeavour to assist in obtaining an opportunity for the nomination of the hon. Gentleman's Committee in the course of the evening, if possible, but be could not at present pledge himself to afford that opportunity after the Committee of Supply.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he trusted at such an unusually late hour (five minutes to three) a termination might be put to the discussion. He thought that some consideration ought to be felt for the labours of Mr. Speaker; and he further proposed that the House should meet the next day at one o'clock, instead of at twelve.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am extremely glad that in the course of this debate we have been favoured with the opinions of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton. On these subjects he is a very high authority, and I am sure that the temper and tone in which he has treated the question to-night will lend an additional influence to the opinions he has expressed. The noble Lord, we have been informed by the right hon. Member for the City of London, is a very high authority, because he understands the business of the department in question. On hearing this, one is tempted to ask the right hon. Member for the City why, if so highly qualified, he turned the noble Lord out of office? and when he contrasts the abilities of his Foreign Secretary with the Foreign Secretary whose conduct we have now to defend, we cannot forget the remarkable circumstances under which the two noble Lords separated. These questions, in which individual injury is experienced in a foreign country by one of Her Majesty's subjects, although not so important at the outset as those in which the nationality of the country is concerned, are really, from that very circumstance, the most difficult and the most troublesome to deal with. The hon. and gallant Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne), who spoke in his usual airy tone, said it was easy to settle these things. Look at the
 679 quasi 680 681 682 683 l. minimum l. l. l. 684 l. l. 685 686 687 " from the Opposition benches. 688 l. 689 l. 690 l. 691 692 693 694
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if the House did not agree to the adjournment, the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Y. Scully) would be in possession of the House, and would continue his speech. It was then his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) intention, with the greatest respect for that hon. Member, to go home. He was, however, very anxious, as he saw that a division must take place, that it should take place at once without any discussion. He had no desire to put upon the proposed division for adjournment the construction which the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate sought to put upon it; but, of course, every Gentleman had a right to put upon it whatever construction he pleased.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he was also in favour of an adjournment at that late hour; but he thought the Government wore hound to state whether they sanctioned the view of the question propounded in such an arbitrary manner by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), that those who intended to vote for the adjournment would vote against an inquiry altogether.
 MR. HORSMAN  understood that the
 615
 MR. HORSMAN  said, in answer to the right hon. Gentleman, that it was his intention to proceed with the nomination that evening. He did not propose that the Committee should consist of eighteen Members. He had given in a list of fifteen names to the clerk at the table, and the three extra names had been inserted by a mistake of the printer; the Committee, therefore, would not consist of more than the usual number. He had been in communication with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and was rather in hopes that the right hon. Gentleman would allow him to nominate the Committee after the Committee of Supply, in order to avoid the doubt that might arise if it were put off to a very late hour of the night. It was quite obvious that there was the best chance of its being appointed if they got to it at an early hour. With respect to the last question, it was a matter for the House to decide rather than him. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the
 614
 MR. HORSMAN  could only say that he had shown the list of names to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had struck out one name, and had, instead, put in that of the Solicitor General. Under those circumstances, he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would be of opinion that there had been no want of courtesy on his part.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had no object but to promote the public good and to preserve the rights of the Crown. He would therefore withdraw the clause.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that on the part of the Board of Ordnance, he regretted to be obliged to oppose the Bill on public grounds. The New River Company proposed to insert clauses in the Bill which would materially injure the powder mills at Watford, on which the public had expended upwards of 250,000 l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would not, after what he had heard, give any further opposition to the measure, but he would move the insertion of the clause of which he had given notice.
 MR. MOWATT  thought the Bill was a very artfully drawn-up Bill, and would do much injury to the interests of the metropolis. But as several other Bills of a similar character had been allowed to pass, he did not see why this Bill should be the only exception. He should reserve what he had to say on the general question to another time.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  protested against the debate being resumed at this very late hour, near three o'clock in the
 700 Ut jugulent hominem surgunt de nocte latrones; Ut teipsum serves non expergisceris?" 701 "Fair hypocrites! you seek to cheat in vain; Your silence argues your desire to reign."
 MR. P. SCULLY  said, he must protest again pursuing the discussion at this late hour. He would suggest that the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) should withdraw his Motion for this Session, and bring it forward next Session in a more tangible form.
 MR. HUDSON  said, he should move as an Amendment, that the Bill be considered that day three months. The shipping interest of the north of England complained with great justice of the toll which was now levied upon their vessels, and he would appeal to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade to say
 593 l
 MR. H. CURRIE  said, he should support the Bill; and he begged to state to the House that the proposed reduction of dues from shipping that passed the harbour of Ramsgate, if the Bill were agreed to, would amount on steam vessels to 1,170 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Horsman) had
 613 "After the nomination of the Select Committee on Frome Vicarage, to move that the hon. Member for Cockermouth do reduce into Heads or Articles the several Charges which he has made in his place against Richard Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells, and do present the said Heads or Articles to this House."—"Alter Mr. Horsman shall have presented the Heads or Articles of his Charges against the Bishop of Bath and Wells, to move, that the said Heads or Articles of Charge lie referred to the Committee appointed to inquire into the circumstances connected with the institution of the Rev. Mr. Bennett to the Vicarage of Frome, and that it he an instruction to the said Committee to report their opinion thereupon to the House."
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, he was sorry to find the opposition which this measure had met with from the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Hudson). It had not been brought forward without much consideration on the part of the trustees, who were anxious to relieve any inequality that might exist in the levying of the toll. It was a mistake to suppose, as some had done, that the harbour was of no use as a place of refuge. This year upwards of 300 vessels had taken refuge in it from stress of weather. He hoped the House would agree to the further progress of the measure.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, he wished to take that opportunity of bringing under the consideration of the Government the subject to which he had given notice that he intended to call attention, namely, the dispute which had been carried on now for some years, and which was still pending, between the Eastern Archipelago Company and Sir James Brooke, Governor of Labuan. He wished to call the attention of the Government to that dispute, because it had been carried on in such a
 605 August 23, 1847. "This memorandum, or agreement, is accorded by Sultan Omar Allie Safeidin, son of Sultan Mahomed Jarmarlal Allum deceased, of Borneo, by which the whole of the coal found in the country extending from Mengkabong as far as Tanjong Barram, is granted to James Brooke, Esq., the Rajah of Sarawak, the coal to be considered at the entire disposal of Mr. Brooke or his assigns, without any interference whatever on the part of the Sultan; but on the distinct understanding that the Sultan is to receive 2,000 dollars for the first year the mines are opened and worked, and ever after the annual sum of 1,000 dollars." 606 "All I urge upon you is, not to hurry forward and fancy that great results must follow the outlay of large capital; it requires patient consideration and great attention to details." 607 "Now, it is perfectly clear that the Court has nothing whatever to do with those questions, so far as they affect either Sir James Brooke or the Crown. If the Crown thinks that there has been any injury worked to its rights by its having been induced to make an improper grant, it is for the Crown to proceed to set aside that Charter which has been fraudulently obtained from it. So, again, if Sir James Brooke considers that he has been deceived by Mr. Wise, it is for Sir James Brooke to proceed to set aside that grant." 608
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, he must defend the Standing Orders Committee for refusing to insert the clauses proposed by the hon. and gallant Member on the part of the Board of Ordnance, He quite admitted the right of the hon. and gallant
 591
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he did not think that the hon. Member had so much ground for complaint as he supposed, against the hon. Members for North Warwickshire. They had announced that they would put a certain construction upon the division that might bind them; but he did not think it would equally bind those who took a different view from them.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had never stated the Government were satisfied with this Bill. What he had said was, that it was not possible for the Government to deal with the subject this Session in the way they thought desirable, as there was not time to give the Parliamentary notices.
 MR. HENLEY  said, when the second reading of the Bill was agreed to the other night, he was not in possession of the exact position of the Bill. He was of opinion, under all circumstances, that his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Dunne) had much better allow the question to be decided by a Committee of the House of Lords. He should, therefore, advise his hon. and gallant Friend to withdraw the clause.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the subject of Ramsgate Harbour had been a good deal under the consideration of the Government. The present Bill was not altogether satisfactory, but as far as it went it took off tolls. The power of the Ramsgate Harbour trustees was limited to the levying of tolls in a certain manner, and in the present measure it was proposed to give them the power of taking off some of these tolls. Some parties objected to that. The opinion of the Government was, that the question ought to be more extensively dealt with; but under the circumstances of the late period of the Session, the Government declined taking any part on the Bill one way or the other.
 MR. HUME  said, he regretted to hear the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr.Henley), and still more so the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. It surprised him to find that the right hon. Gentleman had lived so long and learned so little, and that he did not seem to know the general opin-
 595 l.
 MR. HUME  said, he had formerly objected to the amount of the vote for Hong Kong. He thought there were ample materials with which to enter on a reconsideration of the expenditure there. The judicial establishment was quite disproportionate to the population, which was only 18,000 persons of all classes, not so much as the population of a small borough or town, and capable of being managed by a corporation or individual magistrate. He was not about to throw difficulties in the way, but he urged the Government during the recess to examine the information with which they would be supplied. Sir George Bonham, the Governor, was at present at home, and would be able to lay before them the real state of the Colony. It was a question for consideration how far it might be expedient to make the commanding officer of the troops also the Governor. If the Colony had succeeded, and the population had risen to 80,000 or 100,000—if Hong Kong had become the depot for the trade with China, there would have been no necessity for making such observations; but as he understood there was no hope or chance of Hong Kong ever becoming the large depot which had been anticipated, he wished merely to press on the Government the propriety of reconsidering the Estimate.
 MR. HUME  said, it had been supposed that he had on a former occasion acted as an agent of the Company, but be had no connexion whatever with it. he had done his duty in bringing the matter before Parliament, and it would now be the duty of the Government to vindicate the British Crown. He himself would not interfere further in any way. With regard to the civil establishment at Labuan, he considered it altogether disproportionately large for so scanty a population, he did not wish to destroy the settlement; on the contrary, he thought it might be made the means of communication with the Eastern part of the word; but he was anxious that the public money should be saved, and, above all, that these disputes should be put an end to.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he must object to the Bill being proceeded with at that late hour.
 MR. P. HOWARD  thought it would be a surprise to the House to go on now with the renewed debate at nearly two hours and a half after midnight. He was determined this debate should not be carried by a sidewind; he would meet every argument fully and fairly. He had sat and listened to a debate of nine hours' duration the other night about one clergyman (the Rev. Mr. Bennett), and he was determined that this question, which affected the welfare of 500 clergymen, should not be carried by a sidewind. He did not deem it right to go into the general question at this hour, but he would give his vote in favour of the adjournment, upon the distinct understanding that he did not mean to shrink from an inquiry.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : If Mr. Mather was satisfied with such an apology at the eleventh hour, he was not the man he took him for. He said it was Mr. Mather who first suggested a pecuniary compensation; whereas it was clear Lord Malmesbury had proposed it; and he knew that the English at Florence bad passed Mr. Mather by in contempt, under the impression that he bad first put the question on the national honour, and then said he was ready to take 500 l. Civis Momanus sum 657 l. pro tem, l. 658
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he was one of those who lamented the course taken by the noble Lord the Member for London,
 654 655 l, l. l, 656
 MR. SPOONER  begged to explain that what he said to the hon. Member was, that he did not expect the debate would come on, but he would bring it on if he had an opportunity.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he should certainly take the division. He had heard of no such Amendment as that attributed to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord J. Russell); it was not on the paper. He himself could not alter his Motion; he had no power. This question of adjournment was interdicted. It was the wish on that (the Government) side to divide on the main question.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that he did not wish to detain the House at that hour. He was satisfied with the division which had just taken place, and he would therefore not press the Motion.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, that so far as the rights of the Duchy of Lancaster were concerned, he had no objection to the third reading of the Bill. He understood, however, that another department of the Government were opposed to its further progress.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he must also protest against the construction attempted to be put on the division which had just taken place. Could he, or others, have foreseen the possibility of such a construction, they might have acted differently, but he charged the hon. Members for North Warwickshire with having misled the House on the matter.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he roust confess that he could not help looking with great regret at the course which the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) was pursuing on this question, which he believed would defeat the object the hon. Gentleman had in view, namely, to have a division that would go with some moral weight to the country. He (Mr. Palmer) should be glad to have an opportunity of expressing his views on this question, if the debate were postponed to another day; but it was a cruel proceeding either to ask Gentlemen to remain in the House at that hon. of the morning [half-past 2 o'clock], or to go away and leave a small House to represent the opinion of Parliament on so important a question.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, that he was exceedingly surprised that any opposition should have been made to the Bill. It had been introduced by a noble Lord in another place (Lord Lyndhurst), upon whose judgment and experience every reliance could be placed. The object of the Bill was simply to relieve an individual, Mr. Alderman Salomons, from certain disabilities of a most peculiar and painful character which he had incurred in consequence of acts which must be known to all hon. Members, and in the performance of which he was justified to a great extent by the diversity of opinion which prevailed in that House, and among many professional persons, with respect to the state of the law as affecting the Oaths required to be taken by hon. Members. He trusted, therefore, that the House would allow the Bill to be proceeded with.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he would accede to the hon. Gentleman's Amendment.
 MR. WALPOLE : I beg to state that the issuing of the Letter depends on application being made to me by the Archbishop of Canterbury for that purpose in the usual course of business. No such application has been made to me as yet; and, strictly speaking, I don't think I can or ought to give an answer to the question, until I know more of the facts of the case. But, perhaps, I may take this opportunity of stating—as the hon. Gentleman has referred to alterations, or more correctly speaking relaxations, in the management clauses—that I hold the Minute in my hand, and that I intend to lay it on the table of the House this evening, in order to disabuse the minds of hon. Members, and of persons out of doors, of some errors on this subject, and in order that a just interpretation may be put upon the intentions of the Government.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he had stated distinctly the other night that nothing would induce him to serve on the Committee unless the hon. Gentleman observed the course of laying before it the written charges which he had made.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that, having been referred to, he wished to observe that, as the hon. Member (Mr. Horsman) had not seen cause at once to express his assent to the Motion of which he had given notice, and as it was a point of the highest constitutional importance, it would be necessary for him to detain the House at considerable length in making that Motion. He was perfectly prepared to perform his part, at whatever hour it might be; but he thought it only fair to give this notice that hon. Gentlemen might take their measures accordingly.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he felt bound to make protestation on behalf of the mean-
 704
 MR. BARROW  said, he considered that the Clause submitted to the Committee by the hon. and gallant Clerk of the Board of Ordnance was, in effect, a prejudgment of the question, and though he (Mr. Barrow) was desirous of maintaining to the full the rights of the Crown, he could not consent to adopt such a suggestion.
 MR. MAGAN  said, after his conversation with the hon. Member, a clear impression was left on his mind that the question would not be brought forward; and many hon. Members, to whom he had spoken, had left under that impression.
 MR. MAGAN  said, the course taken by the hon. Member was of a piece with the whole conduct pursued in reference to this question. The hon. Member had told him that he would not bring on the debate that night.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he had two questions to put to the hon. Member for Herefordshire (Mr. Cornewall Lewis), who was Secretary to the Treasury in the late Government. On Friday last he (Mr. Monsell) asked the Home Secretary why it was that the annual grant for the repair of Maynooth College had been left out of the Estimates this year? To that question the right hon. Gentleman replied, that the reason why it was omitted was, that the Government did not consider there were any circumstances that rendered any such vote
 616
 MR. PLOWDEN  said, be had great pleasure in seconding the Motion of the hon. Member for Sunderland, and in doing so he considered that it was unnecessary for him to add anything to the arguments which the hon. Gentleman had adduced against the third reading of this Bill. He would, however, just observe that he entertained strong reasons for opposing this measure. One was, that the harbour of Ramsgate was said to be of little use as a harbour of refuge, except to vessels of small tonnage. A second reason was, that the tax levied on passing the harbour, operated in an unjust and oppressive manner upon the coal trade; and a third reason was, that the tolls thus raised were, he (Mr. Plowden) had been given to understand, not altogether appropriated to the improvement and repair of the harbour, but also to the improvement of the town of Ramsgate, which he considered an unjust and improper appropriation. On these grounds he felt great pleasure in seconding the Motion of the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. the Secretary at War whether any inquiry had been made, or would be instituted, regarding the alleged proceedings of General Thomas at Enniskillen, on the 19th of May last, for the purpose of exercising an undue influence over Sergeant M'Kinley, a pensioner residing in the said town, with reference to the disposal of his vote at the next general election? On a former occasion, when he mentioned this case, the Government informed him they would institute an inquiry—he hoped they had done so. Since then he had been furnished with a document containing the statement of Sergeant M'Kinley himself, which, with the permission of the House, he would read:—
 "STATEMENT OF SERGEANT M'KINLEY,LATE OF THE 27TH FOOT, AT PRESENT ON A PENSION OF 2 S. "That on the 19th of May, 1852, having received directions from Major Beaufoy, staff officer of pensioners at Enniskillen, to collect the pensioners of the 27th Regiment of Foot in the barrack-square of Enniskillen, as General Thomas was to be in Enniskillen on his round of inspection and would be glad to see them, Sergeant M'Kinley accordingly collected twelve pensioners of that regiment, and accompanied them to the barrack-square, when he received directions in the square to bring them into Major Beaufoy's office, which is situate in the barracks. He did so; he saw the General in the office, who was accompanied by Colonel Cole, Captain Corry, Adjutant to the Fermanagh Militia, several officers of the 91st Regiment, and Major Beaufoy, Staff Officer. General Thomas said he was glad to see them, and inquired where they had served. After they had informed him, he (the General) handed two sovereigns to Sergeant M'Kinley, and desired the pensioners to drink his health, and then said that if any of them had votes he would like them to give them to his friend Mr. Whiteside at the ensuing election, in preference to a common attorney. Major Beaufoy then replied that none of the pensioners present had a vote except Sergeant M'Kinley. General Thomas then asked Sergeant M'Kinley to give his vote to Mr. Whiteside, when he (M'Kinley) stated he had voted for Mr. M'Cullum at the last election, and, from the
 598 "T. M'KINLEY. "May 26, 1852. "Present at the foregoing statement, "JAMES HAMILTON."
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that if the debate was to be resumed that night, he should be very happy to pair off with the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), and go home too. But if the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) wished the debate proceeded with, he ought to stay and listen to the hon. Gentleman. 703
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  said, that lifter the statement of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Admiralty, that the Government would be prepared to bring in a Bill on the subject next Session, the House ought not, in his opinion, to press the present measure.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he should vote against the Bill on account of the injury it would inflict on the shipping interests of Ireland.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he regretted to hear the opinion which the right hon. Gentleman had just expressed, as the late Government had declared manfully that these tolls should be abolished. These dues were a plunder of the shipowners of the country, and he hoped the hon. Member for Sunderland would be successful in his Motion.
 SIR GEORGE STAUNTON  said, he fully concurred with the noble Lord in his opinion of the value of Mr. Alexander Johnson's services. With respect to what had been said by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), he begged to remark that Hong Kong was not ceded with reference to trade. It was of importance to have a place where British subjects might take refuge in the event of a breach of the treaty with China, and where measures could be organised for the defence of British interests. There was at this present time a rebellion raging not far from Canton, which had increased to a degree far beyond what had been anticipated; and it was not improbable that the insurgents might even take possession of that city. Under these circumstances, it was obvious that measures must be taken for the defence of British subjects.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the very fair way in which the hon. Member had referred to this Estimate, rendered any lengthened reply unnecessary. So far as the request that the Government would another year take into consideration this Estimate, he had no doubt they would not for a moment hesitate to comply with the hon. Member's wishes. He confessed that when he looked over the Estimate, he had been struck by its large amount. He had been particularly struck by the large amount of the salary given to the Governor; but he found an explanation in the circumstance that the duties of several officers were combined. When the hon. Gentleman complained of the expense of the Colony—and he (Sir J. Pakington) was not prepared to deny that this Colony was expensive—it was only just that the House should be aware of the great diminution
 603 l. l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had not the least complaint to make of the manner in which his hon. Friend had brought forward this question, and was ready to admit that he felt it to be one of considerable importance. But he hoped he should not be thought acting inconsistently with that feeling if he declined to enter into any discussion of the matter, believing, as he did, that it would be altogether premature. Whatever were the merits of the case between the Eastern
 609
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought he had made it clear that the question was one entirely pending between Sir James Brooke and the Eastern Archipelago Company as to the legality of that Company.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was willing to admit that these Estimates were very large; but he could assure the hon.
 611
 MR. BAGGE  said, he should oppose the Motion for adjournment, which he treated as another obstacle thrown in the way of a decision on the Maynooth debate. The Members on his (the Government) side of the House were very much interested in the question, and were prepared to take a division upon it, which might go forth to the country as the expression of opinion by the House.
 ADMIRAL STEWART  said, he must protest against the principle laid down by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire
 702
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, it is not my intention to follow the noble Lord who has just sat down into a comparison of the relative merits of the miseries of free trade, or the blessings of protection, or to compare the calamities of cheap food and abundant subsistence, with the blessings of a high price of corn and other concomitants of the system of which the noble Lord
 667 All in the Wrong. Chargé d'Affaires 668 melée, 669 primâ facie 670 primâ facie 671 x 672 l. l. minimum 673 l. minimum, 674 l. l l "I accept your arrangement; but as you have thought right to reaffirm your principle as to the
 675 676 677 678
 MR. W.WILLIAMS  rose and said, he entirely agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down (Mr. Bouverie), and he was sorry the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had given up this question. It was not that straightforward manly way in which they ought to deal with it, and it was not consonant with the character of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. It was his intention to have voted for inquiry, and he believed it was the wish of the great body of Roman Catholics that
 764
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, if Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House wished the question to be brought to a division, why did they move an adjournment? He (Colonel Thompson) perhaps stood in a peculiar position. He was anxious to come to a  bonâ fide
 MR. CORRY  thought the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had scarcely dealt fairly with those Gentlemen who intended to support him. He was one who was anxious to vote with the hon. Gentleman in favour of inquiry; and if he had had the slightest idea it was intended to divide, he would have made it his business to remain until the rising of the House this morning.
 MR. HEADLAM  thought the House ought to have an answer from the hon. Member for Warwickshire to the question which was lately put to him. He understood the decision of the Speaker to be, that if the Amendments were withdrawn, it would be competent to the hon. Member to put his Motion upon the paper for any day which he might select.
 MR. LAWLESS  said, some years ago there were tithe riots through the south and west of Ireland, and stringent measures were submitted to that House for their suppression. But those measures were accompanied by remedial measures, and ultimately the causes of complaint were removed. The Attorney General for Ireland some time ago said, he had quite prepared, and would soon produce, a Bill on Tenant Right. He would ask, was this Tenant Right? The right hon. and learned Gentleman had mentioned that there were several persons, in a proscribed list, and sentenced, and from what he had stated it might be supposed their execution was imminent. He thought that statement should not have been made unless the right hon. and learned Gentleman was prepared to substantiate it. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had also alluded to Ribband conspiracies; but he contended that the Ribband associations were originated for the purpose of protection against the outrages committed by the armed members of the Orange associations. Under the Government of Lord Clarendon he should have opposed the giving these extra powers to the Executive in Ireland; and from the tone and feeling displayed by the present Government he saw no reason why they should be more trustworthy. He thought that a party engine of this nature was dangerous if left in the hands of those now exercising power in Ireland, and that
 781
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, the origin of this Maynooth discussion was the conduct of hon. Gentlemen opposite last night, and the House had a right to ask the hon. Member for Warwickshire, what he intended to do with this order. On any day the hon. Member might revive this order, and play again the same trick which he had played before. He wished to ask the hon. Gentleman whether he was prepared to discharge that order or not? It must be recollected, with reference to this debate, that the noble Lord the Member for London, and the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, had both intimated their intention of speaking upon it, and he (Mr. Bouverie) desired to protest against the question being shut up by a snatched decision at three o'clock in the morning. If the hon. Member for North Warwickshire meant to go on with his Motion, let him give notice of a day for resuming the discussion.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, the order for the adjourned debate on Maynooth was now a dropped order, and it was open for any Gentleman to revive it by giving notice, and to keep it still hanging over their heads. He protested altogether against the division last night being taken as a division upon the main question. It was his intention to have voted with the hon. Gentleman for inquiry; but it was idle to suppose that a division upon a question of adjournment at three o'clock in the morning, upon the list of thirty-five orders of the day, was to be taken as a division upon an important question like that. The truth was, hon. Gentleman opposite were thoroughly tired and ashamed of the way in which they had been carrying on this discussion night after night, and had shrunk from a division altogether.
 MR. ELLIOT  complained, not only of the hon. Member for the course he had taken, but of the Government, who had backed him in it. Great objections were made on account of the lateness of the hour to taking the orders of the day an hour before the division on the question of adjournment of the Maynooth debate, and it was perfectly unpardonable to force upon the House any debate or decision upon inquiry into Maynooth, after all the other orders had been postponed, on the ground of the lateness of the hour. Yet that had no effect on the Government: there they sat to drive this matter down their throats. But the public out of doors would understand that it was done with the view of letting the hon. Member for North Warwickshire out of a scrape, from which he was ready to escape by any trick which could be devised for the purpose.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that in the opinion of the Government, the recommendation of the Select Committee was a very wise and prudent one, and there was every disposition on the part of the Government to carry it into effect. In answer to the second question, which referred to the competent person alluded to in the recommendation of the Select Committee, at present he was not in a position to say who that competent person, in the opinion of the Government, was likely to be. At the same time, he could not sit down without expressing his individual opinion, that the system of ventilation suggested by Dr. Reid had not received that amount of fair play which would enable it to be properly judged of. He did not wish it to be understood that he was now expressing more than an individual opinion; but it would be unjust to Dr. Reid if he sat down without expressing that opinion on his behalf.
 LORD NAAS  said, he did not rise to answer the general accusation which the hon. Member for Athlone had thought fit to make against Her Majesty's Government. True to his professions, the hon. Member seemed determined to show the same uncompromising hostility to every Government which sat on those benches, and to carry out the principle of the party to which he belonged—to make every Government in this country impossible. With regard to the accusations brought against himself, he (Lord Naas) indignantly denied them. On no occasion had he supplied candidates in the ensuing election either with letters or money; and the hon. Gentleman knew that the Secretary for Ireland had something else to do than to write addresses for candidates who appeared in every borough and county in Ireland. With regard to the Gentleman now standing for Dungarvan, he had not even the honour of his acquaintance; he never spoke a word to him in his life, and never wrote a letter to him, directly or indirectly. If the hon. Gentleman said in his address he would support the Government of Lord Derby, and the continuance of the Maynooth grant, he was only doing that which numbers of candidates were doing in this country; and he Lord (Naas) saw nothing inconsistent in a candidate standing before any constituency and saying he would support the Government of Lord Derby, and that he was not prepared to withdraw at present the grant to Maynooth. It was the opinion which, if he had spoken on the Maynooth question, he should have been prepared to enunciate, that, although voting for inquiry, he was not prepared to vote for a repeal of the grant. He believed no person supporting Lord Derby's Government had said more than that in Ireland; and, as to the statement that he was in any way mixed up with composing addresses or supplying candidates either with recommendations or
 770
 MR. HINDLEY  begged to ask the Chief Commissioner of Works what course the Government intended to pursue in reference to the report and recommendation of the Committee on the Ventilation and Lighting of the House; and whether Dr. Reid was to be restored to the position he occupied before 1846, and to have the charge of ventilating and lighting the House and its appurtenances, under the supervision of the Chief Commissioner of Works, assisted by a committee of observation, to be appointed annually by the House, in order to report their opinion as to the way in which the management is conducted?
 MR. HINDLEY  had voted for the adjournment on the ground of common sense, and because the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that if the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. V. Scully) were to recommence his speech on this question, he should go home and go to bed.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Member could not put his Motion on the paper without giving notice to that effect, and that until it was placed upon the paper it must be treated as a discharged order.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the order was not on the paper, and therefore could not be discharged; but it was competent for any hon. Member to put the order on the paper for the purpose of moving that it be discharged.
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the House that this question had nothing to do with the question before the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the order did not remain on the Order book, but became a dropped order.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes; but I do not think this is a Coercion Bill. It is not a measure of coercion; it is a measure of police. The Bill which was passed in 1846 contained a clause, enacting that no man should he out of his house after sunset, and the stringency of that clause led to its being called "the curfew clause." That was a provision which I could not sanction. I need not, I think, say more upon that subject. I should not be prepared to sanction any measure, even like the present, speaking totally irrespective of what occurred in 1846, if a clause of that kind were included in it; especially if it were unaccompanied by any measure of a remedial character. I am not aware that the present Government have shown any disposition to evade the sentiments which were expressed by me on that occasion. It is not, and has not been, as the hon. and learned Gentleman must be well aware, in our power to introduce any measure in the present Session having reference to the social condition of Ireland. My right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland has at this mo-
 788 789 790
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I quite agree that the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just addressed the House is not hound as to the vote he may now give by any vote he may have given on a similar measure some years ago. The hon. and learned Gentleman, of course, has a right to form a judgment from the circumstances which are placed before him; and if he should think the circumstances under which the present Bill is recommended for adoption, are different from those which were adduced for his consideration on a former occasion, undoubtedly the hon. and learned Gentleman would be perfectly justified in the course which he is now pursuing. The hon. and learned Gentleman has done me the honour of referring to some expressions which I used in the year 1846; but I do not for a moment recognise any similarity between the present measure and the one which I at that time opposed.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he would support the hon. Member for Clonmel (Mr. Lawless) in his opposition to this measure. He thought it unfair of the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) to bring an  exparte 782 783
 MR. MUNTZ  said, if hon. Gentlemen opposite were really anxious the question
 765
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he left the House before the division took place this morning, not supposing it possible that so important a question as that of Maynooth would come on in any shape at so late an hour. It was his full determination to vote for inquiry, hoping that inquiry would be a fair one; but he protested against it being supposed any decision had been come to by the House; and he hoped the hon. Member for North Warwickshire would still see if he could not take that decision upon some future day.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had not answered the question which had been put to him, whether he would move that the order be discharged? It was evident last night, from the state of the Ministerial benches, there was an uncertainty on that side of the House that there was to be a division. In his experience of Parliament, short though it might be, he had never seen at so late an hour so full an attendance on the Government side of the House, whilst on the Opposition side the benches were perfectly empty. Of course he acquitted the hon. Member of any intention to bring forward the question again; because he agreed with the hon. Member for Athlone in thinking the hon. Member was ashamed and tired of it. Still, it was perfectly competent for some other hon. Gentleman to revive the subject. The hon. Member's Colleague, who felt very strongly on the subject, might take that course. Therefore he thought, as the hon. Member had expressed himself satisfied with the decision last night, and as he had chosen to put a construction on the English language which it would not legitimately bear, he ought to take some steps to remove the question from the Order book.
 MR. HEYWOOD  expressed his readiness to withdraw the Amendment of which he had given notice, if that would assist the hon. Member for North Warwickshire.
 MR. NAPIER  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to continue an Act of the 11th and 12th of Her present Majesty, for the better Prevention of Crime and Outrage in Ireland. He said that, as it had been clearly intimated that this Bill was to be opposed on every stage, he thought the best course for him to pursue was to state at once the objects and circumstances which in the eyes of the Government justified the measure which he now asked for leave to bring in. He must first, however, express the hope that the angry observations which had been made that morning with regard to Ireland would not lead the House to enter on this subject in an im-
 774 775 776 777 778 779 "As Crown solicitor for the largest and most important circuit in Ireland, I wish to impress upon you the necessity of continuing the Crime and Outrage Act. It has been of great use, and may be required again. We had a Whiteboy prosecution of the utmost importance to the peace of the country at the last Limerick Assizes, in which it was necessary to prove the proclamation under that Act, and for which several persons were convicted. More remain to be tried for the same offence at the next assizes. What is to become of this, and similar cases, if the Act is allowed to expire? The knowledge that the Act is in force has, I have no doubt, prevented many an outrage, and I hope Parliament will not be dissolved without renewing it." 780
 MR. P. HOWARD  could not understand how it was the Home Secretary had addressed a very lengthy and acrimonious
 773
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, the noble Lord the Member for Coleraine made a charge against the hon. Member for Athlone, which could never be made against the Government to which the noble Lord belonged—that the hon. Member was extremely consistent—he accused the hon. Member of being extremely consistent in his opposition to the present Government. The hon. and learned Member for Athlone (Mr. Keogh) was consistent in his attacks upon all Governments—and he (Mr. B. Osborne) thought justly—that had not the interests of Ireland at heart; and he was sorry to say no Government he had seen sitting on those benches had paid proper attention to Irish wants and Irish grievances, which the nature of those questions required. So far from considering it any stigma that the hon. Gentleman was hostile to the Government, he rejoiced that Ireland had at length a man able, willing, and powerful enough to make known her grievances in that House. The hon. Gentleman's hostility was inconvenient to the Government, because it seldom happened that on any great question he did not put the  argumentum ad hominem 771
 MR. SPOONER  knew nothing about that.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he answered that question last night, when he said he was perfectly satisfied with the decision, and he should take no other steps in the matter. How could he move that the order be discharged, when notice had been given of three Amendments upon his Motion?
 MR. SPOONER  declined giving any notice for the renewal of the discussion, because he felt it would be useless.
 MR. SPOONER  said, the debate was not adjourned with his assent at first. He voted against the adjournment; and, as he stated last night, he took that division as a division upon the main question. He considered that division to have evinced clearly the opinion of the House, and he did not intend to take any steps further in the matter.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he considered that no case had been made out to justify the House passing this measure. It would not touch Ribbandism; if they wished to put that down they must grant remedial measures. Such Bills as these took all responsibility away from the Government. The Lord Lieutenant had sufficient power to suppress the crimes to which this Bill related, but the Government
 784 Cries of
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he rose to move the following Resolution:—
 "That this House, recognising the undoubted title of the Queen's subjects resident in foreign countries to the continual protection of Her Ma-
 793 794 795 Chargé d'Affaires, 796 797
 MR. SOTHERON  had felt so strongly that the character of the House was compromised by the protracted manner in which the discussion on Maynooth had been carried on day after day without any chance of arriving at a conclusion, or, if the Motion was affirmed, of its leading to any practical result, that it was his intention last night to have moved, though he was in favour of inquiry, that the debate be adjourned to that day three months; but seeing the empty state of the benches, he did not consider it fair, without notice to bring forward, at that hour, such a Motion. If, however, any Member should renew the debate, he should certainly move that it be adjourned to that day three months.
 MR. BERESFORD  said, if the hon. Member deprecated the discussion by which so much time was consumed, he ought in particular to deprecate the morning sittings being occupied with the same subject. For his own part, he must acknowledge that he had had enough of the Maynooth debate. The hon. Member for Athlone, on the part of the Roman Catholic Members, ought to have been satisfied with the lengthy address of the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. V. Scully). The question had been fairly discussed; but he must, before sitting down, refer to something which had fallen from the hon. Member for Middlesex. That hon. Gentleman stated that the hon. Member for Athlone was justified in his opposition to Government, because it had no sympathy for Ireland. He emphatically denied the truth of that allegation, and he unhesitatingly de-
 772 Fabius Cunctator; Thersites
 MR. KEOGH,  in reply to the accusation of the hon. Member for Birmingham, that Gentlemen on that side of the House had delayed this debate to such an extent by interminable speeches, that it was perfectly impossible any satisfactory decision could be arrived at, begged to state a fact which could not be questioned, that only four Members of the Roman Catholic persuasion had spoken on this question. Two of those Gentlemen were the hon. Members for the county of Mayo (Mr. Moore), and for the county of Limerick (Mr. Monsell). The hon. Member for Mayo did not occupy the attention of the House, at the furthest, beyond fifteen minutes, and the hon. Member for Limerick did not occupy the attention of the House beyond twenty minutes; whilst, on the other side, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire himself spoke for two hours and a half. He (Mr. Keogh) wished to repudiate the assertion made by the hon. Member for Birmingham, that he, at least, had ever charged the
 767 768 769
 MR. KEOGH  said, he objected to a Bill of this kind, as being an isolated measure, without any regard to the social wants of the people of Ireland. The Bill gave the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland the power to send any amount of constabulary force to a proclaimed disturbed district, and thus to make the innocent pay for the offences of the guilty. The Bill also gave power to any common constable to search the person of any of Her Majesty's subjects for arms in a proclaimed district, and this was an unconstitutional power which he could not consent to give. Another reason why he would oppose the Bill was, that the Government had not given notice of their intention to introduce it, until after the evidence given before the Crime and Outrage Committee had been closed. He denied that the Government was in possession of any materials to warrant them in asking for extraordinary powers. He had been taunted for taking a different course on this occasion to that which he did on a similar measure when formerly introduced. But he felt he was perfectly consistent in supporting a measure under special circumstances when he believed that a case was made out for it; and in opposing a similar one under other circumstances when no case had been made out to justify its being enacted as a law. In 1846, the present Chancellor of the Exchequer, when speaking in the debate on the Coercion Bill introduced by the late Sir Robert Peel, said—
 "For my own part, I should be, under any circumstances, loth to join in passing a Coercion Bill for Ireland. If I saw such a Bill recommended by a majority of the Members for Ireland, on whatever side of the House they may sit, I should certainly come to its consideration with feelings very different to those with which I entertain this measure; which all the Irish Members opposite oppose as tyrannical, and which most of the Members for Ireland behind me denounce as futile. But, Sir, I cannot forget that this is not the first Coercion Bill which Ireland has been supposed to require, which we have passed, and which have been so ineffectual that there have been repeated appeals to us for novel powers."—[3  Hansard, 785 "I, for one, am not prepared, under any circumstances, to support a Coercion Bill which shall stand isolated, and be taken into consideration without reference to the social state of Ireland generally."—[ Ibid. "There was an Act of Parliament which enabled the Lord Lieutenant to proclaim counties, and it was put in force in the particular district
 786 "There were two proclamations—the first proclamation prohibited persons in that district from exhibiting arms, and the second required them to bring in their arms. The effect of that, as far as he had any information, was, that all the persons who were well-disposed and were possessed probably of arms for the protection of their properties and families, would obey the law of the land and bring in their arms. Persons who had arms for protection brought them in or took their licences; but persons who were disposed to keep their arms for other purposes than those of protection, retained and concealed them. Arms might be sought for; but, as for finding them, he believed there was no instance of any large number being found. As far as his experience of that law went, he should say it was perfectly abortive." "He could not avoid stating his opinion that he would be astonished if it were found sufficient; he thought the Bill was wholly insufficient, and not at all calculated to cope with the principal part of the evil." 787
 MR. KEOGH : Your words were, that you would under any circumstances be loth to join in passing a Coercion Bill for Ireland.
 MR. KEOGH  supposed the hon. Member intended to move that the order relating to the adjourned debate be discharged.
 MR. KEOGH : Then the House would understand that the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire abandoned the whole concern.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he did not know whether he was in order, but he wished to put a question to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. He found by the Votes that at three o'clock that morning the adjourned debate on Maynooth was further adjourned with his assent, and he wanted to ask the hon. Member when he intended to resume the discussion on his Motion, which he had managed to keep on the paper ever since the 22nd of February?
 CAPTAIN MAGAN  repelled the charge of insincerity preferred by the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz) against Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House. He could not allow that the hon. Member for North Warwickshire was sincere in his Motion for inquiry, because the means for making inquiry were in existence, and all that could be proved before a Committee would be, that the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland had not done his duty. If what the hon. Member alleged existed at Maynooth, there was the way, if there was the will, to inquire; and from the course
 766
 MR. SHARMAN CRAWFORD  said, he had opposed every proposition that had been made for coercive measures in Ireland, upon the ground that they had not been accompanied by remedial measures. He did not impugn the sincerity of the right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite in promising remedial measures for Ireland, but many difficulties might arise in the meantime, and his Government might not be in existence when he was ready to bring them forward. The people of Ireland, therefore, might be disappointed. He should, therefore, oppose this Bill.
 MR. BERNAL  said, that with reference to what had occurred when he was sitting as Chairman of the Committee of that House, be thought it highly important that a rule should be laid down with respect to the voting of Members who were not actually within those four walls, and who might not have heard the question put. Frmerly the understanding was that hon. Gentlemen in any part of the House who could be locked in were obliged to vote. Upon the occasion to which allusion had been made by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey), as it was a new House, he thought, to avoid confusion, he would take the opinion of the Committee. He suggested himself that the hon. Members should be called to the table and asked if they had heard the question put, with the view, if they had not, to repeat it, that they might exercise their opinions upon it; but that suggestion did not find favour with many hon. Gentleman. It was perfectly true that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn), and the hon. Baronet the Member for Dovor (Sir G. Clerk), and others, expressed their opinion that that ought not to be done. But if he had collected accurately what Mr. Speaker had now said—and he should be excessively sorry to make any misrepresentation—there must be an adjunct to the condition, and the Member must not merely be within the walls of the House, but must hear the question put to him, and if any hon. Gentleman within the walls and precincts had not heard the question, he should be allowed to withdraw. He was glad to hear that opinion, and in future he should guide himself by it.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he wished to ask a question of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Admiralty. Considerable attention had been called to a vast quantity of wreck which had been lately driven on shore on the coast of the county of Banff, in Scotland, and much excitement had been raised respecting it, as it had been conjectured to be possible that it formed a portion of the unfortunate steamship  President.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he wished shortly to explain the part which he had taken with respect to this measure. It was not a Government Bill. It was introduced into the other House by an independent Member, and was now under the charge of the hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley); and the only reason of his (the Attorney General's) interference was, that a desire had been manifested on the part of an hon. and learned Member to make an alteration in the preamble of the Bill, to which he did not think it his duty to consent. He regretted that any excited feeling should have been manifested with regard to the Bill, and trusted, after a few remarks in explanation of its object, the House would consent to its second reading. By Letters Patent in the year 1841, Her Majesty-made the Colony of New Zealand into a Bishop's see or diocese, by the title of the Bishopric of New Zealand, and nominated Bishop Selwyn to be the bishop for the term of his natural life. Bishop Selwyn took possession of his diocese, and it became necessary in the course of time, in consequence of the immense extent of the island of New Zealand, that a new bishopric should be created. Bishop Selwyn was entirely favourable to the creation of a now bishopric, and he (the Attorney General) believed that there was hardly an hon.
 810 811
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must oppose the second reading of this Bill, which, though introduced as a public measure, was confined to four metropolitan parishes. The proper course would have been to introduce Private Bills applicable to the case of each parish, thus making the parties interested responsible for the expense, instead of throwing it upon the public. Having been foiled in a Court of Law, the promoters of this Bill now came before Parliament to carry out their object, greatly to the disadvantage of the dissentient portions of the united parishes. He should therefore move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  considered that it would only be a waste of time to discuss this Bill either at present or on Monday. He could say, for himself, that he had insuperable objections to its provisions, and it was impossible that such a measure could be carried through at this period of the Session.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the House had already that day had a proof of how long the hon. and learned Gentleman took to correct misrepresentations— which was just an hour by the clock. He would, however, now conclude by moving the Amendment which he had already stated.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  rose, to move as an Amendment, that the House do resolve itself into Committee that day three months. It was purely from inadvertence that the Government had allowed such a measure as this to reach its present stage, he having permitted it at a very late hour of the night to pass a second reading from having mistaken it for a measure of the noble Member for the City of London (Lord John Russell). Its provisions were of the most extraordinary and unreasonable nature. They consisted of only two clauses, the first of which provided that actions for bribery might be brought and decided in the County Courts; and the second, that if a Committee of the House of Commons should determine that there had been extensive bribery prevalent in any county, city, or borough, such county, city, or borough should be taxed for the expenses of the inquiry in the shape of a compulsory
 818 Mr. Anstey here pointed to the clock, the hour being within a few minutes to Sice. Mr. Anstey here again pointed to the clock.
 MR. STAFFORD  begged to thank the hon. Gentleman for giving him the opportunity of stating to the House the circumstances which had occurred. It was true there had been a considerable quantity of wreck washed on shore on the coast of the county of Banff, and the Admiralty had taken steps to institute an inquiry by sending to the spot an able naval officer for that purpose. After having carefully examined the scantlings of the timbers which had been cast on shore, he communicated the result to the owners of the many steam vessels that had been lost of late years, and among them the owners of the  President, President.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he should have moved the second reading- of this Bill without any remark, but for the opposition given to the measure by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Austey); and perhaps he should best consult the convenience of the House by stating the nature of the Bill which had been so much misrepresented. The Bill had had the singular ill-fortune of being obstructed in its course both by over-flattery and over-abuse. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Ripon (Sir J. Graham) had represented it as one of the most important measures before the House, and one which, if persevered in, would render it impossible to wind up the Session within the reasonable time promised by the Government. On the other hand, it had been obstructed by exaggerated abuse, or perhaps he ought rather to have said misrepresentation. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Youghal might perhaps think it his duty as a Roman Catholic to obstruct and interfere with every Bill connected with the Church of England, whether it might be an important
 807 808 809
 MR. SPEAKER : There is no doubt this is an evasion of the strict letter of the rules of the House, because, when the hon. Member (Mr. Heyworth) moved the adjournment of the debate, and the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Anstey) rose to second the Amendment, he should have spoken to the adjournment of the debate, whereas he has, in fact, made a second speech upon the principle of the Bill. I have often had occasion to call the attention of the House to these matters before, to show that, unless there is a strict observance of the rules of the House, any Member of this House may, by getting a friend to move the adjournment of the House, or the adjournment of the debate, make a very lengthy speech with respect to some other subject. I trust that the House, if the rules of the House continue to be so evaded, will take Borne steps to remedy the evil.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Member must see that it was impossible to apply the rules of the old House to the present House. The rules for dividing were totally different. In the old House, when Members were in Committee, they generally crossed the floor, and when they were not in Committee, the "Ayes," or the "Noes," as the case might be, were sent forth to the lobby. If Members were in the Speaker's chamber they were not allowed to vote; but there was a little room behind the Speaker's Chair, in which, if Members were, they were allowed to vote. There was no such distinction in the present House. As the lobbies in the present House were required for the purpose of dividing, he was sure the House would not suffer if a rule—Standing Order—were adopted, declaring that no Member should
 802
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the first question of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal had reference to the proceedings of the House at twelve o'clock sittings, where, let the state of business be what it might, the Speaker invariably vacated the Chair as soon as the clock struck four. It would be in the recollection of the hon. and learned Member that some time ago the House gave its sanction to a regulation to this effect, that when
 799
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose to order. The hon. and learned Gentleman, he said, had apparently seconded the Motion for adjournment, in order that he might use the opportunity to make a second speech on the subject of the Bill. It appeared to him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) that the proceeding, if not a direct violation of the rules of the House, was, at least, an evasion of them,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to prevent any misconception on the part of the House in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. Member for East Kent (Mr. Deedes). It was quite impossible now for the Government to give a moment of time to any hon. Gentleman. It was absolutely necessary, with the consent of the House, to proceed with the transaction of only public business. He was sure that would be the feeling of the House, and it was only by strictly adhering to that rule that the Government could fulfil the general understanding with with regard to the dissolution.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, Sir, I rise to order. If the hon. and learned Gentleman is going into the whole discussion with respect to New Zealand, he is not going to speak to the question before the House— namely, the adjournment of the debate; and it will be for the House to decide whether they will hear him.
 MR. BROTHERTON  thought these metropolitan parishes ought not to be allowed to attain the objects of a Private Bill without paying the expense of such a measure. He could not see why they should receive an advantage which was denied to all other bodies.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the only mode of dealing with these parishes was by local Bills applicable to the case of each. It was hardly possible to do justice to all the interests concerned by a common Act.
 MR. HUME  hoped a remedy of some kind would be applied to this case. Nu-
 816
 MR. HUME  said, he thought that the Motion for the adjournment of the debate was a very proper one. In the Preamble, the question introduced by the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Adderley) was admitted to be one of great doubt: why, then, in the present state of Parliament was a matter of great importance and considerable doubt pressed upon the House? There were only 28,000 British emigrants in New Zealand, only a tenth of whom were in connexion with the Church of England. What urgency could there be with respect to this proposition to place a second bishop over so small a minority of so small a population? This Hill would but sow in New Zealand such seeds of religious discord as had provoked the rebellion in Canada. It was nothing more than an attempt to make one particular creed, and that, too, of the minority, the dominant religion. If a bishop were really needed in New Zealand, the Queen had powers of appointing him without asking for Parliamentary sanction. He submitted to the Government the desirableness of leaving this irritating question to the decision of the next Parliament.
 MR. HUME  said, he willingly admitted, from what Mr. Speaker had just stated, that he was a little irregular yesterday; but, finding him stop at thirty-seven, and seeing three Members in the House, he naturally called attention to them: he saw at least twenty more outside the glass doors, and within the House, as he contended. He thought it of importance that the question should be settled. Formerly they used to divide in the House, and they were counted in the benches as best they could. Then it was found convenient to go into separate lobbies, and he understood the rule was that the doors should be locked, and all within them should vote; On an occasion when he was a teller, some thirty years ago, he remembered Mr. Wilberforce retired behind what was called Solomon's
 801
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he begged to move the adjournment of the debate. He considered the appointment of bishops to be a social question, which ought to be left to the Colonists themselves; and he objected strongly that England should be called upon to support bishops in her colonial possessions.
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, before I answer the two questions which have been put to me by the hon. and learned Gentleman, I think it right to state, on the part of the Government, that I am not responsible, nor is the Government responsible, for any particular observations contained in any particular newspaper. I think it also right to state that the hon. and learned Gentleman has not accurately, because not fully, stated the law with reference to this subject. The statute of George IV. was intended to apply to two matters: first, to Roman Catholic ecclesiastics wearing the habit of their order in public; and, next, to Roman Catholic ecclesiastics exercising the rites and ceremonies of their religion in any other place than in their usual places of worship, or in private houses— that is to say, they were not to exercise those rites or ceremonies in any public place. I have thought it right to state this much as to the objects of that law, which Her Majesty's Government think it their duty to enforce. I will now proceed to answer the questions of the hon. and learned Gentleman. First, he asks, are we going to publish a similar proclamation in the  Dublin Gazette? 805 Dublin Gazette, 806 "That while we are resolved to protect our Roman Catholic subjects in the undisturbed enjoyment of their legal rights and religious freedom, we are determined to prevent and repress the commission of all such offences"
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought that the best course would be for the united parishes to adjust their differences, and then proceed by Private Bill. He would therefore suggest the propriety of withdrawing this Bill.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he would divide as soon as he had answered the hon. and learned Gentleman's misrepresentations.
 Mr. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had woefully misrepresented him; but he had no wish to retard the eager anxiety of the Government to cover themselves with as much odium as possible. He had explained the objects of the Bill fully when he moved for leave to introduce it; and the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, on that occasion, offered no opposition to him, but said he would suspend his judgment until be had further examined the measure. He (Mr. C. Anstey) did not attach any importance to the second clause, which the hon. and learned Gentleman had so strongly de-
 819
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had misrepresented the facts of
 814
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  seconded the Amendment. The hon. and learned Member was proceeding to discuss the merits of the Bill, when
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the
 812 l. l. 813 l
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he wished to give notice that he should tomorrow move that in future when the House was counted the Serjeant-at-Arms should be directed to lock the doors in the corridors, so that those Members within the precincts of the House might be counted.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he should fix his dropped notice of Motion with respect to the expulsion of Scotch missionaries from the dominions of Austria, for the 29th instant, begging to have the benefit of Mr. Speaker's opinion on a question of order in which that House was much interested. A few days ago an hon. and learned Friend of his, the Member for Cork (Mr. V. Scully), was in the middle of his speech, when Mr. Speaker, observing that the clock had struck four, left his chair, and his Friend was of course obliged to discontinue his address. Yesterday evening, however, a very different practice prevailed, for the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer rose to address the House within a few minutes of four o'clock, and was allowed to go on speaking until nearly five, with a view, as was intimated at the time to him (Mr. C. Anstey), to facilitate "a count out" at a later period of the evening. He should like to know upon what principle an independent Member should be obliged to resume his seat the instant the clock reached four, while a Minister of the Crown was permitted to prolong the discussions of the House on Government business until five? Some evenings ago, when the House was in Committee of Supply, three hon. Friends of his were obliged, contrary to their wishes and judgments, to record their votes against
 798
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, the Bill before the House had been made a Public Bill because its object was to amend a Public Act. These four parishes had been omitted by a mistake from Hobhouse's Act, which gave the ratepayers the right to vote for vestrymen, and all that was now asked was that they should be enabled to avail themselves of that Act.
 MR. DEEDES  said, in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer he would withdraw the Bill.
 MR. DEEDES  said, that he had taken great pains to make this Bill as perfect a measure as possible, and he hoped that, if he consented not to proceed further with it that day, the Government would grant to him a portion of the morning sitting on
 817
 MR. KEOGH : I rise, Sir, to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, of which I have given him notice, and trust the House will allow me to preface it with a few words of explanation. I see in this morning's papers, as of course every Member of this House has seen, a Royal Proclamation, which is addressed to the clauses in the Roman Catholic Relief Act, which were introduced into that Act from some very old Acts. Those1 clauses wore directed against the habit of Roman Catholic ecclesiastics wearing the dress of their order in public. Those clauses have lain dormant ever since the passing of the Roman Catholic Relief Bill. The Government of the Duke of Wellington did not press them. The Government of Earl Grey did not press them. The Government of Lord Melbourne did not press them. The Government of Sir Robert Peel did not press them; and this, I believe, is the first announcement of the intention to put them in force. I observe in a morning journal which is conducted with great ability, and which usually defends the acts of the Government, and is supposed to be the organ of the present Government-—I allude to the  Morning Herald "This is an act by which the Government, in the immediate prospect of an election, dares to offend a large class of religionists. We need not say that Sir Robert Peel in his whole life was never once guilty of such a piece of manliness. What earnest Protestants have to do is to take care that those who are prepared to carry out their views do not suffer from their manliness in so doing." Dublin Gazette 804 Dublin Gazette?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  wished to know whether it was intended to bring any charge upon the public for the maintenance of this new bishopric? [Mr. ADDERLEY: None whatever—not a farthing.] On that distinct understanding, then, he had no objection whatever to the Bill.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  rose to move the Second Reading of this Bill. The object of the Bill was to enable the four joint parishes of St. Giles-in-the-Fields, St. George, Bloomsbury, and St. Margaret, and St. John's, Westminster, to adopt what was known as Hobhouse's Act. What he asked was that these four great parishes should be placed on the same footing with other parishes throughout the country, and have the privilege of electing those who administered the parochial funds.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he must decline to adopt the right hon. Gentleman's recommendation.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, although the Bill was not a Government one, he was anxious, as it related to a very important Colony of the British Crown, that it should be passed during the present Session.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  would suggest that the hon. Member for East Kent, who had the charge of this Bill, would see the propriety of not proceeding with the measure at present.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he wished to explain that the different Companies supplied water at various heights, and that if one general height were fixed for all the Companies, they would be requiring of some of them what they could not do. The provisions in each of the private Acts fixed the exact height to which each Company could carry the water, and all that was intended by this Proviso was to confine them to that height.
 MR. ELLICE  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman. The waste lands in Australia, which had belonged to the casual revenues of the Crown, had been surrendered to the public by the Civil List Act at the commencement of Her Majesty's reign, and might be made applicable to the use of the Colony by a Minute signed by three Lords of the Treasury. Therefore, in using the expression "trustee" in connexion with the name of Her Majesty, the petitioners referred to the Executive Government; and, consequently, used language of a strict propriety. To throw any doubt upon the reception of this petition, would be to put an affront of the strongest kind upon the Colony. If the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer persevered, he (Mr. Ellice), for one, would be prepared to come to a vote on the question.
 MR. ELLICE  said, he must deny that he had represented the Crown and the Executive Government as synonymous terms. He had only said that in this petition the peculiar circumstances of the transfer being-known, the Executive Government only was referred to.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, if the mere application of the inhabitants of a district for a constant supply was all that was necessary, without their houses being adapted for its reception, the consequence would be that people would find their houses flooded, and, being wholly unprepared, they would be subjected to much inconvenience, and even alarm.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for Finsbury, that it was desirable as speedily as possible to put an end to the burials within the metropolis. The only reason why the Bill of 1850 was passed through the House was, that it was founded upon the Report of the Board of Health. That Bill failed because the Board of Health could not raise the money necessary to buy cemeteries. They could not raise the money, because the Board of Health itself was to expire in five years after 1848; and the Board, therefore, having only a temporary life, was not able to borrow the money. But there was another difficulty. In order to borrow the money, it was considered not only necessary to have the control of all the burials within the metropolis, but to have a monopoly over all the burials in the country. Another power sought for was still more objectionable. It was proposed that persons dying within the metropolis should be paid for whether they were buried in the metropolis or not, and should be made to bear a fair proportion of the expenses of the measure; so that a person coming up from the south or north of England, and dying in London, would have to be paid for. He (Lord Seymour) thought this could not be carried out, and he did not propose it to the House. Last December it was decided that another measure should be submitted to Parliament, and he (Lord Seymour) took measures preparing an Act which would have the effect of repealing all the Interment Acts, and other Acts relative to burials, and giving a discretionary power to the Secretary of State, or some other officer of the Government. To that extent he entirely agreed with the present Bill; he also approved of the provisions which would enable parishes to make their own burial grounds, if the details could be carried out.
 MR. MILES  thought that to place acres of land under the same rating as houses, would be an injustice which would not be submitted to for a moment by the Committee.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he must admit that the Woods and Forests had objected to the discharge of the sewer through Crown property; but the reason for that was, that if they had done otherwise, the effect would be greatly to deteriorate that property.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, the repetition by the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Molesworth) of the charges against the New Zealand Company had not only excited a strong feeling of indignation on his part, but also a strong feeling of surprise. For subsequently to the last time the hon. Baronet brought forward those charges, he (Mr. J. A. Smith) took the opportunity of speaking to the hon. Baronet in that House, and told him what pain and surprise he had felt, that when the hon. Baronet had charges to make against the character and conduct of men whom he had known for many years, and with whom he had acted, both as a director of the New Zealand Company and as a Member of Parliament, he had not thought fit to submit to them
 893
 MR. J. A. SMITH : Does the hon. Baronet deny that the ground on which he based his refusal to my offer was, that he was engaged in a contested election?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  begged to explain that the Bill had come down from the Lords, and was in charge of the right hon. Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Goulburn), for whom he was undertaking it. As the Bill came down from the Lords, it proposed that Dissenting chapels, instead of being registered in the Bishops' or Archdeacons' Court, should be registered by the Clerk of the Peace. The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had proposed an Amendment to the effect that the registration should be made by the Registrar General of Births, Deaths, and Marriages; and, the Government assenting, he (the Attorney General) had not only taken charge of the Bill for the right hon. Member for Cambridge University, but also the Amendment of the hon. Member for Manchester; and it was rather extraordinary to find himself now met by the opposition of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member, being to repeal the existing Acts, was inconsistent with the Preamble, which proposed to amend the law.
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, as he considered that the Bill would disfranchise a very considerable number of the electors for counties, he should move that it be read a third time that day three months.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  moved—
 
 "1. That it is the duty of the Government to take measures to guard against the possible effects of the increasing production of the Gold Mines, upon the holders of the Public Securities. "2. That the contract with the holders of the Public Securities ought to be substantially maintained. "3. That to see a process to the contrary going on, and refuse to hinder it, is Repudiation. "4. That the contract will not be substantially maintained, if the payments to the Fundholders are allowed to dwindle to nothing through diminutions in the value of gold. "5. That the community has no interest in defrauding the Fundholders to serve the payers of the Taxes; as would be distinctly visible if every
 900 "6. That the expectation that the tax-payers are to gain, either by diminution of value of the pieces in which the taxes are to be paid, or by the annihilation of the payments for the Debt, is nugatory; because there is no Chancellor of the Exchequer who would not make either of these a ground for increasing the taxation and expenditure to correspond. "7. That the endeavour to persuade the Industrious Classes that they would be the better for having more gold under a corresponding diminution of its value, is an affront to their intelligence. "8. That a continual diminution in the value of the current money, is opposed to the just interest of the classes who live by wages; because it would keep them in a perpetual struggle for an increase of Money Wages, in which they are sure to lose and not to gain. "9. That for a like reason it is opposed to the just interest of the owners of rent, or so many as are free from mortgages; because it would keep them in a perpetual struggle for an increase of Money Rents, in which they are sure to lose and not to gain, to say nothing of the unpleasantness of the contest. "10. That the allegation that the Fundholders have been overpaid in consequence of what is denominated Peel's Bill, is a misstatement dependent upon reckoning all who have been overpaid, and taking no account of all who have been underpaid; the truth being, that on taking both together, there is on the lowest estimate a balance of eight millions and a half which, on an equitable adjustment, would be due to the Fund-holders. "11. That if the discovery of new Gold Mines should go on, it will lead to a diminution in the value of the precious metals, like that which occurred in the reign of Elizabeth and periods subsequent, in consequence of the discovery of America. "12. That it is no argument against the imminence of this result, that commercial men show no symptoms of alarm. Because, to the general operations of commerce it is indifferent whether gold is dear or cheap; for the simple reason that every man pays it away at the same rate that he receives, and  vice versa. "13. That the derangement which, from such a cause, would be made in the property of the Fundholders and all old Creditors and Mortgagees, ought to be prevented by the means which, so far as applied, were effectual in the time of Elizabeth, namely, by application of the principle of a Corn Rent. "14. That the application of that principle would be effected, and comparative steadiness in the value of Money obtained, by the issue of a Bank of England Paper, containing no promise to pay, but issuable only to such amounts as should be from time to time directed by Act of Parliament, on evidence produced that the price of wheat had, for the average of a certain period, been below shillings per quarter; any contravention of such Acts, in respect of issuing more than therein directed, to be dealt with as in cases of forgery; the amount of such authorized issues to be debited to the Exchequer, and applied to the Consolidated Fund. "15. That the efficiency of such an inconverti-
 901 "16, That the belief in the necessity of the community's providing and paying for twenty-one millions of Gold to be kept in cellars, is a superstition of the same nature as if a manufacturer in Manchester, or a merchant in Liverpool, should think he could not maintain his credit without a similar precaution. "17. That in any community the collection of a treasure of this kind is impolitic and dangerous, as holding out temptation to invasions from abroad, and to  coups d'etat "18. That in a settled and civilized community, there is no more necessity for the instrument of exchange to be framed of materials equal in value to the amount concerned, than for a bond or other obligation to be traced upon a plate of gold of the value of the amount at issue. "19. That such a Bank of England Paper as proposed, might be issued gradually, and the present notes withdrawn; thereby preventing the dangers of sudden change. "20. That nothing herein contained, would have any tendency to check the trade in gold. The gold-finders will always obtain for their gold the substantial return which the markets admit; and no art of man will give them more. "21. That it is expedient to attend to the Question before any public excitement is raised by current events." Mushet's Tables, Westminster Review
 MR. ELLIOT  thought some Amendments might be introduced to meet the objections of the Government.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, there were existing liabilities to the amount of
 884 l
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the attention of the Government had been, and would continue to he, directed to the subject.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in answer to the first question of the hon. Member, he would state, that the amount of debt and liabilities due from the Commissioners at the present time was 159,848 l. l. l. l. l. d., l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d., l.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS,  in moving the Second Reading of this Bill said, that he was deeply impressed with the importance of passing this measure during the present Session. The evils which resulted from the existing system of burial were notorious; they had furnished matter for numerous blue books, and had animated the speeches of hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House for years past. So impressed were the late Government with a sense of the necessity of abolishing entirely the existing system of intramural burial, that they proposed to Parliament a measure which had for its object the entire abolition of the nuisance. That measure gave great and almost extravagant powers to that department of the State which was intended to deal with the subject; but, great as those powers were, they were not sufficient. Indeed, after nearly two years' experience of the measure, the melancholy announcement was made, in a Report recently presented to Her Majesty, that not a single burial-ground had been closed under the provisions of the Act, and that nothing whatever had been done to mitigate the enormous evils which existed. The causes which led to the failure of the Act of Parliament were twofold. In the first place, as the money required to meet the considerable expenses to be incurred was to be raised by loan, the Board of Health had to give security to the capitalists who were to advance the necessary amount; and when those capitalists came to investigate the security which the Board could offer, it turned out that the existence of the Board was not guaranteed for more than three years, and consequently they could not give the required and necessary security. It was obvious, however, that an Act of the Legislature, transferring to some permanent department of the State the liability of the Board of Health, would meet that objection. He therefore would not dwell further upon that difficulty as it was one purely of form.
 873 874 875 876
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he considered that four-fifths of the inhabitants were not too many, when it was recollected that the demand would in effect tax the minority to a considerable extent, by compelling them to provide in their own houses the apparatus requisite for a constant supply.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he had an Amendment upon the clause, which he hoped would obviate the objection of the hon. Gentleman. He proposed to add after the condition about pipes and other apparatus, words to the effect that a constant supply should be given on the requisition in writing of "four-fifths of the owners and occupiers on such main."
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, this subject had received very careful consideration at the hands of the Select Committee, and he thought the clause should not be disturbed.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that he should not have thought it necessary to say a single word in moving that Mr. Speaker do leave the Chair for the House to go into Committee upon the Metropolis Water Supply Bill, had it not been for the notice given of an Amendment by the hon. Member for Penryn (Mr. Mowatt). He merely wished to observe, that the Bill now stood as a Bill introduced by the noble Lord his predecessor (Lord Seymour), and amended by the Committee to which it had been referred. The House would therefore see that the Government did not hold themselves entirely responsible for all that the Bill contained; but they did believe it would effect a very great improvement on the present system of supplying water to the metropolis. In one respect the Bill was of very great importance, for it introduced the principle of Government interference and control in reference to that subject.
 LORD NAAS : Sir, I am the last person, I hope the House will think, to present any petition to this House containing terms in the least degree disrespectful to Her Majesty. When this petition was placed in my hands I read it carefully; and I did not observe in it any expressions disrespectful to Her Majesty. Of course I am not supposed to agree with the statement or argument of the petition; but when it was handed to me I felt that I had no other duty to perform than to present it.
 LORD NAAS  presented a petition from the Legislative Council of New South Wales, embodying their solemn protest against the late Act of the 13 & 14  Vict.,
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, before the House resumed, he begged to be allowed to express his thanks to the Committee, and to his noble Friend who had acted as the Chairman, for the attention they had paid to this subject, for the manner in which they had discharged their duties, and especially for having contrived to include so many valuable enactments within such small compass. Pie regretted the want of proper municipal institutions to
 872
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he thought the exemptions contemplated in the Bill were unjust, and hoped the noble Lord would act upon the suggestion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall, and not press the clause.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, the Bill had been fully discussed, its principle had been affirmed by the House upon divisions, and he could not consent to postpone the third reading. He had introduced an Amendment which he thought would make the Bill more palatable to the House. It was not his fault that the Bill was brought under consideration so late in the Session, for he had introduced it at a very early period.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he entirely disagreed with the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but certainly he did not want to occupy the time of the House, nor to detain Mr. Speaker in the chair, and he was perfectly willing to divide.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he was quite willing to accept the proposed compromise, and agree to the Amendment of the hon. Member for East Somersetshire, provided the House would now agree to read the Bill a third time.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, the attention of the Admiralty had been drawn to the letter in question, and indeed any communication received, or any statement made by an officer in the position of the writer of that letter, would certainly command the attention of the Board. After the consideration of that letter, however, and the inquiries which the Board had felt it their duty to institute, they did not feel in any degree disposed to withdraw the great confidence which they had in the gallant officer, who had been so truly described by the hon. and gallant Member as that "scientific officer," Captain Johnson. The Admiralty had statements, both from Captain Salmond, after his experimental cruise, and from Commander Wylie, after the de-
 867 Birkenhead, Birkenhead. Birkenhead
 MR. FREWEN  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if he considered that under the Property Tax Act, 14&15 Vict., s.
 MR. GEACH  said, that if these words wore loft out, the Lambeth Committee would be put to an enormous expense to supply some five or six houses, which, with theirpre-sent means, they wore unable to reach.
 MR. GEACH  said, he had more faith in the Committee than in the Sanitary Association or in the noble Lord the Member for Plymouth (Viscount Ebrington), and should therefore support the Bill.
 MR. PACKE  said, he must complain of the great haste with which the noble Lord (Lord R. Grosvenor) attempted to press this
 899
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that if the petition contained any expression disrespectful to the Queen, it ought not to be brought up. As it had not been received, it might be postponed till to-morrow, to see if that were the case.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I will only observe, in answer to the right hon. Gentleman who has just spoken, that I cannot accede to the theory that Her Majesty and the Executive Government are synonymous. That is not a fact. Respecting the general observations made, I must say my objection to the phrase remaining, that I do not find the contents of the petition soften that phrase as much as I could wish. But, considering that we do not wish to interfere in this instance, I won't press my ob-
 866
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he quite agreed that the petition was one of great importance, but that he had not had an opportunity of looking at it beforehand, though he saw several hon. Members had been provided with printed copies of it. It struck him, in listening to the petition, that there were many expressions in it which appeared not to be very dutiful or proper. Thus, Her Majesty was described as being only "the trustee" of what were her own dominions, and there were several other expressions which appeared very equivocal; therefore, he would rather postpone the question, in order that they might have an opportunity of considering the petition and the phrases alluded to.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, this was a very important subject, interesting a very considerable portion of Her Majesty's subjects, and he did not think he could give a better answer to the question than by reading the following circular on the subject from the Inland Revenue Office, dated the 8th of June, and the issue of which probably preceded the petition which the hon. Member had read to the House:—
 "Inland Revenue, Somerset House, June 8." Sir—Many inquiries have been made as to the periods to which the accounts of farmers should be made up, in order to show the amount of their profits from the occupation of their farms, upon appeal under the 3rd Section of the 1 i Vict. 868 l. "THOMAS KEOGH."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I understand the hon. Gentleman to say that apprehension is occasioned by the announcement of a project for reducing the import duty on wine to one shilling a gallon. Now, in the first place, there is no project on the part of the Government to reduce the import duty on wine to one shilling a gallon; and I trust that no Government which is likely to exist in this country would entertain any project of such a kind. I will take the liberty of saying that there is no intention whatever on the part of Her Majesty's Government to recommend any reduction in the import duty on wine. I think that these questions when asked should be explicitly answered. Many years ago there was a reduction made in the duties on wine under Lord Ripon, which did not as a financial measure realise the success that was anticipated from it; and should the reduction to which the hon. Member has referred, as occasioning so much apprehension, be car-
 869
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as morning sittings were now so frequent, he did not think it was right to detain Mr. Speaker in the chair at that hour of the morning—almost two o'clock. If the noble Lord (Lord R. Gros-venor) had made up his mind that the Bill should not apply to the ensuing election, he might as well put it off till the next Parliament; but he thought the House ought now to come to a resolution not to sit later than two o'clock.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, at the end of the last Session of the present Parliament, and at that
 902
 MR. MOWATT  said, he thought that a majority of the inhabitants should be sufficient, and that their assent only should be required. It would be physically impossible to get the written application of so many persons.
 MR. MOWATT  said, he would not press the point, but he hoped the Committee would leave out the words which made the constant supply of water "subject to the provisions of the special Act relating to such Company."
 MR. MOWATT  said, he must beg to call the attention of the noble Lord in charge of the Bill to the provisions required to be complied with before a constant supply of water was given, which he thought would render the clause itself in-
 871
 MR. MOWATT  moved an Amendment, the object of which was to require that all reservoirs within a distance of five miles from London, and in which water intended for domestic purposes was collected, should he covered.
 MR. MOWATT  said, he considered it impossible by any mere process of filtration to render water fit for domestic use. Could it be said for a moment that water obtained, for instance, from the reservoir in the Park, could be rendered drinkable by filtration?
 MR. MOWATT  said, he would not divide the Committee on his Amendment.
 MR. MOWATT  said, he should wish to propose to have five years, instead of three, fixed as the period within which the Companies should complete their arrangements for furnishing an improved supply of water.
 870
 MR. MOWATT  said, seeing that the opinion of the House was against him, he would not press his Amendment.
 MR. MOWATT,  in proceeding to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, said he was anxious to explain that, while no one was more sensible than he was of the great inconvenience attending a discussion of such a kind as that on which he was about to enter, in the present state of public business, and in the prospect of an immediate dissolution, he reconciled himself to the duty he had to perform by the reflection that it was evident the public out of doors had not the least conception of the real character or provisions of this Bill,
 840 841 842 "No water carried to sea becomes sooner putrid (than Thames water.) When a cask is opened after being kept a month or two, a quantity of inflammable air escapes, and the water is so black and offensive as scarcely to be borne. Upon racking it off into large earthen vessels, and exposing it to the air, it gradually deposits a quantity of black slimy mud, and becomes clean." "A fluid loaded with impurities, and on a more minute analysis found saturated with decayed vegetable matter, and other substances equally deleterious." 843 "It is absolutely astonishing that in these days of refinement, and in a metropolis whose inhabitants pride themselves on delicacy and cleanliness, a practice should obtain at which posterity will shudder, if they can credit it. A time must come when the people of London will open their eyes to this scene of corruption, veiled as it is by iron pipes and stone pavements." "Assuming the supplies to be derived directly from the river, and to be subjected to no intermediate process tending to purification, it is sufficiently obvious that the state of the weather will materially affect the purity of the water"— —"which is sometimes comparatively clean and clear, and at others loaded with various matters in mechanical suspension, rendering it more or less turbid and coloured. In the latter state, when thrown into cisterns and other receptacles of houses, it is manifestly unfit for immediate use; but after being allowed to rest, it forms a certain quantity of deposit, and thus may become sufficiently clear for ordinary purposes. This deposit, however, is the source of several evils. It renders the cisterns foul, and runs off into those pipes which issue from or near the bottom of the reservoirs. By the agitation which accompanies every fresh influx of water, this deposit is constantly stirred up, and becomes a renewed source of contamination to the whole mass; and, although chiefly consisting of earthy substances in a state of minute division, it is apt also to contain such proportion of orgauic matters as will occasion a degree of putrefaction when collected in any quantity, and especially in warm weather." 844 "The object of this memoir is to prove that the water of the river Thames, whether taken up in the vicinity of London, as high up the river as Windsor, or at an intermediate point, as above Twickenham, is impregnated with matter of this description. The presence of organic matter in water often becomes evident to the senses without the aid of chemical analysis, for they are apt to inhale a fetid odour. In this respect, the water of the Thames at London is highly objectionable; but even at Windsor, though the water itself was not offensive, the matter left on evaporation had a disgusting and disagreeable smell." "Concluding from these observations that I should find the river less loaded the higher I went up, I was resolved to examine it at a considerable distance from London, and accordingly procured that which I call Teddington water, which must be the same in quality, and which is the point from which it has been proposed that the supply for the metropolis should be taken. The event, however, proved quite contrary to my expectations;"— "for this water gave a  residuum 845 "We must state, as our conclusion upon this topic of inquiry, that if the water of the Thames could be early protected from the sewerage of all the towns draining into it, and from the sewerage of the metropolis—if it could be purified from animal and vegetable matter as completely as deep well water, or as some of the surface water from the chalk districts, as proposed by Captain Vetch, we should neverthless feel compelled, upon tin-evidence recited, to pronounce water of such degree of hardness to be ineligible for the supply of the metropolis." 846 l. 847 "The river Thames and its tributaries, which are largely derived from land springs through chalk strata, are varied in quality by the surface flood waters. The presence of these surface flood waters is made known to the population by the particularly turbid state in which the water is delivered. Much of this turbidity is occasioned by animal and vegetable matter so completely in chemical solution, that, as several witnesses have stated, the common strainers or filters will not remove it. It is also the complaint of agriculturists, that much of the manure applied to the land, as well as the finer particles of soil, are swept away by heavy rains into the ditches and natural watercourses. The deposit of surface particles of inorganic, mixed with a large proportion of organic matter, detained by the filtration of Thames water from above Battersea, amounts, in the reservoirs of the Vauxhall Company, to more than a foot in depth per annum." locus standi 848 Times. "1. That for domestic use it (the Thames water) is inferior to the average quality of water supplied to towns. "2. That its inferiority as a supply for domestic use arises chiefly from an excess of hardness." "3. That even when taken above the reach of pollution from the sewers of the metropolis, it contains an excess, varying with the season, of animal and vegetable matter." 849 850 851 852 l. l. l. s.; l. s. l. l. s.; s.; 5s., s.; s.; l. s., l. s. d., l. s. l. s., l. s. d., 853 s. s. l. d. d. d. l. s. d. s., 854 "The total of the several estimates presented of combined and complete works, consisting of public works of water supply, with mains, service pipes, and apparatus to houses, public works of mains, intercepting and discharge lines of drainage, branch, house, and subsoil drains, sinks, traps, and dustbins, the soil-pans, engine power, together with the current expenditure on pumping to effect both a constant water supply and constant drainage; surface cleansing of streets and courts, and the relief of the Thames from its pollutions, would thus give, under combined management and extended contracts, an average charge per house over the whole of the metropolis of about 5 d. 855 quoad 856 l l. l.
 MR. AGLIONBY : That was an entire misconception; the right hon. Gentleman had not understood what he (Mr. Aglionby) had stated.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that charges had been made by the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark (Sir W. Molesworth) and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) with regard to a number of gentlemen who were in as high station and of as high honour as either of those two hon. Gentlemen themselves, and who were prepared in the face of the world, as in the face of the House of Commons, to stand the ordeal of an examination into their conduct; and he (Mr. Aglionby) felt certain they would come out of it untouched and unscathed. But he would not go into those questions now; it would be unworthy of the House to do so after they had been considered settled by the judgment of the Colonial Minister, who had acted at least with honour and good intention. He (Mr. Aglionby) had abandoned all his objections to the Bill, and he had done so because he believed that was for the good of the Colony that the measure should pass. He left the Government to deal with the subject as they pleased, but let not the House suppose that the other questions would remain unanswered.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he must beg to claim that indulgence which the House usually extended to Members when personal matters had to be explained. He had not availed himself just now of the opportunity of replying to them, because he conceived he would have been permitted to make a reply before the discussion closed. Most certainly, if the second opinion which the Company had obtained had been in accordance with the first, he should have held that the Company were bound.
 896
 MR. JOHN STUART  said, it might be a very good Bill for the county of Middlesex, but in other counties it would operate as a total disfranchisement.
 MR. HUME  said, he considered it would he a great insult if the petition were rejected after it had been read at the table. The petition had been entrusted to him and to the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland, but by some accident his copy had never reached him.
 MR. MULLINGS  begged to ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he was prepared to give such an assurance as would allay the apprehension at present prevailing throughout the wine trade, by the announcement of a project for reducing the import duty to one shilling a gallon—a rumour which was calculated to raise the price of wine abroad, and was already operating to the injury of the revenue by deterring parties from taking wine out of bond for home consumption?
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, he was favourable to the principle of the measure, but thought it could not be applied with advantage at the ensuing general election, which was too near at hand to permit time for making the necessary arrangements. The Bill should either be postponed to next Parliament, or a provision inserted to make it applicable only to elections subsequent to the next general election, in terms of the Amendment which had been suggested by the hon. Member for East Somersetshire (Mr. Miles).
 MR. STEPHENSON  said, the whole of the evils complained of in the construction and increased expense of the Victoria sewer was in consequence of the course pursued by the office of Woods and Forests. He went to the Chief Commissioner and endeavoured to induce him to permit the sewer to be discharged into the Thames within the limits of Crown property; but that request was peremptorily refused. He (Mr. Stephenson) saw no reason why Crown property should be exempted, or, at least, why it should stand in the way of the best system of drainage for the metropolis. He, however, received a peremptory command that the sewer should not be discharged within the limits of the Crown property. This refusal made a large difference in the expenditure, and, worse than that, the foundations having been bad in the new line, a great portion of the sewer was now in a very dangerous state. Whether the responsibility of this rested on the late Chief Commissioner (Lord Seymour) or not, he would not undertake to say.
 MR. MANGLES  said, he was placed in a painful dilemma by the course taken by the hon. Baronet; for, while he desired on behalf of the New Zealand Company the fullest investigation, yet the hon. Baronet's Motion could only be granted at the price of denying to the colonists the great boon they would gain from the Bill as it stood.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Government had assented to the second reading only on. the understanding that Amendments would be made to meet the objection which had been urged to the Bill. As it now stood, he thought it would be very inconvenient in regard to county elections.
 MR. WALPOLE  thought that, by the omission of these words, they would press with undue severity upon two companies—the Chelsea Company and another—which were in a peculiar position.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Clause provided that all reservoirs holding water for domestic purposes, within five miles of St. Paul's Cathedral should be covered; but it also provided, that if reservoirs within such a distance contained water to be subjected to subsequent filtration, they need not be covered.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the question was not whether the petition should be rejected or not, hut only whether they should bring it up. He was quite ready to admit the greater part of the petition contained very valuable and important matters, which ought to be brought under the consideration of the House; hut, never having seen the petition, and it having been presented by the noble Lord merely in his capacity as a Member of that House, and not as a Member of the Government, it certainly had occurred to him and to his right hon. Friend, when they heard it read, that the phrase that Her Majesty was only trustee of her own dominions was one which had never been adopted or recognised in that House before. They did not say the petition ought to be rejected; but that before it was received by the House it was proper to consider the phraseology of it, that they might decide if there was any objection to a phrase which might he used as a precedent at some future period.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that had that explanation been made in the first instance he would not have objected to the Bill.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  moved, as an Amendment, that the House go into Committee on the Bill To-morrow.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he objected to the registering of Dissenting places of worship altogether. They were not registered in Scotland, and he did not see why they should be registered in England. He proposed to omit all the words relating to registration, and to insert, in lieu of them, the repeal of the Acts requiring such registration.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he would now bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, relative to the mode of counting the House.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he must beg of the House to allow him to set himself right with respect to a statement which he had made when this Bill was last before the House relative to a young man who had died of malignant smallpox having been hurried in St. Clement Danes churchyard, and in three weeks having been disinterred. He had received a letter from the authorities of the parish, in which they stated that they had been greatly startled and chagrined at the statement reported in the  Times, "I, Thomas Woollidge, of 26, Brydgesstreet, Covent-garden, in the county of Middlesex, declare that in the year 1846 I lived at Mr. Pillion's, a baker in the Strand, opposite St. Clement Danes Church, and there witnessed the following scenes. I also declare that usually the graves were dug on the Satui' day morning, and that, after being finished, they were covered over with a tarpaulin, and left till Sunday morning. During the process of digging I have seen limbs of human beings
 879 "I, John W. Young, son-in-law of Thomas Woollidge, of 26, Brydges-street, Covent-garden, aforesaid, declare that I frequently watched (during the time we lived at Mr. Pullen's, the baker's, opposite St. Clement Danes Church, in the year 1846) the prooceedings of the two gravediggers belonging to the said church, and I do declare that I have observed them traverse the churchyard with an iron rod, about 10 feet, and, after boring for about half an hour, dig a grave, beginning on Saturday, and, after having completed it, bringing up pails of decomposed matter. During the time they threw a tarpaulin over it, leaving it in this state till Sunday, when a fresh body was interred; and I do declare that I have seen these men on other times open the same grave for other bodies until they had entirely filled it up; and I further and lastly declare, that I have witnessed the men, after finishing digging, scrape the matter off their tools and their trousers;—and in truth of this my declaration, I hereunder sign my name. Dated this 7th day of June, 1852. "JOHN W. YOUNG." "John Eyles, a gravedigger of St. Clement Danes, examined.—Question 1187. Is your father interred there?—Yes, he is. I did not want him to be buried there. 1188. Did anything occur to his remains?—I saw them chopping the head of his coffin away. I should not have known it if I had not seen the head with the teeth. One tooth was knocked out, and the other was splintered. I knew it was my father's head, and I told them to stop, and they laughed; but I would not let them go any further, and they had to cover it over." 880
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, the old Companies used to be regarded as the great stumbling-block as far as regarded any improvement in the supply of water to the metropolis; but now there seemed to be a new body called the Sanitary Association, which was a far greater nuisance. Of what it consisted he did not exactly know. One used to hear of the three tailors of Tooley street, who assumed to be the people of England; but now it appeared that this Sanitary Association was assuming to be the health of the people of England. A
 861
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I am partly responsible, I think, for the prominence given to this petition; and I wish to exonerate myself from the impropriety suggested. I read the petition before it was presented; and it certainly did not appear to me that there was any phrase to which objection could be justly taken. I am not
 865
 MR. GLADSTONE  begged to suggest, that as this petition was a document of much historical importance, that it should be read by the clerk at the table.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he begged to explain. He had made no charge against the New Zealand Company. He had simply repeated what had passed from the lips of the hon. Gentleman himself,
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that notwithstanding the incredulity of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Colonies as to the possibility of the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark being sincere in his Motion, he (Mr. Gladstone) should cordially support that Motion; and with the same frank admission which had been made by his hon. Friend (Sir W. Molesworth) with respect to the value of the concession of the management of these lands to the Colonial Legislature; although he apprehended the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State was quite in error in saying that this was the first time that such a concession had been made. When, however, the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies said that the postponement of this concession was so great an evil, and when he appeared to consider that the concession itself was endangered by the proposed delay, he (Mr. Gladstone) differed with him entirely, for he felt satisfied that when once the main question, with respect to a Colony like New Zealand—that of the grant of popular institutions—was settled, the land question would soon settle itself. It was not in the power of that House to withhold the management of the lands in a Colony for any very long time after it had fully conceded the principle of popular representation; and he had, therefore, no fear of the effect of postponing this concession, which was perfectly certain to be made. The petition which had been presented to the House that day proved that when once a popular Legislature was established in a great Colony, they would not forget the question of the lands. It was also a proof that it was much better and much less disadvantageous to postpone a measure relating to a Colony, than to pass a bad one. In 1850 the hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark, and other Gentlemen, combined to recommend
 890 891 892
 MR. BARROW  said, the Committee had devoted the closest attention to this clause, and they considered it would secure a supply of water perfectly fit for household purposes.
 MR. BARROW  said, the interests of the public were well represented by counsel before the Committee, and everything was done that could be done to protect the public.
 MR. FORBES  said, he would beg to move the adjournment of the House.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  thought that nothing would be lost by postponing this question to another Parliament; and, on the part of his constituents, he entreated the Government to take time, so that a well-digested measure might be brought forward. None of the Members of the Committee to which the Bill had been referred were connected with the metropolis.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he did not wish to delay the House going into Committee, but he could not remain silent after the speech of the hon. Member for Lambeth. He was much obliged to the Government for having brought forward this measure, and he thought they had exercised a wise discretion in adopting the Bill they found prepared. This was not a new measure, but matured by a Committee of Gentlemen wholly unconnected with the metropolis, with the sole object of doing justice to the metropolis; and after having sat for two Sessions, to complain of that Committee as not wholly unprejudiced was casting a very unfair censure upon them. But of all Gentlemen to complain of their proceedings the very last was the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. When he talked of his regard for the interests of the constitutency of Lambeth, he forgot that the supply of water to Lambeth was described as containing animalculse larger, uglier, and fatter than was contained in water from any other part of the Thames. When this question was discussed last year the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne) produced a drawing of the immense animals found in the Lambeth water; and if Mr. Barry were to say that he had taken them for those very animals which appeared in the windows of that House, he (Sir B. Hall) should say it was very likely, for he never saw such odious, ugly things as his hon. Friend's constitituents wore continually eating and drinking; and yet his hon. Friend objected to the Bill brought in to improve the water supplied to the metropolis. He wished to have nothing to do with the Sanitary Association. Let the inhabitants of the metropolis manage their own concerns. They could not do away with the Companies—that was tried last year: but they could put them under control, and make provisions for lowering the price of water, and obtaining a purer and better supply. That
 863
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  would suggest that they should insert in a schedule the height to be reached by each Company.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he would not now offer any objection to the progress of the Bill; but he hoped the noble Lord would turn his attention to the working of the Commission. It was impossible that the public could suffer the Board to go on in this way.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he strongly objected to the power which the Bill conferred, of raising the rate from 3 d. d.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he considered that it was not fair, as the Bill was only to he continued for one year, that this question should be brought forward now. The estimated cost of the Victoria sewer was 12,000 l. l. 883 l. l.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  begged leave, as one of the metropolitan Members, to thank the Government for having introduced this Bill. Nothing had given greater pleasure to the metropolis than to hear that this matter had been taken out of the hands of the Board of Health, and if it should be proposed to reconstitute that Board, he would do all in his power to resist it. If the noble Lord (Lord J. Man-
 881
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he wished to call the attention of the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Works to the expenses of the Metropolitan Commission of Sewers, which at a recent period had amounted to 25 per cent on the work done, besides the expenses of supervision and payment of damages. Last year complaints had been made on this subject, and this year there had been an alteration with regard to the manner in which the accounts were sent in to the House of Commons. Great hopes bad been entertained, from the change which had taken place in the constitution of the Commission, that there would have been some diminution in the expenses of management; but instead of that there had been an increase. Last year he found that works were executed to the amount of 86,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 882
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he must appeal to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, for the purpose of requesting hon. Gentlemen to allow the House to decide upon the main question at once.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he would beg the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty to state if the attention of the Board of Admiralty had been drawn to a letter in the public papers from an Admiral in Her Majesty's service respecting the loss of the  Birkenhead Birkenhead
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he considered the petition one of a very peculiar and important character. It had been presented by one of Her Majesty's servants (the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland),
 864
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the hon. Baronet asked him to produce the papers in question. He replied that he had no objection to do so, and the hon. Baronet made a Motion for their production, with his consent. The hon. Baronet was hardly justified, therefore, in raising a doubt as to whether he (Sir J. Pakington) was acting in good faith. Only two or three days ago, when the hon. Baronet asked why the papers were not produced, be told the hon. Baronet that they contained 266 letters, many of them requiring revision, as they were of a personal character, and only yesterday he heard fresh papers were to be added. He again told the hon. Baronet that he need have no doubt about the production of the papers; but, on account of their number and character, time was required to prepare them.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  moved that this Bill be read a Third Time.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he should not now go into the arguments used by the hon. Baronet, because they were precisely the same which he brought forward when the Bill was in Committee, and to which he (Sir J. Pakington) then replied at considerable length. He could not see any reason for again raising the question of the sale of the waste lands; and he thought the House would feel it impossible for them now to undertake to reverse the deliberate judgment which Earl Grey had years ago pronounced upon the question, and upon the conduct of the New Zealand Company, after a most careful and minute investigation. Earl Grey then declared that in his opinion there had not been any concealment on the part of the Company which should invalidate the bargain then made. Whether that bargain was good or bad, it was deliberately made and ratified by the Government of the day. On account of the purchase then made, a certain sum was now due from the Crown to the Company, and all he asked the House was to take care that the latter body were not sufferers by the change which was to be effected by this Bill, but that they should hereafter receive from the Central Legislature of the Colony the same terms as they would from the Government of this country. He attached very great importance to the concession of the waste lands to the Colonial Legisla-
 889
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : I really must ask the House to allow me to explain. The hon. Member for Chichester asked me to have a private conversation with him, to which I consented, and then the hon. Member inquired whether I would go to the New Zealand House and see the papers there. My answer was, that I infinitely preferred to have the official documents furnished me by the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and then, if there should be any other papers which the hon. Member wished to submit to my consideration, I would inspect them, but that, under present circumstances, I refused to go to the New Zealand House with him. The hon. Gentleman replied, that I would never get those official documents, for the Government would not produce them, upon which I remarked that I was determined to have them if I could, and to base my observations on them, and upon no other documents. I now ask the right hon.
 894
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he should propose that all the clauses in the Bill with reference to the sale and management of waste lands in New Zealand be struck out. It was impossible for the House to determine the just claims of the New Zealand Company on the wild lands of that Colony without a previous inquiry into the conduct and affairs of that Company. He demanded an inquiry for three reasons: first, because he repeated the charge which he brought against this Company in Committee, namely, that in obtaining the Act of 1847 they concealed from the Government and Parliament the true state of their affairs; and, at the same time, by concealing the truth, and insinuating that which was incorrect, they induced their settlers at Nelson to agree to arrangements beneficial to the Company, to which the settlers would not have consented if they had not relied upon the good faith of the Company. How could the House determine what were the just claims of the Company on the lands of New Zealand before the conduct and the affairs of the Company were investigated? The second reason which he assigned for an inquiry into the conduct of the Company was founded upon a statement made by the Canterbury Association to the Colonial Office, in a letter dated the 11th of this month. In that letter the Association asserted that in the years 1846 and 1847 a sum of 236,000 l. 885 l. l. l. l. l. 886 l. 887 "Any purchaser (of allotments at Nelson) who should decline to avail himself of the adjustment (referred to in those resolutions), or who, having availed himself of it, should be dissatisfied, might refer his claim to arbitration either in England or in the settlement; in the former contingency, without reference to the adjustment, and in the latter to determine what additional compensation, if any, he should receive." l, 888
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that his statement was occasioned by the remarks of the hon. Member for Chichester (Mr. J. A. Smith).
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he stated that among other reasons, but his desire was to have the official documents.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that his only object had been to prevent what he considered to be a fraud. Having failed in his object, he could only say that he should be ready to prove the charges he had made before any Committee of Inquiry, and he challenged contradiction of them.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that last year, no fewer than 12,000 persons died in consequence, he firmly believed, of diseases arising from the want of proper drainage, and he understood that it might be reckoned that for every death twenty-eight persons recovered, so that it might be presumed that 300,000 were in one year affected, in London, by illness the result of want of proper drainage. As for the Victoria sewer, in consequence of the contractors being obliged to encounter difficulties which would not have occurred if the original design had been carried out, increased expenditure was the inevitable result.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, if he believed the remedy proposed by his noble Friend was a practical one, calculated to meet the acknowledged evils of the present state of things, he should be sorry to oppose it; but it was exactly because he believed it to be illusory, and that it would raise public expectation even higher than the measure of the late Government, that he protested against it. He was not for centralisation, but for consolidation. He thought that the metropolis had been groaning too long under a system of fragmentary and practically irresponsible management in regard to its affairs—those of its affairs which in other towns were under municipal control; and he hoped to see the day when some well-considered system of municipal government, with a due proportion of the representative element, would be given to the metropolis; and to that he looked for a satisfactory settlement and solution of  quasi 877 878
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he would refer to the case of Wolverhampton, where a similar change was made at the small expense of 16 s. d.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he would observe that evidence was in readiness to show the facility with which the change to a constant supply could be made, but all such evidence was practically excluded by the Committee.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  begged to explain that the witness to whom be had referred was no friend of his, but retained and paid by one of the Companies. He had referred to the evidence of Mr. Rogers,
 862
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  begged to claim the attention of the House for a few minutes. He must say that the conduct of Her Majesty's Government with regard to this Bill was very extraordinary. A Bill, like this, of great importance, affecting the
 857 858 a priori 859 l. l l. l. l. 860
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, his attention had been called to the expediency of getting rid of the necessity of summoning a jury; but it was a very large and important question, which they ought not to touch without reflecting on the consequences. This Bill was framed upon the recommendation of learned Commissioners, and had been most carefully considered in the other House. He therefore thought it would be inexpedient to introduce any provision into the present Bill which would render a jury unnecessary.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  begged leave to refer back to the 18th Clause, to fulfil a promise he had made to his right hon. Friends the Attorney and Solicitor General for Ireland, and the Lord Advocate for Scotland. The clause enabled them to serve summonses upon persons removed out of their jurisdiction, and to proceed in the English courts against those parties. It was intended to apply to persons going abroad, and with no intention of clashing with the jurisdiction of the courts in Ireland and Scotland. He had, therefore, no objection to introduce into the 18th Clause, after the words "in any place," the words "except Scotland and Ireland."
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  entirely agreed in the propriety of getting rid altogether of special demurrers. The Government were not in the slightest degree responsible for the clauses of this Bill, which had come down from the Lords, after being carefully considered there, and undoubtedly it did not carry out the recommendation of the Commissioners that special demurrers should be entirely abolished. He considered them a disgrace to the profession, and he only regretted his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Crowder) had not consulted him, that a clause might have been prepared between them to carry out the views of the Commissioners. He would suggest that the portion of the clause denoted by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and Clause 51, be struck out, and a new clause brought up on the Report.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  thought the question raised by the hon. and learned Member for Haverfordwest (Mr. J. Evans) was, whether, a writ being issued, any sheriff might not execute that writ. The question was a knotty one; and the pro-prosition of the hon. and learned Member would so far interfere with the existing state of things that he could hardly be expected at once to acquiesce in it.
 MR. CARTER  saw no use for a multiplicity of writs.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it had been found that very great oppression arose from the permission to plead  in formâ pauperis. in formâ pauperis. in formâ pauperis
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, be was convinced it was never the intention of the old Act that the pauper should recover any costs at all; but as his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Southampton said it took him by surprise, he had no desire to press the clause. He would leave it for some subsequent provisions, and would therefore withdraw it from this Bill.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that as the questions referred more particularly to his department, he would take the liberty of replying to the hon. Gentleman's questions. In the first place, a case involving the territorial rights of the Peruvian Government over the Lobos Islands was raised in 1834, and submitted to the Law Officers of the Crown, who had made a report; but, as the hon. Member must be aware, it was not usual to make public such reports. With regard to the case then submitted to them, and on which the opinion of the Law Officers was founded, it would be found in the papers shortly to be laid on the table of the House, and that statement must be his excuse for not now entering at greater length into the question raised by the hon. Member. In consequence of the report of the Law Officers in 1834, Mr. Belford Wilson, our Consul General, was informed that there was no reason to doubt the Lobos Islands had been always part of the territories of Peru, and that the Peruvian Government was right to prohibit fishing around them. As to the third question, the Law Officers of the Crown had not been lately consulted, because the question appeared to have been decided in the former report.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he quite admitted the deep interest and importance of the questions, and, in answer, had to state that several applications had been addressed to the Peruvian Government, with the view of obtaining guano at a lower price, but hitherto, he regretted to say, without success. He did not undervalue the importance of negotiations on the subject, but he believed the best means of procuring an ample supply of guano would be by bringing into play the principle of competition. He could inform the hon. Member, however, that at the present moment instructions were being sent out by the Admiralty directing our naval officers on distant stations to use their best efforts to discover islands containing fresh supplies of guano. Printed reports were being sent out by which the various kinds of guano could be tested, and the right hon. Baronet the Secrectary for the Colonies had directed the Colonial Governors to promote the search for it by every means in their power. The papers would be laid on the table in the course of the evening.
 MR, FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he should not attempt any reply to the speech of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Whiteside), While admiring the great eloquence of that speech, he still could not blind himself to the total irrelevancy of the greater part of it to the subject before the
 980
 MR. LAWLESS  said, it was his intention to second the Motion, and to resist the passing of the Bill as far as he could. The policy of the present Government in Ireland had been that of deception, and that was the case with whatever they did there. He believed the Earl of Eglintoun to be sincerely anxious for the benefit of Ireland, and that no one could be a better Lord Lieutenant, so far as wishes went; but he was a victim to the impossibility created in other quarters of carrying out his good intentions. There was, he asserted, an agitation got up, and countenanced by persons under the Earl of Eglintoun, and connected with Government, to address the Lord Lieutenant for the liberation of Mr. Smith O'Brien; but,
 973 Loud cries of 974
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, considering that the question he wished to ask did not affect
 936
 LORD NAAS : Mr. Speaker, I feel very much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for having put this question to me, and I beg to assure him that at no time, either directly or indirectly, by word or by letter, did I give any one reason to believe that the Government were favourable to the presentation of that petition. Furthermore, I was not cognisant in any way of the preparation of that petition beyond what I saw in the public papers.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  would be very sorry to stand in the way of the House proceeding to the business of the evening; but, on the other hand, it must not be understood that his silence gave consent to the state of the law as laid down by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the City of Oxford (Sir W. P. Wood). He dissented  in toto
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, the clause took that side of the House a little by surprise, and it would certainly be placing a great restriction upon the poorer part of the community seeking redress in the courts of law. He quite agreed that cases of glaring abuse in some way or other occurred, but he hoped his hon. and learned Friend would allow the clause to stand over to the subsequent reading of the Bill.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  remarked, that sheriffs and officers must be made capable of executing writs in counties where they were not sheriffs and officers, if the suggestion thrown out were to be carried into effect.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he was one of those who entertained a strong opinion that all forms of action were unnecessary, as causing impediments in the administration of justice; but he did not think it right to hazard the passing of this Bill, by introducing into it such a provision. He was the more willing to forego the carrying those provisions this Session, as he observed that the late Lord Chief Justice (Lord Denman) had given notice in the other House of his intention to introduce next Session a Bill for this purpose. As they were now come to the last clause, he could not finally take leave of the Bill without expressing his thanks, which he was sure were due, to his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for the friendly
 932
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  suggested as a compromise between requiring
 931
 SIR A. COCKBURN  suggested a clause to provide for an additional payment to the examiners, who would under this Bill be required to examine witnesses orally, instead of, as heretofore, by written interrogatories: agreed to.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  must take this opportunity to clear up a misapprehension which prevailed widely with respect to the opinions of many of those who voted for the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn), upon the Motion of the hon. Member for Cocker-mouth, and on that account were held to have voted directly against all inquiry into the circumstances connected with the institution of Mr. Bennett to the vicarage of Frome, because they concurred with the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford in expressing approbation of the conduct of the Bishop of Bath and Wells for instituting Mr. Bennett; and they were represented most falsely as having refused inquiry, with a view to prevent any steps being taken by the Government, and for the purpose of defeating legislative action, for the prevention of such abuses as the institution of men of unsound opinions to benefices of the Church of England. He (Mr. Newdegate) begged distinctly to state
 958
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. and learned Member having given notice of his Motion for the 29th, it was against the rules of the House to bring it forward now. Unless, therefore, the hon. and learned Member was about to speak on a different subject, he was out of order.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. and learned Member will not put himself in order by taking that course. He has given notice of a subject for the 29th; by the rules of the House it is not possible for him to bring his question forward before the day for which he had given notice. It is not competent for the hon. and learned Member to say now that he will not bring it forward on that day in order to bring it forward now.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it appeared to him, as far as he could understand the hon. and learned Member, that he was now about to draw attention to a part of the question which he had already given notice of for a future day. He thought under these circumstances that the hon. and learned Gentleman was out of order.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had to complain that no allowance for forage for officers' horses was made in the Bill. He found there were upwards of 200 officers, colonels, and lieutenant colonels, who would be necessarily mounted, to be embodied under the new Militia Bill, and he considered that a proper allowance for forage ought to be made. Now he wished to know whether the clause in this Bill applied to the proposed new embodiment of the militia, or only to the old system, as he distinctly understood the right hon. Secretary at War to say it did not apply to the new enrolment?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the papers had been printed for presentation at a time when the negotiations were supposed to he finished; but having been recommenced they were with-
 959
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I trust no hon. Gentleman will attempt to impugn the propositions of the hon. and learned Gentleman at least till the next Session of Parliament. There is no issue before the House; and though I could not attempt to interfere with this discussion before, because both the right hon. Gentleman and the hon. and learned Gentleman were, in respect of their constitutional and legal principles, so personally assailed by the hon. Member for Cocker-mouth, that it was but fair they should be heard; yet I hope the House will now support me in pressing upon hon. Gentlemen this fact—that the privilege of speaking on the Motion for adjournment is one which ought to be used with some delicacy. It is impossible for us to attempt to carry on the business of the House, in the present state of affairs, unless hon. Gentlemen will
 957
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, an hon. Gentleman had last night asked him whether he had heard of a rumour that it was the intention of the Government to lower the Duties on Wine to 1 s. 961
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose to order, and would beg to ask Mr. Speaker whether it was competent for the hon. and learned Member, having given notice of a Motion for the 29th instant, to introduce it now.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as the hon. Member had only given a general notice of his intention to ask for information respecting
 937
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that of course neither the present nor the late Government would have taken such a step without an estimate.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, he begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer the following questions: 1. Whether the question as to the territorial right over the Lobos Islands had been laid before the present, or late, or what Law Officers of the Crown, and in what year? 2. And, if there were an etiquette against making public the answer given by the Law Officers, whether there was an equal objection to producing the case laid before such Law Officers, with a view to satisfying the agricultural public of this country that every means had been taken to give them the great advantage of a cheaper supply of guano? 3. If the present Law Officers had not been consulted on this important question, whether there was any objection to consult them?
 MR. HORSMAN  said, that he would detain the House for a very few moments; but the importance of the subject, and the advised decision which the House had come to on the question of the Vicarage of Frome, made him feel that he ought to take the earliest opportunity of intimating the course which he now thought it right to adopt. He thought it better that he should do this than that he should allow this Motion for the appointment of a Committee to be postponed from night to night, until at length it might appear that it had died a natural death, from the House having ceased to take any further interest in the question. But, from all that had passed since the House came to that vote, he must say that he found the public interest upon this subject not in the slightest degree abated, nor did he find on the part of those who voted in the majority on that occasion anything but an increasing desire
 939 940 941 animus caveat 942 "Formerly bishops had five months allowed to inquire into the fitness of the cierk—that was a large portion of the six months—and according to the canons as they now stood the bishop had only twenty-eight days allowed for inquiry, and after that time he might be proceeded against by the patron for non-institution of the clerk. Now what were the facts of this case? The bishop did not institute until the twenty-sixth or twenty-seventh day. Then what became of the charge of indecent haste?" Gorham the Bishop of Exeter, 943 "The late vicar of Frome died on the 26th of December, 1851; Mr. Bennett was presented (say) the 29th of December following. Was the Bishop bound to institute him so soon as the canonical twenty-eight days had run out?—Or, how long might he have lawfully delayed institution?" "The Bishop is not bound to institute a presentee to a benefice as soon as the canonical twenty-eight days have run out. The canon is directory, and it was held by the Arches Court in the case of Gorham  v. Robertson's Reports, Hobart's Reports, v. "TRAVERS TWISS. "Doctors' Commons, June 16." "I am of opinion, however, that it is competent to the Bishop to institute the clerk at any time within the six months after the presentation so as to avoid a lapse; for the words of the 95th Canon are directory only, and not prohibitory, and have so been adjudged to be. And I conceive, in the event of a  caveat caveat "ROBERT PHILLIMORE. "Doctors' Commons, June 18, 1852." 944 v. "He apprehended that he was asked to pronounce that the Bishop had no right to commence his examination after the twenty-eight days; but it seemed to him quite impossible that he could so construe the canon. He apprehended that so far as the Bishop was concerned, the canon was directory. No prohibitory words confined him within the twenty-eight days, and he thought it would be contrary to reason that they should be so restricted. Being of that opinion, he must overrule the objection that the Bishop of Exeter had no right to enter into the inquiry after the twenty-eight days." 945
 MR. HORSMAN  rose to explain. The right hon. Gentleman appeared to place great reliance on the case of the Bishop of Worcester. In that case Sir John Packington complained of the Bishop's interference at an election; and he, without having been ordered by the House stated that he had drawn up in writing those heads he undertook to prove at the bar. The term "articles of charge" was never mentioned throughout the case.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, that the present Government when out of office had pledged themselves to oppose the principles of this Bill. Why then had so extraordinary a change taken place, that they now brought forward a Motion for its continuance? The opponents of this Bill upon its introduction received every possible support from the present right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland, the Chief Secretary for Ireland, and the right hon. President of the Board of Trade. They received an assurance of the sympathy of the present Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and were in direct communication with the present Lord Chancellor of England, those high legal authorities being then of opinion that the ordinary tribunals of the country ought not to be superseded. The Government took this party by surprise, when they announced their intention of continuing the Incumbered Estates Act, and some of them were determined not to abandon their former principles, whatever the Government might do. Had not the Bill worked mischief enough in Ireland? Was not the House content with having swept away half the gentry, and almost depopulated the entire country? Sir Robert Peel saw the probable depreciation of property from throwing so many millions worth upon the market at once, and he had contemplated that it should be held over for a certain time; but this precaution had never been taken, and property had been sold often at a depreciation of half its value. He regarded this continuance Bill as the first step towards making the Commissioners a permanent Court. He saw no necessity whatever for the Bill. In the meantime, however, the number of the petitions had been diminishing, and there was an accumulation of property befre the Court to the amount of 28,000,000 l 985
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, the noble Lord the Chief Secretary for Ireland was aware that a petition had lately been presented to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, in favour of the remission of the sentence on Mr. Smith O'Brien. It was understood generally throughout Ire-
 938 ex-post facto Cries of
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he thought the observations of the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Archdall) were not fair or courteous to his (Mr. F. Scully's) hon. Friend the Member for Clonmel (Mr. Law less) in his absence. In times gone by, he (Mr. F. Seully) remembered that very body (the Orangemen) had been condemned by resolutions of both Houses of Parliament. He knew more: that an Act of Parliament had been been passed to put down that very body as an illegal society. It was the duty of the Government to watch very narrowly the proceedings of that body in the north of Ireland; for it was a society possessing signs, pass-words, and other marks of a secret association; and in his eyes it was just as exceptionable as a Ribband society. He (Mr. F. Scully) was opposed to the Bill, because it proposed to apply to the proclaimed districts
 982
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said: Sir, I rise to oppose the second reading of this Bill, which was read a first time on Tuesday last, when it was asserted, on the part of the Government, that it was not a measure of a coercive or unconstitutional nature, but merely one of protection, and necessary for the repression of crime in some districts of Ireland. Now, Sir, I think I shall have no difficulty in showing to this House that the Act of 11 & 12  Vict., 962 963 Vict., "Her Majesty laments that in some counties of Ireland atrocious crimes have been committed, and a spirit of insubordination has manifested itself, leading to an organised resistance to legal rights. "The Lord Lieutenant has employed with vigour and energy the means which the law placed at his disposal to detect offenders, and to prevent the repetition of offences. Her Majesty feels it, however, to be Her duty to Her peaceable and well-disposed subjects, to ask the assistance of Parliament in taking further precautions against the perpetration of crime in certain counties and districts in Ireland. "Her Majesty views with the deepest anxiety and interest the present condition of Ireland, and She recommends to the consideration of Parliament measures, which, with due regard to the rights of property, may advance the social condi-
 964 965 
 
 AGRARIAN OUTRAGES. 
 1844. 1851. Increase. Decrease. 
 Armagh 5 96 91 — 
 Monaghan 20 48 28 — 
 Louth 5 73 68 — 
 Tipperary 253 134 — 119 
 Limerick 74 38 — 36 966 Vict., 967 Vict., Geo. Will. ipso facto, 968 Vict., Vict., Vict., 969 "The Act was passed on the 20th of December, 1843, after a general election, when there had been a good deal of excitement in the country, and which he admitted had so far aggravated the amount of crime; but that was a circumstance that was not to be disregarded, for they were on the eve of another election, when much angry feeling might be expected. Were they, during the Parliamentary vacation, to leave the Executive without the power of repressing crime, and the peaceable people of the country and the property of the country without protection?" Blackstone's Commentaries, Thierry's History of the Norman Conquest, 970 "From all the discussions in the Houses of Parliament, the evidence before Committees, the statements of the law officers on special commissions, and the opinions of all who have written on the state of Ireland from the year 1700 to the very last discussion upon the subject in the House of Commons, it will appear that the various disturbances were of a purely agrarian character, unconnected with any hostility to the Government, or with feelings of religious animosity. "Almost every outrage, if closely scrutinised, is traceable to the eviction of tenants, or the changing possession of land; and it is remarkable that almost all the persons prosecuted for agrarian disturbances are of the lowest class of the peasantry, and scarcely ever include a respectable farmer or person possessing any fixed interest in the soil. This I can state after an experience of thirty years as a public prosecutor on the largest circuit in Ireland, having, during that period, endeavoured to ascertain the cause of every outrage for which there was a prosecution." 971 972 "It is the intention of the Ministry to introduce, before the close of the Session, several measures connected with the tenure of land in Ireland, giving to the tenants remuneration for permanent improvements, altering the ejectment process in favour of the occupants, and carrying out several recommendations of Lord Devon's Commission."
 MR. BUTT  seconded the Motion. Amendment proposed, to leave out the words "Monday next," in order to insert the words "this day three months" instead thereof.
 MR. BUTT : Mr. Speaker, I am very unwilling to detain the House at this late hour; and if my right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland will give me a full and fair opportunity of discussing the principle of this Bill on a future occasion, I am willing to make the observations I now propose to offer, on the Motion for going into Committee; and I think I could then show that this Bill will vitally affect the interests of many persons in Ireland. If that opportunity is denied me, I must throw myself on the indulgence of the House, and now make those observations, which I can assure hon. Members only a strong sense of duty could induce me to offer at this hour of the night. Sir, this is the first time I have ventured to address the House, and I am sure I shall not appeal in vain to that proverbial indulgence which is ever generously extended to those who address this Assem-
 988 989 990 l l l l l 991 l l 992
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the present Government had found this Court in active
 987
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he was apprehensive that the House had forgotten the question which was really before it. That question was simply this, whether an Act of Parliament for the better prevention of Crime and Outrage in Ireland, which would expire in the present Session, ought to be continued until December next, and thence until the end of the next Session of Parliament. The grounds upon which Government had felt it to be their imperative duty to ask for the renewal of that Act, had already been stated by his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland. The nature of the Act which they sought to renew was this: The first seven sections empowered the Lord Lieutenant, with the assent of the Privy Council, to proclaim any disturbed district—not necessarily a county or the whole of Ireland, but a part of a county or part of a barony, as the circumstances of the case might require—and, having proclaimed a district, His Excellency was further empowered to send an additional constabulary force into that district for the purpose of preserving the peace which had been violated. Other sections of the Act provided that the district should contribute to the expense of that additional force;
 975 976 977 978 979
 MR. WHITESIDE  concurred as to the disgraceful character of special demurrers, which had the effect of delaying parties having substantial rights from obtaining judgment upon them.
 MR. J. EVANS  called the attention of the Attorney General to the case of a person having a debtor who resided at Peck-ham, whence one might escape into the adjoining county of Kent, and who had places of business in London and Westminster. No fewer than four writs would be necessary in that case; but why should not the Queen's writ run everywhere?
 MR. J. EVANS  moved to leave out the words following the word "time," and thus to render it unnecessary for parties to support their pleadings and demurrings by affidavits. He objected to all unnecessary oaths.
 MR. JOHN STUART : The period for presenting petitions terminating in July, it was conceived that unless this measure were agreed to, such a number of petitions would be presented as would have the effect of greatly depreciating the value of land in Ireland. Petitions had been presented to the Incumbered Estates Court already for the sale of estates incumbered with debts to the amount of 28,000,000 l l l
 MR. JOHN STUART  said, he had come down prepared to hear the second reading of this Bill moved, and to make a statement to the House which he thought would have induced the Government to pause before they resolved upon the adoption of the course on which they seemed to be rather too much bent. The Bill, which was framed upon the recommendation of his right hon. Friend the Master of the Rolls, had been adopted by the Government in compliance with his right hon. Friend's suggestion, and was supported by the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland, upon the ground that, whether the system on which the business of the Incumbered Estates Commission had proceeded for years was good or bad, it was desirable to continue it for another year, in order to prevent the pressure which would occur in the presentation of petitions if the existing Act were allowed to expire, as it would otherwise have expired, in the month of July.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he could exculpate the Government from any blame with regard to the late sitting of the previous evening; the Government did not press any Bill which was objected to, after the New Zealand Bill; and the loss of those Bills, which had been referred to, and which he regretted as much as the hon. Member for Montrose, was owing to the pertinacity of Members on their (the Opposition) side of the House.
 MR. HUME  said, there was no House [alluding to forty Members not being present], and therefore this Bill must rest upon the sole responsibility of the Ministers of the Crown.
 MR. HUME  said, it was a mockery to talk of amendment in the Militia Bill without due consideration, which it could not have at this period of the Session and in the present state of the House. He protested against the mode of legislation at the morning sittings, and after midnight, when the majority of Members had retired. He protested against this mode of legislation. He stayed in the House on the previous night until he could no longer bear the fatigue, having sat in the House from 12 o'clock in the day till 12 o'clock at night; and now he found that after that hour, and when many Members beside himself were absent from the same cause, many important Bills had been forced on and disposed of, some of them being thrown out owing entirely to the state of the House. This was not doing justice to the character of the House. He had objected—not factiously—from the first against the gradual but heavy increase which had now been going on for several years in our naval and military expenditure, and especially against the, as he contended it to be, perfectly needless expense to be incurred under the Militia Bill. He much regretted to find this country running in the same course as several Continental nations, and he much feared the same result of financial embarrassment would follow. Look at France. At this moment, in consequence of the enormous expense of her military force, she found herself compelled to resort to that class of taxation which we were abandoning. So it was with Austria; and yet we were actually galloping in the same direction.
 926 l l l l l l l 927 l l
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to ask if the Government had followed the recommendations of the Committee on Naval and Military Expenditure with regard to the residence of the First Naval Lord of the Admiralty, and if they were prepared to carry out, for the sake of economy and the public service, the removal of the Board of Admiralty, so as to bring them all under one roof?
 MR. NAPIER,  concurring in the opinion that this Bill would be attended with the most beneficial results, announced his intention to introduce in the next Session of Parliament a similar measure having reference to Ireland.
 MR. NAPIER  said, the period for presenting petitions would expire on the 28th of July, but the Act would not expire for two years.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he thought the course adopted by the Government in asking the House to read the Bill a second time, the best they could adopt for the interests of the owners of land in Ireland. By the Act of Parliament under which the Court was created, the Commission was to continue five years, which would not expire for two years to come; but the period for making presentments was limited to three years, which would expire in July next; and unless that term was extended for another year, the result would be serious depreciation in the value of land in Ireland. Were they to leave the Court in that position, the consequence would be that just before the time for petitioning closed, they would have a large number presented, praying for sale, and a still larger number to have no sale. This might be inferred from the proceedings of the Court, which had already transpired. It appeared that from the date when the first thirty petitions were presented, four months and twenty-five days elapsed before they were brought to a conclusion; and in the case of the last thirty, the period was eight months and three days. At the same time, he admitted the right remedy would have been to have reformed the Courts of Equity, and to have adapted them to the necessities of the times. If that had been done many years ago, it would have been much better for the profession and the public. The Court of Chancery, however, was not in a condition to deal with the emergency which had arisen, and that condition was hardly yet anything improved. The wisest course, therefore, for the Government to adopt, appeared to be to extend the powers of this Incumbered Estates Court for another year, in order that they might have time quite to complete the reforms of the Court of Chancery, and to see whether the jurisdiction might be continued further still, with modifications in the Incumbered Estates Court, or whether it could be transferred to the reformed Court of Chancery. Before the year expired, he hoped the Government would be in a condition to reform the Irish Court of Chancery; and he thought this Bill was in a manner auxiliary to those reforms.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he held a high office in the society of Orangemen, and could not allow the attack that had been made on that body to pass unnoticed. He must protest against the impudent and stupid abuse, the infamous statements, of the hon. Member for Clonmel (Mr. Lawless) with regard to the Orangemen of Ireland. Whatever might be the opinions of the hon. Member, that body would continue to act upon their principles, and to be distinguished by loyalty and obedience to the law.
 MR. CROWDER  expressed a hope that the Government would consider the suggestions made in the course of this discussion.
 Mr. CROWDER  said, there might be cases in which the parties would agree upon the pleadings, and no affidavits would be necessary.
 MR. CROWDER  proposed to strike out the exception in the 51st Clause, and the whole of the 52nd Clause, and suggested that the Attorney General and the Solicitor General for Ireland should prepare some provision, not precisely in the words in the Report of the Commissioners, but to enable parties really to understand what was to be tried.
 MR. CROWDER  said, he had a very strong objection to this and the following-clause. The profession and public were agreed that special demurrers were a disgrace and scandal, and nothing more than verbal quibbles. The Commissioners were of the same opinion; but the Bill did not carry out the views of the Commissioners in that respect. He did not see the necessity of continuing demurrers in any case whatever; and he would submit to the Attorney General that the exception in this clause should be struck out, and also the whole of the 52nd Clause, allowing demurrer on the grounds of duplicity, argumen-
 930
 MR. CROWDER  said, he could not find from their Report that the Commissioners had considered the question at all.
 MR. CROWDER  asked the Attorney General whether his attention had been drawn to the propriety of introducing into the 42nd Clause a power to bring questions before a Judge without the intervention of a jury.
 MR. CROWDER  begged to ask the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department whether he had received any applications in favour of William Hamblyn Pascoe, a medical practitioner, sentenced to ten years' transportation at the last Cornwall Assizes, for administering savin with intent to procure abortion; and whether he was aware that the opinion of the only medical witness for the prosecution, that no medical man of competent skill would use savin unless his object were abortion, had been shown to be erroneous by a large body of the medical profession, and had been admitted by the witness him-self, since the trial, to have been expressed in ignorance of the fact that savin is in use in the profession for legitimate purposes; and whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to advise a pardon or any mitigation of the sentence?
 MR. S. CARTER  admitted there were some cases of persecution under this form of proceeding, but he objected to legislating for exceptional cases. He thought they ought not to exclude the poor from this
 933
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman, in fact, resolved itself into three questions—the first being whether any application in favour of Pascoe, a medical practitioner,
 934 935
 MR. WALPOLE  consented to the introduction of the clause, which provided that the Lord Chancellor might increase the salaries of the examiners, in consideration of the increased duties by the taking of depositions orally.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that every Lord Chancellor had the power of enforcing that which was proposed by the hon. Baronet in his first three clauses. It was not therefore necessary to adopt them; but with regard to the last three resolutions, he thought they would be an improvement to the Bill.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, of course the Ministers were responsible for every measure they brought before Parliament; but he thought the reason of there being a thin House upon that Bill was, that the principle of it, giving Government power to raise 80,000 men, and of further increasing the force to 120,000 men, had been established by the decisions of that House, and would in all probability be affirmed by the other House in the course of a few days. This Bill was merely the means of paying the expenses of another measure, which would not have been pass-
 928
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  rose, amidst loud cries of "Oh, oh!" to complain of the conduct of the Government in allowing the House to be counted out on the Tuesday night, when he had an important Motion to bring forward relating to the protection of Missionaries abroad, and to state that if the House were in existence on the 29th instant, he would press the Motion of which he had given notice. In the meantime, he begged to call the attention of the House to a despatch of the Earl of Malmesbury's, dated the 28th of April; but before doing this, he wished to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer why it was that the papers on the subject of the Missionaries, which had been promised two or three times, had not yet been laid upon the table?
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he had given notice that on the 29th he would bring the whole subject before the House, but at present he only proposed to call the attention of the House to a small part of the question—a particular despatch written by Lord Malmesbury.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, he would, of course, bow to the decision of the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, but as he decidedly felt that there was no time like the present, he would not proceed with his Motion on the 29th, but would go on with it now.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, that whilst he had possession of the House he would put one other question. He understood from the newspapers that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated yesterday, in answer to the question of the hon. Member for Cirencester (Mr. Mullings), that he had read the evidence taken before the Committee of which he (Mr. C. Anstey) was Chairman, and that that evidence warranted him in taking a particular view of the matter. The question was, as to the expediency of the reduction of the duties on wine to a  minimum
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  would then take the opinion of Mr. Speaker whether the question he meant now to propose was the same as that which he had given notice of for the 29th. That proposition was to this effect: that the House recognised the duty of Her Majesty's Government to grant letters of protection to Her Majesty's subjects residing in foreign countries, and particularly to certain persons who had suffered wrong; and that the case of those persons demanded the serious attention of that House. What he proposed to do at present was to read a despatch from Lord Malmesbury, which referred to a small portion only of the main case, but which contained the principles that Lord Malmesbury had laid down for guidance in respect to such cases.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he would not quarrel with the hon. Gentleman about the words "articles of charge." The hon. Gentleman might call it whatever he pleased; but what he Mr. Gladstone) stood upon was this—the principle he had established was this, that a Member of this House accusing a great officer of State of an offence against the law was bound to put his accusation into a definite and written form—that that was the principle and practice of the House of Commons, and, he would venture to add, the principle of universal justice.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, the "few minutes" which the hon. Gentleman announced as the limits of his observations have expanded in his hands into a speech of tolerable length, and a speech containing as much criminatory matter as the hon. Gentleman has found it convenient to introduce. The hon. Gentleman has referred to-night to as much of his charges against the Bishop of Bath and Wells as he thought would bear repetition. He has reminded us to-night that he charges the Bishop of Bath and Wells with having shown undue haste in instituting Mr. Bennet; but I must recall to the House and to the hon. Gentleman the full extent of those charges; for the hon. Gentleman did not merely charge the Bishop of Bath and Wells with undue haste in performing a legal act—he charged him with a deliberate violation of the law in not subjecting
 946 947 948 949 950 obiter 951 "CASE OF THE BISHOP OF WORCESTER. "Journals, xiv. 37. "1. Nov. 2, 1702.—A complaint being made to the House by Sir J. Packington against the Lord Bishop of Worcester and Mr. Lloyd, his son, relating to the rights and privileges of the House of Commons: Resolved to consider the same on November 18. "2. Nov. 18.—The House proceeded to take into consideration the complaint of Sir J. Packington. "3. Then follows the charge in writing. "4. Then witnesses examined at the bar. "5. Resolutions:—1 and 2. Charge made out. 3. Conduct malicious, unchristian, arbitrary, in high violation of the liberties and privileges of the Commons of England. 4 and 5. Address to Her Majesty to remove the Bishop of Worcester from being Lord Almoner to Her Majesty. "6. Nov. 20.—Answer: Agrees to do so. "7. Thanks." Hansard, Parl. History, 952 953
 MR. BERESFORD  said, he had been misunderstood by the hon. and gallant Member with respect to the operation of the Bill. He was now willing to give the hon. and gallant Gentleman the information he sought. With respect to the application for allowance for forage, the omission was not accidental. The Estimates had been framed with a strict regard to economy, and it had been decided after due consideration that it was not necessary to increase those Estimates by an allowance to officers for forage. Every one who knew anything of military affairs
 925 l l
 CAPTAIN MAGAN  said, he must deny the accuracy of the hon. and learned Gentleman's (Mr. Whiteside's) assertion, that the present Lord Lieutenant of Ireland had won all hearts; he denied that, unless his having aggravated the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill in the House of Lords, could be called winning all hearts. The right hon. Gentleman had entirely passed over the toast, either drunk or proposed, lately, at an Orange dinner in Enniskillen; and he
 981
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not answered the most important part of the question he had asked. He objected to making any outlay of public money without the sanction of the House, and wanted to know if the Government had had an estimate of the expense?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to know if the New Buildings at Somerset House had been sanctioned by the House, or if the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Works was prepared to come down and ask the House to vote the amount required for them, and had they any estimate of the expense?
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, that as the hon. Member for Cockermouth had cast the grave imputation upon him of having made a statement regarding the law which he said had misled the House, perhaps the House would excuse him for a few moments while he explained what he
 954 duplex querela quare impedit caveat, 955 caveat, duplex querela circa curam pastoratam duplex querela, Burn's Ecclesiastical Law, "If the cause alleged by the Bishop be not proved, the Judge pronounceth as before for his
 956 caveat. l l
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  moved the insertion of clauses—I. Providing for the service of process on a defendant who should be living out of the jurisdiction of the court; 2. That when personal service was not practicable, the Judge should have the power to direct service by way of advertisement; 3. That no process of contempt should issue for non-appearance; but that in case the defendant should not appear, the plaintiff should be at liberty to proceed as if he had appeared; 4. That all pleas, answers, &c, in any Chancery suit, or acknowledgments of deeds, might be sworn in Scotland, Ireland, or the Colonies, before any Judge, &c, authorised to administer oaths in such country, colony, &c; or before any consuls, &c, in foreign parts; 5. That all persons swearing before such authorities should be liable to the same penalties as were imposed for false swearing before the persons now by law authorised to administer oaths; and, 6. That any person who should forge the signature or seal of any such Judge should be guilty of felony.
 SIR EMERSON TENNENT  said, he thought it unnecessary for him to attempt to answer all the points which had been urged by the noble Lord; and he would therefore pass on to what he conceived would be the practical operation of the Proviso proposed. It must be evident to any hon. Member who was present during the debate on the second reading of this Bill, that the question now raised, though apparently differing in terms, was substantially the same as that then disposed of by the House by a majority amounting to nearly three to one. The Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans) might appear to be more limited than that of the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone (Lord D. Stuart); but the object was indentical. The proposal of the noble Lord in opposing the second reading was to exempt from the jurisdiction of the Poor Law Board every parish in England in which the affairs of the poor were now managed under a local Act; and the design of the hon. and gallant Member, by his Amendment, was indirectly to neutralise the decision which was then come to by the House, to confirm and perpetuate that authority, by withdrawing the only means by which it could be effectually maintained. It must be apparent to the House that it would be a mere delusion to continue to the Poor Law Board a nominal power to issue orders and regulations for the proper administration of the poor, and of the funds for their relief, if at the same time they were to be
 1073 l pro tanto, 1074 1075 —"to assume that the constitution of the Board of Guardians in a parish under a local Act is of itself a sufficient guarantee against all abuses of Poor Law administration. But if any such constitution could have been found, the Legislature would probably have selected it, and made it universal. The very circumstance of the constitution of a Board of Guardians being confined to a single parish, and not being thought worthy of imitation, raises a presumption against its goodness. On the other hand, the constitution of a Board of Guardians under the Poor Law Amendment Act was deliberately preferred by the Legislature to any of the constitutions under local Acts, from all which it differs, and it could only have been so preferred because it was considered to be better. It may, therefore, he presumed to afford greater security against abuses than any one of the various constitutions under local Acts. Moreover, if any one of the constitutions under local Acts afforded that security, they could not all afford it, inasmuch as hardly any two of them are alike, and, in general, they differ as much from one another as they do from the Poor Law Amendment Act itself." 1076 1077
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he must beg leave to correct the noble Lord: Dr. South-wood Smith was first appointed under the Act of 1850.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, there was considerable inconvenience in the constitution of the Board itself. Although he, when President of the Board, was responsible to Parliament for the proceedings of that Board, yet when he attended the Board and made a proposal, it was seldom he could get a seconder, for Mr. Chadwick and Dr. Southwood Smith, forming the majority of the Board, carried the question against him. He had told the Government that it was impossible to go on in that way. He thought it would he far better if some Lord of the Treasury were to assist Mr. Chadwick, so that the Government might have some possibility of controlling the Board, and preventing the inconvenience and delay of business which now repeatedly occurred.
 CAPTAIN FITZROY  moved, that instead of the words "after a time mentioned," the words "after one year of making the order" should be inserted, thus enabling proprietors of existing burial grounds to provide themselves with new ones after the issue of the closing order.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, by the clause it would be compulsory on the parties to close the burial grounds, but it would be optional with them to open new burial grounds; now suppose they should refuse or delay opening new burial grounds, what was to happen in that case?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he entertained very considerable doubt whether he ought properly to answer the question, because this was a case in which a Chancery suit had been instituted, which was still pending; but inasmuch as his discretion had been impeached by the question of the hon. Member for Colchester, he should be very reluctant indeed to shelter himself under any circumstance of that kind, and he would endeavour to explain the nature of the case as clearly as possible. The hon. Gentleman had omitted a very important circumstance in the consideration of the question. There were in Brentwood two charities—one a school, and the
 1084 l l l 1085
 LORD STANLEY  said, that Mr. Murray was still confined at Ancona, but that there was now every reason to hope that his life would be spared. With regard to the question of his guilt or innocence, that was one on which he could not give any positive reply at this moment. He could only say that both Sir Henry Bulwer at Florence, and Mr. Moore at Ancona, were using their utmost exertions to obtain such information on the real facts of the case as might enable them, and through them might enable the Government, to form a well-grounded opinion whether Mr. Murray were guilty or no. At present neither they nor the Government were in possession of sufficient information to enable them to decide that point.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he must remind the noble Lord that he was now putting a question of which he had given no previous notice whatever. The noble Lord had given notice that he intended to ask what information the Government had received respecting Mr. Murray's probable fate. To that question he had replied; and he could now only repeat that Government were taking every means in their power to get at the real facts of the case. Further than that he could not say.
 MR. MILES  begged to say he was—as he was sure they all were—in favour of extending as far as possible the blessings
 1111 1112
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, he must expressed his unfeigned satisfaction at the temperate time which had marked the present discussion; if the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) needed a justification for bringing this subject before the House, it was afforded by the speeches of the right hon. Home Secretary and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone), both of whom had acknowledged the importance of the introduction of the few words in question into the Minute of Committee of the Privy Council. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone), with a frankness which did him credit, admitted that the introduction of those words extended the power of the clergyman from religious to moral matters, and that change he (Mr. Smith) agreed with the noble Lord in thinking not only injudicious in the present state of the Church, but one that might be apprehended to produce those effects in reference to the lay members of school committees which the noble Lord had described. The right hon. Home Secretary declared that he expected these changes would produce harmony between the two dissenting or differing bodies in the Church of England; but he (Mr. Smith) was a dissentient in reference to those changes, because he believed that very different results would be produced by them; because he believed they would introduce heartburnings and feelings far from consistent with that harmony which the right hon. Secretary of State anticipated from them. He was surprised, however, that the right hon. Gentleman should have omitted to notice
 1113 1114
 MR. MILES  had not spoken of Somersetshire. He had quoted the Bishop of Oxford.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman as to the importance of the Bill in question, and regretted to hear that it might meet with his opposition. In his (the Attorney General's) opinion it would effect a most important improvement in the administration of the law; but at that period of the Session it could hardly pass if any lengthened discussion were to take place upon it, seeing that the Bill had not yet been discussed in the other House. He therefore reluctantly consented to withdraw the measure, intending to take an early opportunity next Session to reintroduce it.
 MR. COGAN  said, he repudiated any sympathy with the criminals who, he confessed, had disgraced many parts of Ireland. He acknowledged that there did exist in certain portions of the country an amount of crime which it was the duty of the Government to put down. He, for one, would willingly assist any Government in effecting this object; but he certainly did not believe that the policy of coercion would be of any use—it had always failed in Ireland, and always would. It was the duty of the Government to go to the root of the evil, to extirpate the causes of the agrarian outrages, and to propose some remedial measures which would do away for the future with the necessity of any such Bill as this. The Government had entirely failed to make any necessity for this Bill, or to show that its effect would be to repress crime in Ireland. It had always been stated, in the discussions on this Bill, that much depended on the temper and spirit in which laws such as this were administered. For his own part, however, he had not that confidence in Her Majesty's Government—indeed, he believed nobody but a few simple-minded farmers had—that should induce him to
 1122
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  said, he had supported the former Bill, because at that time Ireland was in such a state of disturbance as to require a measure of this nature; but the present Bill was quite unfitted for the lawless body now committing outrages in the north of Ireland. Local palliatives would not do, but the root of the evils which afflicted Ireland must be removed by constitutional treatment. Let the Government continue the Bill till the 31st of December, and no longer, and let them also bind themselves under the heaviest Parliamentary recognisances to bring the question of Landlord and Tenant before the Legislature before the end of the present year. It was invidious to introduce such a Bill at all in a dying Parliament, on account of the imputation of hustings influence, to which they were open on both sides; and he asked the Government to consent to the compromise he had suggested.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he thought that the Government, by consenting to the Amendment, would be making a grateful concession to the opinions of those Members who, like himself, had formerly supported the Bill, but who now had doubts as to the advisability of its continuance beyond the end of the year. Would not the object of the Government be gained by allowing the Act to terminate on the 31st of December in the present year?
 The O'GORMAN MAHON  said, the real point of difference was really so small that he did not think it would he becoming the gravity or dignity of the Committee to divide upon it.
 MR. COGAN  said, that the objection of the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland, that persons would remain in gaol without trial if the Act expired, would always apply, and that Coersion Bills would be perpetual if that ground was taken. He would suggest that the Act should be continued till all persons committed under it had been tried, but that no fresh arrests should be permitted.
 MR. M. J. O'CONNELL  expressed his readiness to agree to the extension of the Bill to the 31st of August next year. If they did not accept that, they would be most certainly beaten on a division.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, the next question he had to put was, whether the Government had taken, or would take, any measures to obtain the proceedings on Mr. Murray's trial, so as to enable the public to judge of his guilt or innocence?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said. he begged to call the attention of the noble Lord the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs to the case of Mr. Murray, now lying under sentence of death at Ancona, and he wished to ask the noble Lord if the Government had received any intelligence from Rome which led them to suppose their efforts in his behalf would meet with any success? The petition of the English inhabitants of Rome, praying for the remission of Mr. Murray's sentence, admitted his guilt, or at least threw no doubt upon it; but he was induced to call the attention of the Government to that question because he had received letters from Italy from persons who stated their entire belief in his innocence.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he should support the clause, and he would beg to observe what a strange state of things it would be, where the Board of Guardians had thought fit to discharge one of their own officers, with whom they were in the habit of having daily and hourly communication, for the Poor Law Board to step in and say, "No. you shall not dismiss that officer; you shall continue to tolerate him and communicate with him every day!" Such a system could not possibly last. It would be impossible for things to proceed at all if the Poor Law Board were to exercise such an authority. Therefore the parochial bodies ought to have not only the power of appointment but also that of dismissal. It was never the original intention of the law to allow of any interference by the Poor Law Board with parishes governed by local Acts. He (Lord D. Stuart) considered that he was called upon, after what had passed, to defend the management of the poor of the parish of Marylebone, and also the autho-
 1071
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  thought that arrangements might be made that would ameliorate the evils that now existed. Then as to the forms of giving medical relief, they were unnecessarily cumbrous. If a poor woman obtained an order for the medical man to attend one of her children, and when he came she said to him, "I have another sick child, will you attend to her?" the answer was, "I cannot, without an order from the proper authority." This was a most unnecessary proceeding, and ought to be altered. Then, again, as to the confinement of the aged in the workhouses. According to the present
 1072
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would beg to move the addition of these words:
 "Provided, that it shall be lawful for Her Majesty to continue during the continuance of the General Board of Health the appointment of the
 1080
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he had no objection to the Amendment.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he must repeat, that as long as two members of the Board were necessary to the transaction of the business of the Board, they must be paid. He agreed with his noble Friend (Lord Seymour) that the constitution of the Board required revision, and the whole question must come under revision within the next two years. All he now asked for was a temporary arrangement during that period, in order that injustice might not be done to Dr. Southwood Smith.
 LOUD JOHN MANNERS : But Dr. Southwood Smith was acting under the Board previously to that period, and as it has been found in practice convenient to require that two members of the Board should be present, and should sign all documents issued by the Board, and as Dr. Southwood Smith was one of the members of the Board whose signature was generally required, it was but fair that he should be remunerated for his trouble. If Parliament should be pleased to determine that the act of one member of the Board should be sufficient, then the objection of the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) would be fair. It was a fact that he, as President of the Board, could seldom attend to take part in its proceedings.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that Dr. Southwood Smith was originally appointed under the Act of 1848.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that it was found necessary to have the signatures of two members of the Board to all documents; and it therefore became necessary to continue the salary of Dr. Southwood Smith, who acted as a second Secretary to the Board of Health. It would be unreasonable to expect him to discharge the duties required of him without remuneration.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the principle of the present Bill was permissive, and not compulsory; it was therefore im-impossible to enforce the removal of bodies, as suggested by the hon. Gentleman. But power was given to erect reception houses for the bodies of the poor, and to appoint persons to superintend the removal of those bodies.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the hon. Member for Westbury (Mr.J. Wilson) was not present, but the hon. Member would, he was quite sure, agree, under the circumstances, to withdraw his Motion.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said: It has been usual, when the votes before the House in Committee of Supply are taken, for the Government to give explanations with respect to the Vote for Education; and my hon. Friend the Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) has more than once called on the Government to explain to the House what has been the progress of education, and the nature of the Votes connected with education. My right hon. Friend the Member for Northumberland (Sir G. Grey), when he held the office of Secretary of State for the Home Department, made that statement to the House; and last year, during his absence in consequence of indisposition, I stated to the House the sum required, the application intended to be made of it, and the general progress of education during the year. 1088 l l 1089 1090 l l 1091 1092 "On these grounds, their Lordships must finally declare that they cannot consent to permit the permanent constitution of the school, in so important a matter as the establishment of an appeal to the bishop of the diocese in matters not relating to religious instruction, to be determined by the local subscribers to schools, to the establishment and support of which it is now provided that the State should so largely contribute." 1093 London Gazette. London Gazette, 1094 1095 status 1096 1097 1098 1099
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I said I would not enter into the question of the constitution of the Church of Rome.
 LORD NAAS  said, he would not follow the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down into matters which were more fit to be addressed to the House on the second reading of the Bill than on the present occasion; but the hon. Gentleman had argued that this Bill would prove inoperative—a statement than which nothing more unfounded was ever urged in that House. For he found, from a return which he held in his hand, that, within the last three years, since the Act of 1847 first came into operation, there had been a most extraordinary cessation of crime in those counties of Ireland where the measure was first put in force. The criminal returns gave the most conclusive evidence of the beneficial working of the measure in those districts. In the county of Cavan, which was proclaimed under the Act of 1847, in the first three months of that year there were 43 outrages, in the last three months of the same year there were only 20—less than one-halt. In Roscommon, in the first three months there were 493 outrages, in the last three months only 23; in Tipperary, in the first three months there were 234 outrages, and in the last three months only 84; in Limerick, in the first three months there were no less than 262 outrages, and in the last three months only 39. In Clare, and other counties, similar results had been produced by the operation of the Act; and the consequence was, that the counties where the Act was early brought into operation were now all quiet, or nearly so. At the same time, there was nothing in the Act which in the slightest degree inconvenienced any man who was willing to obey the laws and to perform the duties of a good citizen. He maintained, therefore, that when the Act had worked so well hitherto against the criminal population, and was in itself so innocuous to the well-disposed, the House would do well to proceed to renew the measure. He was certain that the honest, peaceable, and loyal people of Ireland
 1123
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman need not be dissatisfied with the instalment. The Bill had been brought in in consequence of the case of Mr. Salomons, in order to reduce the penalties he had incurred by voting in this House without taking the required oaths. He believed that the action brought against Mr. Salomons by Mr. Miller was a collusive action, and if the penalties could be evaded by a collusive action, any one might vote here night after night without punishment. On the trial, to his surprise, the Records of this House were rejected as evidence by the Lord Chief Baron. He was also dissatisfied with this Bill because it was retrospective. He should, therefore oppose the further progress of the Bill, so that the House might have time to inquire into its effect. If a collusive action were valid, as had been held by the Lord Chief Baron, the most dangerous conse-
 1128
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would consent to withdraw the Amendment, his sole object having been to secure the proceedings in the Court of Exchequer from being over-ridden by a decision of Parliament. The whole proceedings in this case had been most extraordinary. The hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had confessed that he had been astonished at the verdict; but as there were several members of the Jewish persuasion on the jury, it was natural to suppose they had a strong bias.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the hon. Member would not persist in this Motion. It was quite impos-
 1126
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought hon. Gentlemen opposite rather unreasonable. The compromise he had offered was fair and temperate.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his intention had been that the Bill should be drawn so as to extend the Act to the 31st of December, and to the end of the next Session of Parliament; but
 1125
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that after the menacing observations of the hon. Gentleman he should certainly pause, and if he had reason to believe that the sixty-nine amendments would be pressed, and that two additional days would be thereby lost, he should not press the Bill. The hon. Member for Colchester (Mr. Hardcastle) had a Motion on the paper for to-morrow night on the subject of Church Rates, and he should like to have his opinion as to its postponement.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was always with great reluctance that he trenched upon the privileges of independent Members but he now put it to the House whether they would allow the Government to proceed to-morrow afternoon as well as in the morning with the Government measures. On looking at the subjects which were to be brought before the attention of the House to-morrow by hon. Members, he perceived that, though they were all of an interesting, they were not of a very urgent character. The hon. Member for Richmond (Mr. Rich) was to move for a Select Committee upon the Police Force of England and Scotland; then, the hon. Member for Westbury (Mr. J. Wilson) was to call the attention of the House to the position of the Sugar Trade; and another notice stood in the name of the same hon. Member with respect to the trade of Scinde. Now, these were not matters of a very urgent character. Although the Government were arranging the business with a view to the consummation of that which was of all things wished for, there were certain unavoidable accidents, like that of to-night, for instance, and that of last Monday, which raised debates tending to interrupt the course of business, but the importance of which no one could question. The Motions to which he alluded, however, were not, he must say, of that nature; and he put to the House, therefore, whether the Government might not take the whole of Tuesday for Government business?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had had representations made to him from hon. Members on both sides, and certainly from as many on the Opposition as on the Ministerial side of the House, that efforts should be made to terminate the business of the House as soon as possible. It was, therefore, for the convenience of the House generally that, under these circumstances, he had made an appeal to hon. Members who had Motions on the paper for to-morrow. There was every prospect of concluding the business of the House by the end of this week, if they proceeded in the manner which he had chalked out. It was, therefore, quite impossible to hold out any hopes to the hon. Gentleman that a day could be fixed for his Motion; but he still trusted that the hon. Member would follow the example of others and withdraw his notice.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY,  in order to facilitate the progress of public business, wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question. He found on the Notice Paper that evening a Dill called the Irish Valuation Bill, and no less than sixty-nine amendments were to he proposed. Now, this
 1087
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he wished to move, as an Amendment, to omit the words "And from thence until the end of the then next Session of Parliament," the effect of which omission would be to limit the operation of the measure to the 31st December next. The principle of the Bill had been already affirmed by the House on the first and second readings; and he had on the latter occasion endeavoured to demonstrate its utter inefficiency for the repression of crime, and that its practical operation would be to tax innocent persons and deprive them of the necessary means for protecting themselves and their properties. However, the House had yielded to the pressing representations of the responsible advisers of the Crown, that it was necessary for the protection of life and property in Ireland to continue for the present the extraordinary powers conferred by the Act of December, 1847, which, beyond all doubt, was a most unconstitutional and coercive measure, especially as it embodied the Whiteboy Acts, in a very oppressive
 1119 Vict., 1120 "Masking their business from the common eye For sundry weighty reasons." from the Government benches. 1121
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he did not consider it a compromise. He would not agree to it.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not in a position to offer any compromise. Had the Bill not been very closely examined, it would have been made to extend—he would not say by a"dodge"—to the end of the Session of 1854. He desired the Bill to be limited to that time, and that time only, when it should be brought forward again for full discussion before all the Irish Members. In the course of the next Session, which they were told would be held during the present year, they would have an opportunity of further renewing the Act were it found necessary so to do.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, the noble Lord had not deigned to give them any answer as to why the Act should not be renewed for the term comprised in the Amendment of the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. V. Scully), so he concluded that such neglect to notice that Amendment was to be taken as evidence of the intention of the Government not to agree to it. If, however, they renewed this Act for the period proposed in the Bill, they would thereby be prevented from taking the whole case of the condition of Ireland into consideration, as it was his earnest wish they should, when the new Parliament assembled—a course which ought to be adopted at the earliest possible period. Why, he would ask, had not the Landlord and Tenant Bill, and those other remedial measures which the Government professed their anxiety to extend to Ireland, been introduced? He must complain of the remissness of the Government in this respect; and if they did not assent to the Amendment before the Committee, the Irish Members would avail themselves of every means of which the forms of the House would allow to prevent the Bill passing.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  would not be a party to inflict the Bill on Ireland to the end of August, 1853. If the Government were  bonâ fide
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he should move that the Chairman do report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. HUDSON  said, he was sure that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Newdegate), though anxious to exclude Jews from that House, was not desirous of persecuting them, and he trusted he would withdraw his Amendment, and allow the Bill to pass with the unanimous sanction of the House.
 MR. MUNTZ  believed the Bill would confer a great advantage on patentees.
 MR. RICH  said, his observations in moving for a Committee would only take five minutes, but if it was the wish of the House, he would not occupy their time.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that he was not in the House earlier in the evening, when the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had appealed to hon. Members who had Motions on the paper for to-morrow night, to withdraw them, with a view to advance the business of the House. He should be most unwilling to stand in the way of any proposition to advance the business of the House; but, considering the important subject to which his Motion referred, namely, "to call the attention of the House to the position of the British Sugar Colonies, and the Sugar Trade of the United Kingdom," and the vagueness and uncertainty of the intentions of the Government in respect to the commerce and condition of those colonies, he put it to the right hon. Gentleman whether it would not be better that so grave a question should be discussed before Parliament separated? If, therefore, he consented to give way to-morrow, would the right hon. Gentleman consent to grant him an early day for his Motion?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the hon. Member was not present, but he (Mr. Bright) should certainly urge him not to proceed with his Motion.
 MR. J. EVANS  said, the address presented to the Archbishop of Canterbury represented that the priestly power in the Church ought not to be increased, and that if it were, there would be a great secession from the National Society. He considered the alterations in the Minute extremely important and objectionable.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, he believed the whole Bill was full of difficulty, and was much surprised that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade should have introduced a measure which he had opposed only last Session. The subject of the Bill had not been properly considered. It had been before a Select Committee of the Lords, but it had not been before any Committee of that House.
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, he begged to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General if he would state the reasons which induced him to accept the sum of 2,000 l l l l l l
 MR. HENLEY  said, he must admit the importance and great difficulty of the matter to which the hon. and learned Gentleman referred. An international law would be the best way to prevent inconveniences; but in defect of that, if the hon. and learned Member would suggest any mode of protecting our own patentees, without injury to trade and commerce, he would be very glad to adopt it.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he must deny that he had ever said a word against the principle of patents. He had opposed portions of the Bill of last Session, but they were not in the Bill now before the House, and he could assure the hon. Member every clause before them had been fully and carefully considered.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that if the House reduced the expense of a patent to so low a scale, they would have all sorts of worthless things patented. As it was, the country was giving up 25,000 l
 MR. HUME  said, he did not object to the introduction of the words "moral and religious" into the Minute, though he
 1110
 MR. HUME  said, he had a Motion upon the paper for to-morrow, but, being very anxious for the consummation alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman, he should give it up.
 MR. HUME  said, he would urge on those who had charge of this measure not to continue this system of interference with the metropolitan parishes, which had never occurred during the presidency of the Poor Law Board by the right hon. Gentleman, the Member for Hull (Mr. Baines).
 MR. HUME  said, the only question was whether the Poor Law Act should be allowed to work well in the metropolitan parishes, as it had hitherto done, or whether it should be prevented by such interference as that which at present existed. The hon. Gentleman (Sir E. Tennent) said that the salaries of the officers with whom they wished to interfere were partly paid out of the Consolidated Fund; but he could assure him that the officers of the discontented parishes did not receive a shilling from that source. What be wanted was that they who had the power of appointing officers should, if they misbehaved, have the power of dismissing them, for unless that wore so great, insubordination must be the result. He hoped the Poor Law Board would not exercise the power of interference in the metropolitan parishes.
 1078
 MR. NAPIER  said, that the introduction of the Amendment would lead to confusion in the administration of the law. Any offence committed up to the 31st of December must go unpunished, because there would be no Session till the ensuing March,
 1124
 MR. BAINES  begged to say, that the present subject of litigation with the parish of St. Pancras arose in 1846.
 MR. JACOB BELL  would only say that when charges were made against the parish to which he belonged, he did his best to refute them, and he would now support the clause of the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster.
 MR. POULETT SCROPE  said, he objected to the Minute as vague, uncertain, and unintelligible with regard to the powers it gave to the clergy. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) had said that he could understood how uncertainty might have attached to the meaning of the word "religious;" he (Mr. Scrope) thought that term less dubious and more easily defined than "moral." But it was not merely this uncertainty and want of definiteness that he found fault with; a still stronger objection was, the offensive character of the alteration, which went altogether upon the assumption that the laity were not competent to determine upon the moral character of the schoolmaster—whether he was fit to continue in his office or not. For what possible purpose, he asked, could this alteration be made now, on the eve of an election (if, as appeared, it was not to come into operation for twelve months at least), save only to influence the coming elections, and as a sort of trap for those whose votes were likely to be caught by the bait thus offered? He could not understand what other object there could be, and, therefore, must believe their motive to be this.
 MR. SLANEY  thought his hon. Friend the Member for East Somersetshire (Mr. Miles) had let fall something rather contrary to his general profession when he talked of "ignorant farmers" as refusing to get rid of an unworthy schoolmaster. He did not know whether the place his hon. Friend spoke of, and where "ignorant farmers" abounded, was Somersetshire or not.
 MR. SLANEY  would call the attention of the House, however, to the fact that this alteration applied to the intelligent committees in large towns, where it would be admitted a hardship, even though it were not so, in such small places as had been alluded to. The subject generally he considered one of the deepest interest. The
 1115
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, this clause was intended to meet a recent case with respect to the patent screw steam-vessels, in which a Court of Law had decided foreigners should have no advantage over British subjects. The clause proposed to alter the law laid down by that decision, and would place our shipowners
 1117
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down certainly had shown that he had paid very little attention to the Bill, and was but imperfectly acquainted with its provisions. He (Mr. R. Palmer) was not responsible for the Bill, but he esteemed it an honour to have been asked to take charge of it by Lord Lyndhurst, a nobleman who had three times filled with distinguished honour the situation of Lord High Chancellor of England under Conservative Governments—a nobleman who for many years had taken a distinguished part in that assemblage, who had at no time shown a disposition rashly to dispense with the securities the law provided for the maintenance of our Parliamentary constitution, and in this particular matter, the admission of Jews to civil privileges, had shown a greater degree of hesitation, and greater scruples, than he, for one, was disposed to entertain. The Bill was strictly and carefully confined to the object of sweeping off the face of the Statute-book the most barbarous, absurd, and extravagant disabilities that ever disgraced it. What, he would ask, were those disabilities now sought to be repealed? If any one wrongly voted in that House, he was declared incapable of maintaining any suit at law; he could not be the guardian even of his own children; no one could leave him a legacy; nor could he ever after hold any civil office. Those disabilities were swept away by the Bill, and the penalty of 500 l
 MR. S. CARTER  said, he considered the fees far too high; and when it was remembered that a great portion of inventors were men in humble circumstances, it was clear that a schedule of fees amounting to 149 l l l l 5s, l 1118 s. l l l l l s. l s.; l s.
 MR. S. CARTER  believed there was considerable truth in the statement that had been often made, that but little sympathy was entertained by English Members for Irish questions discussed in that House. Considering the position of this question, he felt bound to give his support to the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cork. Those Coercion Bills were, Session after Session, extended to Ireland by Whig and Tory Governments. He was glad to hear the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland say he had some remedial measures in his budget, which would shortly be produced. He hoped that a course of conciliation and of remedial policy would be pursued towards that country, for, in his opinion, it was those Coercion Bills brought forward year after year, which had in a great measure occasioned that Celtic exodus of which so much had been spoken, and which was fast depopulating the country.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he should give his vote in favour of the third reading of the Bill. If he could look upon such a measure as an instalment of the question that Jews should sit in that House, or even as an inadequate Bill for the purposes it professed, he should feel it his duty to object to it. But that was not the question before them. The question was, whether they were to leave on the Statute-book, in addition to the penalties for the offence of voting in that House, without taking the requisite Oaths, the other very serious consequences that, by the law as it stood, attached to such offence. He felt, that as no person could have a seat in that House without taking the Oath, "on the true faith of a Christian," it would be useless to insist on these penalties.
 MR. WALPOLE : Then, notwithstanding the noble Lord's former observations, I presume we both agree, that as a matter of fact the English and Roman Churches, or any other Christian Churches, consist of laity as well as clergy. Well, then, the intentions of the Government having made this stir and storm in the Church to which I have adverted, an understanding was come to with the Committee of Privy Council and the then existing Government, that the Church of England schools should be subject to no further control than was necessary for the inspection and examination of the schools in relation to the application of the money granted by Parliament. In the Minutes of Council, and in the correspondence which subsequently took place, it was distinctly stated that no control should be exercised over the internal management or internal discipline of the schools. Thus matters continued from 1840 until 1846; that is to say, as long as the Conservative Government remained in power; and no complaint was urged against the manner in which the funds were applied during the whole of that period. During the whole of that period, too, the promoters of schools had the fullest and freest liberty of action to constitute schools in the way they thought proper. When, however, the noble Lord's Government came into power, in 1846, an entire change was effected. And how was this change brought about? Not openly—not by announcing it to Parliament. The change was intimated in private letters, and the persons thus addressed were told that this most important change had been unostentatiously effected. The change was no other than the introduction of the "management clauses," as they are called; and the adoption of these clauses was urged, nominally by way of recommendation or suggestion, but, in point of fact, they were imposed as an obligation on members of the Church; for the promoters of Church of England schools were plainly told that if they did not accept the clauses they should not obtain a shilling of the Parliamentary grant. Now, the members of the Church justly complained of this proceeding. The National Society, in all their correspondence with the Government, urged that they ought to have the selection of one out of the four
 1102 1103 1104 A cry of 1105
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, this question is of so much importance that, notwithstanding the close of the Session, and notwithstanding the amount of business that has weighed down hon. Members during the last three weeks, I am glad the noble Lord the Member for the City of London has brought it forward, and given us the opportunity of removing those illusions which have prevailed respecting this Minute. Some of those illusions have even prevailed in the noble Lord's own mind; for I do not think the noble Lord has fully understood the nature and effect of the alterations which have been made. One thing, however, is now clear, and that is, that the noble Lord no longer finds fault with us for not changing this Minute without previously coming to Parliament and stating that it was to be made before the Vote upon Education was taken. Indeed, the
 1100 l 1101
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he must admit that he had already foreseen this difficulty, and thought that it ought to he equally compulsory on the parties to provide a new burial ground as well as to close the one directed by the Secretary of State; but this was but a temporary measure, founded upon a permissive principle—therefore, in
 1083
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  thought the measure was most inadequate, and should have much preferred a Bill declara-
 1129
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  moved an Amendment, extending the exemption to persons other than Members of Parliament who were liable, under the existing Act, to similar penalties for refusing to take the Oath before magistrates.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, according to
 1082 l l
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I entirely agree with what has been said by previous speakers as to the immense importance of the subject of education and everything that belongs to it; and if it were not for the immense importance of that subject, I must confess I should be rather surprised at what I cannot but call the somewhat exaggerated terms in which the magnitude and importance of the question immediately before us have been spoken of. I was certainly surprised, after all I had heard of satisfaction on the one hand, and of alarm on the other, to find that the case is not unlike that with which we are all familiar, of the mountain and the mouse,
 1106 1107 1108 1109 animus
 MR. MACKINNON  said, he wished to call the attention of the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Works to a provision of the Bill now about to be repealed, namely, that inspectors should be appointed to prevent persons keeping dead bodies in their Houses beyond a certain time. He saw no such provision in this Bill. He hoped a similar provision would be introduced.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that it was notorious that the increased mortality in the metropolitan workhouses spoken of by the noble Lord, arose from the casual poor who were received from the street, and had nothing to do with the working of the Poor Laws with regard to the real poor of the parish.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, that the Bill was most meagre and unsatisfactory, after all the votes in respect to this subject which had been come to by this House. He was not going to oppose the third reading of the Bill, but he could not allow the Bill to pass without any comment being made upon it. He had scarcely expected in the year 1852 a Bill falling so short of the requirements which for the satisfaction of the House had been shown to be necessary. By this enactment they even continued the penalty of 500 l
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that the noble Lord (Viscount Ebrington) had made very sweeping charges against the Poor Law Officers of the metropolitan parishes. The noble Lord was always opposed to any measure for the benefit of the metropolis, such as the Burial Bill and the Water Bill, unless they were introduced under the auspices of the Board of Health and Mr. Chad-wick.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  begged to ask for an explanation of the Proviso.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he would beg to remind the Committee that the question immediately before them was whether the salary of Dr. Southwood Smith (for it was to his salary that the clause alluded) should be continued or not. That gentleman was appointed under the Metropolitan Interments Act of 1850. That Act was to be repealed by the clause then under consideration; why therefore,
 1081
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that from the manner in which the noble Lord had explained the matter, he considered it was not worth while to divide the Committee on the subject.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he now begged to introduce a Clause of which he had given notice. He contended that it was never intended by the Legislature that the Poor Law Board should have con-
 1068 l 1069
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he thought it very imprudent on the part of the hon. Member (Sir E. Tennent) to challenge those Members who represented parishes that were under local Acts by saying the present opposition only emanated from the metropolitan parishes. The truth was that a great majority of parishes in the country were equally opposed to the interference of the Poor Law Board, but they left the question to the metropolitan parishes, because of their having more experience on the subject. With regard to a parish in Gosport which was under a local Act, it had been favourably reported of by Lord Courtenay, and the people there were at a loss to know why the Board should interfere, unless it were to give employment to their own establishment; for, in consequence of the present peaceable and prosperous state of the country, the Poor Law Board had hardly sufficient for one half of their staff. But why was the Bill to be continued for two years instead of one? He was aware that some persons proposed to continue it for five years. But Government only asked for two. What was their reason? Their reason obviously was, that they wished to leave to their successors the difficulties attending the question, for they well knew that their opponents would be in office before the expiration of two years, and then they would have thrown upon them all the odium and all the burden attending upon the subject of the Poor Laws.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, it certainly was not his wish to see such a schoolmaster as the hon. Gentleman had referred to kept in his situation, but his object was to have the present tribunal retained.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that the managers of schools only were to be consulted; but they, on that side, considered that it was not only the interests of the managers and founders, but those of the children and of the laity in general, which ought to be chiefly looked to, in order to see whether the schools would deserve the support of the country at large. By the present alteration the jurisdiction of the bishop would be greatly extended, for he was constituted sole judge on questions of 'great difficulty and of the utmost concern to those whose children were to be educated at the schools. The words "moral misconduct" appeared capable of very wide interpretation, so that any difference with regard to the management of the school, noncompliance with the rites of the Church, or holding particular opinions, though they might not interfere with the instruction given to the children, might be made the pretext of interfering with the management. If the clergyman of a parish, differing with the lay committee, appealed to the bishop, he had the power of immediately suspending the schoolmaster. He thought the alteration in the Minute altogether uncalled for, and considered that the faith of Parliament had been pledged to the maintenance of the clauses as they stood before the alteration. He hoped that the Church of England would continue to live in the affections of the people; but it would not do so by giving greater power to its clergy, but rather by enabling them and the laity to work harmoniously together.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he noticed on the business paper a Bill entitled Grand Juries (Metropolitan District) Bill. That Bill had not yet been considered in the House of Lords, and it was a measure of great importance as affecting the administration of criminal justice. He had great doubts with respect to the Bill, and should it come on, he should feel bound to occupy some time in discussing it, but considering the present state of the Session and of the business before the House, perhaps the hon. and learned Attorney General would not press the Bill.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he should content himself with opposing the clause on the ground of its being extremely inconvenient to enter into a discussion upon the subject at this period of the Session. If the hon. and gallant Gentleman should have a seat in the next Parliament, he or any other hon. Gentleman might move for a Committee of Inquiry, or take any other appropriate course with the view of remedying any improper exercise of the powers of the Poor Law Commissioners. At the fag-end of the Session the subject raised could not be satisfactorily dealt with. The hon. and gallant Member had stated that the Poor Law Board cost the country 250,000 l l l 1070
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE : It does not require an Act of Parliament to lessen the size of the Unions.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that the litigation with St. Pancras had been found by him in the office when he succeeded the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Hull, on whom so many encomiums had been passed.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that the powers of the Poor Law Board were very limited as regarded Unions, and it was only when now and then they caught an officer who was guilty of maladministration, that they were able to dismiss him; but the main power was in the Guardians. He could not avoid expressing his surprise at the present proceeding in the metropolitan parishes, when it appeared that the aver-ago increase of mortality in the workhouses of those parishes was from about 19½ per
 1079
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, his impression was, that Dr. Southwood Smith first acted under the Nuisance Removal Act; and, if he were not mistaken, it was the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Wakley) who first proposed that some medical gentleman should be appointed to the Board of Health. He agreed in that proposition, and that it was proper some medical man should be connected with a Board having to deal with questions of a medical or a  quasi
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he must object to so long a period. Everybody knew the serious dangers arising from burial grounds during the hot summer months. He thought it would be desirable not to precipitate the matter, but to pass a temporary Act, calling into employment as burial grounds the 150 acres or more that were stated to be unoccupied immediately around the metropolis, and to defer the subject for future consideration.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, they were about to pass an Act in haste to repeal an Act which had been passed after great deliberation. The Government was now in the possession of a large piece of ground which was available for a burial ground, and which would enable the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) to shut up immediately 100 places of burial in this metropolis and its vicinity. By availing themselves of this for a temporary purpose, passing a temporary Act, if necessary, to give the requisite powers, they might reserve the main question of metropolitan interments until the next Session of Parliament.
 MR. BERNAL  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies in reference to letters which he (Mr. Bernal) had just received from Jamaica, dated May 23, stating that the smallpox was raging in that island, and that the ravage among the labouring popluation was frightful. The question he wished to put was whether the Colonial Office had had time to turn their attention to the point of affording assistance to the Colony in the way of supplying labour, and whether there was any chance in a short time of applying means for the furtherance of that object?
 LORD SEYMOUR  wished to remind the Committee that if the whole ground were consecrated, it would be under the authority of the bishop, and any monumental inscription to which the bishop might object, however agreeable to the feelings of the friends of the deceased, might by his order be removed. He thought great inconvenience also might arise from the use of the same chapels by Nonconformists and members of the Church.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. the Home Secretary, whether he had correctly understood him to say, that Dissenters might be buried in what was called the consecrated ground, if no objection was made to the Church of England's service. If he was assured of this, it went to remove much of the difficulty before the House. He took for granted, few Protestants attached much more importance to the consecration of ground, than to the consecration of bells, candles, oxen, asses, and various other matters which were made the subject of consecration in another Church; unless in so far as the practice had a tendency to secure respect and repose to the remains of the deceased. But if this was so, it made it a peculiarly impolitic ground to enter into contest with the Dissenters on; and he hoped the Government would think so.
 LORD STANLEY  was glad his hon. Friend had put this question, because he thought it desirable that public attention should be drawn, both in this country and in the United States, to the harsh and oppressive working of those laws of the Southern States which related to British coloured seamen. It was true that a British vessel, coming from Jamaica on her homeward voyage, having struck on a reef near Charleston harbour, had been compelled to put into that port in a sinking state. Among her crew was one Manuel Pereira, a coloured man, a native of the Cape Verd islands, and consequently a Portuguese, and not a British subject, though being at the time an articled seaman on board a British ship, he was under British protection. In conformity with the law of South Carolina, this man, on the arrival of the ship in port, was taken out of her, and lodged in the common gaol. The vessel was condemned and sold: the master and crew, after a short delay, the exact length of which was not stated, were able to leave Charleston; but when they applied for the release of Pereira, the master was charged with the expenses of his detention in gaol, and, refusing to pay, went away, leaving the unfortunate man in confinement. It was stated that Pereira had applied through the master to the Portuguese Consul on the spot, and to the Minister of his country at Washington, but that no notice had been
 1194 "I have to state that Judge Withers (of the South Carolina Court), attended by the State Attorney General, has received the application (for a writ  of habeas corpus 1195
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  seconded the Amendment.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he differed from the hon. Member (Mr. Monsell), and he hoped that the Bill would not be pressed forward during the present Session. The subject was far too important to be brought forward at this period of the Session, for it required the united attention of every one connected with Ireland. He admitted that the present system had produced disastrous results, but he did not think that this measure would remedy them. This Bill introduced an entirely new system of valuation, differing from every Bill which had preceded it, and he considered it entirely unjustifiable to press it at this late period of the Session when so few Irish Members were present. He objected to the whole system of valuation in Ireland. He was not averse to the Government exercising a supervision over the valuation; but considering that the present system cost about 2 l s. s.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EHCHEQUER  said, that it appeared to him that this clause appeared to he taken from the Whiteboys Act. A more monstrous proposition he certainly never heard; and that it should have been made by an hon. Member distinguished for his extremely liberal principles, was exceedingly remarkable. It was perfectly opposed to the spirit of modern legislation, and he trusted that the House would not sanction for a moment a proposition which would inflict upon any ingenious person who might violate the law by any manufacture, a punishment of so savage and almost of so sanguinary a character as that now proposed. He believed that no House of Commons of the nineteenth century would sanction such a proposition, more especially when hon. Members were about to appear before their constituents so shortly. He trusted, therefore, that the hon. Member would not persist with his clause.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he would beg to move to add to the end of the Clause the Amendment of which he had given notice.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, if the clause remained in its present form, the Nonconformists would have to contribute to the expense of a chapel which they could not use, and the members of the Church would also have to do the same.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he thought that if the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) took credit to himself for defending the conduct of the Governor of the Ionian Islands, though Sir Henry Ward was not a member of his political party, that his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) was still more entitled to credit for consistency and fairness, for Sir Henry Ward was a political connexion. The right hon. Baronet had read a violent invective published in the Ionian Islands against the Governor; and he (Sir J. Pakington) had stated that when a Governor was attacked in that way, some excuse ought to be made for the means of repression which he might adopt. That might be true, but he could not help remembering that he had heard that when there was a disturbance in the Ionian Islands on a former occasion, Sir Henry Ward had resorted to means of repression which brought disgrace upon the British name, by publishing and proclaiming a reward for all offenders who should be brought up dead or alive. Such a proceeding was unknown to civilised Governments, and was only practised by the despots of Austria.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he deeply regretted that the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Clay) should have felt it his duty to propose this considerable alteration in the Bill. So far from believing that the Amendment would have the effect of checking those religious discords of which he complained—so far from believing that it would have the effect of keeping these
 1190
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he did not see the necessity of the distinction between consecrated and unconsecrated grounds, and, as the chapel was erected simply as a place of shelter and not of worship, he was of opinion that the ratepayers should not be put to the expense of building two chapels. But that was a small part of the question. It was important they should not make these distinctions.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he believed the conduct of the noble Lord who had just addressed the House, and of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), on that subject, could not be sufficiently deprecated. He had been several times in the Ionian Islands, and he could tell the noble Lord and the hon. Member that the course which they had pursued had contributed to create or to aggravate those unhappy feelings which had been productive of so much misery in those islands. He could find no justification for the charges they had brought against such a
 1187
 MR. TENNYSON D'EYNCOURT  said, he considered this provision of the Bill calculated to create more heartburnings than had ever existed before between Dissenters and members of the Church of England.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had supported the Militia Bill because he believed the enrolment of the militia was necessary for the proper defence of the country, but he was very much disappointed at the manner in which this important measure was proposed to be carried out. The right hon. Secretary at War had issued a circular with regard to the Chelsea Pensioners and the militia which, in his opinion, was highly objectionable. The militia, if he understood the circular rightly, were to be drilled by pensioners, and not in battalions by field officers, but in squads; and he had no hesitation in stating that if that arrangement were carried out, the militia would be found to be a very inefficient body. The experiment, he was convinced, would disappoint the country, and he had therefore felt it to be his duty to warn the Government of the error they were falling into.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he must object to proceeding with the Bill at so unseasonable an hour. The Bill was called the "Pimlieo Improvement Bill," but it was in reality a Bill to carry out the private views of certain interested parties at the expense of the public, and that, too at a period of great distress, and when the country was groaning under the continued imposition of an odious income tax. He had ventured to raise his voice against the job of removing the Marble Arch, and he had been told that that object would be effected without any cost to the public. Old birds, however, were not to be caught with chaff, and it appeared that a very large sum of money had been exhausted in the removal of the fright. Then there was the National Gallery, upon which the public had lavished so large an amount of treasure; and what a miserably ludicrous spectacle it presented! He objected to this system of picking the pockets of the public by what were termed public improvements.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that, as far as he understood the hon. Gentleman's question, what he wished to know was, whether there was any prospect or any possibility of obtaining a better adjustment of the land tax. He would, therefore, inform the hon. Gentleman, that the question whether under the existing laws it might not be possible to effect a better adjustment of the land tax, was now about to be solemnly argued in the Court of Queen's Bench, on the first day of next Michaelmas term. The parish of Tower Hamlets had obtained a mandamus against the local commissioners, and it had also obtained a rule  nisi.
 MR. WODEHOUSE  begged to put a question to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, relating to the subject of the inequalities in the apportionment of the land tax, and would refer more particularly to the evidence given by Mr. J. Wood, the chairman of the Board of Inland Revenue, before a Committee of the House of Lords, on the subject of the burdens affecting real property, in 1846.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  admitted that the system of valuation now in force in Ireland was almost as bad as possible. They were all, no doubt, most anxious to have a good and perfect mode of making valuations in Ireland, and therefore he should be very sorry indeed to oppose the present measure, if he entertained the belief that it justly merited the commendations which it had received from the right hon. Baronet. But even were the present Bill an improvement upon the existing system, it ought not to be hurried through its various stages at so advanced a period of the Session, and in a House which necessarily exhibited so very small an attendance of Irish Members. He had recently urged the same objection against the Crime and Outrage Bill, and he was answered by statements on the part of Government that that Bill was merely for the purpose of continuing in force a necessary measure. But there were no such excuses for now introducing and urging forward a Bill, not for continuing any existing mode of valuation, but for setting aside all former modes of valuation, and substituting an entirely new system. A mere glance at the Bill would suffice to satisfy the House that the subject was one which required the most mature deliberation. It had occupied the attention of successive Governments from a period antecedent to the time of Sir William Petty, during Cromwell's Protectorate, and Parliament had been attempting to legislate upon it for the last twenty-six years, within which period they had passed no less than six different valuation statutes, including the latest Act of 9 & 10  Vict., 1200 1201 l l l l 1202
 MR. F. SCULLY , in the present state of the House, agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Cork county, that it would be perfectly unavailing to proceed further in their opposition. He would, therefore, now leave the matter in the hands of the Government, and on their shoulders let the consequences rest of imperfect legislation.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, it was his intention to move that the Bill be committed that day three months. The valuation of Ireland had been in progress for the last six years, in consequence of a Committee of that House which sat in 1845. Six counties had been valued under the 9th and 10th Victoria, which Act was the result of the labours of the Committee to which he had alluded. But this Bill proposed to legislate in direct opposition to the principles of that measure. He thought the Bill which had been prepared for the purpose of ascertaining the value of agricultural produce ought now to be produced, for it was a necessary concomitant to this measure. The prices of agricultural pro-
 1197
 MR. BONHAM CARTER  begged to ask the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies if he had directed his attention to the subject of the assistance which might be afforded to emigration from this country by obtaining the co-operation of the local Legislatures in Australia, in facilitating the recovery of loans advanced in England, in individual cases, for emigration purposes?
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether the Government had made up its mind to assist emigration from the distressed and populous districts of Scotland.
 MR. HUME  said, he begged to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington) to the petition which had been presented from the Legislative Council of New South Wales. It was a protest and a remonstrance on the part of the former Legislative Council against the conduct of the British Government towards that Colony. That protest was afterwards adopted by the new Legislative Council. As to the facts stated in it, he (Mr. Hume) could bear witness to their accuracy; and he would exhort the Government not to let the experience of former days pass by. Let them recollect the population of that Colony, and yield to their reasonable requests. They asked no more. If nothing should be done by the Government before the new Parliament, he should, if he had a seat in that House, feel it his duty to bring the matter forward early in the Session. The second subject which he wished to make some observations upon, was relative to the state of the Ionian Islands. All he had now to say upon that subject was, that every act of which we complained of Louis Napoleon towards the French, had been committed by the English Government in the Ionian Islands, and that the only difference between the two cases was, that the French people were satisfied, and the Ionian people were disgusted. What were the cruelties that bad been practised? As an instance he would mention the case of a member of the present Parliament of those islands. He was dragged from his home, and transported to a small, bare island, there to linger in captivity; and Madame Dominichini, the wife of that gentleman, was now undergoing the greatest sufferings. Every island under the Governor of the Ionian Islands was the abode of unfortunate captives, men without trial, without sentence, and without crime. The whole system was a discredit and disgrace to people owning the name of Englishmen. All regular government had been suspended, and violence and lawlessness had been established throughout the islands. He hoped when Parliament met again they would meet under different auspices. Early in March last he had moved for papers on this subject, but they had not yet been presented. He was sorry he was precluded by circumstances from doing more than entering his protest against the system now pursued in the Ionian Islands.
 MR. HUME  begged to explain that he had spoken to the right hon. Gentleman more than once, in order to ascertain when the papers would be produced on which he intended to found a Motion. Dominichini was a Member of the House of Representatives, who was torn from his family and imprisoned in a rock.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, feeling the spirit of fairness and equity with which the noble Lord had conducted this Bill, it was with regret that he differed from him in this instance; but, as he thought the clause was lessening the common-law right of the Dissenters, he felt bound to support the proposition of the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Clay). The Com-
 1191
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he rose to ask Her Majesty's Government what steps had been taken to expedite the course of public justice in the case of Manuel Pereira, a coloured seaman, under British protection, detained in the prison of Charleston, in the United States, in consequence of the vessel in which he was employed having put into that port in distress, and in whose favour Mr. Matthew, Her Majesty's Consul at that place, had applied for a writ of  habeas corpus
 MR. S. CARTER  moved the adoption of a clause, providing that—
 "If any person should, by himself or by the agency of any other person, knowingly and fraudulently pirate or manufacture, for sale or profit, any article or part of an article protected by Letters Patent under this or any other Act, he should he guilty of a misdemeanour, and on conviction thereof before any Court of General or Quarter Sessions, should be liable to be imprisoned for any term not exceeding twelve calendar months, with or without hard labour, or to pay a fine not exceeding 100 l 1203
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the common law assumed that every man belonged to the same religious community, and was therefore entitled to burial in the same consecrated ground, and by the same religious ceremony. But, since there were many persons who dissented from the Church, it was necessary to provide them with a burial ground also. Again, with respect to the chapels—a chapel was provided for the members of the Church, and also one for those who dissented from the Church. These appeared to him to be very reasonable provisions. There was no objection to Nonconformists being buried in consecrated ground, provided they would submit to have the burial ceremony performed by a minister of the Church of England.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he fully concurred in the feeling expressed by the hon. Baronet on this subject. Burial places ought not to be applied to any other purposes than those to which they were originally devoted, but there was a difference between consecrated and unconsecrated burial grounds. The consecrated grounds were already protected by the law, but the unconsecrated burial grounds were not. It might, therefore, be necessary to bring up a clause to effect that object. He would suggest to the hon. Baronet to postpone his Amendment till the bringing up of the Report.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, in reply to the question respecting the acceptance of the offers made to form rifle corps, he could assure the hon. and gallant Member (Sir De L. Evans) it was not from any feeling of distrust of the middle classes that the Government had declined those offers. On the contrary, if any necessity for such volunteer corps arose, the Government would not only not refuse any such offers, but would accept them with gratitude. As to the question whether the Government was now prepared to sanction the voluntary system, it should be remembered that the Government had to get the militia in the first instance by voluntary enlistment, and, should that fail them, they would have to resort to the compulsory method of the ballot. Now, what would be the effect of having a voluntary enlisting militia in the first instance, and also accepting the services of voluntary corps, if, after all, you should be obliged to have recourse to the
 1180
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, persons of all persuasions were buried in Bunhill-fields burial ground, and he had never heard of any difficulties arising therefrom.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, this Bill differed from all other Bills, this being a general Bill, whereas all former were Joint Stock Cemetery Company Bills.
 MR. BERESFORD  said, that this was not exactly the time for making the observations which the hon. and gallant Member had offered to the House, as the Bill now before the House was merely the Annual Bill for the payment of the staff for the militia, and quite distinct from the Militia Bill. But he should be sorry, however, to pass by in silence the points adverted to by the hon. and gallant Member. It was quite true that it was proposed to take 3,000 of the men to be raised under the Militia Act to be trained to artillery practice, and these would have a trifle extra pay for their services. This portion of the force would be sent to the artillery to be instructed with them and by their officers by which the expense of drilling by separate officers would be saved. He expected that in a very short time, under such instructions, the men would be so far efficient as to be able to perform the secondary duties of artillerymen. With regard to the clothing of the men, the Master General of the Ordnance would provide it. Patterns had already been considered. With regard to the arms, should the militia be embodied, the Government would endeavour to give them a better description of musket than was formerly used.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he believed that this Bill would remedy many of the evils which were complained of in connexion with the present system of valuation in Ireland. That system was costly, and had produced the most disastrous results. The noble Lord the Chief Secretary for Ireland had promised that he would next Session introduce a measure on the subject of the valuation of agricultural produce, and under these circumstances he hoped that the present measure would be allowed to proceed; for he believed that the universal
 1198
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he begged to ask what was the intention of the Government with regard to the policy of allowing the formation of voluntary rifle corps? The time had arrived when the public ought to know what were the reasons why the Government refused to accept the offers which had been made for the voluntary formation of such corps. An opinion had been thrown out, that as the persons making the offer belonged to the middle orders of society, the Government did not like to trust arms in their hands; but that he did not for a moment believe. He would take that opportunity of putting a question to the right hon. the Secretary at War. It appeared to be the intention to attach a portion of the militia force to the artillery. He hoped, in that case, means would be adopted to give the men a more able tuition than was usually given. Though he did not approve of the Militia Bill, still, as the country was to have it, he was anxious that the force
 1179
 SIR JAMES DUKE  seconded the Amendment, and hoped the noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Works would remove from the Bill, which in other respects was so acceptable, a clause that was most unfair and unjust towards the Nonconformists.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, said, that he admitted the importance of the question, which had received his best attention. He very much doubted whether any Legislature, home or colonial, could
 1196
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  replied, that considerable relaxation in the rules laid down for the guidance of the Emigration Commissioners had already taken place in order to promote this object.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he did not think it necessary to follow the hon. Gentleman into all the points he had touched upon, but he certainly must complain of the manner in which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume) had brought subjects of such immense importance before the House. He (Sir J. Pakington) was placed in a somewhat extraordinary position, for the hon. Member had on such an occasion as the present embraced subjects of no less importance than the recent petition sent home from the Legislature of New South Wales, and the present state of the Government of the Ionian Islands. He would, however, briefly reply to the hon. Member on both those subjects. With regard to the first point to which the hon. Member had adverted, namely, the petition from the Legislature of New South Wales, he thought that petition embraced a subject of too much importance and magnitude to be lightly and incidentally dealt with. Upon that subject he would only say, that although he believed the Legislature of New South Wales were not borne out in all the allegations which the petition contained, he was ready to admit that the petition was entitled to the deepest and most respectful consideration of Her Majesty's Government. He at once acknowledged that it was their duty, and he assured the House, that individually it was his inclination, to concede to the Colonies every fair right they could claim, and which could tend to promote their prosperity and liberty, consistently with the maintenance of the connexion between them and the mother country. Acting on that principle, he could assure the House and the hon. Gentleman that between the present time and the next Session he would make it his duty carefully to analyse every part of the prayer of that petition. But he should also beg the House to remember that two of the most important prayers in the petition related to the management of waste lands, and the management of the casual revenues derived from mineral sources. He hoped the House would do him the justice to recollect that, in the Bill which they had lately passed for the better government of New Zealand, he had conceded to that Colony that very prayer relating to the management of waste lands; and he trusted the House would also recollect that Her Majesty's Government had conceded to the Australian Colonies, and also to New Zealand, if it should be necessary, the management, distribution, and expenditure
 1183 1184 1185 Rigas, "The ferocious and insane Ward, the type and image of Turkish brutality and silliness, after shamefully treading the heroic soil of Cephalonia, stained in all its Hellenic parts with his inauspicious name, returned to Corfu, torn with remorse of conscience, inflamed with a fever of vengeance, and showing in his dark and hangman face that savage and Attilian brutality which his Colleagues have displayed in India and other places, where, through Divine permission, the British sword has appeared." "But how is this, while we are at liberty to express our wishes as to our fate, while through our representatives we possess a sovereign will, may we not freely utter our firm opinion that we do not desire you for our protectors—that we do not wish to be governed by you—for we have another national mission, and we seek another political destiny, incontestable, and suggested by the inalienable rights of nations? How, are we not masters, to send you whence you came, miserable being, who for our misfortunes have trodden this land of Paradise, and made it a hell, and a source of death and of tears."
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in reply, stated that the question was similar to that which had been put on a former occasion. It appeared that attention had been freshly drawn by the arrival of a new mail. He was aware of the arrival of the mail that morning, but had not yet seen the papers which it had brought. But it was quite impossible for any fresh papers to have arrived which could strengthen his conviction of the painful distress under which the Colony was labouring. And, when his hon. Friend asked him whether he could hold out any hopes of assistance being rendered to the Colony, he (Sir J. Pakington) must say that it was his duty to be cautious how he raised hopes which it might not be in his power to fulfil. He could not, therefore, add anything to the answer which he had already given, that he would lose no time in devoting his serious and anxious attention to the subject, to see whether there were any means in existence by which the supply of labour and the pressure of the labour laws could be relaxed in favour of the West Indies. Since the question was before the House, on a former occasion, he had been prevent-
 1181
 MR. PETO  said, he must complain of the conduct of the clergy of the Church of England refusing to perform the funeral service at the funeral of a Dissenter, ro of permitting the service to be performed in the churchyard by his own minister. But the Dissenters of this country were too numerous, too important, and too powerful a class long to submit to this amount of degradation, which was so undeserved.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he should move to strike out the Proviso at the end of this clause, which provides for liberty in the parish board to have part of the new parish burial ground unconsecrated, and to substitute the Proviso of which he had given notice. The clause provided that the board may build a chapel on the burial ground for the performance of the funeral service according to the rites of the Church of England, and that such
 1188 "To the end thereof that all classes of His Majesty's subjects may be permitted to have the said easement of burial according to the rites of the several religions professed by them, be it enacted, that from and after the passing of this Act it shall and may be lawful for the officiating minister of the Church of Ireland by law established, in each and every parish in Ireland, upon application being made to him in writing by any clergyman or minister of any church or congregation not being of the Established Church of Ireland, duly authorised by law to officiate in such church or congregation, stating the death of any member or members of such church or congregation, for permission to perform the burial service at the grave of such person or persons in the churchyard of such parish according to the rites of such church or congregation, to grant permission accordingly; provided always, that such permission for the performance of such burial service at the grave, according to the rites of such church or congregation, shall be in writing." 1189
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  moved to add the following Proviso:—"Provided that no burial ground in the metropolis where burials should have been discontinued by such order as aforesaid, shall be allowed to have any dwelling-houses, shops, or warehouses erected thereon." The only ground of objection he could anticipate to this Motion would be in fact obviated by the clause to be proposed for compensation, which he understood would not be opposed. He therefore could not see any reason why the Government should not endeavour to make some provision to obviate the violation of decency and public feeling which would take place if burial grounds were allowed to be devoted to building purposes.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he must beg to express his satisfaction at
 1186
 SIR WILLIAM SOMERVILLE  said, the hon. Member's speech should have been delivered on the second reading. The hon. Member had appealed to right hon. Gentlemen opposite not to press the Bill at this period of the Session; but he thought it most desirable, in the present state of affairs in Ireland, that the House should at once go into Committee on the question. He had himself introduced a Bill last Session upon the subject; but
 1199
 ADMIRAL STEWART  said, he could bear testimony to the fact, that the Nonconformists had no objection to be buried in consecrated ground. The noble Lord the Chief Commissioner of Works said that no injustice would be done to Dissenters by this Bill, but he would mention a case in which great injustice would be inflicted on their feelings. It was a feeling of our common nature that we all wished to lie by the side of those whom we loved when living. Well, suppose the parents should be members of the Church, and the children should be Nonconformists—in that case the parents would be buried in the consecrated portion of the ground, and the children would be obliged to be buried in the unconsecrated portion. He thought the distinction was most injudicious and uncharitable.
 MR. BERNAL : It appears from the Votes that the Committee upon the subject was fixed for this day; the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) is therefore entitled to proceed.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, he must beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) if he would have the kindness to point out for the opinion of the Committee in what respect the Resolution which he now proposed differed from that which he before submitted to the Committee—not any alteration as to more additional words, but in point of spirit. If it wore not found to be so altered in its spirit, and if the change were only a verbal one, then this was only reiterating a discussion which had, in fact, dropped, and endeavouring to pass another preliminary Resolution exactly like that which the right hon. Gentleman formerly proposed.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that he had felt it to be his duty to call the attention of the Committee to the fact, but that the question was one which ought to be decided by the House and by Mr. Speaker. On a former occasion the right hon. Gentleman ad moved—
 1226 "That the Chairman be directed to move the House, that leave be given to bring in a Bill to relieve Bishops in the Colonies in communion with the Church of England, and the Clergy and Laity in communion with them, in respect to legal doubts or disabilities affecting the management of their Church affairs."
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that he did not remember an instance, but he could not take upon himself to decide the point.
 The CHAIRMAN  hoped the right hon. Member did not suppose he was acting factiously in the objection he had taken. [Mr. GLADSTONE: Hear, hear!] He did not remember any previous instance of this kind, and therefore thought it his duty to communicate to the Committee the doubt which he entertained on the subject, and to point it out for their consideration and judgment.
 Sir FRANCIS BARING  said, that he had taken means to ascertain the opinion of Mr. Speaker, and he had authority to state that it would be necessary to make some change in the form of the Resolution. It was not considered proper to pass a Resolution precisely the same as one that had been agreed to before, and it was therefore advisable that some alteration should be made.
 The MASTER or THE ROLLS  said, he must take that occasion to advert to provisions in the Masters in Chancery Abolition Bill, by which the Lord Chancellor was empowered to sell the Masters' Offices in Southampton Buildings, Chancery Lane, and to provide chambers for the Judges for their chamber business. As the offices in Southampton Buildings were extremely convenient for the required purpose, he could only suppose that the proposition proceeded from some romantic whim, that, inasmuch as those buildings had been used for the business of the Masters, the Judges in transacting their new business would be polluted by occupying them. The Bill had passed that House, but would again come under consideration in the House of Lords, and he hoped the Government would take the opportunity of altering the provisions to which he had referred.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, unless compensation was granted, many parties would be ruined by the shutting up of burial grounds, for which they had paid considerable sums.
 LORD J. MANNERS  said, he must object to the introduction of the clause.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, however desirous the Government might be to agree to the clause, the hon. Gentleman could not propose such a clause in the present Bill. It would be necessary, with a clause of this nature, to go into Committee of the whole House.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he never remembered that House having been placed in such a position as that in which the right
 1227 1228 1229 1230 1231
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he must object to any postponement of the debate for the purpose of ascertaining what was the rule of the House.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he believed the House would agree with him that the speech of his noble Friend had little reference to the notice of Motion placed on the books. When he saw that notice of Motion, he was under the impression that his noble Friend was anxious to obtain information with respect to the proceedings instituted by the Indian Government against Ali Moorad; but the speech of his noble Friend showed him to be desirous to bring under the notice of the House not only the state and condition of the ex-Ameers of Scinde, but to enter into the question of
 1257
 MR. BUTT  said, that if this debate only elicited the speech to which they had just listened, it would rejoice every friend of the Church. But he thought that the weighty objections offered to this Bill by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) still remained unanswered and unanswerable. The Bill went far beyond giving the Colonial Church the powers of organisation which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir W. P. Wood) had described. The Bill, as originally laid on the table, would have enabled the Colonial Churches to alter the liturgy, and impose any doc-
 1236
 MR. HERRIES  said, he must beg to interrupt his hon. Friend; and to suggest that, in a matter of such importance as the one now under discussion, nothing like
 1258
 MR. BROTHERTON : AS this question is likely to lead to considerable discussion, I think it would be for the convenience of the House to proceed with the other Orders first.
 MR. HUME  begged to ask, if the Committee could not sanction the same Resolution a second time?
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  moved the insertion of "the parish of Willesden, in the county of Middlesex." This parish
 1237
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the objection of his right hon. Friend appeared to be that the clause in the Bill to which he had referred, compelled the Lord Chancellor to take chambers for the Judges in Lincoln's Inn, while the chambers in Southampton Buildings, now appropriated to the Masters, would answer the purpose, and yet were directed to be sold. That objection had appeared to the Government to be good, as the clause originally stood, and it had therefore been corrected in that particular, so that now the Lord Chancellor would not be required to procure chambers in Lincoln's Inn, but only in a general manner to procure chambers, and he might avail himself of those in Southampton Buildings, now used by the Masters.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was sure the House would hear with regret the determination to which the hon. Gentleman and his Colleagues had come, of resigning their offices, for, he must say, they had performed their duties in such a manner as would give satisfaction to the country.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  moved the following clause:—
 "And be it enacted, that for the purpose of promoting extramural interments and economy in funeral expenses, the post-horse duty and assessed tax on carriages let on hire be from the passing of this Act repealed, as regards all horses and carriages kept to be let to hire solely for funeral purposes." l s.,
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he hoped the clause would be considered before the third reading of the Bill, which he trusted would be reprinted, with the numerous Amendments that had been made.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I have only one word to offer on a personal matter between the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington) and myself. I must confess that for the first time during twenty years of public life, during which I have had to conduct various measures through this House, I did feel very greatly aggrieved by the tone which the right hon. Gentleman adopted—as I thought—in his speech on a former occasion. The language which he has used to-day, however, convinces me that I was mistaken, and that I ought entirely to waive that feeling. His motives I have never doubted or questioned; and I confess that I ought to regard his language as lying within the fair latitude and license of debate. That being so, and not being fond of quarrel, either in this House or elsewhere, I wish spontaneously to say, that I entirely withdraw any words that I may have used that were in any degree painful to the right hon. Gentleman. I regret having used them, and I trust that in discussing either this or any other measure in this House, I may never give cause of offence to any hon. Member.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he apprehended there could he no doubt that the same Bill might be introduced twice in the same Session. This course had in fact been taken in the case of the Australian Government Colonies Bill in 1850.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he had understood that the course which he had pursued with respect to the reintroduction of a Bill which had not passed the second reading was perfectly regular. He had always understood that the course for any hon. Member to take who had not obtained a second reading for a Bill which he wished to amend, was to withdraw it, and move another Resolution.
 MR. GLADSTONE : No. It is reprinted, and the title is amended.
 MR. GLADSTONE : On the contrary, it is in conformity with the usual practice, and no deviation from it.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he would now move—
 "That the Chairman be directed to move the House to give leave to bring in a Bill to explain and amend the laws relating to the Church in the Colonies."
 MR. GLADSTONE : I believe, Sir, I am correct in saying that the course that has been taken is one of strict regularity. It is the course which I used always to pursue when the Bills which I had to introduce on the part of the Government required a preliminary Committee. I made the Committee an Order of the Day, and gave notice as a Motion of the Resolution
 1205 pro formâ, 1206 1207
 MR. GLADSTONE : Whether they were the words of the right hon. Gentleman or of the Primate, they were words of course to which great importance must be attached. It is on that account that I advert to them, because I wish at the ear-
 1208 1209 "I entirely concur with your Grace in thinking that no satisfactory terms of ecclesiastical legislation upon our concerns could be proposed in England without a suggestion derived from ourselves, as to the safest and best means of removing the embarrassments under which we find ourselves labouring. But I had hoped that the minutes of the meeting of the bishops of the province last year, of which your Grace had received a copy, might possibly be regarded as embodying a sufficiently definite expression of our wants and wishes." 1210 1211 1212 1213 1214 1215 1216 bonâ fide 1217
 MR. GLADSTONE : The right hon. Gentleman has not quoted the expressions I used. I spoke simply of the effect of the introduction of party cries into a debate. I said nothing about the perverse or corrupt introduction of them for the purpose of attaining an object. I spoke of their unnecessary and gratuitous introduction.
 MR. GLADSTONE : That is a point of form which perhaps Mr. Bernal will allow me to explain. It was in consequence of a previous Motion in the House that the Committee was made an Order of the Day.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I will explain to you with great brevity the object of the Motion which I am about to make—
 MR. GLADSTONE : No, not in order to attain an object.
 MR. GLADSTONE : You were going to support the second reading.
 MR. GLADSTONE : The second reading. The right hon. Gentleman stated so.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I beg to deny that most expressly.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I object very much to that statement. The right hon. Gentleman told me that it was his wish to enter on the debate, and I said that I could not make the smallest objection to his taking that course.
 Mr. GLADSTONE : That I would postpone the second reading of the Bill, not the debate.
 MR. GLADSTONE : And from public.
 MR. GLADSTONE : The obligation of subscribing to the supremacy of the Crown is not dispensed with.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, he rose for the purpose, in the first instance, of noticing some observations of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) which he thought might he supposed to hold out that he (Sir W. P. Wood) acquiesced in the legal views of the right hon. Baronet on this subject. On a former occasion only two main legal objections were offered to the plan of his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone). One was made by the hon. and learned Attorney General, to the effect that the proposed Bill was unnecessary, because the Act of Henry VIII. had no application to the Colonies, and would not prevent parties from assembling in ecclesiastical synod. His hon. and blearned Friend the Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Bethell) on that occasion made a speech, in which he in some degree acquiesced in the views taken by the hon. and learned Attorney General; hut on his (Sir W. P. Wood's) having expressed his surprise at his hon. and learned Friend acquiescing in such views, he (Mr. Bethell) emphatically disclaimed them. The other legal point was this—that the proposed Bill would give to the Church in the Colonies a permanent and dominant authority—that it would give to the Church exclusively the power of meeting in synod. In order to meet that objection, an alteration had been introduced into the Bill, with the view of providing that nothing in any Act or law of the United Kingdom contained, should prevent members of the Church in the Colonies from meeting in synod, in a manner similar to that in which the members of other religious bodies might meet. He was glad that the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) concluded his speech with an expression of his willingness to consent to the reprinting of the Bill of the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford. He was much surprised at the attack which the hon. Member for Cockermonth (Mr. Horsman) had made upon his right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) as to the honesty of his motives in this matter. It was only the other day that the hon. Member had been pleased to charge him (Sir W. P. Wood) with being influenced by sinister motives, because he had expressed opinions favourable to the Bill of his right hon. Friend. That was the first time that his (Sir W. P. Wood's) honesty had been called in question in that House. His right hon. Friend,
 1232 1233 ex animo l 1234 1235
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  was sure that no hon. Gentleman wished to obstruct the introduction of the Bill. The better course would be to consult Mr. Speaker.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON : Well, I merely alluded to it as a point of form; but, so far from having any wish to impede the right hon. Gentleman from bringing in an amended Bill, I give my hearty consent to it, and I can only express my hope that the second edition of the measure may be free from those grave objections which, in my opinion, attached to the first. I must further express my intention of reserving to myself the right of taking whatever course I may think proper in the exercise of a full and unfettered discretion in a future Session of Parliament. After what has pass-
 1225
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I can only say that I most readily accept the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I do not think it wise to enter upon that point at present. I had no idea that it would be made a subject of complaint; and as it has been made a subject of complaint, I am extremely sorry that I did not mention the fact. But it is unimportant to the argument which I used, for this reason: although it is true that the 37th Article asserts the supremacy of the Crown, I could never have supposed that the right hon. Gentleman would have dispensed with sub-
 1224
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I should like to know whether I could have ventured, from the right hon. Gentleman's private correspondence with Australia, to recommend in a matter of this importance and interest, in which the Archbishop of Canterbury was seeking information from the highest authorities in Australia, that a measure should be passed founded on such private information. The House will see that it would be entirely out of the question. Then the right hon. Gentleman proceeded to notice the three objections which he said I made to the Bill, and he stated that they
 1222 1223
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The result of which would have been that I, on the part of the Government, should have stood before the Colonies, and before Parliament, as objecting to the Bill without having been able to give any public explanation of my reasons for doing so. Of course I could not consent to that arrangement. I therefore intimated to the right hon. Gentleman that I could not consent to that course, and I stated my objections to the Bill. But I did this: I told the right hon. Gentleman that I would conclude with a Motion in order to set him free to reply to anything I might say, so as to enable him to speak again. Now, I think that in so doing I took the most courteous course that could been adopted. Although three weeks had intervened, the right hon. Gentleman, according to the forms of the House, could not speak again on the question. I therefore concluded with a Motion that we should pass to the other Orders of the Day, thereby setting him free to speak again on the subject; but he did not feel himself disposed on that particular occasion to reply to the speech that I had made. He said a few sentences, indeed, showing, I am sorry
 1220 1221
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The right hon. Gentleman had no power to object. But I repeat that I got a letter from him on the morning that I was going to object to the Bill, in which he said that as it was my intention to speak against the measure, he should propose to postpone the debate, which had then been an adjourned debate, for another fortnight.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The right hon Gentleman wrote to me a private letter on the morning that I was to make that speech, to tell me—and I can show him the letter if he wishes it—that as I intended to object to the Bill he should propose to postpone the debate for another fortnight.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I will explain. So strong was my feeling of courtesy towards the right hon. Gentleman, that, knowing his good intentions, I allow I did agree to a certain extent to the principle of the Bill. I was anxious to consider it, and, if I could, to allow the second reading to pass, but it would have been with the most distinct intimation that I could, as a Minister, allow it to go no further; and it was not till after the most careful consideration, and consulting the most eminent legal authorities, that I came to the conclusion that it was inconsistent with my duty to consent to the second reading. In spite of my remonstrance the right hon. Gentleman addressed a speech to the House at a time when it was absolutely impossible for me to reply to him, and that speech must consequently have produced its effect in the Colonies, although entirely unanswered by any Minister of the Crown. When, three weeks afterwards, I was to make my reply, the right hon.
 1219
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : If the right hon. Gentleman thinks that I had the slightest intention of supporting that Bill, he is utterly mistaken.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : All I can say is this, that the answer of the right hon. Gentleman to my question has not been very distinct. But this I say, that if he intended to apply those terms to me, there are no terms too strong to express the indignation with which I utterly repudiate them. Now, Sir, I pass to the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman, and I must say that I think the course he has taken has been one of considerable inconvenience and considerable deviation from Parliamentary practice. We have heard of protracted debates, but so protracted a debate as this has hardly ever been known. The right hon. Gentleman moved the second reading of the Bill in the month of April. He did so at a time when I remonstrated against his going on, because I pointed out the extreme importance of the Bill, and the absolute necessity, as a matter of duty on my part, of replying to his speech. The right hon. Gentleman, however, was deaf to that appeal.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I have no desire to interrupt my right hon. Friend, but for the sake of regularity I would ask, how this subject comes to be brought on as an Order of the Day, instead of a Motion?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The words of the right hon. Gentleman were, "stoop or condescend to drag religious party cries
 1218
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, in the speech which I thought it my duty to make a few weeks ago on this subject, I stated, with the greatest sincerity, and I repeat it now, that I did not entertain a moment's doubt that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, in bringing forward this Bill, had been actuated by the purest and most conscientious motives; and, Sir, I don't know anything in my public life that has given me more pain than the distressing feeling that in commenting on this Bill, and on the language of the right hon. Gentleman, I have given him any personal offence. I must declare that, in the previous stages of this Bill, I almost exhausted courtesy in my communication with the right hon. Gentleman. Remembering the kindness which has long existed between us, so far was I from feeling any desire to make a public exposure of this Bill, that on three several occasions I communicated with the right hon. Gentleman on the subject; and on the very day on which I made the speech to which he has referred, I wrote to him in the kindest terms expressing the regret which I felt at being compelled to speak freely of his Bill, but stating at the same time that I was compelled to oppose it. The right hon. Gentleman in the course of his speech has spoken of persons who would "stoop and condescend to use religious party cries, to attain an object." Now I wish to know whether those expressions were intended by the right hon. Gentleman to apply to me?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : They were not my words.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : This is, in fact, a Motion, and it will be a deviation from the usual practice, if it be allowed to take precedence of Orders of the Day.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  rose to second the Motion of his noble Friend; and regarded it an honour and a privilege to be the earliest to thank him for the powerful, highminded, and indignant eloquence of the speech with which he had introduced it. At this hour, within a few minutes of the time when the debate must close, he felt it due to Her Majesty's Ministers to leave to them almost the whole of that brief interval, and he would therefore confine himself to a few questions. Thirty years ago were not the Ameers of Scinde as independent as any of the Princes on the Rhine? Are not the survivors of them, all but one, captives in the hands of England? What was the intermediate
 1256
 MR. PETO  said, that he had had the
 1239 1240 l l d.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  moved the following clause:—
 "Where any order for the discontinuance of burials aforesaid shall affect any burial ground other than the burial ground of any parish, compensation shall be made by the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury to all persons interested in such burial ground, for the loss or damage which may be sustained by them by reason of the discontinuance of such burials as might lawfully have been made in such ground, in case such order had not been made, provided such persons shall within three calendar months after the time from which burial is, under such order as aforesaid, to be discontinued in such grounds, state in writing to the commissioners the particulars of their claim for such loss or damage. And in case of any difference arising between the claimants for such compensation and the commissioners as to the amount which may be justly due, it shall be lawful for the Secretary of State to appoint an arbitrator to fix such amount, and such arbitrator shall be empowered to examine any person, including such persons interested in such claims, on oath, and to require the production of any documents bearing on such claim, and after full inquiry by such means as to him may seem necessary, he shall deliver his award, which on receiving the confirmation of the Secretary of State shall be final."
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN * 1242 1243 1244 1245 "I did not like this, as it would have embarrassed me how to act; but the idea struck me at once that he might go to Ali Moorad, who might induce him, as a family arrangement, to resign the turban; I therefore secretly wrote to Koos-
 1246 1247 1248 "The British Government is about to institute an inquiry into the iniquities of my uncle Ali Moorad; I wish to vindicate the honour and good faith of my father, and to wipe away the stain which now rests on my family, and I have brought evidence to prove that every one of the charges against my family is false." 1249 1250 "I beheld the sovereign of Upper Scinde, whose important services a Governor General had deemed fitting to acknowledge, become a houseless wanderer; one who, nursed in the lap of luxury, had not known what an ungratified wish might mean. I met him in the jungle, surrounded by his faithful retainers, unprovided with the decencies of life. A tent with a single awning, not ten feet square, afforded the sole protection from the weather enjoyed by the party during heavy and long-continued rains; and is it to be wondered at, that I felt intensely for the poor old man?" 1251 "Merciful to a fault, and just where they judge for themselves. As men (he added) I consider them exemplary characters; and the devotion and respect evinced towards them by their children and all around them, was a conclusive proof of the domestic harmony which reigned in this singularly constituted family." 1252 Dry Leaves from Young Egypt, "The younger Ameers, the children of Meer Roostum and Meer Mobarik, were handed over by Sir Charles Napier to Meer Ali Moorad, who has inflicted on them every cruelty and insult that malice and hatred can suggest; born princes, hunger, cold, and nakedness have been their portion. In their memorial to Sir Charles Napier, they stated that death would be preferable to their condition. In 1848 the resident at Kypore reported that not one of Ali Moorad's shikarees was not better off than they. They had been reduced by want to the sale of their wives' ornaments and their own wearing apparel; and it was a well-known fact, that the fourth son of the late Meer Roostum appeared as a suppliant for assistance before the door, and is now living on the bounty of her who was in his father's lifetime a low courtesan in the Kypore bazaar." 1253 "They looked and acted like what they were, the ladies of the land, and very different from the native women we were in the habit of seeing; not that they were particularly beautiful, on the contrary there were few of them that had any claims to youth or good looks, but, as I said before, there was a bearing which stamped them at once of a superior class. There they were: whose bare feet had previously never pressed the ground uncovered by the richest carpets, with every luxury around them, living in a place without even a mat to the floor; common bazaar charpoys to sleep upon, and the roof leaking every shower of rain that fell. I thought at the time that the prize agents might have spared the carpets and other little luxuries from the thousands we had taken from them. They were too proud to ask for them, nor did I even hear them complain of this, although they did of having their clothes sold. They said,' Our jewels and gold we consider as forfeited; but we did not expect to be stripped; it is our fate.' It appeared a day of great rejoicing when a letter arrived from the Meers (their absent lords). They generally sent me a request that I would come and see them, and hear all about the Meers. It appeared as if they thought I could enter into all their little joys, as well as feel for their misfortunes, which in truth I did, although I always avoided touching on a subject so painful to them." "The conversation was stopped by the entrance of a remarkable personage—the  quasi 1254 1255
 COLONEL ESTCOURT  said, that he had no authority from the noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Viscount Jocelyn) to act upon his behalf; but having heard the debate, and the interesting statements which the noble Lord had made, he thought that the whole of the papers which had been asked for ought to be produced.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that where burial grounds were filled to such an extent as to be a public nuisance, no compensation would be given.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  begged to explain that it was not intended to give compensation, except in those cases where the Secretary of State should take upon himself to close the burial ground, and, as the Secretary of State had no power under this Bill to do so, the objection did not apply.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the Queen's recommendation and assent only had the effect of enabling the House to consider the question of compensation.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Southwark (Sir W. Molesworth) had raised a question of great magnitude. The principle laid down by the hon. Baronet was, that public abuses were not to be removed unless a claim for compensation were established upon the Consolidated Fund. At this period of the Session, when public business was in a confused state, he deprecated any proceedings which would have the effect of imposing a charge upon the public Treasury, unless Parliament were
 1272
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that, in the absence of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, arising out of circumstances which could not be controlled, there was considerable difficulty in dealing with this question, and he confessed he did not know exactly what course to pursue. The question, no doubt, was one of considerable difficulty, whether these compensations should be charged upon the Consolidated Fund or not. On the part of the Treasury, he (Mr. Hamilton) wished, for time to consider the subject. If the resolution were allowed to pass now, he thought an arrangement might be made afterwards.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, that when the House was adjourned last night he was about to state that the Government of India were taking steps for the purpose of rendering the condition of the Ameers of Scinde as agreeable under their fallen state as it was possible to be. As long ago as the 27th February, 1851, the Governor General of India, the Marquess of Dalhousie, in a Minute reviewing the conduct of Ali Moorad, and speaking of the cession of territory made by that individual in consequence of the forgeries proved against him, noticed, in the concluding portion of that Minute, the fact that this cession would place a considerable revenue at the disposal of the Government of India; and he then observed that, without enter-
 1274 1275
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he wished to make a short explanation in reference to an observation which had fallen from him on the
 1277
 MR. HERRIES  said, he did not think it necessary that he should then enter at any length into that case. The Government had not the slightest objection to the production of all the papers which could throw any light upon the subject. But he would submit that it was not desirable that the Report of Sir George Clerk, the late Governor of Bombay, on the state of Scinde, should be laid before the House. That Report was a very voluminous one, and contained references to other Reports, without which it could not be thoroughly understood. He did not think that its production was at all necessary for the purpose which the noble Lord (Viscount Jocelyn) had in view, and he, therefore, believed it would be better not to press, at least for the present, that portion of the Motion which related to that Report. At the same time he should add, that as far as the Government were concerned, they had no objection to furnish the fullest possible information with respect to all those
 1276
 MR. HUME  said, that the suspicions which he had expressed in 1842 and 1843 had since been proved by events to be well founded, and showed that the Government had been the dupe of an artful and clever man. He did not mean to cast blame anywhere, but he thought this was a case in which the House ought to call for the fullest information, in order to show how the Government had been deceived. Never had men been so cruelly wronged as were the Ameers of Scinde. He did not say that they were morally pure, but he contended that they had been politically faithful. If they had turned against us when we were engaged in hostilities with Affghanistan, the consequences might have been fatal to our Empire in the East. He was glad to find that a settlement of their claims was now about to be made. It was never too late to do justice. He did not wish to prolong this discussion, because the Government professed a desire to treat the Ameers with proper consideration, and he hoped they would repair, as far as possible, the injuries inflicted by the Indian Government. He hoped, however, that some provision would be made for giving greater publicity to Indian documents than had hitherto been allowed. The garbling of public documents was a serious evil. He had been furnished by Sir Alexander Burnes with a complete copy of all his despatches to the Indian Government, and he had no hesitation in saying that if those despatches had been read at length at home, the Affghan war Would not have taken place. From what had fallen from the Government, however, he had great confidence that what was about to be done would reflect credit upon the humanity of the Government, as well as do justice to individuals. He would only say, on the part of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Viscount Jocelyn) that, knowing the opinions which he had entertained upon this subject for many years, he was quite sure that nothing but the discharge of a most important duty could have kept him away from the House upon this occasion.
 MR. HUME  said, he considered, as a
 1273
 MR. HUME  said, he must confess that he did not quite understand the distinction drawn by the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Works. He (Mr. Hume) objected to any charges being imposed upon the community at large for the mere benefit of the metropolis. He admitted that the Metropolitan Burials Bill would effect a great improvement in the metropolis, and he entirely approved of it; but if the House allowed compensation for improvements of this nature, the next step would bring them to compensation for roads, bridges, &c. He should object, therefore, to the proposal of Mr. Speaker's leaving the Chair, unless he heard some principle laid down which would operate as a cheek to the abuses which would otherwise arise.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that, in justice to the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Molesworth), he ought to state that the arrangement assented to by the Government was conditional upon the proviso being given up. As that had not been done, the Government thought they ought not to consent to the compensation clause.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that he had received a communication from his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer since this debate had commenced, and his right hon. Friend was of opinion that the Government ought to oppose this clause.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that he had made himself master of the case at the suggestion of the hon. Baronet, who now considered the repression of a public nuisance to be confiscation.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he considered that the Compensation Clause would throw too much responsibility upon the
 1271
 MR. MACKINNON  said, he had had the honour to be the Chairman of the Committee which sat some years ago to inquire into the subject of Metropolitan Burials, and he must say that he saw no reason why the proprietors of graveyards should receive any compensation from the public. It was proved in evidence before that Committee that one Company had received, through burial fees, as much as 80,000 l
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, that the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) had thought fit to call the attention of the House to the burial ground in Church Street, Bethnal Green, in which he (Sir J. Tyrell) had an interest. It was true that the graveyard in question might be a nuisance; but the National Gallery was built on the site of an ancient graveyard, and the quadrangle of Somerset House comprised an old burial ground. He received a ground-rent for the property to which the hon. Member for Finsbury had adverted, and he did not see why he should be prevented from turning it to the best advantage he could. Why should the House confiscate his property? It was a misfortune, no doubt, to have property of that description; but he had no more control over it than the Archbishop of Canterbury or the Bishop of London had over the property which belonged to them in the neighbourhood of that House, though the revenues accruing from that property arose from immoral sources.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he considered that when private property was destroyed for the public benefit, the public ought to pay for it. He meant to propose the insertion of words to empower the Secretary of State to order compensation for the closing of burial grounds in which burials might lawfully be made.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, it was his intention of dividing the House upon the question.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he would take the liberty of saying that he had proposed the compensation clause upon a clear and distinct understanding with the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) that the consent of the Crown would be given. More than that, he had applied yesterday to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, and having obtained his consent, he had thought it his duty to persevere with it.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, that if the House assented to this Motion, which was to go into Committee on the Compen-
 1270
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS , in the absence of his right hon. Colleague (Mr. Tufnell), who had given notice of a Motion for—
 "A Select Committee to inquire into the expediency of distributing gratis, under certain regulations, a selection from the Reports and Returns printed by Order of the House of Commons, amongst the Literary and Scientific Institutions and Mechanics' Institutes throughout the United Kingdom,"—
 The MASTER OF THE ROLLS  said, that he wished to refer to some observations which had been made last night by a noble and learned Lord in another place, and which appeared to bear personally upon himself. He was sure that nothing could have been further from the intention of that noble and learned Lord than to make a personal imputation, or to state anything which he did not think could be fully and completely borne out by the facts of the case. He was sorry that the noble and learned Lord should have made statements which were so completely, although, of course, unintentionally, erroneous. The noble arid learned Lord's statement was made in relation to the Suitors in Chancery Relief Bill. The noble and learned Lord was reported, amongst other things, to have said that this Bill restricted the issue of injunctions to the Master of the Rolls. He (the Master of the Rolls) presumed that this remark must be a misreport, because it had no reference to anything in the Bill. The noble and learned Lord was then reported to have said, "Who received the fees? The Secretary of the Master of the Rolls!" Now the fact was that by this Bill it was provided that no fees were to be received in future by the Secretary or any other officer of the Master of the Rolls. The noble and learned Lord was then stated to have said—"At whose suggestion was it passed through the other House? At that of the Master of the Rolls!" He begged the attention of the House to the fact that he (the Master of the Rolls) was no party to the introduction of the Bill. He was not a party to the framing it, and he did not introduce
 1320 l l 1321 l l "It shall be lawful for the Master of the Rolls to appoint a clerk or clerks to be employed in the office of the Secretary at the Rolls, which clerk or clerks shall receive by way of salary such annual sum or sums as the Master of the Rolls shall from time to time fix and determine; provided always, that such annual sum or sums shall not in any one year exceed the sum of 300 l l l l 1322
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had that day stated, in answer to a question from the hon. and learned Member for the City of Oxford (Sir W. P. Wood) that the Treasury Minute of 1840 had not been rescinded, but that if it were rescinded it would be so done as not to interfere with the fair traders of the country. Now these words, however, plausible, and smooth, and soothing they might appear, he was afraid would carry dismay to the hearts of hundreds, he might say thousands, of honest traders in this country. He would not attempt to discuss the question now, but he could only say that the trade looked upon any alteration with the greatest possible alarm. He had before him a memorial from the trade to the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject. [The noble Lord then read extracts from the Memorial, deprecating any alteration.] Under these circumstances he appealed to the Government, whether, considering that this question received a very full investigation and underwent repeated discussions in that House, which divided upon it twice, and in both cases rejected the Motion of the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) for the rescinding of the Minute—he asked if it was right to make such an alteration as this, without giving an opportunity to those concerned in the trade of stating their case fairly, and having it discussed in that House; and whether it would not evince a greater regard for the interests of all concerned if the question was put off till the beginning of the text Session?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he was of a similar opinion. It would be far better if the closed graveyards were planted with trees than with houses.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would appeal to the recollection of every Member of the Committee whether such assent had been given to the insertion of the hon. Baronet's Amendment. On the part of the Government, he (Lord J. Manners) told the Committee that the Government could
 1300
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said: Mr. Speaker, I take this opportunity of stating the general course I mean to pursue with regard to these Amendments. The Bill, in my opinion, has not been at all amended or improved in its progress through the House of Lords. On the contrary, I think that the alterations which have been made in it tend, to a certain degree, to diminish the efficiency of the Bill. They will, in my opinion, throw obstacles in the way of inquiry into corrupt practices at elections. Now, with regard to the first of these Amendments, it is proposed by this Amendment that, instead of an address proceeding from this House alone for a Commission of Inquiry, it shall be necessary for a joint address of both Houses of Parliament to be presented to the Crown, as a preliminary to the issue of a Commission. It certainly appeared to me that, as the whole of the Bill was directed to the promotion of inquiry into corruption at elections, it would be sufficient for the House of Commons, after an inquiry by a Select Committee, to proceed by Address to ask the Crown to appoint Commissioners to inquire into an alleged case of corruption at an election. But, according to this Amendment, it will be necessary that the House of Lords should, in the first place, consider our evidence, and say whether there is a case for any further inquiry. Thus there are to be two inquiries before you reach the real and effectual inquiry. That is to say, you must go before two grand juries before you can proceed to try
 1302 1303
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that
 1310
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he should certainly regret if the closed burial grounds were to be let out for building purposes. In a sanitary point of view, it would be unfortunate if these spaces were blocked up with buildings.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he felt bound to support the Proviso, and to guard against the possibility of so irreverent a proceeding as a desecration of those burial grounds.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he would certainly bow to the decision of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, and agree to the Amendments which the Lords had made in the Bill; but he must say that the Bill, while it would still be efficient to a certain extent for the purpose of putting down corrupt practices at elections, had yet been most materially mutilated by these alterations. Her Majesty's Government, while the Bill was in the House of Commons, gave, as the House understood, their cordial assent to the passing of the Bill. No such alterations were then proposed: if they had been, there would have been an opportunity of discussing without endangering the passing of the Bill. This Bill had been the means of furnishing another instance of what he might term the duality of organs of Her Majesty's Government; one thing was said by the Government in the Commons, whilst the very opposite was said by the Government in the Lords. In the Commons the Bill was allowed by the Government to pass without much comment; but when it reached the Lords, the Government were parties to a most important alteration in it. Hon. Members might not be aware of the full effect of the alteration made: it was
 1304 1305
 MR. OSWALD  said, he could not help deeply regretting the course which the noble Lord the Member for the City of London had pursued in reference to this Bill. As a Member of the House of Commons, he could never consent to extend to the House of Lords the right of interference which was claimed by the first Amendment, because he thought that by so doing he should be surrendering a privilege which ought to be defended with the most jealous
 1312
 MR. OSWALD  said, he would not, after the observations that had been made, divide on his Amendment.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he begged to inquire of the right hon. Secretary of State for the Colonies, if recent information from the Cape of Good Hope represented General Cathcart's policy to be that of driving the Gaikas over the Kei upon
 1299
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the Motion before the House being that the Amendments be agreed to, it was only competent for the hon. Member to record his vote for or against that Motion.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Southampton (Sir A. Cockburn) was wrong in supposing that the Bill had passed through the Commons without opposition, for it would be in the remembrance of the House that he (Colonel Sibthorp) gave it from first to last an uncompromising resistance, believing it, as he still believed it to be, a most unchristian measure, and one which involved a moan and dastardly attack on the constitutional rights and privileges of the people of this country. The Bill was founded on a low, mean, cowardly, unmanly principle, and it was his happiness to reflect that he had opposed it at every stage, notwithstanding that he had never in his life been guilty of corrupt practices. He attributed some blame to the Government for permitting such a Bill to pass, and he was sure that the day would yet arrive when they would acknowledge it to be what he now denounced it to be, namely, an unchristian and unconstitutional measure, disgraceful to the Legislature, and wholly unworthy the spirit of the age.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Treasury Minute of August 1840, has not been rescinded; and if it be altered, it will be altered in a way that will not disturb or injure the fair trader.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not agree to the principle that a Treasury Minute depended on the Votes of that House. If that were the case, the whole business of Parliament might be stopped. A Treasury Minute was made under the sanction of an Act of
 1325
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he much regretted that it was not in his power to enter into the details to which the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls had referred, and that there was no lawyer at present on the Treasury bench. The right hon. Secretary of State of the Home Department was away on urgent business, hut he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could not allow what had been said to pass without some remark. In answer to the allegations of error made against the noble and learned Lord by the right hon. and learned Gentleman, all that he could say was, that he was perfectly ignorant of the circumstances, although he need not have been, had the Master of the Rolls given notice of his intention to allude to the subject. [The MASTER of the ROLLS: My attention was only called to the report an hour ago.] This, however, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would say for his noble and learned Friend, that he was in his opinion, as distinguished for accuracy as for sagacity and learning, and he would therefore take the charitable view that the observations of his noble and learned Friend had not been diffused with that accuracy with which they might have been. He could not without some notice allow the name of his noble and learned Friend to be mentioned in a tone of reproof in that House, of which he was once so great an ornament; and he could not forget that this year, oppressed as the noble and learned Lord had been with physical infirmities, the brightness and energy of his mind still remained, and had been exercised with great advantage to the public, and (as he must acknowledge) with great assistance to the Government, in passing the measures of Law Reform which they had introduced.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the recess, he feared, would be very much occupied; but the Government would endeavour to consider the Ocean Penny Postage project, as well as the discontent of Tasmania relative to transportation.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the suggestion made by the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls was one well deserving the attention of the House, but to carry it into effect required much more consideration than had yet been given to the subject. He did not think, with regard to the distribution of the Parliamentary Papers, that it was sufficiently well known how easily the publications of that House could be obtained, and it might be advisable at once to circulate that information, giving some idea what was the nature and cost of those publications. Every Member of that House would know that they formed a very important branch of national statistics. The variety and extent of the subjects embraced in the pages of those publications could not be exaggerated, and he was convinced if they were more known they would redound both to the honour of the House and to the advantage of the people.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in the absence of his right hon. Friend the Colonial Secretary, said, he believed that the Resolutions in question had been received by the Government, and that he had no doubt they would meet with the attention they deserved.
 MR. HUDSON  said, he had objected to the Bill originally, and was glad to find it had been rendered so much more constitutional by the Amendments introduced by the Lords. They heard much of the privileges of that House; but they ought to bear in mind that the people also had rights and privileges, and that they ought not to be lightly violated. Either the House of Lords must be an active efficient branch of the Legislature, or it must be done away with altogether. He hoped they were not yet arrived at that point. The moment the Government opposed the views of the Radical party in that House, they were denounced as favouring the oligarchical body, and attempting to put down the opinions of the people. He (Mr. Hudson) had been sent there as a representative of the people, and he denied that he was influenced by any such motives. He believed the Bill was a mischievous one, and he should be glad to see it rejected altogether; but he was satisfied to receive it with the great improvements made in it by the House of Lords.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he would have been glad if the House would agree with the suggestion that had been thrown out by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Buncombe); but as that was not likely to be attended with any satisfactory result, he would leave the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) to carry out the measure according to his own views. He did not think they ought entirely to reject a Bill containing so many improvements on account of the Amendments that had been made in the other House. It appeared to him that "treating" was worse than bribery—that was the very worst of the Amendments introduced by the Lords. Many hon. Members in that House would hesitate to give money to a voter, who would not hesitate to throw open public-houses and give them as much as they could drink. Many electors also who would shrink from taking a sovereign, would partake of this eating and drinking. On these grounds he regretted that the question of treating had been treated with so much levity; he would content himself with entering his protest against the Amendment.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he wished to bear testimony to the zeal of the hon. Member, their Chairman, and to the good attendance of the other Members.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that in the absence of his right hon. Colleague (Mr. M. Gibson) he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question relative to the subject of a reduction in the rate of postage between this and foreign countries. The project to which he alluded was generally known by the name of the Ocean Penny Postage, but which was not to interfere with the charge for internal postage which any other countries might choose to adopt. The emigration now going on from this and other countries rendered this subject more important than it had been before; and with regard to Ireland, he thought that more than one-third of all the letters that crossed the Atlantic between Great Britain and America were connected with Ireland—a very remarkable circumstance; and when a large proportion of our population was settling in other countries, it was desirable that the greatest possible communication should be allowed, looking to the effect of such friendly intercourse in strengthening the guarantees for international peace. His right hon. Colleague, therefore, wished him to give notice in his behalf, that if he should be, as there was some hope that he would be, in that House in another Session, he should bring this question before the House, either by direct Motion, or by moving for a Committee of Inquiry. And he would only ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite, if he had any time during the recess to bestow on such a subject, whether he would be good enough to turn his attention to it, as many petitions had been presented in favour of the
 1319
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought that the observations which had been made during the dicussion that evening must show clearly that it was the opinion of one side of the House at least, that this Bill was very unsatisfactory in its present shape; and that the noble Lord the Member for the City of London had taken a course which, if not very inconsistent, was at all events exceedingly feeble in regard to his own measure. The noble Lord's first proposition had been that, instead of requiring an Act of Parliament for the purpose of instituting an inquiry into the corruption existing in any borough, it should be sufficient for any Member of that House to move for such an inquiry. But the noble Lord, having left office, assented very complacently to an important alteration proposed
 1313
 MR. STANFORD  said, he was of opinion that the Bill, even as originally worded, was weak and inefficient; but it had been so seriously disimproved by the Amendments of the Lords, that he now regarded it as nothing better than so much waste paper; and he was confident that it was regarded in that light by all other Members.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, that the Committee were of opinion that the Standing Order passed in the year 1713, which rendered it necessary for any hon. Member bringing forward a Motion on the subject of religion to move it in a Committee of the whole House, should be dispensed with as no longer necessary, and as sometimes leading to considerable inconvenience. The Committee also proposed some other minor alterations in the Standing Orders. With regard to the private business, he begged to observe that the House and the public were under great obligations to many hon. Members, whose names were not very frequently mentioned, for their sedulous and valuable attendance on Committees. As an instance, he might mention that the Committee for investigating the subject of the Water Supply of the Metropolis had sat for no less than forty-nine days.
 MR.BROTHERTON  said, he concurred in the observation made by the right hon. Baronet. Almost every Member who had spoken had risen to cast a stone at the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell); but he did not believe that any one, not even his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), would have the courage to vote against the Bill. He himself objected most strongly to the Amendments introduced by the House of Lords; but he, nevertheless, believed there was yet great benefit in the measure. He had been too long a Member of that House not to know that it was better to accept measures by instalments from the House of Lords. If they went for everything at once, they would not have the remotest chance of attaining what they desired. He thought that several hon. Members of the House had dealt somewhat unfairly with the noble Lord, more especially as none would have the courage, he believed, of voting against the Bill as at present constituted.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he cordially supported the request of the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls, and con-
 1317
 MR. BROTHERTON  moved that the House do agree to the Amendments made by the Lords in this Bill.
 MR. BROTHERTON  thought that it would be better to let the Bill stand as it had come down to them from the Lords.
 MR. HENLEY  suggested, whether "Primus of the Episcopal Church in Scot-
 1296
 MR. HENLEY  said, that, appealed to as he had been, he could not do other than say a few words. It was his privilege and honour to have served upon the Chancery
 1324
 MR. HUME  said, he had that day received from Tasmania a Copy of Resolutions passed by the Legislature of Van Diemen's Land, which he thought of very great importance, looking to the contentment and satisfaction of the colony. The Resolutions stated that the colonists had from 1844 to 1851 been constantly petitioning the Government to discontinue the transportation of convicts, and that the population comprised 70,000 persons, and 20,000 of them were convicts, the expense of maintaining whom was taken from funds that ought to be devoted to improvements
 1318
 MR. HUME  said, he believed there were many parties who liked Chicory mixed with their coffee; but the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer was perfectly correct in saying that a Treasury Minute depended upon the discretion of the Lords of the Treasury, provided they kept within the existing law; and it was in their power to make or rescind any such Minute. But there was a Treasury Minute existing for eleven years, founded upon this principle—that whereas previously to the issuing of that Minute it was impossible for an honest dealer, when the prohibition of mixing Chicory and Coffee was enforced—it was impossible for the honest dealer to carry on his trade honestly and fairly. They were met at every step by those who mixed Chicory with their Coffee; and the Treasury, from 1832 to 1840, was overwhelmed with applications and representations from the most respectable classes of grocers in the country on the subject. [The hon. Gentleman read part of a memorial to the Government from certain dealers in Liverpool respecting an Excise prosecution for breach of the Treasury Minute.] He considered that the Government should sanction no interference with
 1326
 MR. HUME  said, he had been instrumental in carrying a Resolution for the sale of Parliamentary Papers at 1 d.
 MR. HUME  thought that nothing was more important to the regular proceedings of the House than the simplification of these Orders. He considered that the hon.
 1316
 MR. HUME  said, he regretted to find the House so lukewarm upon this subject, He was sorry also the noble Lord did not decide upon rejecting the Amendment. The bulk of the Members of that House were merely the nominees of the House of Lords; but, as the representatives of the people, they were bound, he thought, to originate all improvements in the constitution of that House with themselves. It would, in his opinion, be better if the noble Lord had rejected the Bill altogether; for be, for one, had anticipated a greater degree of improvement and amelioration at the hands of the noble Lord. He complained of hon. Members in that House denouncing democratic principles. It was only by their diffusion that the progress of the people of this country could be secured.
 MR. JACOB BELL  said, he thought too much importance had been attributed to the Amendments made in the House of Lords. The only cases in which the Bill would come into operation would be the cases of inexperienced parties, who knew
 1311 l l
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he cordially agreed in the praise bestowed on the hon. Member. He, however, was of opinion the Standing Order with respect to a Committee of the House on religious questions should not be altered at present, but should be carefully considered at some future period.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was rather surprised at the concluding observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman, as well as at the commencement of his speech. The hon. and learned Gentleman attacked the Government for making alterations in a Bill which did not originate with them. It was not dealt with as a Government Bill either in that or in the other House of Parliament. The Government supported the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell) in carrying the Bill through that House, except in reference to one Amendment, which was substantially the same as that which had been since adopted by the House of Lords. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that the Government supported the Bill in one House of Parliament, and assisted in mutilating it in the other House. Was it the hon. and learned Gentleman's doctrine of the Constitution, that an independent Member of the other House of Parliament had not the power of proposing an Amendment which he thought just, and that the Government had not the power of agreeing to it if they thought it reasonable? Yet that was exactly what had taken place in the House of Lords. The Amendment as to the joint Address was proposed by a noble Lord who was not a Member of the Government, and it was only adopted by the Government, not originated by them. The constitutional doctrines laid down by
 1306 1307
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was very much obliged to the hon. Member for having put the question. The answer to it was a very simple one, namely, that the privilege had
 1298
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  begged to ask the right hon. Secretary for the Homo Department, why the privilege of riding down Constitution-hill to the Birdcage-walk was withdrawn from the public?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that he had understood from the usual sources of information that the Prime Minister had moved these Amendments in another place. Perhaps, as the House were under a false impression, the right hon. Gentleman would inform him who the independent Peer was who had moved them. [Mr. WALPOLE: The Amendments were proposed by Lord Redesdale.] But when the Prime Minister first acceded to office he had stated that he warmly approved of this Bill; and at that time it contained no such Amendment as that now introduced. He agreed with his hon. and learned Friend the late Attorney General, who had asked why this Amendment had not been introduced in that House, and fully discussed there. He (Mr. Duncombe) was afraid that it had been introduced for the purpose of defeating and delaying the Bill; and he certainly
 1308 1309
 MR. GLADSTONE  assented to this view of the case.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he had another Amendment to propose. He did not know what artist in the House of Lords had tried his hand upon this Bill, but he certainly could not compliment him upon his skill. The title of Bishop "of" Aberdeen had been altered to Bishop "in" Aberdeen, and to that he did not object; but he did object to have Dr. Skinner described as an "episcopal" bishop. He hoped there would be no division upon this question. He thought the title of the Bishop should run thus, "the Right Reverend William Skinner, Bishop in Aberdeen, and Primus of the Scottish Episcopal Church."
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he objected to this Amendment. In describing the Bishop of Aberdeen, Dr. Skinner, the Lords had struck out the word "right" before the word "reverend," as it stood originally in the Bill, so that the Bishop was called simply "the Reverend W. Skinner." He moved to restore the words which the Lords had struck out, because he believed that "right reverend" was the proper and legal designation of a Bishop everywhere.
 Sir WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, he was desirous of putting a question to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in consequence of very considerable apprehension that had been induced in the minds of a number of persons engaged in the manufacture of Chicory, by a statement made recently by a noble Lord (the Earl of Derby) in another place. The question he had to put on behalf of those persons, who had invested considerable property in the cultivation and manufacture of Chicory on the faith of the Treasury Minute of August, 1840, was, whether it was intended by Her Majesty's Government to make any and what alteration in the Treasury Minute, and whether such alteration would take immediate effect?
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he thought it would be better not to adopt the Proviso. The owners of these burial grounds were not at present prevented from building over them by any positive law, but they were prevented from committing such an act of desecration by a feeling among the public, which might be considered higher than the law. In his opinion they would do well to allow public feeling to continue to deal with the matter. The compensation in question could not be paid out of the public taxes, and he believed that great opposition would be offered to any attempt to take the money out of the poor-rates.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he could not concur in the censure which had been cast on the noble Lord the Member for the City of London for his conduct in respect to the Amendments, though, for his own part, he must say that he thought they so defaced the Bill that it was difficult to recognise it. He sincerely believed the present measure to be a step in favour of corruption rather than against it.
 Sir JAMES GRAHAM  said, he would not have taken any part in this discussion, if the hon. Member for Ayrshire (Mr. Oswald) had not announced his intention of dividing the House; and in reply to an observation which had fallen from the hon. Member, he (Sir J. Graham) felt bound to say that he thought, though others might have said more, no one had done more in checking corrupt practices at elections or had been more successful in preventing those evils by legislative means, than his noble Friend the Member for the City of London (Lord John Russell). There was this peculiarity about the present Bill that it had been introduced when his noble Friend was in power; but his exertions in checking corrupt practices bad not been limited to the period when he sat on the benches opposite, for he had always exhibited a steady perseverance in his purpose, on whatever side of the House he
 1314 1315
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he wished to say in allusion to the remarks made by the right hon. and learned Master of the Rolls, that he thought it very inexpedient to refer to discussions in the other House
 1323
 SIR. J. PAKINGTON : Mr. Speaker, I was not aware till I entered the House to-day of the exact shape in which my hon. Friend proposed to put this question to me. But, now that I have heard him explain the nature of the general notice which he put upon the paper, I will, if the House will permit me, with the view of showing them in what position this question at this moment stands, shortly advert to the despatches to which my hon. Friend refers. The first despatch is a circular despatch issued by Lord Grey on the 20th of November, 1847, in which these words occur:—
 1327 "As Parliament has, by a recent Act (namely, the Charitable Bequests Act), formally recognised the Irish Roman Catholic Prelates by giving them precedence immediately after the Prelates of the Established Church in the same degree, that is to say, as Roman Catholic archbishop and bishops will, by that Act, take rank immediately after Protestant archbishop and bishops respectively, it appears to Her Majesty's Government fitting that the intentions of that Act, so far as the recognition of Roman Catholic dignitaries is concerned, should be extended to the Colonies, and I have accordingly to instruct you officially to recognise Roman Catholic archbishops and bishops in the Colonies, by addressing them respectively as 'your Grace' and 'your Lordship,' as the case may be." 1328
 SIR J. PAKINGTON : I think, Sir, that after the answer I have already given, my hon. Friend can hardly expect me to give any further answer.
 Sir JOHN PAKINGTON  begged to state, in reply to the question of his hon. Friend, that the last despatches received from General Cathcart—the first which had been received since the arrival of the general at the seat of war—did announce to Her Majesty's Government that the general had made public in the Colony his intention to drive the Gaika tribes across the Kei, and to occupy their territory. Her Majesty's Government regarded this as one of those steps which were considered necessary by General Cathcart, with the view to bring the war to a successful and early termination, and did not consider it would in any way compromise the policy of Her Majesty's Government with regard to the frontiers of the Cape Colony. In reference to the latter part of the question put by his hon. Friend—whether he (Sir J. Paking-ton) could hold out any hopes or remote prospect of a termination of the war, he could say that the despatches received from General Cathcart did hold out hopes to the Government that the termination of the war was not very distant.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was not aware till he entered the House that day of the exact nature of the question which his hon. Friend intended to put to him. In the present state of the question, the House would, perhaps, permit him shortly to refer to the despatch to which his hon. Friend had alluded. In the first despatch, that of 20th November, 1847, Earl Grey stated that as Parliament had by a recent act of legislation—the Charitable Bequests Act—formally recognised the rank of the Irish Roman Catholic archbishops and bishops, by giving them precedence after Protestant archbishops and bishops of the Established Church, it had appeared to the Government to be their duty to conform to that rule, and that he had accordingly to instruct the Governor that he should thereafter officially address Roman Catholic prelates by the title of your grace, or your lordship, as the case might be. He thought the House would see that the premises in this passage of the despatch did not exactly lead to the conclusion. In consequence of that despatch the Bishop of Sydney wrote to the Governor, wishing to know whether it was the intention of the Government that the Most Rev. Archbishop Holding should take precedence of a bishop of the Church
 1297
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  thought that after the answer he had already given, his hon. Friend could hardly expect him to state anything further.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, if he had a seat in the next Parliament, he should certainly bring the subject before the House.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  trusted that his hon. Friend would be able to state that he did not intend to recognise, in any answer he might send out, such a construction of the despatch of Earl Grey as he had now given.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  wished to ask the Secretary for the Colonies a question of which he had given a general notice. He wished to know whether any reply had been sent to the despatch of the Governor of New South Wales, forwarding the remonstrance of the Bishop of Sydney with regard to the rank and precedence which Earl Grey, by his despatch of January, 1849, had instructed the Governor to give to archbishops and bishops appointed by the Pope of Rome over and before bishops lawfully nominated by Her Majesty?
 SIR R. H. INGLIS : I shall certainly bring the subject before the House again if I have a seat in the next Parliament.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS : I wish to add a very few words in the shape of another question. I trust that my right hon. Friend will be able to state to me and to this House that he does not intend to recognise in such answer such a construction as had been given to Earl Grey's circular. ["Order!"] I am very sorry to trouble the House, but I have put this question more than once, and I hope that my right hon. Friend will tell me that, in the despatch which he intends to send to the Governor of New South Wales, he will not recognise the instructions given by Lord Grey.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  asked, pursuant to notice, the Secretary of State for the Colonial Department whether any reply had been or would be sent to the despatch of the Governor of New South Wales, forwarding the Lord Bishop of Sydney's remonstrance, dated 22nd of May, 1850, against the rank and precedence which, as it appeared from the despatch of Earl Grey of the 9th of January, 1849, explanatory of his circular despatch of the 20th of November, 1847, the Queen's representatives were still constructively enjoined to concede to any titular archbishop or bishop appointed by the Pope of Rome in any British Colony, before the Lords Bishops lawfully nominated by Her Majesty to suffragan sees duly constituted by the Crown therein.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he could corroborate the statement of the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners). Of course, if the noble Viscount (Viscount Ebrington) should persevere with his (Sir W. Clay's) Proviso, he should feel it his duty to support him; but he confessed he felt considerable difficulty with respect to it. He thought it would be a most extraordinary violation of public decency, if private burial grounds were to be let for building purposes.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, that although he had himself suggested the adoption of the Proviso, he could not help thinking that there would be no use in pressing it to a division.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he had proposed to compensate owners out of the Consolidated Fund, because he knew of no other fund out of which compensation could be taken. He did not think that parishes would agree to give compensation
 1301
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he thought the charge of the compensation might be spread over the whole of the metropolitan parishes.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he should move the Proviso, as an addition to Clause 2.
 VISCOUNT EBRINGTON  said, he wished to inquire whether the Proviso proposed by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay) to prevent the erection of shops and dwelling-houses upon private burying grounds that might be closed under this Bill, was to be inserted. He asked that question, because he was informed by a gentleman who was the proprietor of a private burying ground, that he intended to lease that land for building purposes, although used as a place of interment for a great number of years. He (Viscount Ebrington) understood that the Government had assented to the insertion of the Proviso. He would feel it his duty to press the Proviso, if not assented to by the Government.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he should support the proposal of the hon. Member for Gateshead (Mr. Hutt) and beg to second the Amendment. The Bill contained a
 1361
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he must say that this was not a common case, for there was the decision of a Court of Justice that the expenses of the Bill ought not be paid out of certain funds; but a Committee of that House had practically upset
 1362
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, the trustees had brought in a Bill contrary to the wishes of the bondholders, in order to set aside the former plan. The trustees had violated an engagement into which they had solemnly entered. Such a breach of honour ought not to be sanctioned by the House.
 MR. KINNAIRD  seconded the Resolution. He thought the statements of the Austrian Government by no means satisfactory, and that these missionaries had reason to complain that their expulsion was both sudden and arbitrary. After a residence of ten years they were suddenly ordered to leave the country. They had to part with their property at a great sacrifice. It was a case in which they had a right to look for the interference of Government, who, he hoped, would insist on compensation, as a protection to British subjects in future.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, that having presented to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer a memorial from grocers and dealers in Coffee, he felt it his duty to enter his protest against the Minute of the Treasury on the subject of Chicory being rescinded in the face of two majorities of that House. The question was an important one, materially affecting the great body of Coffee-dealers in this country, and he therefore hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not, at that late period of the Session, when there was no opportunity of obtaining a decision of the House on the subject, persist in rescinding the Minute of the Treasury.
 COLONEL THOMPSON  said, that hearing the sound of Chicory, he begged to say that he had a memorial in his pocket which he was to present to the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, from 100 grocers of Bradford against the rescinding of the Minute. He had not believed there were so many grocers in the town, and he thought the number collected must be decided proof of unanimity.
 CAPTAIN BOLDERO  said, he was in favour of the Bill. It had received in all its main provisions the unanimous approval of the Select Committee to which it had been referred. He had himself been a Member of that Committee, and he could undertake to say, that he and the Gentlemen who had served with him had bestowed upon the subject the most careful inquiry. The injunction to which the hon. Member who had last addressed the House had referred, was an injunction of the ordinary kind, and had been obtained without an inquiry into the merits of the case. He had further to state, that the injunction had been obtained, not with respect to that part of the Bill which had been retained, but with respect to that part of it which had been struck out.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he held in his hand a petition, the presentation of which he had given notice of. It was the petition of a single individual, a foreigner, who had been known to him (Lord D. Stuart) for upwards of twenty years, as a person of undoubted respectability, Leopold de Rose, a Polish refugee. He stated in his petition that he served as an officer in the horse artillery, under General Bem, in 1830 and 1831, in the war carried on by Poland against Russia. He subsequently came to this country, with many of his countrymen as refugees, arid was granted, with others, a pension of 26 l 1364
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer the question of which he had given notice, namely, whether the Government has taken, or intends to take, any measures to obtain detailed information as to the proceedings on the trial of Mr. Murray at Rome, and whether there Will be any objection to lay on the table of the House the correspondence which has taken place with reference to this case. He Wished those documents to be laid on the table, so that the House and the public might be enabled to form an opinion as to the guilt or innocence of Mr. Murray.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he was also exceedingly glad that this discussion had taken place; but they ought in justice to the hon. and learned Member for Youghal, to remember that it was to the perseverance of that hon. and learned Member that they were indebted for the discussion. The country would never have been satisfied upon this subject had this discussion not taken place; for the people of England could not understand why people should be driven from their established homes for simply preaching the Gospel. When Hungary was up in arms, these missionaries abstained from performing Divine worship altogether, rested from their labour, while, upon all occasions, whether in time of peace or war, they had been scrupulously careful to observe the laws of Austria under which they were living. He concurred with all that had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton,
 1389
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I regret, Sir, that the hon. Baronet, as he has undertaken to bring forward the question, has not also framed the Motion according to his own views, for, had he done so, I am inclined to think the Motion would be different from that presented to us by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal. The House is called upon, as the Motion now stands, to pronounce a very strange expression upon circumstances which the statements made to the House this morning do not by any means justify. I ought, perhaps, to place before the House the state in which this case was when we acceded to office, for on that part of the question great misapprehension seems to have existed, and I think I cannot do better, in order to clear up this portion of the case, than to ask the House to turn to No. 7 of the despatches laid before it by order of Her Majesty, in which they will find, in a communication from Earl Granville, then Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, to the Earl of Westmoreland, the British Ambassador at Vienna, dated 17th February, 1852, the case thus put:—
 "A deputation from the Protestant Alliance, the Free Church of Scotland, and the Scottish Reformation Society, consisting of the noblemen and gentlemen whose names I inclose, waited upon me a few days since, for the purpose of submitting to me a statement as to the circumstances attending the expulsion of the Rev. Messrs. Win-gate and Smith from the Austrian dominions. It appears from this statement, that Messrs. Win-gate and Smith are missionaries from the Free Church of Scotland for the conversion of the Jews; that they established themselves in the year 1841 at Pesth, with the knowledge and approbation of His Imperial Highness the then Viceroy of Hungary; and that they continued ever since to reside there, except during a short period in the year 1848, when they retired for a season, in order to avoid any imputation of meddling in the political troubles which then agitated Hungary. It further appears that, during the whole of the time that they have resided in Hungary they have transgressed no law, and have conducted themselves with universally admitted propriety; that in the lifetime of the late Palatine they always enjoyed his protection, and that since his death
 1368 "I am directed by the Earl of Malmesbury to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 17th inst., inclosing a memorial from a public meeting
 1369 "Immediately on receiving the memorandum which the English Minister Plenipotentiary and Envoy Extraordinary, the Earl of Westmoreland, addressed on the 27th of February to the Imperial Ministry for Foreign Affairs, and in which his Excellency applied to the Imperial Government to grant a compensation to the Scotch mission-
 1370 "Count Buol did not contest the statement of Mr. Stuart, that Messrs. Wingate and Smith had proceeded to Pesth with the intention of carrying out the conversion of the Jews, which was not illegal, if to a confession legally recognised in Austria, but which the confession of these gentlemen was not, as well as to supply divine service to the British residents; but he stated that no exercise of the functions of a clergyman or of public teachers was admitted in Austria, except under regulations sanctioned by the competent official authority, which, in the case of these gentlemen, had not been granted; and although a deviation from the established regulations had for a considerable time been tolerated in this ease, no legal title could be established thereby, and the Austrian Government could not lose its right to put a stop to the proceedings whenever they thought it necessary to do so. Count Buol remarked upon the next statement in Mr. Stuart's letter, that the Austrian Empire had ministers of their own in the different persuasions of Christianity, who were examples of Christian holiness and love, and who were employed in the sacred duties of administering to the service of the Church, and of attending to the religious education of their fellow-countrymen, therefore no foreigner could have a legal right to undertake (without a special appointment to that effect) the duties which are confided to the national ministers and teachers, and consequently, that the conversion of the children of Catholic parents, or of the teachers in the school established by the missionaries, which was partly admitted in Mr. Stuart's letter, could have been sanctioned by no legal authority whatsoever. With respect to the statement in Mr. Stuart's letter, that the missionaries distributed Bibles and other books in Hebrew and other languages, but that they adapted
 1371 "Count Buol has communicated to me the further information as to the removal of Mr. Edward from Lemberg, which he had promised me in his note of the 25th of April, a copy of which was transmitted to your Lordships in my despatch of the 26th April. It appears by the statement of Count Buol, that the authorities of Lemberg had by a note signed by Major-Genernl Lilienborn, and addressed to Mr. Edward on the 23rd of December, 1851, a translation of which I enclose, annulled the order of the 17th of December, by which that gentleman was instructed to leave Lemberg by the end of that month, and had informed him that the authorities of the town had been directed to refer the whole of his case to the
 1372 "P. S.—Since writing the preceding part of this despatch, I have received from the Minister of the Interior, Baron Bach, the memorandum, a copy of which I inclose, by which your Lordship will perceive that the decision by the Ministers of the Interior and of Ecclesiastical Affairs upon the application of Mr. Edward, which had been transmitted from Lemberg to Vienna, was only come to on the 20–21st of February, when it was transmitted to the authorities at Lemberg, to be communicated to that gentleman; but it could not be communicated to him, as he had already left that capital and the Austrian States on the 30th of January, so that he appears to have proceeded on his journey to Breslau without waiting for the decision of the Government, and without any order whatever from the authorities to quit the country." 1373 1374 "I am directed by the Earl of Malmesbury to inform you that a reply has been received from the Austrian Government to the representations which Her Majesty's Minister at Vienna had been instructed to make on the subject of the expulsion of Mr. Edward from the Austrian dominions. It is stated in that reply, that Mr. Edward, on his arrival at Lemberg, declared that the object of his mission was solely and exclusively the conversion to Christianity of members of the Jewish faith. Authority was on this given to Mr. Edward to follow up that object, coupled with the condition that his lectures should be delivered only in his own house, and in the presence of Jews. It is further stated that Mr. Edward did not conform to this condition, that he preached before mixed assemblies of Jews and Christians; that he induced several members of the Roman Catholic Church to attend such lectures, and that he moreover did not confine himself to preaching in his own house, but addressed a Christian congregation in the manufacturing village of Vinniki, at some distance from Lemberg. As several complaints were made to the authorities of these proceedings, those authorities acted in perfect conformity with the laws of Austria in addressing to Mr. Edward, on the 17th December last, a notice to quit the country by the end of the month. Against this order Mr. Edward is stated to have protested, and Major-General Lilienborn, the Governor of Lemberg, in consideration of such remonstrance, addressed to Mr. Edward a letter, dated the 23rd of December, giving him permission to remain at Lemberg until his case should have been decided upon by the Minister of Public Worship at Vienna. Major-General Lilienborn, moreover, gave Mr. Edward permission to proceed to Vienna, for the purpose of pleading his cause. He, however, at the same time, ordered Mr. Edward, until the decision should be known, to abstain from holding his religious meetings. On the arrival of Mr. Edward at Vienna, he was informed that he must await at at Lemberg the decision to be given by the Austrian Government; and his passport, at his special request, was countersigned for his return. The Minister of Public Worship did not give his decision until the 20th of February, 1852, and on the 21st an order was sent to the authorities of Gallicia to inform Mr. Edward that his petition to remain could not be acceded to, but at the same time to allow Mr. Edward all necessary time to settle his affairs. On the arrival of this order at Lemberg, it could not be communicated to Mr. Edward, as that gentleman had already quitted the Austrian dominions of his own accord, on the 30th of January preceding. The Austrian Government professes itself entirely ignorant of the causes which induced Mr. Edward to take this step, or of any further order issued to him subsequent to the letter from General Lilienborn, of the 23rd of December, 1851. Should Mr. Edward, however, have received any such order, the Austrian Government would wish to be furnished with a copy of it, as it would be in direct contradiction to the notification made to Mr. Edward on the 23rd of December. I am now directed by the Earl of
 1375 l l l s. l 1376 "I have the honour of submitting to your Lordship the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Baron Bach, to the memorandum I addressed to Count Buol, on the 3rd of May, on the subject of the compensation claimed by Messrs. Wingate and Smith, for losses incurred by them on their removal from Pesth. By this document your Lordship will perceive that Baron Bach transmitted my memorandum to the authorities at Pesth, directing them to examine into the claim for compensation therein set forth, and to transmit to him the result of their investigations; and he has now embodied this result in his report to Count Buol, in which he expresses the opinion that, after the authentic statement of the case which has been made to him, there exists no reason to grant the compensation claimed by those gentlemen." "I have the honour of inclosing a translation of the note of Count Buol, by which he transmits to me the report made to him by the Minister of the Interior, Baron Bach, upon the result of the investigations which he had caused to be made upon the claims for compensation by Messrs. Wingate and Smith, which I had put forward in the various applications I had made on this subject, and more particularly in my memorandum of the 3rd of May. Count Buol states in this note the reasons assigned by Baron Bach for not agreeing to the claims of Messrs. Wingate and Smith for compensation, as he considers that no case has been made out in favour of it, either for losses on the sale of furniture, for the rent of the house, or for the expenses of the journey home. Count Buol, therefore, is unable to come to any other determination, and he submits to your Lordship all the information upon which this decision has been arrived at, but at the same time he states his readiness, in consideration of the applications made upon this subject, to contribute towards the personal travelling expenses of these gentlemen, if your Lordship should think fit to propose it to them." "A memorandum has been transmitted by the Earl of Westmoreland to the undersigned, Minister for Foreign Affairs, in which his Lordship again puts forward the claims of the missionaries Wingate and Smith, under the heads of losses sustained by them (in consequence of their sudden removal from Pesth) through the sale of their furni-niture, as well as by being obliged to give up the house rented by them, and also to a compensation
 1377 "I am directed by the Earl of Malmesbury to transmit to you the accompanying abstract of the evidence taken before the authorities at Pesth, as to the losses alleged to have been sustained by Messrs. Wingate and Smith, owing to the sale of their property on their expulsion from that city; and I am to request that you will communicate the same to those gentlemen, and that you will inform them that the Earl of Malmesbury wishes to know what they have to state against the truth of this evidence." 1378
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he received yesterday a memorial from all the eminent Coffee-dealers and grocers in London—from almost every great house in the trade—in favour of rescinding the Minute; but, as he had before mentioned, the Minute was not rescinded; and before the Government rescinded it they would have to consider the representations made to them by various classes, and particularly by the growers of Chicory in this country, whose claims to the consideration of the Government
 1392
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved that the House at its rising adjourn until One o'clock To-morrow.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Government has received no explanations relative to the case of Mr. Murray since the communications we last made to the House. Her Majesty's Government gave instructions to Sir Henry Bulwer to give his constant and careful attention to the case; and I feel sure the House will agree with me that the matter could not be left in better hands than in those of that eminent diplomatist. As regards the proceedings against Mr. Murray, I do not think it will be possible for us to lay on the table the evidence taken against Mr. Murray in those investigations. I know there is a great prejudice in this country against all judicial proceedings which are secret; but we must remember that, in a country where assassination is the national custom, there is a wide distinction between the reasons for publishing the evidence, and in a country like England. And, whether the evidence upon which conviction took place, Was or was not sufficient, there can be no doubt of the fact, that the main reason Why judicial inquiries are kept secret in Italy is, that those who it was known gave testimony in such proceedings often met a Violent death. At
 1365
 MR. STANFORD : Sir, I wish to say a few words in support of the Motion I am about to offer to the consideration of the House, lest it should be thought presumptuous in me to move for a return of this nature, when there are so many older and more experienced Members of this House, by whom such a duty could no doubt be more properly performed. I have not undertaken the task without first consulting a great number of Members, all of whom have agreed that such a return would be extremely useful; but there is a strong
 1390
 MR. J. TOLLEMACHE  said, he would vote for the third reading of the Bill, as he thought it would benefit the trade of the river Mersey.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  would support the third reading. He never saw an opposition to a Bill conducted in a more dilatory manner. He believed the Committee had done their duty, and had taken the greatest pains to arrive at a just conclusion.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that with regard to the merits of the question, he was not prepared to give the House any opinion either one way or the other. He had given the consent of the Crown in the matter in conformity with the usual practice on such occasions.
 MR. HUME  thought the Bill ought to be suffered to lie over until next Session.
 MR. HUME  said, the legal charges of the Sheriff were very small. It rested with hon. Members to see that they were not exaggerated. It certainly was desirable that some means should be adopted of checking these accounts. Members ought to be returned free of expense, coming forward as they did to fulfil a public duty. He had on a former occasion made a proposal to that effect; and until it was carried out, there would be no remedy for the existing charges. It would be the best course, at the ensuing election, for candidates to ascertain what were the legal expenses, and refuse to pay anything beyond.
 MR. HUME  said, he was constrained to confess that he did not approve of the course which the last speaker had taken. The question ought to have been discussed long ago, and then there would have been fewer excuses for the manifestations of feeling which had taken place on this subject. The statement of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey) ought not to have remained unanswered so long, particularly when such an answer could be made to it as that which they had heard that day from the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had shown that the application by the English Government for redress had been made in a becoming manner, and had been met in a corresponding spirit by Austria. He regretted the strong way in which this question had been taken up, especially in Scotland, as he must say, after the explanations which had been given, they could not help viewing it in a much more moderate aspect than formerly. He did not agree with the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) in thinking that the despatch of Earl Granville to which he referred was abject; and he thought nothing better could have been done than to leave the case to the Austrian Government's sense of justice; Nevertheless, he agreed that questions of this nature should at all times find a ready discussion in that House; and while he was satisfied with the manner in which the matter was now being handled, he by no means regretted that it had been brought so prominently before the House and the country.
 MR. HUME  thought it would be satisfactory to the House to hear from the Government that they would do nothing in the matter until the new Parliament had an opportunity of discussing it.
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, that the conservators of the Mersey had not expressed any opinion on the way in which the Bill affected the navigation of that river, though they had recommended a different plan for the docks from that of the promoters.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he would support the Amendment, unless he heard some explanation of the gross breach of good faith on the part of the promoters. Instead of explaining that charge against them, the hon. and gallant Member for Chippenham (Captain Boldero) had made a most serious charge against Vice-Chancel-lor Farker, and said he had granted an injunction, but had never entered into the merits of the case.
 MR. PLOWDEN  said, on the last occasion when this subject was under the consideration of the House, it was through his instrumentality suddenly brought to a close, by his calling upon Mr. Speaker to count the House. He assured the House that his adopting that course had no reference to the merits of the case then before it, except that he thought it was deserving a larger attendance of Members and a fuller discussion than it was then likely to receive. He thought the House would thank him for the course he then adopted, since the question had now received a full and most interesting discussion, and had elicited the speeches of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton. As an Englishman, and especially as a Member of Parliament, he could never sanction any species of tyranny or injustice practised towards British subjects in foreign countries without seeking and demanding redress for such acts. He entirely agreed with the sentiments that had just been expressed by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton on the subject; but he could not, after the explanations afforded by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, altogether concur in the wording of the Motion; and he begged to express a hope that the hon. Baronet would adopt the recommendation of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) and withdraw it.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, in consequence of the explanations of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and at the request of his (Sir II. Verney's) Friends, he would beg to be allowed to withdraw the Motion. He must, however, deny the statement of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), that there had been anything like exaggeration. The hardships suffered by these men had been far beyond anything detailed to the House. Since their departure the circulation of the Bible had been stopped in the Austrian dominions, though there were 3,000,000 of Protestants in that country. The Resolution of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. Anstey) was not stronger than he should have wished to propose himself. Their duty was to assert the right of their fellow-subjects to liberty in whatever country they might be residing.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY , in the absence of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. C. Anstey) begged to move the Resolution of which notice had been
 1366
 SIR PHILIP EGERTON  would support the third reading. The parties promoting the Bill were not the trustees. He hoped the House would not reverse the unanimous resolution of the Committee.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, the Bill appeared to come before the House under somewhat peculiar circumstances. The fact was, that a clause had been put into the Bill nullifying and stultifying the decision of one of the ablest of our Equity Judges, who had made an absolute andgene-ral injunction on the subject. It was not fair to pass the Bill until a satisfactory explanation had been given of the mode in which it was attempted to deal with and set aside the injunction of Vice-Chancellor Parker.
 MR. HUTT  said, he should move as an Amendment that the Bill be read this day month. The promoters of the measure had proceeded in violation of an injunction granted by the Court of Chancery, and the Committee had upset the decision without any sufficient grounds, and saddled the bondholders with the costs of the whole proceedings.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It is evident, Sir, from the papers on the table of the House, that the transactions to which they relate between this Government and that of Austria are not yet completely brought to a close. It was obviously necessary that the Government should present the papers as they are, on account of the approaching termination of the Session; but at the same time there are points connected with the matters in dispute which are not clearly established one way or the other. One point is, what was the loss, if any, sustained by Messrs. Wingate and Smith in consequence of their expulsion from Pesth. They claim a certain compen-
 1379 1380 1381 1382 1383 primâ facie 1384 ex-parte 1385 l vice versâ. 1386 "—Opposuit Natura Alpemque nivemque, Diducit scopulos at montern rumpit aceto." 1387
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the House would no doubt feel perfectly satisfied with the explanation which had been given by the hon. and learned Member opposite, of the conduct and motives of the Master of the Rolls in these proceedings; and he (the Solicitor General) was warranted in saying, on behalf of the noble and learned Lord (Lord Lyndhurst) who had referred to this subject in the other House of Parliament, that there was not an individual in the country who more sincerely respected the eminent attainments and high character, both private and judicial, of the Master of the Rolls. It was true, that in the course of one of the many discussions that had arisen in the other House of Parliament with respect to the many great and important law reforms which had passed through Parliament in the latter half of the present Session, that noble and learned Lord did make some allusions to the course which he erroneously supposed had been taken by the Master of the Rolls with respect to the Suitors in Chancery Relief Bill. It was quite unnecessary for him (the Solicitor General) to say that his noble and learned Friend had been always perfectly ready to do justice (and indeed he believed that when his Lordship made these remarks, he had done so in express terms) to the high character and entire freedom from liability to imputation of the right hon. Gentleman the Master of the Rolls, in the matter to which allusion had been made. It was not surprising if, amidst the complicated matters which had from time to time been under consideration in connexion with the various legal reforms which had lately engaged the attention of Parliament, even one so eminently distinguished, not only for learning, but for extraordinary accuracy with respect to facts, should have been misled by a misapprehension on this occasion. That the statements of the noble and learned Lord were founded upon a misapprehension, he repeated; and he was sure that the House and his right hon. Friend the Master of the Rolls would be perfectly satisfied with that statement, in addition to the explanation which had been given by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Sir W. P. Wood). The extensive and indeed unparalleled series of legal reforms which had now passed through both Houses of Parliament, and were only awaiting the Royal
 1418
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, that he rose to put to the Government a question of which he had given notice. He understood that the Secretary of State for the Home Department was unavoidably absent, but he hoped that the Solicitor General or the Under Secretary of State would give him an answer. His question had reference to the Roman Catholic processions, against which there had lately been a Royal Proclamation. It appeared that the Government had determined to enforce an Act for putting down these processions, and he wished to know whether that Act extended to the suppression of those imitations of Roman Catholic processions by clergymen of the Church of England which had notoriously taken place in different parts of the kingdom? And in the event of the existing Act not being sufficient to prevent such practices, which bade fair to create a breach of the peace, he wished to know whether the Government intended to introduce such an Act as would put a stop to practices which were scandalous to Protestantism and disgraceful to the Church of England?
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL : I have to state, in the first place, that the Act of Parliament which is now in force has no operation upon any processions whatever, if such have ever had existence, in which clergymen of the Church of England only have borne part, that Act applying entirely to processions consisting of Roman Catholic priests and Roman Catholic persons. With regard to the second question of my hon. Friend, I have only to state that Her Majesty's Government are not at all aware of the law having been violated, or even of any such processions as those alluded to having taken place in any part of the kingdom. It is, therefore, scarcely necessary for me to add, that they have no intention of proposing in this or any future Session of Parliament any measure of the kind referred to with respect to clergymen of the Church of England.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  moved for a copy of the depositions taken at Gosport on the case of Leopold de Rose, who was sentenced to imprisonment with hard labour on a charge of begging. The noble Lord stated the particulars of the case, to the effect that Mr. de Rose obtained a livelihood by selling drawings, and that he
 1420 "Gosport, 26th June, 1852. "My Lord—At the request of my excellent friend the Mayor of Southampton, I have felt great pleasure in accompanying Lieut. Szulczewski and Mr. Leopold de Rose to the several places of abode of Mr. Tilston, Mr. Wyatt, Mr. Biden, Capt. Blake, Mr. Meggs, Mrs. Welch, Miss Slane, and Miss Nott—all of whom I have known for many years as most highly respectable people— and I can assure your Lordship that I have heard with great delight the testimony which each of those ladies and gentlemen gave to the character and deportment of Mr. Leopold de Rose, who, although reduced to the necessity of offering his articles for sale, always did so with the marked conduct of a highly honourable man and a gentleman; he was immediately recognised by each, was most pleasantly received by all, and deeply
 1421 "THOMAS HOSKINS." "26th June, 1852. "My Lord—I had a visit yesterday from Lieut. Charles Szulczewski and Mr. De Rose; the former came to make inquiries of me respecting Mr. Do Rose's imprisonment for begging, &c. I can only-say I consider he has been shamefully used by Captain Hamilton, who resided at Anglesey, near Gosport, and who is now appointed to a ship at Woolwich. My brother magistrate, Dr. Hillyer, could do no more than imprison Mr. De Rose, as Captain Hamilton swore that he 'wandered abroad to bog and gather alms, contrary to the form of the statute in such case made,' &c. &c. Now it does appear to me to be a very extraordinary thing that Mr. De Rose should beg of Captain Hamilton, when I well know that Mr. De Rose could get 5 l l
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, his object would be attained if Government would make an inquiry, and he therefore withdrew the Motion.
 MR. WALPOLE  moved that the House insist upon Clause (E), the Amendment to which the Lords have disagreed. While the Bill was before the Commons a clause was introduced carrying out one of the recommendations of the Chancery Law Commission, depriving the Court of Chancery of the power of sending cases to a Court of Law. The object of such a clause was to make the Court of Chancery complete in its jurisdiction for deciding all cases brought before it, and to avoid the expense and delay consequent on referring questions once, twice, and, as occasionally happened, thrice to a court of common law. Having the highest respect for the judgment of the noble and learned Lords at whose instance the clause was disagreed to, he should have been disposed, but for the recommendation of the Commission, and that the subject bad been fully considered by the House, to suggest the adoption of the Amendment their Lordships had made; but as it was, he felt bound to move that it be not concurred in.
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  did not think that gentlemen in the position of Mr. De Rose had any encouragement to look to the Home Office for redress, after the treatment of another Pole, who was not a poor Pole like Mr. De Rose, but who, without any other charge than that he was a Pole, had been taken out of his own House, placed in a cell for twelve hours, and his papers ransacked—had appealed to the Home Office and obtained no redress— and when, after six months had elapsed, he applied to his attorney, he found that it was too late, according to the Act of Parliament, to seek redress in a court of law. If the noble Lord pressed his Motion to a division for the production of the depositions, he would vote with him. The hon. Baronet said it was not usual to produce such depositions; that might be, but it should also be remembered that the case itself was a most unusual one.
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  did not rise to oppose the Motion just made, but to make a few observations as to the alleged conduct of his right hon. and learned Friend the Master of the Rolls, in regard to one of these law Bills. It was with great pain he bad observed that any discussion affecting the conduct and integrity of his right hon. Friend, as a sincere, earnest, and ardent law reformer, had taken place elsewhere. He could not have supposed that from any source-—much less that from which it had emanated—any imputation could have arisen on his right hon. Friend's earnestness and sincerity; and he felt the more pained when he saw that imputation
 1415 1416 1417
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  bore testimony to the eminent services of the Master of the Rolls in the cause of legal reform.
 M H. BERKELEY  said, he knew Captain de Rose, who was introduced to him by some of the most respectable men in the city of Bristol. He had observed about him great delicacy of mind; he was evidently a man labouring under misfortune, who wished to put on the best appearance he could. Whenever any attempt had been made to give him money, he shrank from it. He trusted that Govern-
 1422
 MR. BETHELL  seconded the Motion.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he ought, perhaps, to take some blame on himself in not having pressed more strongly than he had done on the noble Lord his wish that he should postpone this Motion in consequence of the absence of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole). He regretted still more that the noble Lord should have thought it his duty to go into a long accusation against persons who were not present, and who had no means whatever of making any answer. It appeared most extraordinary that this matter had been allowed to sleep for months, and that persons in the neighbourhood, who took an interest in the matter, had made no representation to the Home Office. If any such representation had been made either to the present Secretary of State, or to his predecessor, the fullest possible investigation would have been made. He understood that it was unusual to furnish copies of the depositions taken in such cases as the present; but he would take care that such an investigation should be made, and he would inform the noble Lord of the result—but he could not now consent to the Motion.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I feel bound to say that, in my opinion, this is clearly a case deserving investigation, and I cannot for a moment doubt but that the Government will feel bound to look into it most narrowly and minutely. I think my noble Friend has acted with strict propriety in bringing forward this case; and as to the observation that he made ex-
 1423 parte
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the First Commissioner of Works, what measures were going to be taken during the recess for the ventilation of the House, either in the mode which had been proposed, or in any other way? He wished to know whether anything had been done according to the Report of the Committee appointed to consider the subject, or whether the whole question of ventilation would be left to be considered by the wisdom of a future Parliament?
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, that it would be very desirable if the Government would take the course suggested.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the course he proposed to take, was, that the recommendation of the Committee appointed to inquire into this subject should be carried out, and, with the co-operation of the Gentlemen whose services had received a complimentary allusion in the last Report of the Committee, he trusted that, during the recess, arrangements for the lighting, warming, and ventilation of the House would be carried on efficiently, so as to enable the Members of the new Parliament to enter a House rendered far more agreeable in these important particulars than it was at present.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that his authority would cease in a very few hours. The usual practice had been, after a dissolution of Parliament, that no further papers should be delivered; and if that practice were departed from in the present instance, it could only be by the courtesy of the members of the Government.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he doubted very much if the Government had authority to comply with the request made; and if they did, he should call upon the hon. Member for Montrose to join him in bringing in a Bill of Indemnity. If the hon. Member wished it, there would be still time to move an Address to the Crown on the subject, and that would facilitate the object which seemed to be desired.
 MR. HUME  said, it was extremely important that all the papers not yet delivered should be communicated without delay to the public. In compliance with the suggestion made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he would move an Address to that effect.
 MR. HUME  said, he had been informed by an hon. Member that no more Parliamentary papers would be delivered after the House separated to-day. Now, he did hope that all those papers which had been ordered to be printed would be delivered and sent to the Members of the present Parliament. He wished to know from
 1432
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, with reference to the three questions put to me by the hon. and learned Gentleman, I have to state, in the first place, that I have received no further information than that which the daily organs of communication have put the House in possession of with reference to the unfortunate disturbances which have taken place in Stockport. In answer to the second question put by the hon. and learned Gentleman, perhaps I had better read to the House a passage from a letter which I have received from the Mayor of Stockport with reference to the origin of the disturbances: —
 "As far as is at present ascertained, the disturbance appears to have arisen out of a quarrel between the English and Irish, in which, I fear religious animosity has been brought into play; but the whole matter was so sudden and unexpected, and the attention of myself and brother magistrates has been so entirely required by the necessary measures for preserving the public peace, that the facts have not yet been accurately ascertained." 1431
 MR. CHISHOLM ANSTEY  said, seeing the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department in his place, he wished to put a question to him
 1430
 MR. CHARLES SHAW LEFEVRE  then rose and said: Perhaps, before the Question is put, the House will allow me to make an observation. I trust it is unnecessary for me to assure the hon. Member for Berkshire, and the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex, that I highly value that friendship and regard which alone could have suggested those complimentary terms in which they have done me the honour to introduce my name to the notice of the House. I hope it is equally unnecessary for me to assure the House that I have not only listened to the speeches of my hon. Friends, but I have witnessed the flattering reception which the House has been pleased to give to those speeches, with feelings of unfeigned gratitude. The experience of more than thirteen years has confirmed the opinions I held when first I had the honour of a seat in Parliament, of the value and importance of those privileges which are enjoyed by the House, as the hon. Member for Berkshire has well observed, for the benefit of the community at large; as well as of the sound practical wisdom by which the forms and orders have been framed for the regulation of your proceedings, and the due and proper consideration and despatch of the public business. But that experience has also taught me what an enormous amount of responsibility rests upon that individual to whom the guardianship of those privileges and the enforcement of those forms and orders are entrusted. My hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, who from his long standing, and the respect the House entertains for him, is so well entitled to pronounce an opinion on a subject of this nature, has
 10
 MR. HUME  should have been disposed to concur in silence with the proceedings; but he had been asked to prefer a request on behalf of Members of that House. It was very desirable that the Speaker should have better opportunities than he had enjoyed during the last three Parliaments of becoming acquainted with hon. Members of the House; and therefore he was anxious to see the former practice revived, and that the Members would have more frequently the opportunity of paying their respects to the Speaker. He looked upon the Speaker as the first commoner in the land, and he had obtained from the right hon. Gentleman's predecessor the concession which he now sought with regard to the Speaker's levees. Many Members were anxious to pay their respects, who were now precluded by a practice which he believed was not in accordance with the original constitution of these assemblages. When he (Mr. Hume) attended Her Majesty with an Address, he was allowed to be present in his ordinary dress; but of late years he was unable to pay his respects to the Speaker of the House of Commons in his common dress. Mr. Abercromby, when Speaker, had yielded to the applications that were made to him; and he now made that application on the part of a number of Members who were very anxious to pay him their respects—as to dining with the right hon. Gentleman, that was not the question which troubled him. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman they would not trouble him much; but it was with regard to the levees, where he did not like to see a House of 650 Members confined to some 50 or 100 persons. He wished that the major part of those who belonged to the House should be ready and able to pay their respects to the right hon. Gentleman. He was one of those who had highly approved of the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman as their Speaker; and he must be aware that no man was more anxious to support the rules and regulations and orders of the House than he had been. He had given all the humble assistance in his power to their maintenance, as the best means of preserving their character as a deliberative assembly. He was not anxious to detract anything from
 13
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : May I be allowed to add one word to what has been said by the right hon. Gentleman? I feel that it is a matter of the greatest importance, and one of the greatest good fortune, that at this particular period, when there are so many Members of the House without experience in its debates, that we should nave to preside over these debates a Gentleman who has already shown his qualification for the eminent post of Speaker, and who, whenever it has been necessary to enforce the orders and rules of the House, has done it with such judgment and firmness, and at the same time with such courtesy, as almost to obtain the willing obedience even of those who seemed most inclined to question his decisions. I shall only add further, that the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), having alluded to his short experience in the conduct of the business of the House, I feel persuaded, on the part of hon. Members around me—and I can give him the assurance of my own part—that any assistance in carrying on the public business which this House or the Chair can render the right hon. Gentleman, will be freely accorded; because we all feel that it is of the utmost importance that we should continue to give that ex-
 12
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR : I must claim the kind indulgence of the House for a few minutes while I second the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Berkshire. I have done so in accordance with the wishes of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, who considers that my right hon. Friend the Member for North Hampshire having formerly belonged to the party sitting on this side of the House, it would be more agreeable to him, and more expressive of that unanimity of opinion that should prevail in the election of the highest officer in this House, that his nomination should be seconded by a Member of Her Majesty's Opposition. I entirely concur in the propriety of that sentiment. All I regret is, that the right hon. Gentleman did not make application to some hon. Member more calculated than I am to give weight and authority to the recommendation, and who might more fairly stand up on this side of the House as the unofficial organ of that party to whom I have the honour to belong. I say the unofficial organ, because, as is perhaps well known, it is not usual for any Member holding high office, or who has held high office, to propose a candidate for the chair of this House. Be this, however, as it may, it gives me the sincerest satisfaction to have this public opportunity of bearing my testimony to the manner in which my right hon. Friend Mr. Shaw Lefevre has performed the duties of his arduous position. I am quite sure that I give utterance not only to my own sentiments, but also to those of every hon. Gentleman from amongst whom I rose to second this Motion, when I say that not only are we proud of the right hon. Gentleman as having sprung from the ranks of our party, but also, entirely laying aside all party feeling whatever, we are more proud of him as a Member of that Legislature to which we all in common belong. The merits of Mr. Shaw Lefevre as Speaker of the House are so well known not only to those who have had the advantage under his auspices of taking part in the business of the House, but also to the public at large, that it would be a work of supererogation almost either in this House or elsewhere to dilate at any length upon them; and certainly upon this occasion it would be extremely
 7 8
 Mr. ROBERT PALMER and Lord ROBERT GROSVENOR  then conducted the right hon. Gentleman to the chair.
 MR. SPEAKER  elect, standing on the upper step, said: As it has been the pleasure of the House again to place me in this chair, I trust it will permit me to express the sincere obligations I feel for this additional proof of its confidence and esteem. This renewed mark of its kindness will, if possible, redouble my anxiety to devote every energy of my mind to its service.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER,  who rose, and, addressing the Clerk of the House, said: Sir, it now devolves upon this House, in obedience to Her Majesty's commands, to perform its first and one of its most important duties, namely, to select from among our own body some hon. Member who shall fill, during the present Parliament, the office of Speaker of the House—an office at all times onerous, and attended with much responsibility, and not the less so on the present occasion, when so many hon. Members are returned for the first time to Parliament, who must necessarily, for that reason, be but partially acquainted with the rules and proceedings of the House. If upon the present occasion it had been my duty to propose to the consideration of the House any untried Member—any hon. Gentleman who, for the first time, might be called upon to discharge the important duties of the chair of this House—although I am well aware that there are many hon. Members present who would fully justify any choice which the House might think proper to make—still for myself, individually, I should have hesitated before undertaking the task of proposing any hon. Gentleman so circumstanced; because I am sure that
 4 5 6 chair of this
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, it now becomes my gracious duty to congratulate you on having again received to-day the highest honour which English Gentlemen can confer on one possessing their confidence and esteem. Those who have preceded me have intimated the eminent qualities necessary to be possessed by him who should fill the chair of this House. It is not requisite for me to dwell upon that part of the subject, since during the four Parliaments in which you have filled this high office all have acknowledged the courage with which you vindicated our privileges—the firmness with which you maintained order in our debates, and the spirit of impartiality which ever guided your judgments. But I may, without presumption, having had the honour of a seat in this House when you were first elected to that chair, and having been a Member of the House during the interval that has since elapsed—I may perhaps notice one trait in your conduct which I have frequently observed, and which, I think, entitles you to the increased confidence of the House; it is this—that in those conjunctures which
 11
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : The ordinary term used in addressing the individual honoured by the choice of the House is to congratulate him. My feeling, Sir, in rising is not merely to congratulate him, but far more the House by whom he is chosen. In your presence, Sir, and in the presence of so many hon. Members of large experience in this House, it is needless to add a single word as to the personal fitness of the right hon. Gentleman; but it is not unfit and not unnecessary perhaps to recall to the recollection of some, and to take the liberty of stating to others, the very different amount of time and labour which is now required of the Speaker of this House. That time and labour have been bestowed most cheerfully and actively, and most beneficially for the public service, by the right hon. Gentleman to whom again those duties are about to be committed. Why, Sir, a hundred years ago the Speaker had not, perhaps, the tenth part of the labours which now devolve upon the occupant of that chair. A hundred years ago but three debates appear in the Parliamentary history of one Session, and but fifteen divisions are recorded in the journals. In the last year we had 242 divisions; and the Speaker, whom I trust again to have the honour of addressing in that capacity, has sat not less than 13,000 hours in the discharge of his duties as Speaker, since first he was elected, in 1839, to that high post of dignity and duty. When I contrast the labour of former Speakers—when I hear of only one Speaker filling the chair during the whole reign of George I., and one other during the whole reign of George II., I must say that the right hon. Gentleman has compressed into the period of his services more labour, more attention, and more successful energy than any one of his predecessors had ever done. Therefore, knowing what he has been, rejoicing that he is still entrusted with such health and energy as will enable him to continue to us his valuable services with the same success, I should not have taken the liberty of adding
 9
 MR. SPEAKER  said: I have to report to the House that the House has been this day to the House of Peers, where I have had the honour of communicating to the Lords Commissioners appointed by Her Majesty, that this House, in the exercise of its undoubted privilege, had proceeded to the election of a Speaker, and that their choice had fallen upon me; which choice Her Majesty's Commissioners were pleased to signify had received Her Majesty's Royal confirmation. Whereupon I made my humble petition to Her Majesty, in the name and on the behalf of the Commons of the United Kingdom, for all their ancient and undoubted rights and privileges,
 15
 MR. HUME  said, he had waited with great patience in hopes that, in accordance with the usual practice of the House, some individual on the opposite side would have risen to notice the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. His hon. Friend had thrown out a challenge, hut there seemed to he a want of spirit on the other side, and an indisposition to answer the statements which had been made. He thought the Queen's Speech very unsatisfactory to the Commons of England, who had been sent to their different contituencies in order that the people might decide on this important policy of free trade. He was, however, delighted to hear it acknowledged that that policy had been productive of such immense benefits to the working classes. He could recollect his opponents on this question declaring that the desire of the landed interest was not to benefit themselves, but to improve the condition of the agricultural labourers. They had then their wish, for the condition of the agricultural labourer was admitted by the hon. Gentleman opposite to be overflowing with abundance. Had not a single man on the opposite side the manliness to stand up, and to acknowledge that this arose from the repeal of the Corn Laws? This certainly was admitted by the seconder of the Address, who, indeed, was a free-trader, though the mover might not be one; for here, as at the elections, the same rule seemed to prevail, and the Ministerial supporters declared themselves, one for free trade, and another for protection. The House, however, ought to bear in mind the object for which it had met at this period of the year, and he considered Her Majesty most unfortunate in not having a Cabinet Council able to make up its mind on this subject after about nine months' deliberation. Why did Ministers not acknowledge in intelligible language that they were wrong, and declare themselves now ready to keep up a policy which had been productive of such overwhelming benefits to the working classes? He must express his great disappointment that the Ministers had not distinctly stated and defended the course of policy they intended to pursue. He liked a fair, upstanding fight, but not one beneath hedges, or carried on by equivocal phrases which he did not comprehend. He confessed that he
 76 77
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, so much has been said, and said so well, on the solemn subject of the first paragraph in the gracious Speech from the Throne, that I shall do no more than express my entire concurrence with those who have preceded me, and to state how high a privilege I feel it to have been permitted to be one of
 92 "While many of the actions of his life—while many of the qualities which he possessed are unattainable by others, there are lessons which we may all derive from the life and actions of that illustrious man. It may never be given to another subject of the British Crown to perform services so brilliant as he performed; it may never be given to another man to hold the sword which was to gain independence for Europe, to rally the nations around it, and while England saved herself by her constancy to save Europe by her example; it may never be given to another man, after having attained such eminence, after an unexampled series of victories, to show equal moderation in peace as he had shown greatness in war, and to devote the remainder of his life to the cause of internal and external peace for that country which he had so served; it may never be given to another man to have equal authority, both with the Sovereign he served, and with the Senate of which he was to the end a venerated member; it may never be given to another man, after such a career, to preserve even to the last the full possession of those great faculties with which he was endowed, and to carry on the services of one of the most important departments of the State with unexampled regularity and success, even to the latest day of his life. These are circumstances, these are qualities which may never again occur in the history of this country. But there are qualities which the Duke of Wellington displayed of which we may all act in humble imitation:—that sincere and unceasing devotion to our country; that honest and upright determination to act for the benefit of the country on every occasion; that devoted loyalty which, while it made him ever anxious to serve the Crown, never induced him to conceal from the Sovereign that which he believed to be the truth; that devoted-ness in the constant performance of his duty; that temperance of his life, which enabled him at all times to give his mind and his faculties to the services which he was called upon to perform; that regular, consistent, and unceasing piety by which he was distinguished at all times in his life, —these are qualities that are attainable by others, and these are qualities which should not be lost as an example." 93 94 95 96 97 98
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, it appears to me that on an occasion when we have to consider an Address to the Crown, which begins with a paragraph in which we are called upon to condole with Her Majesty on the loss of that great man the late Duke of Wellington, we should not be obliged to enter into any lengthened debate upon topics on which the House is divided, and still less to be compelled to take a division on these topics. In respect to the first part of the Address, I shall not add anything to what has been said by the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman who moved and seconded the Address. I feel that upon the subject of the late Duke of Wellington eulogy is superfluous. It re-
 80 81 82 l. 83 84 85
 LORD LOVAINE  rose and said: Sir, in rising to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, in reply to the gracious Speech from the Throne which has just been read, I confess that I wish the task had fallen upon some abler, some more experienced Member of this House, who would have been able to give due weight to the many important topics which it contains. I feel, Sir, the more embarrassment when I consider that the first subject of that Speech is one which must awaken in the country as well as in this House, feelings of the deepest sympathy, affection, and regret. I allude, Sir, of course, to that part of Her Majesty's Speech in which, with Her usual kind and affectionate regard for the wishes and feelings of Her people, Her Majesty invites us, their representatives, to join in making provision for the funeral obsequies of the late Duke of Wellington. Sir, I believe this House will excuse me if I approach with awe an event which has cast a shadow of grief and dismay over the mighty empire which obeys the sceptre of these realms—the quenching of that light which for nearly half a century has been the beacon to every Englishman to light him on the path of duty and honour. No obsequies that we can give—no funeral pomp that we can bestow—can be adequate to express the love and veneration which this House and the country bore to that great man—a love and veneration, Sir, which was not founded upon the mere evanescent and vulgar admiration of military glory. It was not that in his early
 57 58 59 60 61 62 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to convey to Her Majesty the Thanks of this House for Her Majesty's most gracious Speech from the Throne, and to assure Her Majesty of our participation in the deep sorrow which Her Majesty, in meeting us, has been pleased to express, that our deliberations can no longer be aided by the counsels of that illustrious man
 63 "To thank Her Majesty for Her Majesty's gracious acknowledgment of the readiness in which Her Majesty's subjects in general have come forward, in pursuance of the Act of last Session, to join the ranks of the Militia; and for the expression of Her Majesty's confident trust that the force thus raised by voluntary enlistment will be calculated to give effective aid to Her Majesty's regular Army for the protection and security of the Country: "To thank Her Majesty for informing us that Her Majesty continues to receive from all Foreign Powers assurances of their anxious desire to maintain the friendly relations now happily subsisting with Her Majesty's Government: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for the information that frequent and well-founded complaints on the part of Her Majesty's North American Colonies, of infractions, by citizens of the United States, of the Fishery Convention of 1818, have induced Her Majesty to despatch, for the protection of their interests, a class of vessels better adapted to the service than those which had been previously employed; that this step has led to discussions with the Government of the United States; and that while the rights of Her Majesty's Subjects have been firmly maintained, the friendly spirit in which the question has been treated induces Her Majesty to hope that the ultimate result may be a mutually beneficial extension and improvement of our commercial intercourse with that great Republic: "To thank Her Majesty for informing us that the special mission which, in concert with the Prince President of the French Republic, Her Majesty deemed it right to sent to the Argentine Confederation, has been received with the utmost cordiality; and that the wise and enlightened policy of the Provisional Director has already opened to the commerce of the world the great rivers, hitherto closed, which afford an access to the interior of the vast continent of South America: "To assure Her Majesty, that we receive with satisfaction the announcement, that the sincere and zealous efforts of the Government of Brazil for the suppression of the Slave Trade, now nearly extinguished on that coast, have enabled Her
 64 "To thank Her Majesty for informing us that the Government of Her Most Faithful Majesty have fully recognised the justice of the claim which Her Majesty's Government have long urged for the abolition of the discriminating Duties on the export of Wine, and have passed a decree for giving complete effect to the stipulations of the Treaty on this subject: "To express our humble concurrence with Her Majesty, in the opinion that it will be advisable to resume the inquiries which were commenced by the late Parliament, with a view to legislation on the subject of the future government of Her Majesty's East Indian Possessions: "To thank Her Majesty for informing us that the Estimate for the ensuing year will in due time be laid before us: "To assure Her Majesty that we readily recognise that the advancement of the Fine Arts, and of Practical Science, is worthy of a great and enlightened Nation; and to thank Her Majesty for having given directions that a comprehensive scheme shall be laid before us, having in view the promotion of these objects, to which Her Majesty invites our aid and co-operation: "To assure Her Majesty that we participate in the pleasure which Her Majesty is pleased to express at being enabled, by the blessing of Providence, to congratulate us on the generally improved condition of the Country, and especially of the industrious classes; and humbly to thank Her Majesty for Her Majesty's gracious recommendation, that if we should be of opinion that recent legislation, in contributing with other causes to this happy result, has, at the same time, inflicted unavoidable injury on certain important interests, we should dispassionately consider how far it may be practicable equitably to mitigate that injury, and to enable the industry of the Country to meet successfully that unrestricted competition to which Parliament, in its wisdom, has decided that it should be subjected: "To thank Her Majesty for the information that Her Majesty trusts that the general improvement, notwithstanding many obstacles, has extended to Ireland, and to assure Her Majesty, that while Her Majesty may rely with confidence on our aid, should it be required, to restrain that unhappy spirit of insubordination and turbulence which produces many and aggravates all of the evils which afflict that portion of Her Majesty's Dominions, we shall readily attend to Her Majesty's
 65 "To thank Her Majesty for informing us, that Her Majesty, anxious to promote the efficiency of every branch of our National Church, has thought fit to issue a Commission to inquire and report to Her Majesty how far, in their opinion, the Capitular Institutions of the Country are capable of being made more effective for the great objects of Religious Worship, Religious Education, and Ecclesiastical Discipline: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty, for directing that the Reports of the Commissioners for inquiring into the system of Education pursued at Oxford and Cambridge, should be communicated to the governing Bodies of those Universities for then-consideration; and to assure Her Majesty, that Her Majesty may rely upon our readiness to remove any legal difficulties which may impede the desire of the Universities at large, or of the several Colleges, to introduce such amendments into their existing system as they may deem to be more in accordance with the requirements of the present time: "Humbly to concur with Her Majesty in opinion that the system of Secondary Punishments has usefully occupied the labours of successive Parliaments; and to assure Her Majesty that we shall rejoice with Her Majesty if we shall find it possible to devise means by which, without giving encouragement to crime, Transportation to Van Diemen's Land may at no distant period be altogether discontinued: "To thank Her Majesty for informing us that the subject of Legal Reform continues to engage Her Majesty's anxious attention; that the Acts passed in the last Session of Parliament have been followed up by the Orders necessary for putting them in operation; that inquiries are in progress, by Her Majesty's direction, with a view of bringing into harmony the Testamentary Jurisdiction of Her Majesty's several Courts; and that Bills will be submitted to us for effecting further improvements in the Administration of the Law: "Humbly to assure Her Majesty that to these and other measures affecting the social condition of the Country, we shall give our earnest and zealous attention, and that we join in Her Majesty's prayer that by the blessing of Almighty God our deliberations may be guided to the well-being and happiness of Her Majesty's people."
 MR. ADDERLEY  did not rise for the purpose of throwing any light upon the intentions of Government, for he was not in their secrets, and had no more means of understanding their views than any other hon. Member; but, as an independent country gentleman, and as representing a large constituency, partly agricultural, but quite as largely manufacturing, he was anxious to state his views to the House on the points which had been raised on the present discussion; and, in the first place, he deprecated the repeated attacks which had been made on Her Majesty's Government by hon. Members opposite. Such attacks must recoil upon the heads of those who made them; and he appealed to those hon. Gentlemen whether it would not be more consistent, if not with their own character, at least with the character of the House, to wait until they had really something to attack, instead of making an onslaught which was simply based upon a spirit of malevolence. It might do very well for certain organs of public opinion, in the absence of direct information, to fabricate their facts and deal in wholesale fiction for the purpose of damaging the Ministry; but such tactics ill became that House, where there was
 108 de die in diem, usque ad nauseam, 109 sub silentio, 110 Hansard 111 toto coelo.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  begged to tell the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone), in reply to his question, that, as an independent Member of that House, he did not intend to move an Amendment upon the Address,
 99
 MR. SPEAKER   reported
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that he had intended to express his great disappointment, if he had not used the expression disgust, at the course adopted by those whom it was his great wish and anxiety to have supported. He thought himself called upon, after being so many years a Member of that House, to express briefly, independently, and fearlessly his opinions. He was from heart and soul a protectionist; he came into that House as a protectionist, and he would continue in that House alone as a protectionist. When he could dare to change those opinions which he had so often professed in that House, he would at once resign that sit-
 125
 MR. C. VILLIERS  said, he hoped the House would not think him very presumptuous if he rose thus early in the evening to make a few observations on the subject of the Address, and on what had fallen from the noble Lord and the hon. Gentleman by whom it had been moved and seconded. He could assure the House it was with great reluctance that he did so, because he was entirely of a mind with those who thought that it was desirable upon the occasion of receiving a Message or a Speech from the Crown, that they should, if possible, respond to it with unanimity. He believed that to be the feeling of the House generally—he had observed it to be so, since he had been in Parliament; but he need not say that it depended entirely on the discretion of the Minister what tone would be taken, and what turn would be given, to a discussion on the Address, because he was responsible for the Speech: he selected the topics contained in it; he chose the Members who were to expound his policy, and he knew well the requirements of the House as to the matters on which it desired to be informed, whether as regarded the state of the country, our foreign relations, or any of those great matters that might be at issue in the country, on which it was desirable to know the opinion of the Government. There would be no Amendment proposed to an Address, or any objection taken to it, unless there was some omission of what it was known to be the desire of the House to be acquainted with, or a statement of some policy which was sure to be opposed. It was under these circumstances that he rose to complain somewhat of the Address that had been moved that evening. He did not, of course, complain of all that was contained in the Address. There were certain matters that spoke for themselves, and with respect to which they were all agreed. And, first of all, he might name that passage which had reference to the late national bereavement. He was sure the House would respond to everything that referred to the great man and the great mind that had recently been lost to them, with sincerity, cordially with a deep emotion of regret. But there were some matters of very deep interest to the country at large, and of which the country had been anxiously waiting for information, on which they had not, as he thought, been sufficiently informed on the present occasion. They had met together at a very unusual
 71 72 73 74 75
 MR. E. BALL  said, that though he stood alone in the House, he would still declare his conviction, in spite of all that had been said on both sides, that protection was the best and wisest policy for this country and for all nations to adopt. He might be ridiculed for maintaining such a doctrine; but he had some consolation in the knowledge that there was not a single nation of the earth, save Great Britain, that did not adhere to the principle he advocated. He had the satisfaction of knowing that all the greatest men of America, France, and the whole Continent, agreed with him, maintained his views, and carried out in their several countries those principles which he believed to he sound and right: and he believed that, under the guidance of a gracious Providence, this country had attained its greatness and its superiority over all other nations by the maintenance of that protective policy which many Members of that House now despised and condemned. It had been very properly remarked, that they had arrived at a period when it was necessary for all men and for all parties distinctly to avow what their opinions were. But the Homo Secretary had truly said, that this was not a night to be devoted to political and party discussion, but one on which they had met unitedly to testify their honour and attachment to Her Majesty, by receiving and responding to the Royal Speech. ["Hear!"] Surely the ease was not so urgent, or the matter so pressing, that it was necessary to enter upon the question of the Ministerial policy immediately; and when the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had asked only for a delay of a few days, the denial of his request must be promoted rather by party spirit than by any desire to benefit the country by extracting now an opinion from the House. The noble Member for the City of London (Lord John Russell) had stated that there was one paragraph in the Royal Speech of which he could not approve—a paragraph so mystified and unintelligible, one part of it professing one principle, and the other part another, that he was much disposed to take the sense of the House upon it— meaning thereby the paragraph which related to the question of free trade. Now, he (Mr. Ball) could very well understand how a particular policy might be very good for one portion of the people, while it was
 119 120 Quarterly Review, l. l. 
 
 For England 35,500 
 For Scotland 7,600 
 For Ireland 15,700 
 
 For England 41,000 
 For Scotland 8,000 
 For Ireland 38,000 121 l., l.
 MR. E. C. EGERTON : Sir, in rising to second the Motion that the House
 66 67 68 69
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, it seemed to be generally admitted on both sides of the House that the debate on the Queen's Speech was to be a sort of shake hands preparatory to the great political conflicts which were to ensue; that the lion of Montrose was to lie down with the lamb of North Essex, and that nothing was to be said, but that they were to welcome every paragraph of the Speech with a loyalty which bordered, he might say, upon servility. In a constitutional point of view, he thought it was a pity that the course which was adopted in 1849 and 1850 had not been practised now. If he remembered rightly, the right hon. Gentleman who now deprecated any interruption to the harmony which prevailed in that "happy family," and who had attained to the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer, owing to the advocacy of the doctrines of Protection, upon that occasion moved an Amendment upon the Address, for an inquiry into the burdens upon agriculture. That Amendment, after a night's discussion, the right hon. Gentleman did not think it prudent to press to a division; but in 1850 another right hon. Gentleman, who he supposed would give in his adhesion to free trade that evening—he meant the present President of the Poor Law Commission—also moved an Amendment to the Address upon agricultural burdens; and he had greater faith in his principles upon that occasion than his right hon. Leader, for he pressed his Amendment to a division, in which he was disgracefully beaten. He (Mr. B. Osborne) merely alluded to this in order that new Members might dispel from their minds the notion that it was not a constitutional proceeding on the part of the House, when they felt an objection to a paragraph in the Speech, to move an Amendment to the Address; and he thought they would have better done their duty to the country, and advanced the interests of free trade, if they had at that, the earliest opportunity, moved an Amendment upon that paragraph in the Address which had been dictated by the genius of rigmarole, and traced by the hand of mystification. If the right hon. Gentleman wished to tell the House and the country that he had given in his adhesion to free trade, and the Cabinet had
 103 104 Cries of "No!" 105 106 107
 MR. COBDEN : I don't know that I should have trespassed upon the attention of the House, had I not wished to impress upon my hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers), the propriety of
 112 if 113 114 l. l. 115 116 Hansard 117 118
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, that if it had not been for the pointed allusion that had been made to him by the right hon.
 100 to Laughter 101 102
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I did not rise, nor did any other Member of the Govern-
 78 79
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I cannot help fancying that if the only paragraph of which the noble Lord disapproves in the Answer to Her Majesty's most gracious Speech from the Throne were really so evasive as some hon. Gentlemen have described it to be, that an Amendment to the Address would at once have been moved. I do not think that the constitutional delicacy of my hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Hume) would have deterred him from taking a course which I doubt not his well-stored memory and his ample experience would have furnished him with sufficient precedents for adopting. I cannot say that I agree with the noble Lord or his friends in the version they have given of this paragraph which they describe as evasive. It appears to me to be one perfectly adapted to the circumstances under which we meet to-day. I think the paragraph is framed in a manner which can leave no mistake in any impartial mind
 86 87 Cheers. 88 89 90 91
 SIR J. V. SHELLEY  congratulated the House that they had found one man bold enough to avow the principles of protection. He trusted, that when the hon. Member for Wolverhampton brought forward his Motion, that hon. Gentleman, whatever Her Majesty's Government might do, would give them an opportunity of having a discussion, and that he would oppose that Motion. He must say he gave the hon. Member credit for the manliness with which he had stated his conscientious opinions; but the hon. Member would allow him, as an old free-trader, entirely to disagree with the reasons he had given for those opinions, and especially that the stock of sheep was rapidly diminishing. He believed the agriculturists of Cambridgeshire were unfortunate enough to have the small-pox among their sheep; but he thought the hon. Member's constituents would laugh when they heard the cause to which he attributed the increase in the price of mutton and wool. To all persons having anything to do with agriculture, it
 122
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I wish to make one or two observations upon the Address and the Speech prepared by Her Majesty's advisors; and I cannot refrain at the outset from joining my voice to those who have spoken already, in bearing testimony to the good taste and good feeling which have led Her Majesty Ministers to place in a prominent part of the Speech a just tribute to the memory of that great man whom we have just lost. Of him at present I shall content myself with saying, that I believe that never was there any other man, in any country whatever whose lot it was to render such great and important services to his country, or who had the good fortune to live so long in the enjoyment of the universal and unbounded love, respect, and admiration of his countrymen. Sir, I am glad to find, talking of the principle of protection, that at least
 123 sub silentio, "Aio te, Æacida, Romanos vincere posse," 124
 MR. FITZROY  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department in reference to the statements recently made as to the alleged ill-treatment of the patients in Bethlehem Hospital, and to the reports of the inquiry thereunto, which had appeared in a morning journal, and also to ask whether he would have any objection to lay on the table of the House a copy of the Report made by the Commissioners who conducted the inquiry in question?
 MR. HUME  would beg to suggest that the right hon. Gentleman should, at the
 130
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to refer for a moment to what had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) on the subject of the slave trade. The noble Lord had taken a warmer interest in this subject, and had been longer engaged in endeavouring to prevent that traffic, than any other man. He gave him credit for the object he had in view, and he asked the noble Lord whether the time had not come when he might, with advantage, bring the whole question before the House? We had paid some 900,000 l. l. l.
 MR, SIDNEY HERBERT : Sir, I wish to ask a question with reference to part of the Speech on which no information has yet been given. The paragraph in the Speech referring to the difficulties that arose during the last summer with respect to our Colonial fisheries conveys an impression as to the origin of those difficulties, and as to the course taken with regard to them, and likewise as to the result likely to ensue from the negotiations, at variance, I think, with the public impressions on the subject. Of course, the information in the hands of the Government, on the subject to which this paragraph alludes, would, if produced at once, set at rest any doubts that exist on that point. I gather from the conclusion of the second paragraph that those negotiations are not yet terminated, and in that case, of course, it would not be proper to press the Government to give any information or lay any papers on the table of the House respecting them; but it is important we should know if there be a prospect of an early settlement of the question, and at what period the Government would be enabled to lay on the table of the House the papers and correspondence respecting these negotiations.
 CAPTAIN WALCOTT  said, he begged to trespass on the attention of the House for a few moments while he adverted to the first topic referred to in the Address. He rose for the purpose of expressing his admiration of an illustrious individual whose services were known and acknowledged throughout the world. He rejoiced that it was the intention of the country to place his remains in St. Paul's Cathedral, by the side of the heroic Nelson; and no person could ever pass that building without offering a thanksgiving to God that two such men had been given to promote the glory and welfare of the country. He was sure that through the length and breadth of the land but one opinion would prevail as to the merits of that illustrious individual, and that every mark of national gratitude would be paid to his remains.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, there are some important subjects referred to in Her Majesty's Speech, of which no notice has been taken—one with regard to the Burmese war, and another with regard to the continuance of the war with the Kafirs at the Cape of Good Hope. There is another subject on which I should wish to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies. Some time ago the Parliament of Canada expressed a desire that the Act with regard to the Clergy Reserves of the Imperial
 136
 LORD LOVAINE  brought up the Report on the Address.
 LORD NAAS  said, the question put to him by the hon. Member for Westmeath was simply whether he would give an interpretation of a paragraph of Her Majesty's Speech which referred to Ireland. Holding the opinion he did, that that paragraph was perfectly intelligible and clear, he could not add, by any explanation he could give, anything to the clearness of the passage, or to the explanations that that had been already given by his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland. If an assurance on the part of Her Majesty that the Government was prepared to deal in a liberal and generous manner with Irish affairs and interests, did not please or suit hon. Gentlemen opposite, it was not the fault of the Government.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  presented a petition from certain electors of Derby, all of them persons of great respectability, complaining that at the last election for that borough systematic bribery was resorted to for the purpose of procuring the election of Thomas Berry Horsfall, Esq., as a Member for that borough; and that the Right Hon. Major Beresford, a Privy Councillor, a Member of Her Majesty's Government, Secretary at War, and a Member of that House, was himself a party to such bribery, through one John Frail, who had conducted it. He (Sir A. Cockburn) also begged to give notice that, on Monday next, he should move that that petition be printed with the Votes, and that on Friday, the 19th, he should move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into and report upon the allegations contained in the petition, or otherwise, as the House might think fit.
 MR. SPEAKER  read the Message, as follows:—
 "VICTORIA R. "Her Majesty, desirous of marking in the most solemn manner Her sense of the pre-eminent Services of the late Field Marshal the Duke of Wellington, and of affording to Her subjects an opportunity of testifying their veneration for his memory and their sorrow for the loss which they have sustained by his death, has directed that measures should be taken for the public interment, at the earliest possible period, of His Grace's mortal remains in the Cathedral Church of St. Paul's. The Queen is persuaded that, in taking this step, Her Majesty has only anticipated the general wishes of Parliament and of the Country, and that you will afford to Her Majesty your cordial aid and concurrence in giving to the mournful ceremony a degree of solemnity and importance worthy of the Country and of the occasion. "Her Majesty relies on the liberality of Her faithful Commons to make suitable provision for the due discharge of this debt of Public Gratitude and tribute of National sorrow."
 MR. HADFIELD  begged to call the attention of the House to the paragraph in the Speech which referred to legal reform, and said he must complain of the expense and inconvenience of refusing probates in different parts of the country where property was transferred. He wished to know whether by the recent arrangements one pro-
 139
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he wished to notice a passage in the Speech which related to the difficulties or the misunderstandings that had taken place between this country and that of the United States of America, on the subject of the North American fisheries. That was a question of the greatest importance, inasmuch as it might have broken the peace and tranquillity existing between this country and the United States, and prevented the reception in this country, of the raw material of cotton so necessary for our manufactures. His view with regard to that question corresponded with that taken by Mr. Pitt immediately after the peace of 1783, when a proposal was made during the Presidency of Washington, by Mr. Adams, for placing the commercial and maritime intercourse between England and the United States on the footing of a coasting trade. That proposal fell through in consequence of the breaking-up of the Shel-burne Administration, in which Mr. Pitt was Chancellor of the Exchequer. The amazing progress of America since 1759, when we conquered Canada, rendered such a policy more than ever desirable. Ninety-
 133 134
 MR. NAPIER  said, if any libel had been meant upon Ireland in the passage in question, he should have been quite as ready to resent such an imputation as the hon: Gentleman the Member for Cork himself (Mr. Fagan). But, the truth was, there had been such a deliberate design on the part of some persons to misunderstand portions of Her Majesty's Speech, and such a determination that plain language and plain English should be ambiguous, that really he was not surprised that persons should again come down to the House to torture from passages in that document a meaning they were never intended to express. The passage of the Speech in which allusion was made to Ireland was as follows:—
 "I trust that the general improvement, notwithstanding many obstacles, has extended to Ireland; and while I rely with confidence on your aid, should it be required, to restrain that unhappy spirit of insubordination and turbulence, which produces many and aggravates all of the evils which afflict that portion of my dominions, I recommend to you the adoption of such a liberal and generous policy towards Ireland as may encourage and assist her to rally from the depression in which she has been sunk by the sufferings of late years." 132
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that his hon. and learned Friend having pointedly referred to him, he rose to answer the question. He understood his hon. and learned Friend to ask whether by the latter words of the Address the Government meant to say that they intended to bring in any measure to repress the turbulence and insubordination there alluded to. His answer was, that the Government did not, and he hoped that answer was distinct and
 142
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he begged to give notice of his intention to bring in a Bill, which would require the suspension of all the Standing Orders, in order that it might pass through the House on Monday next. The object of the Bill would be to declare that the day appointed for the funeral of the Duke of Wellington should, as regards the payment of bills of exchange and promissory notes, be
 143
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Commissioners' Report was communicated to him in the summer, and in consequence of the nature of that Report he felt it his duty to
 129
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: I will propose for the consideration of the House an answer to Her Majesty's most gracious Message on Monday next.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I also take this opportunity of referring to a subject mentioned yesterday. It is my intention on the 26th of November to lay before the House those alterations in our system of taxation which we think the change in our commercial system renders necessary. The House will permit me to say, if any notice is brought forward the object of which is to prevent mo making that statement, I reserve to myself the right to take a different course.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, it will be quite impossible for Her Majesty's Government, in the present state of the question, to lay any papers on the table of the House. I can only repeat what I believe is mentioned in the Speech, that the Government of the United States has agreed to enter into negotiations with us in the most friendly spirit, and in such a way as to lead to increased commercial relations between the two countries. The spirit in which the negotiations between the two Governments have taken place, has been of the most friendly character, and I think the result will prove very satisfactory; but, of course, under these circumstances the House cannot expect that the Government will lay any papers on the table on this subject.
 MR. FAGAN  said, he had reason to complain of a statement put forth in the Speech last evening. Hon. Members complained yesterday of the ambiguity and deception which characterised some portions of that document; but he thought the Irish Members had more right to complain of the unnecessary and uncalled-for libel it contained on the people of Iroland. Her Majesty had been advised to state to the House that there existed in Ireland "an unhappy spirit of insubordination and turbulence." For his part, he was not in a position to guess at what that allusion pointed. If it was to agrarian disturbances, he would join with the Government in endeavouring to repress those disturbances which were a stain on the country, and tended to prevent the amelioration of its social condition. But he did not believe that that was the intention of the allusion. Neither did he believe that the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord John Russell) was right in supposing that reference was made to the natural excitement at the last elections in Ireland. What was the cause of that excitement? He traced the cause to a proclamation of the Government which revived the forgotten penalties of the Emancipation Act, and interfered to prevent many of the religious services of the Roman Catholic population. The result of that proclamation was seen in the Stockport riots, and in the insults offered to the Roman Catholic clergy in the public streets immediately after it was issued. Speaking of the city which he represented, and which had been pointed to as one where excitement existed during the recent election, he knew that the excitement was not greater on that occasion than at any former election. He must therefore say that the expression in
 131
 MR. MAGAN  said, he wished to have an explanation as to what was meant in the Speech from the Throne by "the spirit of insubordination and turbulence in Ireland?" The right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland had explained the matter as well as he could, and he understood him to say that the phrase had reference to past insubordination and turbulence; but it was placed in the Speech in the present tense, and the Irish Members were exceedingly anxious that the noble Lord the Chief Secretary for Ireland would tell them in that plain language for which the Government were so justly celebrated, according to their own account, what meaning he attached to these words. Did it mean that the people were not ready to submit to the brutal efforts that were used in nearly every county in Ireland by the emissaries and agents of Her Majesty's Government to vote against their own consciences? That was the fact. He did not intend to enter into any lengthened discussion at present; but some other opportunity would offer on which he would call attention to the conduct of the agents of the Government in three counties with which he was connected, and particularly in the county represented by him. He hoped the noble Lord would have no objection to act as the dictionary of the Government, and tell them what was meant by those words to which he had alluded.
 MR. SHEE  said, he was unacquainted with the course which was generally adopted by Government in answering questions put to them by independent Members of the House; but when questions were put in terms of courtesy to Her Majesty's Ministers, he did not think they should give such off-hand answers as had been given that evening. First, they refused
 140 141
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he thought that information should be afforded them from time to time which would enable that House to judge of the events that were taking place at the Cape, the House not being at present clearly informed as to what objects are contemplated in carrying on the war. One event had occurred on which he begged to congratulate the Government.—he meant the arrangement with Mr. Praetorius and the boers who acted in conjunction with him. It was very much to be lamented that that course had not been adopted some years ago, and he should like to know if they might anticipate some amicable arrangement with the other inhabitants of those territories, founded upon similar principles. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would soon be able to lay despatches on the table showing the objects of the war, and the prospects of a final termination of it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I can assure the noble Lord and the House that I am quite sensible, and so are Her Majesty's Government, of the importance of the subject to which he has called my attention. The noble Lord has adverted with perfect
 137
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I called the attention of Her Majesty's Government yesterday to that passage in Her Majesty's Speech which alludes to the co-operation of the Government of Brazil for the suppression of the slave trade, and to the significant omission of any mention in that paragraph of a similar co-operation on the part of the Spanish Government to put: an end to the slave trade in Cuba. I am afraid that omission is but too significant, considering that we have seen lately in the newspapers an account of the landing of several cargoes of slaves on the coast of Cuba. It is undoubtedly without any excuse on the part of the Spanish Government that such an infraction of the treaty between Spain and this country should continue. I am afraid there are influeuces at Madrid, and pecuniary interests in Cuba, which tend to induce the Government of Spain to forget its treaty obligations, and to omit to perform its duty in regard to this important matter. It has exposed itself also to the imputation— whether well or ill founded it is not for me to say—that it is part of its policy, with regard to the retention of the island of Cuba, to encourage the increase of the black population, believing that in proportion as the blacks increase, the fears of the whites may increase also; and that the increase of the slave population may tend to make the white population cling more closely to the mother country for protection. I do hope that no such motive influences the Government of Spain. My object in rising is to state to Her Majesty's
 135
 MR. J. A. SMITH  begged to ask the right hon. Secretary of the Home Department whether any communication had been made by the Archbishop of Canterbury to the Government with reference to the present sitting of Convocation, and whether it was intended that it should continue to sit or be prorogued as usual?
 LORD STANLEY  said, that the subject to which the hon. Member's question referred was one on which the attention of the Government had for some time past been fixed. The Government was fully aware of the great benefit which would accrue to British interests, and he believed to French interests also, by the establishment of lower rates of duty on British coal imported into France, than those at present enforced; but, under all the circumstances of the case, and considering the nature of our commercial relations with France, it had been thought better not to enter into any negotiations on this subject separately. Communications relative to it had passed between the two Governments, and from those communications it appeared that the Government of France was favourably disposed—as was also the Government of this country—to making considerable modifications in the present international commercial system.
 An HON. MEMBER  asked whether it would not be better to make all bills duo on the 18th payable on the day after the funeral?
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion. He regretted that the East India Company had not shown any intention to bring before the Committee the testimony of educated and intelligent native chiefs and gentlemen as to the feelings and sympathies, the wants and desires, of the natives with re-speot to the government of the Company. However, he trusted advantage Would be taken of the exertions of native societies which had been formed at Bombay and Bengal to collect information on this subject, and that the persons who would be sent over to this country by these societies would be examined before the Committee.
 MR. HUME  said, he should support the Motion, for in the opinion of the public the manner in which the business of that House was managed was not consistent with a due regard to the great interests committed to its care. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had ridiculed the idea of hon. Members being compelled to make short speeches, but he (Mr. Hume) was not quite sure that such a regulation would not have a most salutary effect. At all events, he had heard that the adoption of a limitation of the sort, in an assembly in another country, had, after some six or eight months' practice, been attended with very satisfactory results. He thought his hon. Friend (Mr. Brotherton) had acted perfectly right in thus appealing to the good sense of the House, and asking them to adopt some mode by which their late sittings might be abridged. If the plan proposed by his hon. Friend were agreed
 162
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he wished to ask the noble Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs whether any communication had taken place between our Government and the Government of France relative to the equalisation of the duties levied on British coal when imported into the latter country?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, it was not true that 3,000 seats were reserved for the Dean and Chapter, but 3,000 seats had been reserved for them and the city of London. He might take this opportunity of stating that it was altogether untrue that the Dean and Chapter of St. Paul's had made any application for 3,000 or 5,000 tickets—or, indeed, for any number whatever. Looking to what had been done on past occasions, the Government had thought it right to offer the Dean and Chapter a certain number of seats. The Dean and Chapter had offered every possible facility; and he took this public opportunity of saying that their conduct on this important and solemn occasion had been marked by the strongest desire to consult the public convenience and public feeling.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I ask the permission of you, Sir, and the House, to second the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I do not wish to add a single word to those
 155
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that, however satisfactory the limitation of the sittings of that House might be to the public, and great as the convenience of such an arrangement might be to hon. Members, yet he believed that they would not improve the mode of carrying on the business of the House by merely adopting the Motion under discussion. The House must be aware there was not a legislative assembly in the world which transacted nearly half as much business as the House of Commons did. With regard to the example of the Congress of the United States, it should be remembered that the whole of the local business of the Union was carried on by the several State Legislatures, and, moreover, that as the whole of the Administration formed no part of Congress, therefore there were not in that assembly those debates as to matters of administration which took up so much of the time of this House. Considering then that they had this amount of business to do, he put it to them whether it might not become necessary very much to alter all their other rules in case they agreed to the present proposition. If that was to be the case, let them have the whole scheme to be proposed for a different mode of conducting the business of the House laid before a Committee, and not begin by at once adopting the Motion of the hon. Member for Salford. With regard to reducing the number of stages through which Bills had to pass in that House, let him remind hon. Gentlemen that it was not many years ago that, from the introduction of a Bill to its passing, there were not less than thirty-two questions put. Adopt the proposition now made, and it would probably become necessary to still further reduce the number of questions which were still put—to read a Bill a first and second time, and not go to a third reading at all, or some change of that sort. It appeared
 163
 MR. FORESTER  appeared at the bar, and stated that, having presented to Her Majesty the Address of the House in answer to the Speech from the Throne, the Queen had been pleased to make the following gracious reply:—
 "I have received with satisfaction your loyal and dutiful Address. "I rely, with confidence, on your co-operation with Me in My endeavour to prpmote the welfare of all classes of My subjects."
 MR. GLYN  begged to express the thanks of the commercial public of London to the right hon. Gentleman for having introduced this Bill, and to the House for the disposition which it showed to pass it. The measure was rendered necessary, not so much from a desire to make a holiday of the day appointed for the funeral, as on account of the absolute impossibility of transacting business on that occasion. Whether or not the rest of the country should be placed on the same footing as London on any future similar occasion, was a question which could not now be properly considered; but he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would turn his attention to it.
 MR. HERRIES,  in moving for the reappointment of the Select Committee on Indian Territories, said, he would remind the House that a Select Committee was appointed early in the last Session of Parliament upon this important subject. The Government had lost no time in nominating that Committee, in consideration of the near approach of the time when it would be indispensably necessary that some conclusion should be arrived at with regard to the future government of India. He did not anticipate that any objection would be raised to the reappointment of the Committee on the present occasion—for though, in point of form, a new Parliament being now returned, the Motion must be for the appointment of a Committee, yet the Motion would be practically for the reappointment of the Committee which sat in the late Parliament. That Committee had prosecuted its inquiries with continuous application, and with great success. If hon. Gentlemen would take the trouble of looking into the very voluminous report of the evidence taken by that Committee, they would find that it contained a mass of the most useful and valuable information, both oral and written. The inquiry was arranged under six principal heads; and the first of these, and by far the most important—namely, that which concerned
 156 157
 MR. J. MACGREGOR  thought that a little more time should have been allowed before appointing a Committee of this importance. Of course there could be no objection to the names proposed by the
 158
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, it would be desirable to fix the payment of bills peremptorily for Wednesday; otherwise persons in the country—Manchester, for instance—who had payments to make on
 149
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, that as the Bill provided that a bill of exchange paid before two o'clock on Friday should be subject to no notarial charges, it might be assumed that it would be duly honoured if paid under those circumstances.
 MR. BROTHERTON  rose to move a Resolution to the effect—"That in the present Session of Parliament no business shall be proceeded with in that House after midnight; and that at Twelve o'clock at night precisely, Mr. Speaker do adjourn the House without putting any question." He looked upon his Motion as one of considerable importance, and when it was considered that every Legislature in Europe and America conducted their business in the daytime, he thought it most preposterous that the British Legislature should not he content to close its proceedings by Twelve o'clock at night. He trusted he should have the support of the Government on the present occasion, as also the support of the Members of the legal profession, who, when they were obliged to sit late in that House, must find it impossible to attend to their avocations the next morning. As matters now stood, the officers and clerks of the House were sometimes obliged to remain at their posts for fifteen or sixteen hours, and the persons who were connected with the Administration could not pay that full attention to their business which they might do if the House would only close its proceedings at a reasonable hour. It might be objected that inconvenience would arise from adjourning the House always at a fixed hour, as in such case some hon. Members might occasionally speak against time; but on Wednesdays they terminated the sitting at a fixed hour, and that inconvenience had not practically been felt. And even if there should be inconvenience now and then, it would be a less evil than wasting time by debating for two or three hours after midnight whether the debate should be adjourned or not. It might be
 159
 MR. BROTHERTON,  in reply, said, he must express his regret that he could not enlist the leading Members of the House in support of his Motion: the discussion had only tended to show how much more difficult it was to unlearn bad habits than to acquire good ones.
 MR. MANGLES  said, he wished to know whether there was any objection to extending the provisions of the Bill to the whole country? He had reason to know that a wish prevailed generally to have the day of the funeral observed with solemnity throughout the Kingdom.
 MR. WALPOLE  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to make provision concerning bills of exchange and promissory notes payable in the metropolis on the day appointed for the funeral of the Duke of Wellington. This course was taken in consequence of the representations make, to him by bankers
 148
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that as far as he was aware, no communication such as the hon. Member referred to had been made to any Member of the Government; certainly none such had been made to him. In answer to the other branch of the question—namely, whether the Convocation was to be allowed to continue sitting, or to be prorogued as usual, he begged to state
 147
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the Bill would make hills of exchange due on the 18th presentable and payable on the day before, in the same way as if the 18th wore a Sunday; but, inasmuch as the presenting of bills on the 17th might subject payers to certain notarial charges, it was provided that in the event of their meeting their liabilities by two o'clock on the following Friday those notarial charges should not be enforced.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Guildford (Mr. Mangles), as to the propriety of extending the operation of the Bill beyond London; that he had considered that point a great deal, and it seemed to him that as the inconvenience to be provided against— namely, the obstruction to business likely to be caused from a dense mass of people, would not extend beyond the metropolis, it was useless to make the measure applicable to the whole country. As to the general question mooted by the hon. Member for Kendal (Mr. Glyn), it was well worthy of consideration whether it would not be expedient to introduce a general Bill repealing former Acts, and giving the Crown power, by proclamation, to place days devoted to any peculiar solemnity on the same footing—as regarded bills of exchange—as Sundays, Fast days, and Thanksgiving days.
 MR. WALPOLE,  in reply, said, that the point had been fully considered. All the commercial authorities whom he had consulted strongly recommended that there should be no departure from commercial usages.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he believed that the mode in which the tickets for St. Paul's had been allotted was this:—that all those who attended the funeral, whether as deputations or otherwise, would have places allotted for them, as, for instance, the Members of the House of Lords and of the House of Commons, Privy Councillors, Knights of the Bath, the Trinity House, and so on. Then there would be accommodation for peeresses, foreigners of distinction, ambassadors, and persons of that class. A certain number of tickets would be allocated to the Horse Guards, for officers who had served under the Duke of Wellington; the same provision had been made for the Ordnance,
 146
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose and said: Mr. Speaker, Sir,
 150 151 152 153 "Stilichonis apex et cognita fulsit Canities." 154 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, humbly to thank Her Majesty for having given directions for a public interment of the mortal remains of his Grace the Duke of. Wellington, in the cathedral church of St. Paul, and to assure Her Majesty of our cordial aid and concurrence in giving to the ceremony a fitting degree of solemnity and importance."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I now beg to move a Resolution—
 "That the House will attend at the solemnity of the funeral of Arthur Duke of Wellington in the cathedral of St. Paul on Thursday next."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then moved the appointment of a Select Committee, to "consider the circumstances relating to the attendance of this House and this place at the funeral of Arthur Duke of Wellington in the cathedral church of St. Paul."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the business of the House had very much increased of late years, and the gist of this Motion was to reduce the time they could dedicate to the transaction of it. The proposition of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Brotherton) was really to establish a restriction on debate; it was an extraordinary proposition in a free-trade age and a free-trade House of Commons. The hon. Baronet who had last addressed them, had reminded the hon. Gentleman of his frequent exercise of the salutary privilege of moving the adjournment of the House after midnight, and no doubt on many occasions it had contributed very much to public convenience; but there had been occasions when hon. Gentlemen had made Motions that the debate should terminate, on which an irresistible feeling had been shown on both sides of the House that the termination of the debate under such circumstances would be extremely inexpedient to the public welfare and public business. An iron inflexible rule on the question would be highly inconvenient. The subject had been very much considered in the Committee on Public Business. This restriction in debate was very much like the plan for limiting the duration of a speech, upon which point the Members of the Committee, formed from all parties of the House, came to an almost unanimous opinion, that if such a resolution were adopted, many hon. Gentlemen whom the House did not wish to hear would certainly speak for the hour, while the Gentlemen whom the House wished to speak more than an hour, would be prevented from doing so. As to the sanitary part of the question alluded to, and the reference made to the mode in which the business of the House was car-
 161
 MR. EWART,  in seconding the Motion, said, he wished that the proposition was one which would have the effect of assimilating more their business to the course they adopted on Wednesdays. It was stated, by a high authority, that more real practical business was done by that House on the Wednesdays than on any of the other days of the week. He (Mr. Ewart) considered that after twelve o'clock at night, those Members who were really anxious to do their duty might with great reason and propriety protest against proceeding any further with the business of the Legislature. The practice of sitting beyond twelve o'clock was most injurious to the health of the Members generally, especially to that of the Ministers, who had so many other duties to attend to. He had seen Ministers at such a time, while endeavouring to push forward business, actually sinking under the weight of their labour. He believed that the voice of the country was with his hon. Friend in taking this step. The voice of common sense was, at all events, in his favour.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought the practice of sitting so late at night was most discreditable to that House. Bills of the utmost importance were passed over night without the slightest consideration. Oftentimes were they called upon after midnight to dispose of thirty or forty Orders of the Day, and the consequence was, that measures were hurried through in an imperfect manner, and had to be amended in subsequent Sessions. It might be said that the mass of public business could not be otherwise got through; but every one acquainted with the mode of business in that House was acquainted with the fact that the early part of the Session was consumed in discussion upon Bills that in
 160
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he wished, in consideration of the public anxiety to participate in the coming solemnity at St. Paul's, to ask what number of places had been allotted in the cathedral to the Dean and Chapter during the approaching solemnity?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would have supported the Motion if he could have done Be with propriety, because he should be glad to prevent that system of midnight legislation which had sometimes been conducted with such evil effects in that House. But unfortunately the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Brotherton) had overshot the mark in not limiting his Resolution to the introduction of new business. If his hon. Friend would bring forward some Motion by which no new business should be introduced after midnight, unless with the distinct leave of the House, such a proposition as that would come before them with effect; although even that might require some further consideration, as suggested by the noble Lord opposite. Under existing circumstances, it was clear that if they adopted the Motion of the hon. Member for Salford, they would put it in the power of any party in the House to talk any question out. That would be so fatal to their deliberations that he could not give his support to the Motion.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he was of opinion that the right hon. Gentleman had not completely answered the question put to him: he would therefore beg to ask whether it was true that a large number of seats—something like 3,000—had been reserved for the Dean and Chapter of St. Paul's?
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, the object of his hon. Friend in this Motion was really within his own power, by moving an adjournment after midnight. He thought there were many occasions on which the House would feel the enormous importance of forwarding certain Bills a stage, although it might be after midnight; and he therefore urged his hon. Friend not to press his Motion, but to leave it to the good sense and good taste of hon. Members.
 MR. HUME  said, that seeing in his place the noble Lord the Under Secretary of the Foreign Department, he wished to ask the question of which he had given notice. Although it was most desirable that British subjects should be protected in foreign parts, they ought at the same time, when complaints were made, to endeavour to ascertain as fully as possible
 199
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, in answer to the question of the hon. Member, I have to confirm, in the first place, what he has stated, namely, that in the month of June last a British subject of the name of Newton was arrested at Verona, and detained under circumstances of considerable hardship. The circumstances of the case were these: Mr. Newton was arrested on suspicion of sketching the fortifications, he being at the time, as he stated, and as we have reason to believe, not so engaged; but it is fair to say, that the suspicion was not unreasonable, inasmuch as Mr. Newton bad at the time a book and map spread open before him. I merely mention these trifling circumstances to show what, indeed, Mr. Newton himself acknowledges, that as regards his original arrest, he has no ground for making any charge against the authorities. The city of Verona was at the time in a state of siege, and there is no reason to suppose that he was treated, so far as the original arrest was concerned, with exceptional harshness or severity. Subsequent to the arrest he was taken to the guard-house, orders were given that his papers should be examined, and that if, on their examination, nothing was found tending to criminate him, he should be set at liberty. These were the orders that were given, but unfortunately they were not obeyed. The search took place, and nothing was found of a criminatory character amongst his papers. When the search concluded, it was late in the evening, and by a gross neglect of duty on the part of the officer of police in whose charge Mr. Newton was, instead of releasing him, when nothing was discovered against him, he detained him all night, and did not liberate him until the following morning. Mr. Newton unfortunately, in my opinion, did not immediately proceed to put the case in the hands of the British
 200
 SIR JOHN F. FITZGERALD : Sir, as one of the representatives of the county where this sad event took place, I deem it a duty I owe not only to my constituents, but to the wives, children, and relatives of the unfortunate men who were slain at Six-mile Bridge, to move "for a Report of the evidence given before the coroner's inquest, held at Six-mile Bridge, in the county of Clare, in July last." I do so particularly at this moment, when I observe it is the intention of both the Attorney General and Solicitor General of Ireland to endeavour to quash the verdict of the jury, which verdict was one of wilful murder against a magistrate, and against eight soldiers who fired upon the people without receiving orders to do so, or without the Riot Act being read, and thus causing the bloody and untimely death of six of Her Majesty's
 202 "'From the first establishment of a standing army the jealousy of the House of Commons has been directed to prevent any military interference at elections, or overawing them by their presence. Thus the House of Commons resolved that all elections of any knight or shire, or burgess, to serve in Parliament be made without interruption or molestation by any commander, governor, officer, or soldier.'—17th November, 1645, 4  Journ, Journ. 203 "What you have done is against one of the most essential parts of the law of this Kingdom. Had any real necessity been shown for it? There might be fears—there might be some danger—but did you try the strength of the law to dispel those fears and remove those dangers? Did you make use of those powers the law invested you with, as civil magistrates, for the preservation of the public peace? No; you deserted all that, and wantonly, and I hope inadvertently, resorted to that force, the most unnatural of all others, in all respects, to that cause and business you were then attending, and for the freedom of which every Briton Ought to be ready to suffer anything." "He was firmly of opinion that if a person of the highest eminence was found guilty of murder by a jury, no tribunal of the country would liberate him without trial." 204
 MR. HUME  would say, that the cases mentioned by the hon. Gentleman might easily be provided for by the sheriffs not fixing upon inconvenient days. The sheriffs ought to know when fairs took place, and not fix such days for polling.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought that all the new Members of the Committee should be put into possession of the whole evidence which had come before the former Committee on this subject. He wished to know whether any steps had been taken by the Government towards effecting this object?
 MR. HUME  said, before the Order of the Day was proceeded with, he wished to state that he had made a request on a former night, that some estimate of the expenses of the funeral of the Duke of Wellington should be laid upon the table of the House. He found, upon referring to the journals of the House, that an estimate was laid on the table by Mr. Vansittart of the expenses of the funeral of Lord Nelson, and also of that of Mr. Pitt. The House was not sitting at the time of Lord Nelson's funeral, and therefore the estimate was not laid on the table until after the occasion; but as the House was now sitting, they ought to have an estimate laid before them. Not that he was desirous to abridge or to throw any difficulty in the way of a public demonstration, but they ought to relieve and disabuse the public mind of the extravagant ideas that had been formed as to the amount of the ex-
 212
 MR. HUME  said, that if the public money could not be accounted for, it appeared to him there must be great blame somewhere.
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion. He was not aware that there was any person better qualified for the office than the hon. Gentleman, whose devotion to the business of the House had been unceasing; and although he (Mr. Hume) regretted the loss from that House of his hon. Friend the late Member for Rochester (Mr. Bernal), still he did not consider that they could have a better chairman than Mr. Wilson Patten.
 MR. HUME  would remind the Committee that they were not bound by the passage of the Royal Speech just read, to the adoption of any specific scheme for the purpose mentioned; for when the question should come before the House for discussion, it would be his duty to submit a plan for their consideration very different from that which he had understood was suggested, and which, he thought, would be the means of their availing themselves of public property for the purpose, without coming unnecessarily upon the public funds.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  thought the House had heard a most extraordinary statement from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and that they had been treated in a most extraordinary way by the refusal given to the request of his hon. Friend that an estimate should be laid on the table of the House. With regard to the expenses of the funeral of the late Duke of Wellington, all persons in the country were unanimous in wishing, by every possible means, to testify their respect for the memory of that great and illustrious man; but he did not think that respect would in any degree be diminished by the constitutional course of giving to that House, who held the purse strings of the country, an estimate of the probable expense attending the solemnity of Thursday. They all recollected the letter addressed by the Prime Minister to the Home Secretary on the occasion of the death of the Duke. In that letter, which he thought most admirable, and he believed was generally Be considered, the reason given for delaying the funeral from what appeared to be the natural time, shortly after the death of the illustrious hero, was, that it would be better and more constitutional to delay it until Parliament should be assembled, in order that Parliament might give its consent and approbation to the manner in which it was to be performed. He was sorry to see that
 213
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  begged to move for leave to bring in a Bill to restrict the duration of polling for County Elections in England and Wales. It would be in the recollection of the House that at the close of the last Parliament he had moved for leave to bring in a Bill to restrict the days of polling in Counties from two days to one, and that Bill had obtained a first and second reading, and had passed through Committee. The Government, however, had thrown out the measure on the third reading, not because they objected to the principle of it, but because it was contended that the time intervening before the general election was so short that opportunity could not be afforded for
 206
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, that he thought that, whenever the discussion came on, he should be able to satisfy the House that the further changes he proposed were necessary.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that the House was doubtless aware, from the statements which had recently appeared in the public
 209
 MR. SPEAKER  then put the question that the House do now adjourn.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  wished to express, on the part of some hon. Gentlemen connected with the militia, their discontent that some measures had not been adopted
 216
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  brought up the First Report of the Committee appointed to consider the circumstances relating to the attendance of the House and their place at the solemnity of the Duke of Wellington's funeral. It was as follows:—
 "Your Committee have examined the Journals touching the proceedings and circumstances relating to the Procession of this House, and their place, on the occasion of public funerals, and they find that, in the year 1694, the House, with the Speaker, attended the Funeral of Her Majesty Queen Mary; that seats were reserved and tickets given to Members, with the Speaker's name, and that of each Member, for his admittance. "Your Committee also find that in the year 1708 the Speaker was deputed on the part of the House, to present an Address to Her Majesty Queen Anne. "Your Committee are of opinion, that it would be convenient, on this occasion, that the Speaker should be deputed to attend the Procession on the part of the House, and that the House should attend in the Cathedral Church of Saint Paul, and that the Speaker, when he arrives there, should take his place accordingly. "Your Committee have examined respecting the arrangements for the accommodation of Members. They find that 500 seats are reserved for Members in front of the North Transept. "Your Committee recommend that each Member should be furnished with a ticket of admittance with his name, and that the same should be distributed to Members, under the direction of Mr. Speaker."
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he was sure that the House would not agree in
 210
 MR. HERRIES  moved that the Select Committee on Indian Territories do consist of thirty-one Members.
 MR. HERRIES  said, with reference to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), the best mode of proceeding would be to leave the matter to the Committee themselves, who would know what was necessary for the requirements of the House; and with regard to the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for Rochester (Sir T. Mad-dock), it would be the duty of the Committee to determine what witnesses they should bring before them, and what evidence bearing upon the inquiry it would be desirable to have.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he had intended to move the addition of two or three names to the Committee, in order that the groat commercial ports might be represented; but when he saw the names of the eminent persons nominated, he thought it unnecessary to persist in that intention.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  (having taken the Chair), read the following extract from the Queen's Speech:—
 "The advancement of the Fine Arts and of Practical Science will be readily recognised by you as worthy of the attention of a great and enlightened nation. I have directed that a comprehensive scheme shall be laid before you, having in view the promotion of these objects, towards which I invite your aid and co-operation." "To assure Her Majesty that we readily recognise that the advancement of the Fine Arts and of Practical Science is worthy of a great and enlightened nation; and to thank Her Majesty for having given directions that a comprehensive scheme shall be laid before us, having in view the promotion of these objects, to which Her Majesty invites our aid and co-operation."
 MR. NAPIER : Sir, there will be no objection to lay the evidence in this case on the table of the House when the proper time arrives; but at present the proceedings are under the consideration of the Court of Queen's Bench, and that Court has not yet given its decision. But judgment will probably be pronounced in a few days, and then the evidence can be furnished. With regard, however, to the observations of the hon. and gallant Member upon the conduct of the Government, I may be permitted to say that the Government had nothing to do with the calling out of the military. They were called out, as is usual, on the requisition of a magistrate of the county, who has shared in the fate of the soldiers, and who, by this very respectable Coroner's jury, has been declared guilty of wilful murder. Sir, before the proceedings of the inquest were laid before me, the soldiers had been committed to the gaol of the county on the Coroner's warrant, and the depositions then came up and were laid before me in the usual course; for whenever any person has been committed on a capital charge the course is to lay the papers before the Attorney General, in order to see whether he makes any objection on the part of the Crown to the parties being admitted to bail. The Crown does not interfere further than this. Whenever parties apply to the Court of Queen's Bench in these matters, the Court is always greatly influenced by the circumstance whether the Law Officers of the Crown have given or refused their assent to the motion to admit to bail. On receiving the depositions I felt it to be my duty not to lose a single moment in applying myself to them, and I read them twice over—an occupation which took me eight hours. I read them through before I went to bed, and I read them again the next morning, and having considered them, I felt it to be my duty to state my opinion that these parties should be admitted to bail. Judge Crampton, after hearing counsel for the next of kin of the persons killed, himself considered the depositions; and he, in pursuance of the authority vested in him as a Judge of the Queen's Bench, made an order admitting the parties to bail—a course for which he had, and has, my full concurrence. I may state, with reference to the case having been brought before the Court of Queen's Bench, that that Court was the Supreme Coroner of the Kingdom, and had the su-
 205
 MR. PALMER  did not rise to oppose the Motion, but he would observe that there was a considerable difference between this Bill and the one of last year. He acquiesced in the Bill of last year with some degree of doubt. He had had some little experience of county elections, and was very much inclined to think that it would be undesirable to adopt the proposition of the noble Lord. At times it would be exceedingly inconvenient to pin down the electors to one day. He would give an instance in his own county, where a poll was demanded without any one expecting it, and it happened that on one of the polling-days an important fair was held in the neighbourhood, which many of the voters were very anxious to attend, and consequently were incapacitated from performing their electoral duties. He had conversed with many of the electors on this subject, and they were of opinion that the change might be attended with considerable inconvenience.
 MR. S. CARTER  said, he should be wanting in his duty to his constituents if he did not protest against the doctrine of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman had delayed the funeral solemnity for more than two months for the purpose of consulting Parliament, and yet was not now prepared to say whether the expenses would be 10,000 l. l., 214 Cries of carte blanche
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought that, seeing leave was given by the last Parliament to bring in a Bill somewhat similar to this, and that it even went to the third reading, it would be ungracious towards the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex to refuse him leave to bring in the present Bill. There were two points, however, he wished the House to bear in mind: the first was, that the objection taken on the part of the Government to the Bill of last Session was, that a sufficient opportunity was not given to Counties to provide polling places, so that every voter should have an opportunity of recording his vote. It
 207
 MR. WALPOLE  said, a return had been laid on the table of the House with the fullest information on the subject of the Ecclesiastical Courts of which the Government were in possession; and he could account for the absence of the returns of which the hon. Baronet complained only in this way. Several returns of that kind had been moved for by the hon. Baronet, and the officers thinking they had already made those returns in full, had neglected to continue the returns which were subsequently asked for. He was further informed that a return which had been moved for by the hon. Baronet in 1849, was presented to the House, and that the hon. Baronet never moved that it should be printed. If the hon. Gentleman would now move to have that return printed, he would gain from it fuller information than he could have from the return which he now asked for.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have directed the recommendations of the Committee to be submitted to the Commissioners of Customs, and I received their Report—a very elaborate one —only last month. I have very much considered it, and it is the intention of the Government to place a Treasury Minute on the table, which I hope I shall be able to do before Christmas, indicating all those changes that we think ought to take place
 201
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved that Mr. Wilson Patten take the Chair of the Committee.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then moved that a Supply be granted to Her Majesty.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his hon. Friend had greatly misconstrued what he had stated, in supposing that the public money could not be accounted for. If the public money were expended in this manner, it would be accounted for to the last shilling; but, from the pressure of circumstances, it was impossible at the present moment to lay an estimate before the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had not forgotten the intimation given some days ago by his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, but, from the pressure of circumstances connected with this solemnity, it was quite impossible to lay an estimate before the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not know whether the hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers) was present, but if he was not, perhaps some hon. Friend of his was who could give him an answer. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had yesterday expressed an opinion that it would be convenient to the House that the terms of the Motion of which the hon. Member had given notice, should be communicated to the House at as early a period as possible. He had expected that yesterday they would have been furnished with its terms; but they had not, and now another day had elapsed and the terms of the Motion had not been placed before the House. Tomorrow (Wednesday) the House would only meet for a morning sitting, when it was not usual to communicate such Motions of importance to the House. On Thursday the House would not meet at all, and unless they were furnished that night with the terms of the Motion, they could not have them before Friday, if even then they might count on possessing them. He was sure the hon. Gentleman or some of his Friends would answer this inquiry. But hon. Gentlemen must feel that a Motion of that kind ought not, as far as its expressions were concerned, to be kept from their knowledge.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, due notice would be given for taking that paragraph of Her Majesty's Speech into consideration.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : I beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it is the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill to carry out the recommendation of the Committee appointed last Session to inquire into the constitution and management of the Board of Customs?
 SIR B. HALL  said, he apprehended that the right hon. Gentleman was under a mistake. During the Session of 1849, he (Sir B. Hall) was unable to attend the House except on one day; he had not made any Motion on the subject except in the years to which he had referred, and the officers of the Ecclesiastical Court of Rochester had made no return whatever to those Motions.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he rose to move for a return of the appointment of Officers in the Consistory Court, Rochester, and also in the Archdeacon's Court in the same city. He apprehended there would be little or no objection to his Motion; but, inasmuch as the dignity and character of that House was in some measure concerned, he would state the reasons which had induced him to put the notice upon the paper. On the 2nd May, 1850, that House resolved that an Address should be presented to Her Majesty, praying Her Majesty that certain returns might be made in reference to the Ecclesiastical Courts; and he was informed by the officers connected with the Government of that day, that they had the very greatest difficulty in obtaining the papers from the Officers of those Courts—so much so, that thirteen months elapsed before they were presented to the House. Another Address was agreed to by the House on the 7th August, 1851, praying Her Majesty to order that certain further returns might
 208
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  begged to suggest that the name of Sir Thomas Herbert Maddock be added to the Com-mittee, as the hon. Member was thoroughly conversant with the subject, having resided for several years in India.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that before the House adjourned he begged to take the occasion of his hon. Friend the Member for North Lancashire (Mr. Wilson Patten) being placed in the Chair of the Committees of the House, to advert to a subject which he had on a former occasion brought before the House. The House had enjoyed the services of its Speakers for an unusully long time without a single day's interruption of the proceedings. During the last seventy years, there had been but two occasions on which the illness of the Speaker had caused an interruption to the proceedings of the House, and then two subsequent occasions on which the Speaker, on account of the death of a near relative, had been obliged to absent himself. But, with these exceptions, the attendance of the Speaker had been unin-
 217
 SIR THOMAS MADDOCK  said, he would also beg to suggest that natives of India capable of affording valuable information to the Select Committee should be summoned to give evidence before it. He was aware that among the educated inhabitants there was a large proportion of Hindoos who were precluded by the prejudices of caste from undertaking a sea voyage. But there were many who would not be so precluded could give evidence before the Committee; and he imagined with respect to the others that there could be no serions difficulty in obtaining the testimony of those Hindoo gentlemen of attainments and qualifications on the spot in India. That was the more important, because the evidence that had already been given, and the evidence which would in all probability be taken by the present Committee, had been and would be derived
 211
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that the proposition of the hon. and gallant Member was one that would go to diminish the emoluments of the naval service. The hon. and gallant Member's plan, he understood, was to the effect that the senior officers should be passed over, and a portion of the freight given to their juniors in the service. This, he believed, would have the effect of taking away a source of ambition from the senior officers. The present system worked, on the whole, well; and he might state that the present Government had not received a single complaint as to the freight since they came into office. He would not, however, withhold the Return which the hon. and gallant Member asked for; but he thought it would be more satisfactory that he should bring forward some substantive Motion on the subject, than merely asking for Returns which could lead to nothing.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he was happy to state to the House that no confirmation of the report in question had reached the Admiralty, and, indeed, the advices which had been received from the African station would lead to the belief that the rate of mortality was below the average. Admiral Bruce had sent a report to the Admiralty on the mortality prevailing on the African station from the 1st of July, 1851, to the 30th of June, 1852, from which he would take the liberty of reading the following passage:—
 "Their Lordships will observe, that among the
 220
 MR. WILSON  said, he had been requested by his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers) to lay before the House the precise terms of the Motion which he intended to make on the 23rd instant. The Motion would be as follows:—
 "That it is the opinion of this House that the improved condition of the Country, and particularly of the Industrious Classes, is mainly the result of recent Commercial Legislation, and especially of the Act of 1846, which established the free admission of Foreign Corn; and that that Act was a wise, just, and beneficial measure: "That it is the opinion of this House that the maintenance and further extension of the policy of Free Trade, as opposed to that of Protection, will best enable the property and industry of the Nation to bear the burthens to which they are exposed) and will most contribute to the general prosperity, welfare, and contentment of the people: "That this House is ready to take into its consideration any measures consistent with the principles of these Resolutions which may be laid before it by Her Majesty's Ministers."
 MR. HUME  hoped, that the respect due to the Commons of England would be considered, and that all Members of that House would appear at the funeral in their ordinary dress—being plain black, and suitable to the solemn occasion.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, there was no wish on the part of the Admiralty to require naval officers being Members of that House to attend the ceremony in uniform.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  brought up the Second Report of the Select Committee appointed to consider the circumstances relating to the attendance of the House at the solemnity of the funeral of the Duke of Wellington. The Committee reported that they had proceeded further to inquire respecting the most convenient mode by which Members could proceed to St. Paul's Cathedral, and they stated that arrangements had been made for steamboats to be in waiting at the river esplanade in front of the House at half-past ten o'clock in the morning of Thursday, to convey Members to St. Paul's Wharf; that the city authorities had undertaken that a passage should be kept clear from that place to the great western entrance of St. Paul's Cathedral, where Members could enter the cathedral by the northern door of that entrance, and proceed to the seats allotted them; that steamers would be in waiting at St. Paul's Wharf from three o'clock P.M., and that a passage would be kept clear from the cathedral to the wharf to enable Members to return. The Committee, therefore, recommended that the Members should assemble in the House at ten o'clock on Thursday morning; that they should be called over by counties in the usual way, the names of the counties being drawn by lot; that they should proceed to the steamboats, as far as possible, in the order in which such counties were drawn; and that the clerks and officers of the House, not exceeding thirty in number, should be permitted to accompany them.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he thought there was one omission in the arrangements, inasmuch as no deputation from the Navy was appointed to attend the procession. It was true that the First Lord of the Admiralty would attend; but he would have gone whether he had been a naval man or not, and so with respect to the different Orders of the Bath; though
 223
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, that a report had appeared in a newspaper stating that all the officers on board the ship  Dover
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he begged to address a question to the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland. In the course of his observations on the previous evening, that right hon. and learned Gentleman had made some remarks upon the course of public justice. Now, he (Sir J. Young) believed there was a general opinion abroad and in that House that the office of Coroner in Ireland required an entire remodelling, and he wished to ask whether it was intended to put this office upon a new footing?
 MR. NAPIER : Sir, with regard to the subject matter of this question, and with regard to other matters also, I may state that at the request of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland I have had under my consideration
 221
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he would refer to an Order issued that morning, which stated that all naval officers should appear at the funeral in their uniform. He thought it important to ascertain whether officers of both services being Members of that House were expected to appear in their respective uniforms or in their senatorial character.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, it was far from the intention of those who had the regulation of the proceedings to omit that most popular force from being represented on the occasion of the funeral, or to show the slightest disrespect to the Navy. The hon. and gallant Member would observe that throughout the procession it was considered necessary to have deputations representing a great many public bodies. The difficulty was to prevent the procession being inconveniently long upon a winter's day. The Navy he conceived to be fully represented in the person of the First Lord of the Admiralty. He could also inform the hon. and gallant Gentleman, that 200 tickets had been placed at the disposal of that noble Lord for the use of naval officers. He was not aware of any other mode by which Her Majesty's Navy could be represented except by adding one more carriage for the conveyance of four admirals.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that in order that a record of these proceedings might be inserted in the journals of the House, he would beg to move a Resolution to the following effect:—
 "That on the occasion of the Public Funeral of Arthur late Luke of Wellington, Mr. Speaker be deputed to attend the Procession on the part of the House; and that this House, on the same occasion, do attend in the Cathedral Church of St. Paul, where Seats have been provided for its Members."
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he felt himself called upon to condemn the practice of allowing officers in the Navy freight-money for bringing bullion from South America; and as a preliminary to an alteration of the present system, he would beg to move for a Return of the several sums of Freight Money received by the Treasurer of Greenwich Hospital since the 17th day of February, 1851, with the date of such payments, and whether on public or private account; also the name of the ship or vessel in which the treasure was conveyed, and of the captain or officer commanding the same.
 LORD STANLEY  said, the subject to which the hon. Gentleman alluded had attracted much attention, but he thought the House would agree with him that it would not be expedient to lay upon the table papers relating to it at a period when it could hardly be said that the proceedings had terminated. He had no objection, however, to state in a few words a general outline of the case. It was well known that the Turkish Minister charged with the negotiation of the loan in question had departed widely from the instructions he had received, and contracted in the name of his Government a loan which no judicious adviser of the Porte could have recommended the Porte to ratify. The consequence was, that, after a trifling delay, the Porte refused to ratify the loan, and at the same time immediately announced its intention to repay the portion of the loan already received, together with interest thereon. Further than that, he could only state that from all the information the Government possessed, it appeared that the Turkish Government were acting in a most fair and honourable manner; and they entertained a confident expectation that the affair would be speedily and satisfactorily dealt with.
 LORD STANLEY : The hon. Member for Dumfries, in June last, put to me a question similar to that he now puts, and I then did hope that I should by this time have been able to give to that or a similar inquiry a more satisfactory answer than I am afraid I shall now he able to give. This subject of education for the diplomatic service has engaged the attention of Government for some time past, and a plan has been prepared, which I trust, with some modification, will be adopted, but which is not yet in a state to lay before the House. In drawing out the plan, it was found necessary, or at least desirable, that some other changes should at the same time be made in reference to the junior members of the Diplomatic service, and as those changes involve some increase of expenditure (though not, perhaps, a large increase), it was determined not to include them in the arrangements of the present year. I can assure the hon. Member that the Government have not lost sight of the subject—that it is even now engaging their attention, and that they hope to be shortly able to lay before the House and the country such a plan as I have referred to. With regard to the second part of the hon. Gentleman's question, as to whether it is intended to apply any test of qualification to candidates for the Consular service, I beg to say it is not the intention of the Government to apply any such test. To do so would involve an entire change in the system under which Consuls are now appointed. The majority of those persons who entered the Consular service, entered it late in life, or at any rate at an age when it would be difficult to subject them to such a general examination as might he highly proper for young men who had just left school. Many of the British Consuls have been officers in the two services; some have been Members of this House, others are persons engaged in trade: and in none of these cases, but especially the last, would such an examination as the hon. Gentleman proposes be possible. A practical knowledge of commercial affairs, and an acquaintance (which ought always to be required) with
 247
 SIR JOHN YARDE BULLER  said, he begged to state, on behalf of his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War, that he (Sir J. Y. Buller) was quite prepared on his part to go into the case now, unless Mr. Speaker ruled that the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir A. Cockburn) could not be entertained by the House.
 MR. HUME  said, that he, for one, heartily thanked the hon. and learned Gentleman for the measure he had thus introduced; and which, he concluded, would have the cordial support of the Government. The reform of the law, on cither side of the Channel, was essential, not merely for the removal of delay and uncertainty, but, practically, as an important relief from taxation.
 MR. HUME  said, he had no desire to detain the House long with his Motion for a call of the House on Monday; but as there were many Members who had never been present on occasions when a call of the House had been enforced, he wished briefly to state the nature of his proposal, and why he considered it expedient. It was the theory of the Constitution, that the Members should be always in attendance when the House was sitting, and it was in conformity with this doctrine that, when a Member died, a Motion was immediately made for a writ to empower the election of a new Member to take his place. His proposal, he was aware, might occasion some trouble to those Members who were not in the habit of attending the House, or who desired, just now, to be in the country; but the duties of Parliament should be attended to by those who accepted its honours. It might be that, as a general rule, the actual business of the House was better done when but comparatively few Members were present; but there were, from time to time, great occasions on which solemn questions vitally affecting the whole Nation were at issue, and upon such occasions it was of vast importance that the entire body of the Representatives of the Nation should be present to record their judgment. Such an occasion was this, on which he now proposed that the House should be called upon to give its complete attendance. Never, in fact, throughout his long Parliamentary experience, had an occasion more essentially requiring the solemn attendance of the universal body of the representation of the people occurred, being, as this was, an occasion on which the Government of the
 267 "It gives Me Pleasure to be enabled, by the Blessing of Providence, to congratulate you on the generally improved Condition of the Country, and especially of the Industrious Classes. If you should be of opinion that recent Legislation, in contributing, with other Causes, to this happy Result, has at the same Time inflicted unavoidable Injury on certain important Interests, I recommend you dispassionately to consider how far it may be practicable equitably to mitigate that Injury, and to enable the Industry of the Country to meet successfully that unrestricted Competition to which Parliament, in its Wisdom, has decided that it should be subjected." 268
 MR. HUME  said, the House had the power of enforcing the attendance of Members on Monday; and if they attended on Monday and absented themselves on Tuesday, that would be a question between them and their constituencies.
 LORD JOHNRUSSELL  said, he thought it would have been much better if the hon. Member for Montrose, immediately after the announcement of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton that he intended to bring forward his Motion, had given notice of his intention at an early day to make a Motion for a call of the House. [Mr.
 271
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : After the statement just made by the right hon. Baronet, I feel it necessary to ask some further questions. The first question I have to ask is, whether that opinion which he has stated with regard to Earl Grey's proposed Ordnance has been given only by the Attorney General of the Cape, or whether that opinion has been confirmed by the law officers of the Crown in this country; secondly, whether there was not reserved in the Ordinance sent out to the Cape a power to alter the original Ordinance, or the Ordinance that came from the Cape after the Constitution had been received here; and, lastly, whether, in the present state of affairs, the right hon. Gentleman has any objection to lay the papers relating to the Constitution before the House?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Colonies stated, at the commencement of the Session, that no recent information had been received from the Cape of Good Hope; but that he expected to receive information of a favourable nature, and gave us hopes of a termination of hostilities. I perceive that more information has since been received, and no doubt despatches have been received by the Colonial Secretary. I therefore venture to ask the right hon. Gentleman what is the nature of those despatches, and how far they support the hopes he held out to the House? I perceive, likewise, by the intelligence from the Cape, that some dissatisfaction has been caused by the non-arrival of the Constitution; and if it be convenient to the right hon. Gentleman, it would be desirable if he could now make an explanation regarding it.
 LORD NAAS : I was certainly not aware, Sir, that any intimation had been given by any Member of Her Majesty's Government, that it was their intention to propose any alteration in the system of national education in Ireland, and I am bound to say that it is not the intention of the Government to propose any such alteration. I have further to state that they would view with considerable regret any alteration in that system that would interfere with its efficiency, and deprive the people of Ireland of the benefits of education, which are now so largely extended amongst them. If it shall seem to any hon. Gentleman on either side of the House, either that the object for which that system was originally established has not been fully carried out, or that by an addition to, or the amendment of, any of the existing rules, conscientious scruples might be avoided, and extended spheres of usefulness given to the system, it would be the duty of Government not only to acquiesce but to assist in such an inquiry to the utmost of their power, and to give any proposal that was made of that nature all the care and consideration which the difficulty and delicacy of the subject demand.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  was about to rise to bring under the consideration of the House the petition of the Electors of the Borough of Derby, when
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN : Understanding, Sir, that you entertain a strong opinion upon the point of formality, which you have stated to the House, I should not be inclined to struggle against that opinion; but it strikes me that inasmuch as the prayer of the petition is not to make void the return, and inasmuch as the bribery that is alleged is not stated to have been committed by the sitting Member, or by any person for whose acts the sitting Member would be responsible, this petition, it strikes me, does not come with-
 256
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN : This, then, being your view, Sir, as I said before, I will not struggle against it, but will withdraw my Motion. But I do think these petitioners are bound to give the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War an opportunity of clearing himself of the charges that have been brought against him; and, therefore, I hope the parties who presented this petition—having failed from the informality which you have pointed out—will not hesitate to come before the House again with the least possible delay.
 MR. LAYARD  begged to ask the noble Lord the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs the question of which he had given notice. The public was aware, though not through any official source, that a loan effected by the representative of the Turkish Government at Paris was either rejected altogether, or not ratified, and that repayment of the money advanced, with a certain amount of interest, was offered. He did not desire by anything he said to encourage British subjects in speculating in foreign loans. But he wished to ask the noble Lord if he had any objection to state to the House the information that had been received by the Government as to the repayment of the loan, or whether there
 244
 MR. SPEAKER : If the House allows the debate to proceed on this petition, it will really have received a petition which it ought not to have received at all, because the Act states that no election petitions can be received by the House unless they are endorsed by the officer of election recognizances, who must state that the recognizances had been properly entered. Now, if this petition comes within the definition given in the Act of an election petition, then it ought to have been endorsed by the officer of election recognizances; and as it has not been so endorsed, I do not think it ought to have been received; and I am of opinion that the House cannot proceed with the debate.
 MR. SPEAKER : I think it right to direct the attention of the House to what I consider an informality in this petition, and if the House shall be of the same opinion, it will not be competent for the hon. and learned Member for Southampton to pro-
 255 "That your petitioners are electors of the Borough of Derby, and voted at the last election of Members to serve in this present Parliament for the said Borough." "That the return of the said Thomas Berry Horsfall was procured by illegal and corrupt means, and by an organised system of bribery, which was resorted to, and successfully carried out, for the purpose of procuring, and which did procure, the said return." "Your petitioners therefore humbly pray your Honourable House to institute a full and searching inquiry into the allegations of this petition, and into the proceedings of the said Right Hon. William Beresford, with reference to the last election for the Borough of Derby." "That the return of the said Thomas Berry Horsfall was procured by illegal and corrupt means, and by an organised system of bribery, which was resorted to and successfully carried out for the purpose of procuring, and which did procure, the said return,"
 MR. LABOUCHERE : I wish to ask a question in reference to those Bills for the amalgamation of Railways, several of which, of great importance, are expected to come before the House at no distant period. The question I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman is, whether he has given this subject his consideration, and whether he will be prepared at the proper time to recommend to the House the course best calculated to enable the House to consider the subject with a view to protect the interests of the public and the parties concerned?
 MR. WHITESIDE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the procedure in the Superior Courts of Common Law in Ireland. The Preamble of the Bill recited—
 "That it was expedient to simplify and amend the course of procedure as to the process, practice, pleadings, and evidence in the Superior Courts of Common Law in Ireland, so as to make the same less dilatory and expensive, and to prevent substantial justice from being defeated by reason of the variety of forms of action, the technicalities and prolixity of pleadings, and the unnecessary length of records; and to consolidate the provisions of several statutes and rules of Court relating to such proceedings, and also to enable the Superior Courts of Common Law to give effect to certain legal rights and just defences, so far as might be, without the expense and delay of a resort to a Court of Equity." l. l., 258 "I regret to say that the last century and a half has witnessed great and prejudicial alterations in the original plan of pleading, so that the record, in the great majority of cases, instead of exhibiting a plain view of what each party is prepared to prove, contains an endless multitude of words, from which, if the real matter in dispute can be gathered at all, it is only by guesswork, or by circumstances out of the record, relating to things of which he gives not even a hint." "Of the circumstances peculiar to the transaction, the pleadings tell the defendant nothing, they tell the counsel nothing, they tell the Judge nothing. It may be said that the defendant must know the cause of action himself; but that does not always follow, especially if the allegations are groundless. There is, however, one person who must know the cause of action, and that is the plaintiff. He ought, for the satisfaction of all concerned, to state it distinctly." 259 260 vi et armis, 261 262 "Ought these solemn allegations of the parties, which are called pleadings, and which set forth the cause of action and defence, to be verified or not? The solution of this question depends upon two others—first, whether a party should be allowed to aver what he does not believe; and, second, whether there be any better test of his belief than his own affidavit. Both questions admit of easy answers. There are several reasons why a party should not be permitted to aver in a court of justice what he does not believe. First, the courts are, or should be, schools of morals. It becomes them to sot virtuous examples. Of all the institutions of society, Courts of justice should be the most sacred to truth. Whenever, therefore, they sanction, connive at, or open the door to untruths, they falsify their own professions, and become the corrupters rather than the teachers of mankind. Second, men should be protected, as far as possible, against false charges. It is signally unjust that any person should vex another with a claim founded upon statements which he does not believe.…What sort of protection does it afford if it allows these rights to be assailed by every adventurer, even though he furnishes not only no security against his misconduct, and no proofs of his charge, hut no test of his sincerity—not so much even as his affidavit of belief in it? Third, lawsuits are a disadvantage to society at large. They require a large array of public officers. They require the attendance of citizens, either as jurors or as witnesses, to the detriment of their own affairs. It seems, consequently, most fit that a check, at least as great
 263 264 265
 MR. J. L. RICARDO : I beg, Sir, to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, whether any despatches have been transmitted to that Department from the Foreign Office containing information or statistics bearing on the working of the Maritime Laws or the United Kingdom, and if, so, whether he will have any objection to lay them on the table, of the House; also, whether, any inquiries have been made by the Board of Trade of the British Consuls through the Foreign office?
 MR. HENLEY : I think, Sir, I had better answer the last question of the hon. Gentleman first. There was a letter addressed from the Foreign Office to the several Consuls, directing them to make returns in the form suggested. Returns from some of those Consuls have been received. There have not been many received in reference to 1850; those received have reference principally to 1851, therefore they do not contain much information that would enable us to make a comparison with respect to what the trade has been at
 245
 MR. HENLEY : The question that has been addressed to me by the right hon. Gentleman can hardly he overrated in importance. I have not had an opportunity, nor has the Department with which I have the honour to he connected, had an opportunity, of knowing anything of those Amalgamation Bills except through the means that are open to the public at large —the  Gazette
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : I beg, Sir, to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland whether it be the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose any alteration in the system of national education at present established in Ireland?
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  did not know whether it was the intention of any hon. Member to oppose this Motion. So far as he was personally concerned, it was a matter of perfect indifference to him whether the House was called over or not, because he was not generally absent from his post on such important questions as that to be discussed on Tuesday next. But, as the hon. Member had stated that the object of a call of the House was that every Member should be present, he would beg to ask the hon. Member what power he had to insure the attendance of Members except at the call of the House? If he could insure their attendance at the debate, that would be something; but the fact was, that he could neither ensure it at the debate nor the division. There was no such power; and half those who attended on Monday and answered to their names might, if they chose, be absent on Tuesday. He merely threw this out that the hon. Member might sec whether any useful object could be gained by this Motion; because, if not, it would hardly be worth while putting people to the inconvenience which it would occasion.
 MR. S. CARTER  said, that when Parliament was called together by the Queen's proclamation it was the duty of all Members to attend; and if, instead of being there they were in the south of Ireland or the south of France, or anywhere else, they had no right to plead such absence from their duty as an argument against a proposition of this nature.
 MR. WALPOLE : I am much obliged to the hon. Gentleman for asking the question, because I think a misunderstanding has prevailed with reference to the onduct of the Government as regards the
 248 249
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I beg to give notice, Sir, that on Tuesday, the twenty-third, on the Motion of the hon, Member for Wolverhampton, I will move a Resolution by way of Amendment, expressed in this language: —
 "That this House acknowledges with satisfaction that the cheapness of provisions, occasioned by recent Legislation, has mainly contributed to improve the condition and increase the comforts of the working classes; and that unrestricted competition having been adopted, after duo deliberation, as the principle of our Commercial System, this House is of opinion that it is the duty of the Government unreservedly to adhere to that policy in those measures of Financial and Administrative Reform which, under the circumstances of the Country, they may deem it their duty to introduce."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is unnecessary for me, after what the hon. and learned Gentleman has said, to add a word. I merely rise to say, I think it would be inexpedient to act contrary to the regulations of the House on such an important subject. But I think there will be no difficulty in devising some means by which a full and speedy inquiry shall be given to it, and I think that must be the wish of every Gentleman on both sides of the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he perceived that Mr. Erskine May, the gentleman whom his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) had so very justly and properly praised, observed in his work upon  The Law, Privileges, Proceedings, and Usage of Parliament,
 MR. EWART  seconded the Motion.
 MR. EWART  said, that, although there was no security for the attendance of Members on Tuesday, yet there was a strong probability that if they attended on Monday they would do so on Tuesday. There must, moreover, in his opinion, have been some good reason for the adoption of a rule by the House which had been so frequently acted upon.
 MR. EWART : I beg, Sir, to inquire of the noble Lord the Under Secretary
 246
 MR. SHEE  said, he wished to state the case of some hon. Friends of his, Members for counties in the south and west of Ireland, who he knew could not by possibility be present. Having had no reason to suppose that any business would so soon come before the House on which any great difference of opinion could arise, they had not yet attended the House; and it was impossible that they could now arrive in time; that being so, he thought it would be very bard upon them that they should be taken into the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms. Unless the House had the power, therefore, to make exceptions in such cases, the Motion would be calculated to inflict a great injustice.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, in an-
 250 "I might now almost report that the war is at an end; but, although characterised as a war, it has been, in fact, a rebellion. A war may be terminated by the surrender or capitulation of the hostile sovereign or chief, who answers for his people, but in the suppression of a rebellion the refractory subjects of the ruling Power must all be chastised and subdued. This has nearly been accomplished, and military occupation must keep them in subjection; but as it is difficult to define the origin or nature of this war, if it be considered as a war, so it is difficult to define the time when peace may be considered to be restored." 251 l. 252 l. l., l. "Your observations With respect to the 252. franchise are undoubtedly just. I believe that the limitation which the Attorney General, when called upon for his written opinion by me, assigned to that franchise, is not generally received, or by any means known, in the colony. But it is the view which, if words have any meaning at all, must have been attached to it by all who have paid any attention to the language of the clause. So inaccurate is our statistical information, so various the
 253 254
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, my answer to the first question of the noble Lord is, that I have not taken the formal opinion of the law officers of the Crown, but I have submitted the question to the highest law authority in the country, who states he has no reasonable doubt that that is the proper construction of the clause. In reply to the second question, the Ordinance does, I admit, contain that power; but I think the explanation I have given must show the noble Lord that until we have more statistical information, and are better prepared for the whole policy we should adopt, it would not be well to exorcise that power. In answer to the third question, I have no objection to lay the papers on the table.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY : I wish, Sir, to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with reference to an observation which fell from him on a former occasion as to the sitting of Convocation not being continued with the sanction of the Government. The question I have to ask is, whether, as we perceive the Convocation is postponed to February next, the sitting is then to be resumed, or whether it is adjourned in the usual way?
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  said, he wished to point out to the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) the great inconvenience and injustice which he might occasion to some Members if he persevered in this Motion. He was there prepared to vote; but if he had been at home in the south of Ireland it would have been utterly impossible for him to arrive at the House in time after being made aware of the decision of the House.
 LORD STANLEY : I think my hon. Friend has been greatly misinformed in the details of the subject to which he has just called the attention of the House. It is true that Mr. Paget, a British subject, who for about two years has been residing at Dresden, had his house entered and his papers seized by the police; but it is not true, at least no information of that kind has reached Her Majesty's Government, that his papers were seized by the Austrian authorities. They were seized by the police of the country in which he resided. The British Minister at Dresden, Mr. Forbes, at once remonstrated with the proper authorities, and the result of his remonstrance was, that after a short interval Mr. Paget's papers were returned to him. I should state that the first answer that was made by the Government of Saxony to the remonstrance of Mr. Forbes was. an admission that Mr. Paget's papers had been taken from him, and a justification of the act, on grounds which proved to he utterly erroneous. But to that reply a second note of remonstrance was sent by Mr. Forbes, which appeared to have produced its effect, for very shortly afterwards Mr. Paget's papers were restored, and Mr. Forbes was directed to convey to Mr. Paget an expression of regret, on the part of the Government of Saxony, at what had occurred, and to state to Mr. Paget that the
 295
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLBY  said, that in accordance with the wish of the House, he would withdraw the Motion.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he had to state that it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill in this Session of Parliament directing a bridge to be built across the Thames at Westminster, but that measure would not include the property on the south side of Bridge-street. The hon. and gallant Gentleman was probably aware that the houses on the north side of Bridge-street were the property of the Westminster-bridge Commissioners, with the exception of one house; and he (Lord John Manners) believed the leases would very shortly fall in. But with regard to the houses on the south side of Bridge-street, their purchase, he feared, would be a very expensive affair; and it was the opinion of the Government that their removal was not necessarily connected with the erection of a bridge across the Thames. Their removal, doubtless, would be a great improvement to the appearance of the New Palace of Westminster, though the cost that would necessarily be incurred would in all probability prevent that removal taking place. When the Bill which he had previously mentioned was before Parliament, the hon. and gallant Gentleman would then have an opportunity of seeing what were the intentions of the Government on the subject.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he begged to express his concurrence in the observations of the right hon. Gentleman.
 LORD NAAS  said, he did not rise for the purpose of prolonging a useless discussion upon points of detail, which it would, at that moment, be impossible for them to consider in an efficient or satisfactory manner. But he wished to take that opportunity of correcting a mis-statement which had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Sergt. Shee), when he had said that the fourth of these Bills—namely, that for giving compensation to tenants in Ireland—was similar to the Bill upon the same subject which had been introduced by Lord Stanley, in the House of Lords, in the year 1845. He (Lord Naas) affirmed, on the contrary, that there was no similarity whatever between the two Bills, with the single exception that they had both been framed for the same object. Their details were entirely different, and the machinery by which their end was to be attained was equally dissimilar. The machinery of Lord Stanley's Bill was of a very complicated character, and such as it would be very difficult to work out. It proposed that Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners should be appointed for the purpose of determining whether the improvements contemplated by the tenant should be considered as improvements or not, and it would render the tenant liable to ruinous litigation before he could begin any improvement. There was nothing of that kind in the present Bill. There were no preliminaries whatever, and it would be perfectly competent to the tenant to commence his improvements at once; and any litigation which arose at all must arise when the landlord proposed to eject the tenant, at the end of his tenancy. The improvements could thus take place within a week after the first steps were taken by the tenant. That created a very important difference between the two measures. He was not surprised to learn that hon. Gentlemen opposite expected to find in the Bill an attempt to legalise the tenant-right of Ulster. Ha was perfectly prepared for that; but he could not sit down without expressing his opinion—an opinion entertained, he believed, by almost every Gentleman who had calmly considered that question, and was acquainted with the circumstances of the north of Ireland, that it would be simply impossible to import into an Act of Parliament the tenant-right custom as it existed in Ulster. That custom varied on almost every estate. It was founded on ancient usages, which differed in different parishes; and it would be im-
 348
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he did not understand the right hon. Baronet to have imputed to Earl Grey that he had done anything to mislead the Colony; though he did use words which might seem to bear that construction. What his hon. Friend the Member for Bury (Mr. F. Peel) meant to say was, that whatever franchise Earl Grey gave was the precise franchise mentioned in the Ordinance which had been sent home from the Cape, drawn up by the Attorney General for that Colony; therefore his hon. Friend did not understand how there could have been any misconception at the Cape. That Ordinance Earl Grey had copied. So far as the subject of the franchise was concerned, he (Sir C. Wood) did not say what that franchise was, but whatever it was, it came from the Cape to Earl Grey, and was sent back by him as he had received it, unaltered.
 MR. F. GREVILLE  said, he thought the House and the country were much indebted to the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland, for the admirable spirit in which he had introduced those measures, as well as for many valuable provisions which they contained. But, at the same time, he (Mr. Greville) agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Sergt. Shee), that the last Bill which had been introduced by the right hon. and learned Gentleman would not give satisfaction to the tenantry in Ireland. It should be remembered that there could be no comparison made between the position of the tenant class in Ireland and in this country. In England the improvements in land were almost universally carried out at the expense of the landlords, while in Ireland they were almost as universally the work of the tenants. For these improvements the Irish tenantry naturally looked for compensation when they were ejected from their holdings; and their claim in that respect, ought, he thought, to be acknowledged by Parliament. Emigration from Ireland was continuing upon as large a scale as ever, and the only hope we had of preserving the population—-that population of which we might yet stand in need, and which had always stood faithful to this country in times of danger—was to do that which would secure the tenant in his application of capital to the land, and retain him at home.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he rose with extreme reluctance to address the House for the first time. He felt that the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland had brought to the consideration of that all-important subject all that legal skill, extreme industry, and right feeling could supply to settle the conflicting claims of two classes whose interests ought to be identical. He did not mean to pledge himself to all the details of those measures, as there might be questions connected with agricultural matters worthy of considera-
 344
 MR. NAPIER  said, he rose to move for leave to introduce a series of measures, having for their object the adjustment of the relations between landlords and tenants in Ireland—namely, "A Bill to facilitate the Improvement of Landed Property in Ireland;" "A Bill to provide Compensation to Tenants for the improvement of their holdings in Ireland;" "A Bill to facilitate the making of beneficial Leases and Agreements for Compensation for improvement of Lands in Ireland;" and "A Bill to simplify, consolidate, and amend the existing Laws which regulate the relation of Landlord and Tenant in Ireland." When he considered the difficulty and importance of this great question—when he reflected on its bearing upon the interests of Ireland, on the spirit in which the measures he asked leave to introduce might be received by the people of Ireland themselves, and how great and eminent statesmen had touched this question with a trembling hand, and left it still unsettled, he honestly confessed that he approached the subject with the utmost diffidence, and must ask the House for its kind indulgence while he endeavoured to state his views upon it. At the outset he readily admitted that he was greatly indebted to those who had heretofore endeavoured to grapple with the subject; because, although, some wilfully, and others reluctantly, had abandoned it, yet he had been greatly assisted by their labours; but he must also be permitted to add that he conceived the difficulty surrounding the question had been very much enhanced by de-
 306 307 "13th May, 1851. "Gentlemen: I have received the book which you were so kind as to send to me—your work on the 'Tenure and Improvement of Land in Ireland,' &c. I deferred acknowledging the gift until I could in some degree appreciate its value. I have now read it, and I consider it due both to you and myself to declare that I have derived from the perusal the greatest satisfaction and most useful information. It is a work which exhibits industry and research, professional knowledge and talent, judicious treatment and suggestion, practical good sense, temperate stricture, and benevolent purposes in an eminent degree, and a rare union of brevity and comprehensiveness, on one of the most important and interesting subjects which can in these times engage and fix the attention of every class in society, and which demands the prompt and decisive interference of the Legislature. That your valuable work may have the influence which it ought to have with those who possess the power of giving effect to its wise recommendations, is the sincere wish of, Gentlemen, your obliged and faithful servant, "ROBERT HOLMES." 308 309 310 "That which had been the system counteracted the kindness of Providence, and suspended the industry and enterprise of man. Ireland was put under such restraint that she was shut out from every species of commerce;—she was restrained from sending the produce of her own soil to foreign markets, and all correspondence with the colonies of Britain was prohibited to her, so that she could not derive their commodities but through the medium of Britain."[ Hansard, Parl. Hist. 311 312 313 314 315 316 Essay on the Penal Laws, l 317 Times 318 Vict., 319 l l l l l l l l 320 321 s. s. l l 322 323 324 325 l l l 7s. d. l 326 327 l l bonâ fide 328 329 330 331 332 333 334 l 335 336 337 338 339 l l l 340 341
 MR. COBDEN  said, that although he could not admit that the reasons of the hon. Gentleman were altogether valid, yet there might be a good deal said on both sides. The hon. Gentleman stated that, although they were called on that evening to answer to their names, yet there was no power to compel them to vote the next day. That was perfectly true; but, assuming that there were any hon. Gentlemen who wished to evade voting, or wished to run away, for that was the intimation—the object of a call of the House, as he understood it, was, that they might do their best to show to the country whether Members were in a condition to be there or not—whether they were in health to be present—whether they had any paramount engagement to prevent their being there—whether they could satisfy their constituents that there was a reason or physical impediment to prevent their being in the House on the next, as well as on that day. He thought, therefore, there was not in the hon. Gentleman's argument that cogency which many hon. Gentlemen supposed; but he thought the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) might be said to be all but completely successful, for he believed that there were present forty or fifty Members who had not taken the oaths of the House before that day. Seeing the great number around the table that day, it was evident that the Motion had had its full effect; he would therefore put it to his hon. Friend (Sir J. Walmsley) who represented the hon. Member for Montrose upon this occasion, whether he would press the matter to a division?
 Mr. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Under
 294
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, the hon. Gentleman has asked me three very important questions, and the most important of them, perhaps, is the first, namely, what are the intentions of Her Majesty's Government with respect to the reform of the Ecclesiastical Courts? Perhaps I might say that the Report to which the hon. Gentleman has referred is a Report of a Committee with reference to fees taken in the Courts of Law, and is not a Report on the whole question of the Ecclesiastical Courts. Now, the hon. Gentleman may possibly be aware that the Lord Chancellor in another place has already intimated that extension has been given to the Chancery Commission—in consideration of a paragraph in their most valuable Report—to enable them to consider the whole question of testamentary jurisdiction with reference to proceedings in the Courts of Law, the Ecclesiastical Courts, and the Court of Chancery. The attention of the Government has been seriously called to the subject, and I have no hesitation in saying that they are unanimously of opinion that there ought to be a stringent, an extensive, and a decided reform in the Ecclesiastical Courts. Wishing, as I do, that this reform may be one that may be approved of generally, and carried into execution and effect with the approbation of the country, I certainly wish, for my own part, that no Bill should be brought in until the whole question can be
 298
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was one of those who voted for a call of the House; because, when an hon. Gentleman in the position of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) thought an important question was to be brought before the House, which made it proper to obtain as large an attendance as possible, seeing that that Motion was proposed more or less against the Government, he (Mr. Walpole) thought it his duty to vote for the call; but he so entirely agreed in the observations of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr.
 305
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he was sure that the House generally must participate in the pleasure which he himself felt at hearing such a speech as that which they had been fortunate enough to have addressed to them by the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland, and which he admired not only for its tone and temper, but be cause it was ennobled by the highest sentiments of public policy. Great as was his respect for the right hon. and learned Gentleman, and great as was his wish to see the question brought before the House conducted to a proper conclusion, he had no idea that it would have been put by him on so clear and on such an eminently working footing. He did hope, therefore, that the House had given and would give every
 342
 MR. KIRK  said, he wished to make a few observations on the importance of these Bills to Ireland, and to state that this question of landlord and tenant involved the internal peace and tranquillity of that country. It had been said that Ireland was the chief difficulty of every English Ministry. And why? Because its annals were annals of agrarian crime, arising out of disagreements between landlord and tenant. It was, therefore, most desirable for all parties to unite to promote the good of Ireland, to promote her peace and prosperity, grounded as that prosperity must ever be
 345 346
 MR. SERGEANT SHEE  said, that he had listened with the greatest attention to the very able speech of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland, and must tell him that he was very much mistaken, and would do great injustice, if he thought that the Members who had been returned by Irish constituencies to that House, would, as he had insinuated, seek to obtain popularity in Ireland by any attack upon the rights of property. He (Sergt. Shee), for one, had undertaken to call the attention of the House to a Bill for the regulation of the relations subsisting between landlord and tenant in Ireland, but he could never have been induced to take that stop if he had been of opinion that there was one word in the Bill which tended to touch or trench in the slightest degree on the just rights of property. He was disposed to give to all the suggestions contained in the speech of the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland a most candid consideration, and he thought that there was much in the measures the right hon. and learned Gentleman had introduced worthy of being favourably entertained, and he was resolved to avow his approval of that which might appear to him worthy of the approbation and adoption of the House. As to three of the Bills which had been laid before the House, however he might be inclined to differ with the right hon. and learned Gentleman on some of their details, he believed that there was much in every one of those three Bills deserving of the attention and the adoption of the Legislature; and though he could not hope to be able, by any assistance he could give to the right hon. and learned Gentleman, who was so well acquainted with the details of the complicated law in Ireland, to lighten his labours, he could assure him it would not be from any want of hearty good will on his (Sergt. Shee's) part that he was not successful, and that he would not, from any party or factious motive, hesitate to do him full and entire justice on a question which ought not to be a question of party at all. Having said thus much, he felt bound frankly to state that the last Bill which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had brought forward, was not calculated in his (Sergt. Shee's) opinion to give the slightest satisfaction in
 343
 SIR B. HALL : I wish to put three questions to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, of which I have given him notice. The first relates to the Ecclesiastical Courts, the second to Ecclesiastical Discipline, and the third to Episcopal Incomes. The right hon. Gentleman is aware that in 1850 a
 296 "Her Majesty places full confidence in your Grace's desire to use such means as are within your power to maintain the purity of the doctrines taught by the clergy of the Established Church, and to discourage and prevent innovations in the mode of conducting the services of the Church, not sanctioned by law or general usage, and calculated to create dissatisfaction and alarm among a numerous body of its members." "The memorial alludes to the introduction of doctrines and practices into the Church during the last few years which cannot be reconciled with the principles of the Reformation. This is a subject upon which, unhappily, I have been so often obliged to declare my opinion, that I need not repeat it now. The memorial, however, proceeds to complain of a practice originating in these erroneous doctrines, which can scarcely be distinguished from the auricular confession of the Church of Rome. I agree with the memorialists in believing this practice to be equally unscriptural in principle, and mischievous in effect. But I trust
 297
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Woods what the definite intentions of Government were as to the removal or the contrary of the buildings on either side of Bridge-street, Westminster-bridge; and if one or both sides of that street were intended to be removed, at what period it might be intended to carry the same into effect?
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that seeing the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies in his place, he was desirous of asking permission of the House to correct a misapprehension into which he conceived that the House could not but have been led by what fell from the right hon. Gentleman in replying, on last Friday evening, to a question put by the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell), calling for an explanation of the delay that had taken place in transmitting the Constitution to the Colony of the Cape. He (Mr. Peel) understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that a general impression had prevailed throughout the Colony that Earl Grey, in his draft Constitutional Ordinances, had intended to confer the franchise on every man who occupied for a certain number of months any description of fixed property—that it was under that impression that deliberations had taken place in the
 299 l 300
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought that the House would perceive that the question to which the hon. Gentleman had called their attention was not only one of detail, but one of an intricate and difficult
 301 l l 302 l
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  begged to move, for his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), who was unavoidably absent, that the House be called over.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that, without any disrespect to the hon. Gentleman who had just moved that the House be called over, and with less disrespect towards the hon. Gentleman upon whose behalf he made that Motion, he must appeal to the experience of every Gentleman present—of those, at least, who had personal experience upon the subject, and of many others who knew historically the proceedings of that House—whether the attempt to call over the House were generally successful—whether it were not a mere  brutum fulmen 304
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War relating to the appointment of Constable of the Tower. The right hon. Gentleman was probably aware that the Committee on the Army Estimates refrained from entering into the consideration of the Tower garrison, because they were informed that at the expiration of the patent all the offices would undergo revision. That was certainly stated by Mr. Fox Maule, now Lord Panmure. A vacancy had now unfortunately taken place through the death of the Duke of Wellington; and he perceived that Lord Comber-mere had since been appointed Constable
 349
 MR. BBRESFORD  said, in the Committee on the Army and Ordnance Estimates the then Secretary at War (Lord Panmure) certainly stated, that according to the Resolution of a Committee of 1833, the whole staff of appointments at the Tower was to be subject to revision at the death of his Grace the Duke of Wellington; but on turning to the Report of the Committee, he did not find any such resolution. With regard to the appointment of Viscount Combermere as Constable of the Tower, he begged to inform the right hon. Gentleman that the appointment was made on the death of the Duke of Wellington, with this provision, that not only the emoluments of the Constable, but those of other offices also, as they became vacant, were to be subject to any revision which Parliament might choose to make. But he must also beg to make this further remark: That from the Army Estimates of the present year he found that the total sum given to reward distinguished services amounted to 18,000 l l l l l l l l l l
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he begged to put the following questions to the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Admiralty: Whether Her Majesty's Government intend to introduce a Bill for the better regulation of ports and harbours? Whether the present Board of Admiralty, soon after their accession to office, gave directions that the names of the workmen and artificers, recommended for promotion, were to be sent direct to the Secretary to the Admiralty instead of being first submitted to the Surveyor of the Navy, as had been previously the rule? Whether any correspondence took place with the Surveyor in consequence of such order, and whether such order is still in force? Whether a Committee of Officers was appointed to inquire into and report on steam ships, steam engines, and the subject generally as applicable to naval purposes; and the reason for such Committee separating without coming to any conclusion or making any report?
 MR. STAFFORD  said, in answer to the first question, it was not the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill on that subject. In reply to the second, he had to state that he supposed the hon. and gallant Gentleman alluded, in the wording of his question, to the arrangement made by Mr. Ward in 1847. The arrangement, which was first made when the Navy Pay Office was consolidated with the Board of Admiralty, in 1843, confirmed in 1844, and assumed to be in existence in 1847, when Mr. Ward issued his last regulation, was still in force, and had not been at all disturbed by the present Board of Admiralty. There was no correspondence with the Surveyor of the Navy on the subject. In answer to the third question, he thought the hon. and gallant Gentleman had assumed that the Committee of Officers had separated; but that was not so. The Committee, on their appointment, proceeded to visit Glasgow and Liverpool. They found, however, that in order to carry out the purposes for which they were instituted, it would be necessary to expend a greater sum in the prosecution of their researches than was desirable. For that reason the Committee returned to town, and did not prosecute the inquiry further; but it was in contemplation for them to resume their functions.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, the Commission to which the hon. Gentleman referred made a report, in which they suggested certain things to be done, and other things which it would be desirable to do when the next mail contracts came under consideration; but he (Mr. Stafford) did not think it prudent to stste what those suggestions were, for the present at all events.
 MR. VILLIERS  rose, in pursuance of notice, to move the following Resolutions:—
 "That it is the opinion of this House, that the improved condition of the Country, and particularly of the Industrious Classes, is mainly the result of recent Commercial Legislation, and especially of the Act of 1846, which established the free admission of Foreign Corn, and that that Act was a wise, just, and beneficial measure. "That it is the opinion of this House, that the maintenance and further extension of the policy of Free Trade, as opposed to that of Protection, will best enable the property and industry of the Nation to bear the burthens to which they are exposed, and will most contribute to the general prosperity, welfare, and contentment of the people. "That this House is ready to take into its consideration any measures consistent with the principles of these Resolutions which may be laid before it by Her Majesty's Ministers." 352 353 354 355 356 in toto, 357 358 359 360 361 362 363 364 l 365 l l s. s. s. d., d. l s. l d., d. d. d. l1d., d. d. s. d. l l l l 366 367 368 369 Cries of 370 "At the time the Government made known the intention to repeal the corn laws, which is now nearly five years since, the owner of an estate of about 4,000 acres, situate in the centre of England, alarmed at the prospect which free trade presented of reduced rent and diminished income, had his attention drawn to the necessity of preparing his tenants for the lower prices they would have to take for the produce of their farms, and sought, in the improvement of his estate, for means to enable them to continue its successful cultivation. The success which has attended his proceedings offers so valuable an example to others, that I trust I shall be excused for giving some account of it. At the period mentioned, the estate was divided into farms of 130 to 300 acres, which, tithe-free and arable, with valuable pasture, were let at rents of from 15 s. s. 371 372 from the Ministerial tide of the House. 373 "Before draining can be successfully carried out We the Weald and other enclosed portions of the county, the small fields must be enlarged by grubbing hedges and felling trees. Not less, per haps, than an  eighth "Lost fallows, as they are aptly termed, not unfrequently occur in wet autumns in small enclosed fields, where light and air are in a measure shut out. Thus nearly a whole year's expenses, and perhaps a dressing of manure, are almost lost. There are many thousand acres in the Weald of Kent which cannot, under existing circumstances, be cultivated without a positive loss, that might be made to yield of most kinds of corn a full average of the kingdom. …… "The fatal mistake characteristic of this district is to allow high wood and trees to grow in the hedges of arable land in small inclosures….. It is common to see very inferior trees do more injury in three or four years to the crops than the whole value of the trees will amount to after continuing the mischief for half a century" "The district possesses within itself the means of its own amelioration. All that is required is to go about the business in a judicious manner. ……The cheapest and most effective way of carrying out the great object (the improvement of the district) would be for owners of land to commence their operations systematically, and do no thing by piecemeal.……The best way would be for the landlord to pay the whole expense of the draining, conducting it under his own superintendence, and to charge a fair percentage on the rental. A judicious outlay might be made to yield in many parts of this county five or six per cent, with a great advantage to the occupying tenant." 374 from the Ministerial side of the House. 375 376 377 378 379 Cries of 380 381
 MR. RICH  said, he wished to know whether any steps had been taken by the
 351
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, he did not think it necessary to follow the observations of the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House. But he could not help thinking if the hon. Gentleman were anxious for a speedy solution of the question, he had taken a very curious mode of arriving at it. He (Mr. Seymer) had never heard a speech more calculated to provoke a long debate than that of the hon. Gentleman. He (Mr. Seymer) denied that hon. Gentlemen upon the Ministerial benches had, as a party, raised the question of protection. Individual Members of that party, feeling strongly for the sufferings of their constituents, certainly did raise that question. But the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) used to say he would not meet these petty attacks upon free trade. He said "raise the question upon a specific Motion, and I will meet you." Well, when he (Mr. Seymer) and his friends raised the question of protection, and when the hon. Member for the West Riding met them by a free-trade Motion, he and his friends would do their best to answer the hon. Member. The question for the House was, whether the people were able to understand from the statements of the Ministry the course which would be taken with regard to our commercial policy? He contended that they were. But there was something peculiar in the atmosphere of the House of Commons. He had returned from breathing the pure air in the wilds of agricultural and Protectionist Dorsetshire. In that county there prevailed no political mists; neither were their hopes or fears excited for one party or the other.
 437 438 439 Hansard "That the maintenance and further extension of the policy of free trade, as opposed to that of protection, would best enable the property and industry of the country to bear the burdens to which they were exposed." 440 441 442
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I have listened with that interest in which the whole House has joined to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and I expected when he rose that he would have made at least some attempt to answer the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers). I cannot conceive that the right hon. Gentleman lost sight unintentionally of the point of my hon. Friend's speech, and of the real question now in dispute between the Government and my hon. Friend. If the right hon. Gentleman avoided entering into the question which has been introduced to the notice of the House, I may at least be justified, I think, in avoiding a large portion of his speech. I shall, therefore, in the first place, call attention to only one or two points which the right hon. Gentleman urged. The right hon. Gentleman wished to make it appear that he was now a member of a Free Trade Government, and that he acted with the Free Trade party, and yet repeatedly during his speech, and within six sentences of its conclusion, he spoke of the body with which he was now associated as still the Protectionist party. The right hon. Gentleman said, moreover, that he took no steps in the direction of unsettling the settlement of 1846 since that period. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to forget that in 1850 he voted in favour of a Resolution to the following effect:—
 "That the whole House resolve itself into Committee of the whole House, for the purpose of taking into consideration the Acts relating to the importation of Foreign Corn." 413 Laughter. 414 415 416 417 Progress of the Nation, l l l l 418 l l l l l l l l l 419 l d. l l s. s. l l 420 421 Morning Herald, "To be as much a protectionist as ever, and he was satisfied that if Lord Derby saw that it could be easily attempted, protection would be restored in its old form; or if it could not, Lord Derby would retain office to improve the position of the farmer." 422 "His own opinion remained unchanged upon the question of free trade, and he thought the changes which Sir Robert Peel made in our commercial policy had been most injurious to the interest of the country." "To support Lord Derby's Government believing that the noble Lord was disposed to assist the agricultural interests against the inroads of free trade." "It appears to me that free trade is only calculated to diminish the employment of every trade and profession. All the working classes are suffering from it, and the manufacturers and shopkeepers are endeavouring to meet the falling-off in their profits by extending their trade." "determined adhesion to the principles of Protection, and his surprise at being called upon to renounce those principles on the ground that they were untenable. It might just as well be asked of a man enclosed in an iron cage to give up his notions of liberty; but he should retain his opinion, and take the first opportunity that occurred of recording it in favour of Protection." "He wished to protect not only the farmer, but the British labourer, against excessive foreign competition." "If they disagreed with him on the subject of a 5 s. 423 424 "If again sent to Parliament, he would support the present Government, which he believed to be Conservative, Protective, and Protestant. Lord Derby had said that the best and easiest way to relieve the agricultural distress was to reimpose a moderate fixed duty on corn; but he said, if the country was against it, although he retained that opinion, he would endeavour to afford that relief in another shape." "Attempts had been made to sow dissension among them by stating that Lord Derby had abandoned Protection and had deceived them. He had said, what he had always said, that, if he could, he would restore Protection. If he could not do that, he would give an equivalent in some other way." "admitted that the feeling of the country was favourable to the continuance of free trade, but he should go to Parliament determined to support Lord Derby by every means in his power, as he was convinced Lord Derby would propose a reduction of taxation in favour of agriculture." d. d. "he was still as strongly as ever in favour of protection, although the country was opposed to it, and he looked to the present Administration for such measures of relief as would enable agriculture to meet the altered circumstances." 425
 MR. BRIGHT : But the right hon. Gentleman approved by his speech, to which I am now referring, of the policy of 1846, and then the right hon. Gentleman came down to the spring of 1846, which is the epoch of that particular Act which we are now discussing. The right hon. Gentleman disapproves of the subsequent policy of Sir Robert Peel, and then went on to speak of the local taxation upon land. He seemed to think "the local taxation left on land was 15,000,000 l l 426 Here Sir J. Tyrell came forward and took his seat in a more prominent position. " 'All he asked for farmers was fair play,' which is precisely what we always ask from them too—'and an alleviation of their burdens. That was a relief which Lord Derby wished to carry out. He, for one, treated with sovereign contempt the insinuation that the old and tried friends of the agriculturists should be regarded as impostors, He said if they were impostors, it was clear that Mr. Lennard—[who, he (Mr. Bright) supposed was the hon. Member's rival]—was an impostor also.' " "With regard to free trade, his opinions were unchanged; he was still a protectionist; he had always advocated a moderate duty on foreign corn, believing that a moderate duty would benefit the farmer without materially raising the price of bread." "If no other man of greater ability would bring it forward, he would. He would do his best to get a Member of greater ability than himself to bring the question forward, and he certainly would give it his cordial support; he was not going to change his opinons." 427 " 'He felt great pleasure in congratulating them on the fact that protection was not dead.' 'You hare heard me say years ago,' he continued, that I could never countenance free trade; I never was a free-trader, but a free supporter of native industry.' And then he concluded with this remarkable statement, 'It may suit some to advocate free trade, but those who do so are of the Manchester school.' " l "The 41b. loaf cost 5 d., "Let this be understood, that I am for free trade on just and equitable principles; and free trade without reciprocity is nothing more nor less than political suicide." Poll Book of the North 428 Lincolnshire Election. " 'He valued his own independence; he did not undervalue the high position he held in Her Majesty's councils, and he despised the man who did undervalue it; but at the same time he would never sacrifice his own independent principles, or the principles which he believed animated the district of which he was the representative. He held, in common with the Government, the same principles as he did in opposition, and he should do his utmost to give effect to those principles on every occasion on which he addressed the electors of that division of the county; on every occasion on which he addressed the House of Commons. He had invariably maintained the right of protection to native industry, and he never intended to deceive them.' 'A plain question,' he said, 'would be put to the electors, and that question was, whether they would return a sufficient number of representatives to enable the Government to alter and revise the existing policy." "He held it to be a safe principle, in general terms, that they ought to levy from the foreigner, in the shape of customs duties, as large a portion of revenue as they possibly could, without interfering with the comforts of the people, by which means the foreigner would be made to contribute to the taxation of the country, and native industry would to that extent be protected." "Those," he added, "were the broad principles on which he thought the policy of this country ought to be based." "He never had deserted his professions, and he never should desert them; and if, from any cause, he felt it necessary to desert them, he would take the first opportunity of resigning his seat into their hands, so as to enable them to elect some one more worthy of their confidence." 429 "The question of protection will be decided at the next general election. From that decision there can be no appeal. To abandon you at such a crisis would be a base dereliction of the public duty." "With regard to British labour and British industry in general, he should pursue the same course as he had taken hitherto, provided the different constituencies of the Kingdom would empower him to do so; he would give to British industry every protection to which he thought it so fairly entitled." "The question is, whether you will, by your representatives in Parliament, and by the power with which the constitution has invested you, support and advance what is called the doctrine of free trade in this country, or whether you are satisfied that it has already done enough of evil, and are ready to withstand its further progress, or at least its progress in the same direction, with all the powers which the constitution has enabled you to confer on your representatives in Parliament." "When I come to the last, and I lament to say the crowning act of Sir Robert Peel, when I come to the repeal of the Corn Laws, it is there that I stop; it is there that I protest; it is there that I deny any substantial good; and I affirm that that measure was followed by unmitigated evil." 430 "I here repeat without dread of contradiction that the effect of the free-trade legislation of 1846, and the great influx of corn into this country from abroad, was not to put one additional pound of bread per annum into the mouths of the people of this country." "We have unfolded our views most fully; we desire to have protection to existing interests; and on looking at the elections, so far as they have gone, it is responded to from most parts of the country. Our side"—that is, the protectionist side—"our side are already considerable gainers. Although we have lost sixteen seats, we are gainers of thirty-two seats in the boroughs already declared. In Liverpool the free-trade party have lost two of their ablest advocates, who have been replaced by two stanch protectionists." 431 432 433 434 435 436
 MR. WALPOLE : I was not in the House when it was made.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, if the speech which we have just listened to with so much interest—as we always do to anything which falls from the hon. and learned Gentleman—had been a speech in favour of the repeal of the corn laws, or in favour of the repeal of (he sugar laws as they existed some time ago, I think it would have been much more appropriate than upon the occasion on which it has been delivered, because the question which we have to decide to-night is, not whether the corn laws shall be repealed, not whether the sugar duties shall be repealed; not whether protection or free-trade—to use the somewhat inaccurate language of the hon. and learned Gentleman—should be repealed or supported; but whether Her Majesty's Ministers, by their conduct since their accession to office, have fulfilled the pledges they gave to Parliament and the country; and whether, having announced that they would defer their own opinion to that of the country on a subject of great importance, they have frankly or other-wise communicated to the House the resolution at which they have arrived. The hon. and learned Gentleman has just told us that enormous mischiefs have been done to the country by the course which has been pur-
 382 383 Cries of 384 385 s. 386 387 Laughter. 388 Laughter. 389 l l 390 391 Hansard, The right hon. Gentleman was here interrupted by some conversation among hon. Members on the Opposition benches. 392 393 394 395 Hansard 396 "He thought that there was a connexion between the two proposals which was fatal to the revival of protection.… . The present Motion, if not perfect, was at least an approximation to justice. But it was said that a poor-rate was a tax inherited by the landed interest, and that, their property having come to them on this condition, they had no claim to be relieved from the payment. And how did the matter rest with regard to their inheritance? They did inherit poor-rates with their land, but they also inherited with it a protective system which had given to this property an artificial value."—[3 H ansard, 397 "But, while he rejoiced in the full evidence that a large portion of the community wore in the enjoyment of at least an equal, or more than average, share of comfort, yet the condition of the forming, class and of the agricultural labourer in a large portion of England, to say nothing of Ireland, was such as to demand the attention and consideration of the House." "If he spoke of them as justice, prudence, and compassion prompted, he need not wait for the financial statement of the year in order to do so.… . Yet it was impossible to avoid the conclusion that a severe struggle was going on, and that the farmers, as a class, were exerting themselves manfully.… . Now, he was desirous that the House should show a disposition to give aid and encouragement to the tenantry and yeomanry of the country in their struggle on their own be half, and on account of the vast national interests connected with maintaining our domestic agriculture.… . He trusted something to that spirit of liberality and conciliation which induced men to concede something to those over whom they had obtained a great triumph." 398 "We recollect the crisis through which the West Indies have passed, presenting a great industry and great interest not suffering and complaining merely, but absolutely ground down and reduced to total ruin by the legislation of this House." "to the conclusion of my hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich, to which my hon. Friend opposite is, I believe, prepared to adhere, as well as I am myself, to extend to the British West Indies that protection which is now vanishing before their eyes, for such time as may be necessary for the production of those useful public works that may lead to ultimate cheapness of production; while at the same time I ask you still more to adopt this course on behalf of that class for whom you have before made such sacrifices, and who are now fast sinking back to that degrading condition from which they were originally raised by your philanthropy and benevolence." 399 400 401 402 403 404 405 "It appeared to us, much as we should have rejoiced in an opportunity of advising Her Majesty to declare the opinions w entertain with respect to the recent commercial policy, that the time was not a fit one to propose that that expression of opinion should fall from Her Majesty. It has always appeared to us, that in conformity to recent custom with regard to matters of legislation, upon which Parliament may have to give an opinion in the course of the Session, it is better to reserve those questions on the first night of the Session, and rather to give an opinion as to the actual state of the country, than to attribute that legislation to any acts of the Government." 406 407 408 409 410 411 "To leave out from the word 'That' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words 'this House acknowledges, with satisfaction, that the cheapness of provisions, occasioned by recent legislation, has mainly contributed to improve
 412
 MR. F. PEEL : Sir, however divided in opinion this House may be on the question that is now submitted to us—although one party will vote for the Resolution, and another party will vote for the Amendment—I apprehend that we shall all readily concur in one point, and that is, that Her Majesty's Government have made great advances, and are continuing to advance at a very convenient speed from one set of principles to another—from protection to that which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has stated to be popularly but most erroneously called "free trade." Why, I really feel that I ought to make some apology for employing a term apparently so offensive to the right hon. Gentleman as that. I remember a time when Her Majesty's Government, then in opposition, felt some reluctance to make use of the word "protection," and substituted for it the more fashionable phrase of "countervailing duties;" and so in the same way we are now called upon to give currency to the new expression of "unrestricted competition"—a good expression in itself, no doubt, but to my mind not so clear, not so handy, not so intelligible, as that familiar word of "free-trade," which I shall use, using it in the sense in which Her Majesty's Government use the term "unrestricted competition." Now, Sir, I have no desire to enter into the general question of free trade. I conceive that that is a question which is admitted and conceded upon both sides of the House. If any evidence should be required in its favour, we may be safely
 443 444 445 446 447 448 449 l l 450 451
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I shall not detain the House but for a few minutes in requesting their indulgence to allow me to state shortly the view which I take of the propositions which have been submitted to the House, and of the position in which the House seems likely to be placed. I have stated on a former occasion, and I repeat it now, that I think it was not only proper, but under the circumstances in which we were placed, absolutely necessary, that some Member should propose to the House a Resolution answering the question which Her Majesty's Government put to the country by the dissolution of the last Parliament. If, indeed, that portion of the Speech from the Throne which treated of the question of free trade and protection had been couched in language more plain and unambiguous, it is possible that the Address in reply to the Speech might have been accepted as the answer of the House on the part of the country to the question of preference between the two opposite principles of commercial policy. The Speech, however, was in that respect undoubtedly as ambiguous as words could make it; and that fact increased the necessity, in my
 452 453 454 455 456 Laughter. 457 458 "That it is the opinion of this House that the improved condition of the country, and especially of the industrious classes, is mainly the result of recent legislation, which has established the principle of unrestricted competition, and abolished taxes imposed for purposes of protection, and has thereby diminished the cost and increased the abundance of the principal articles of food to the people." "That it is the opinion of this House, that that policy, firmly maintained and prudently extended, will best enable the industry of the country to bear its burdens, and will thereby most surely promote the welfare and contentment of the people. "That this House will be ready to take into consideration any measures consistent with those principles which, in pursuance of Her Majesty's gracious Speech and recommendation, may be laid before it." 459 460 461
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, he should be disposed to support the second reading of this Bill, because he was decidedly in favour of polls at County Elections being restricted to one day. He thought such polls could be taken in one day without any inconvenience. But the Bill went much farther than that, and he thought the House ought to be exceedingly cautious, lest in endeavouring to promote despatch, it did not commit a much greater evil than the one sought to be remedied. The Bill proposed that the poll should take place on the day after the day of nomination. He thought that would be too early a period for the poll to begin after the day of nomination. In the West Riding of Yorkshire, which he represented, more than once, under the existing system, had the candidates been taken by surprise on the eve of an election by the appearance of a new candidate, and once they were forced to be specially on their guard against a similar surprise. If, therefore, the poll took place so soon after the nomination as this Bill proposed, candidates would have more than ever to be prepared for a contest, and they might expend in that way nearly as large a sum as that which would be incident to a contested election. In 1847, when Lord Morpeth and himself were candidates for the West Riding, they hoard no rumour of a third candidate coming forward until their arrival at Wakefield on the evening before the nomination day. Neither of them was, therefore, prepared for a contest; and feeling the very great responsibility of throwing so large a con-
 462 463
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he was of opinion that the Bill did not go far enough. One important point was omitted, which was that of reducing the time between the proclamation and the day of election, and he should move in Committee the insertion of a clause to that effect. He supported the Motion for the second reading.
 SIR JOHN BULLER  said, he trusted that, as the feeling of the great majority appeared to be in favour of the second reading of the Bill, the hon. Member for Berkshire would withdraw his opposition to that Motion. In considering the Bill the Committee ought not to overlook the case of those counties which had not the advantage of great railway communication; and, on the other hand, should not increase expense by giving too large a power for the addition of polling places. With respect to purity of election, he could not anticipate that this Bill would tend very much to that effect. He was happy to say, as regarded English counties, very few complaints of bribery and corruption were ever substantiated, and he believed that there was no probability of the return for any county in England during the last election being disputed.
 MR. SCOTT  said, he hoped that the Bill would not be extended either to Ireland or Scotland until some experience had been attained of its working in England. He conceived that in many instances considerable hardship would result from limiting the time of County Elections to one day. Hon. Gentlemen who supported the Bill seemed to forget the convenience of those electors who lived at a distance from the polling places. One of the first contested elections he had been engaged in for the county of Roxburgh took place in the depth of winter, when the roads were almost impassable; the friends of his opponent resided chiefly in the towns, whilst his (Mr. Scott's) friends resided in the country districts. If in that case the polling had been confined to one day, there could be no doubt that great hardship and injustice would have been inflicted. As to intimidation at elections, he believed that the effect of the Bill would be merely to concentrate the efforts of parties to intimidate and coerce the electors more than at present.
 MR. ELLIOT  said, that, so far as he could ascertain the opinions of the electors of that part of Scotland with which he was connected, there was a strong desire on their part to have the polling limited to one day; and he would give notice of his intention, at a future stage, to move that the Bill should be extended to Scotland.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he must confess he entertained very considerable doubts as to the expediency of this Bill, but he was not prepared at once to vote against the second reading in the mode proposed by the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Palmer). There was, however, a part of the Bill to which he (Lord H. Vane) entertained a very decided objection, namely, the interposition of only one day between the nomination and the polling day; and if his noble Friend (Lord R. Grosvenor) should be inclined to persevere with that part of the Bill, he would feel it his duty to oppose it on its third reading. This was only a question: of expense; there was no principle whatever involved
 465
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he now begged to move the Second Reading of this Bill; Motion made and Question proposed, "That the Bill be now read a Second Time."
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he begged to move as an Amendment that the Bill, together with that of which the hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay) had given notice, should be referred to a Select Committee, in order to
 471
 MR. SPOONER  said, there was no ground whatever for the imputations on the part of the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. Alcock), that those who opposed the Bill did so with the view of giving power to the wealthy, and of preventing the poorer classes of persons coming up to the elections. The noble Lord who proposed the Bill, said he did so only to save expense. He (Mr. Spooner) opposed the Bill, because, instead of diminishing the expenses of elections, he thought it would greatly increase them. In the county which he represented (Warwickshire), many of the voters lived at great distances from their polling places; and he was sure it would be impossible, in the event of a contested election, to give to every freeholder in that county the means of exercising his franchise in one day. He hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Berkshire would press his Amendment to a division, and if he did so, he (Mr. Spooner) would most undoubtedly vote with him.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, he had given this subject some consideration, and he could not help saying that the more he considered it the less expedient he thought it was to alter the present system of taking the polls in counties. His decided impression was, that the effect of limiting the poll to one day would be to subject the persons who had to give their votes to great personal inconvenience. He confessed he was much struck to find the representative of so large a constituency as the West Riding of Yorkshire in favour of a proposition for limiting the poll to one day. He (Mr. Palmer) had no doubt that the poll might be taken in one day, if there was a considerable increase of the arrangements for accomplishing that end. But then came the question of expense. His strong belief, however, was, that if they were to increase the polling places to a very considerable extent, the result would be, that so far from diminishing the expense by limiting the poll to one day, they would increase it. They would require additional deputy-sheriffs, additional clerks, and additional arrangements of every kind. The great body of voters in counties were agriculturists, and it was a matter of considerable importance to them that they should be allowed two days in which to record their votes at their polling places, some of which were at great distances from their residences, rather than one. For example, it would be very inconvenient if the single day on which they were at liberty to give their votes happened on any great fair or market at which their business compelled them to be present. It was necessary, too, that the voters should be secured from surprise. In his own county, at the last election, they
 464
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, in accordance with the wishes of the House he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I quite agree with the observation which fell from my hon. Friend the Member for Berkshire (Mr. Palmer), that there is no actual principle involved in the Bill as proposed by the noble Lord (Lord R. Grosvenor), and that the question to be considered is a question of convenience, expediency, and expense. Now, there are two propositions contained in this Bill: the first is, that the days of polling in counties shall be reduced from two to one; and the second is, that the day of polling shall immediately follow the day of nomination, without allowing an interval, as now, between them. [Lord R. GROSVENOR: An interval of one day.] Very well, an interval of one day. Now, upon the question whether the polling in counties shall be reduced from two days to one, as in the boroughs, provided you can do it conveniently, and with as little expense as is now incurred, I think there
 466 Will. 467
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he concurred in the suggestion of referring the Bill to a Select Committee, with a view of ascertaining particularly the position of the various counties with respect to the facilities for the conveyance of electors, and for taking the poll at elections. The Government would state, before Wednesday next, the course which it would be prepared to adopt with respect to the Bill in Committee.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he could not understand what objections the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Palmer) could have to this Bill. Bid the experience of the hon. Member in that county to which he had adverted, refer to the ousting from the representation of Mr. Pusey, a man who more thoroughly understood the whole question of the agricultural interest than perhaps any Member in that House. He was surprised to think that the hon. Member for Berkshire could not think it possible to do in one day in that county with only 5,000 electors what 20,000 electors had done in one day in the city of London. Besides, as a matter of time, there were now more facilities for taking the poll effectually in counties in one day, than there were in two days in 1832—at the passing of the Reform Bill. At that time they had solely to rely on conveying the voters to the poll by horse power; but now they could everywhere take advantage of the facilities for locomotion by railways. At present a nomination for a county might take place on a Wednesday, and the elections would not be until the following Monday, because if the polling commenced on the Saturday they would have the Sunday intervening. He would ask if that was a proper or reasonable state of things? When the Reform Bill
 468
 MR. W. BROWN  said, that no more difficulty would arise from confining the election to one day, than from allowing it to extend as at present, to two days, inasmuch as the voters could come up the day before the day of polling if necessary.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he thought that great as might be the benefit of the Bill to England, it would be of far greater importance and benefit in Ireland. He believed that a great number of the scenes which they all deplored, and which had taken place in Ireland during the late elections, would be prevented by the passing of such a measure. The system of "housing" now carried on at elections in Ireland was mainly owing to the two days which were occupied by Connty Elections. He would suggest that the right hon. the Secretary of State for the Home Department should consider the propriety of introducing a clause, if the Bill were extended to Ireland, for abridging the oaths required to be taken by electors, as it frequently happened that in contested elections the persons employed by the sheriffs to administer the oaths read them over extremely slowly or very rapidly, as they conceived might best promote the interests of their favourite candidates, by allowing a larger or smaller number of electors to record their votes in a given time.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  hoped the hon. Member for Berkshire would not take the advice given him by the hon. Member who last addressed the House, and who came before them on that occasion with the old Tory story of the Reform Bill. The principal objection of the hon. Member who last addressed the House appeared to be whether sufficient time would be allowed, under the Bill, for all the electors to give their votes. He believed there was no foundation for such an objection.
 LORD MONCK  said, he must protest against England being made the ground for an experiment of this nature, and he contended that the Bill ought to be applied equally to Ireland and Scotland. He advocated the limitation of polling to one day, as having a tendency to stop intimidation in Ireland. With regard to the provision shortening the interval between
 470
 MR. GLADSTONE : I wish, Sir, to say a few words with respect to the question raised by my right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham), and I rise simply in the hope that anything which may fall from me may only be of such a character as to contribute to an issue of these discussions such as shall be at once satisfactory to the feelings of the great body of the people and likely to promote the undisputed permanence of the present commercial policy of the country. I venture to hope that some progress has been made towards a settlement of that question, and that if we can agree upon the question which has been raised by the right hon. Baronet with respect to the insertion of certain words in the Amendment, suggested by my noble Friend near me (Viscount Palmerston), that then, although we should not be entitled, in point of form, to say that either the Amendment of the Government or the original Motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C, Villiers) had been withdrawn, yet that both these concessions would be made by both parties respectively interested to the general feeling, and that we might come to something like a common agreement. Now, the whole question before us relates
 485 486 487 488
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : Sir, I
 496
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : Well, of course, I must leave the hon. Gentleman the Member for Wolverhampton to decide for himself whether or not he will persevere with his Motion. For my own part, Sir, I have no hesitation in saying, that. I hope the hon. Gentleman will persevere with his Motion. ["Hear, hear 1"] Yes, I say, I hope he will. I heard the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) declare the other evening that those hon. Gentlemen who pretended to be free-traders, but who were not prepared to vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton in approval of "recent legislation," were no free-traders at all. Now, my own opinion is, and I tell the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), that if he does not divide upon his Amendment, the opinion will go out to America that the House of Commons is in favour of Protection—that he dared not divide the House on the question. Last year a similar Motion was proposed in this House, and I received no answer to the speech which I then made —no answer to it is made now, and foresee that, in the present House, unless the hon. Member perseveres with his Motion, that I will not have an opportunity of addressing it. Sir, I, for one, cannot give my assent to any one of these Resolutions. I totally dissent from each and all of them. I agree with an hon. Gentleman who has spoken, that there is so much confusion—so much mystification—so much doubt and obscurity about them, that I, as well as others, am quite at a loss to make out what the difference between the several propositions is. I own, Sir, that I am completely baffled. So that, if this debate be continued, I hope that I may not be debarred from expressing my opinion; but, in case I should not have that opportunity, I now distinctly avow my determination to dissent from all those Resolutions or Amendments; I 'do not think, whilst I admit the general prosperity of the country, that that prosperity is owing to recent commercial legislations I think it is owing to other causes. I believe that the Free Trade system itself has not as yet been fully developed. I
 497
 MR. BENTINCK  apologised for rising at a time when the House was probably looking for much more able and eloquent arguments; but said, that having the honour of holding a seat in that House for the first time, and being the representative of one of the most important agricultural districts of England, he hoped that in the peculiar and somewhat anomalous state of public affairs, he should be allowed to make a few remarks. On a former occasion the hon. Member for Middlesex gave most affectionate advice to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and recommended him, in language the most classical, and in phraseology, the most courteous, "to take his physic like a man." The hon. Gentleman proceeded to animadvert on the position of the Members on that side of the House who had hitherto held Protectionist opinions, and were favourable to the present Government; and the hon. Gentleman said, that either they (on the Ministerial side) must cease to support the Government, or give their support in a shameful silence; but he (Mr. Bentinck) did not believe in the existence of any such difficulty.  Credat Judæus ego. 560 561 562
 MR. BUTLER JOHNSTONE  said, that he had listened with the greatest attention to the remarks of hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House, and had come to the conclusion that there was but little use in the House of Commons wasting its time about a mere abstract form of words. He believed the real question was the passing
 498
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I hope, Sir, notwithstanding some parts of the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the tone of his concluding observations, that the House may yet be able to arrive at a decision on this subject which will, at least, include the great majority of the House, and settle the important question which has so long been in dispute between what is called "Free Trade" and what goes by the name of "Protection." I shall not now enter into the early part of the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman as to whether the Government are or are not properly a Protectionist Government—whether they came in on the ground of Protection, or were at all bound to adhere to the system. I hope, Sir, there may come another day when I shall have an opportunity of expressing my entire dissent from the statements of the right hon. Gentleman. But this is not the time to do so. It has appeared to me that when this Parliament was assembled, it was desirable, in the first place, that some decision should be come to on the great question of commercial and financial policy on which the country has been so long divided; and that, in the next place, it was desirable that those who had made themselves the peculiar advocates, and styled themselves the sole defenders, of the interest which had been affected by recent legislation, should have a full and ample opportunity of laying before this House and the country the measures which they consider will repair any evils which may have been done, and at the same time conduce to the general interests of the country, These two principles have guided my conduct since the commencement of the present Session, I own that with respect to the first of them it appeared to me that
 508 509 510 511 Cries of 512 513
 LORD LOVAINE  said, that he should not now have intruded himself upon the attention of the House, after having so lately addressed it, had it not been for the personal allusion made to him by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham). It was true that he (Lord Lovaine) did beat Sir George Grey at the last election for North Northumberland. It was true, also, that he beat that right hon. Gentleman by polling a larger number of votes than the right hon. Gentleman had polled at the previous election. It was true, likewise, that he beat the right hon. Gentleman after he had been tried five years as the representative of that county. But it was equally true that the contest was conducted in the fairest, most open, and most gentleman-like manner; and he believed Sir George Grey left the hustings, on that occasion, with the same good feeling that he (Lord Lovaine) had entertained when he himself was a beaten candidate at the election before. He was aware that with the gratification of the victory, he had likewise to incur the difficulty of maintaining this high position, but he certainly did not expect that, upon entering the House for the first time after a lapse of twenty years, he should be subjected thus early to a direct and personal attack. It was the more extraordinary when he reflected that amongst the many changes and chances of the political career of the right hon. Baronet's (Sir J. Graham's), he was only a few years ago in direct opposition to Sir George Grey. ["Question!"] He would speak to the question, and he would declare his conviction that the object of the debate was not the triumph of the principle of Free Trade, but it was merely the effort of a faction to procure the defect and discomfiture of the opposite party. He believed that the right hon. Baronet had stated that the house of Percy ought to be the last to abandon the cause of Protection. He supposed that it was owing to the changes already alluded to that the right hon. Baronet had forgotten that upon his side of the question,
 484
 MR. NEWDEGATE  acknowledged the distinct manner in which the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire expressed his views at all times; hut the hon. Member did not always make the same statement with respect to the same circumstance in two different places. The hon. Member for the West Riding said, that whatever might be the issue which the House wished to try, the issue he wished to try upon the Resolution of the hon. and learned Member for Wolverhampton was, whether the claims of those who held themselves to have been injured by recent legislation should or should not be considered. He (Mr. Newdegate had been tolerably consistent as a Protectionist, and perhaps, in some degree, he represented the Protection societies, and he believed he was correct in saying of those with whom he had acted, that they acknowledged the decision of the country to be against protection. They believed that the question had not been decided by those to whom he addressed himself, but by circumstances, to which, however, he did not intend then further to allude. Acknowledging that decision, those with whom he acted were determined to see whether the present Government would not consider the injuries, the pressure of which they knew to exist. If this House were pleased to affirm a simple free-trade Resolution, he, being a Protectionist, but acting on a conviction that the majority of the country had declared in favour of free imports, would take no part till he saw whether measures for relief would be proposed by Her Majesty's Government. The hon. Member for the
 518 Times "I think we are fairly entitled to say this, that whatever else the men may be, we insist upon having a free-trade Administration; and when I say a free-trade Administration, I mean a body of men, if they are the men now in office, who shall distinctly and emphatically repudiate all the doctrines they have been promulgating in their past lives upon this great question. We have seen that done before by greater and better men than they. …. But it (their recantation) must be emphatic. They must say that free trade does not lower wages. They must say that free trade does not cause a drain of gold from this country. They must say that free trade has not thrown land out of cultivation in this country. The must say that the land of this country is still worth something." "And they must say that wheat—good wheat—has not been imported into this country, and cannot be, at 24s. per quarter?" "Those are a few things they must say, when they said the very opposite before; and we must have no accompaniment about compensation. Compensation! Well, but I deny that there has been any loss. I boldly declare, and challenge the adversary to deny it, that the value of land in
 519
 MR. SPEAKER : I think it necessary to remind the House, that the question before the House is not the Motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, but that this House do now adjourn. I will also remind them that this is a day devoted to Notices of Motion, which, by our Rules, will take precedence of the Orders of the Day; but owing to this Motion for adjournment, the House has been drawn into a
 528
 MR. C. VILLIERS : I rise, Sir, in consequence of the call which is now made upon me; but, as the old Members of this House must know, I have, as having already moved the Resolution, but small discretion in dealing with it now. I was summoned to this House to-day about half an hour before it met, by a letter from the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay), who said that he had some very important communications to make to the House, as well as some questions to put in which I might be interested; and he begged that I would be in my place. Well, I came, accordingly, and having heard that the object was for me to withdraw the Resolution, I have been listening for some time to hear some reasons assigned by him or by anybody else, why I was to do so, and accept the Resolution of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton instead. Now, Sir, I think there is no doubt that I am the mover, though I am told that I am not the author of this Resolution. Although I have not, it seems, the honour of its paternity, I have the liability of its support, and that I am willing to accept and to vindicate. Now, Sir, my statement on this matter will, I am afraid, be different from those that have preceded it, for it will be very simple. My purpose has been very simple throughout this matter, and that is, perhaps, why I cannot understand the new views that I hear to-night, and why I cannot understand some Amendments which have been proposed. On this side, if I am not mistaken, there was a general agreement as to the propriety of the Motion; and my right hon. Friend the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham) has, in a very friendly spirit to myself, stated that there was also some propriety in my being the mover. It was then agreed upon, that I was to submit a Resolution on
 522 523 524 525
 MR. C. VILLIERS  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny County had a Motion on the paper relative to Tenant Right, but he would appeal to the hon. and learned Gentleman to waive his right to precedence, and to allow the adjourned debate on the Resolutions he (Mr. Villiers) had proposed, and the Amendment of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to go on.
 MR. E. BALL  said, that he rose under very great disadvantages, for he could not pretend to the possession of that quality of audacity, which the French authority quoted by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had declared essential to success— he could not, however, help subscribing to the truth of the sentiment from the example the House had been witnessing. He (Mr. Ball) felt that he had a right to trespass on the attention of the House, having attended many of the meetings to which hon. Gentlemen opposite had referred, and which it seemed to him they ought not to treat with such contumely, inasmuch as they appeared to have furnished the hon. Member, and the hon. Member for Manchester with the subject-matter of their speeches. It struck him that, having derived so much amusement from the proceedings at these meetings, they ought to refer to them in a very different spirit from that in which they did. [ Laughter]. literati desideratum, 551 desideratum." "He had looked about over the world, and had endeavoured to ascertain the proportion in which the people of various countries consumed, in order to ascertain whether they get more for their individual consumption of the necessaries of life, where these commodities were cheap, as compared with where they were dear. He found that in Poland and Russia the consumption was about five bushels of grain to each individual per year; Germany, where corn was dearer, six bushels per head; in France, where corn was dearer than in any other country excepting England, seven bushels per head; but in England the average consumption was eight bushels per head, and nearly the whole of that consisted of wheat." 552 "PROCLAMATION OF THE WORKING CLASSES OF GREAT BRITAIN. "Free Trade  v. "Whereas a notice of Motion has been given and a Resolution placed on the journals of the House of Commons by Mr. Villiers, seeking to pledge the Legislature to an unqualified approval and a further extension of the miscalled free-trade policy, otherwise unrestricted competition; and whereas it is desirable that publicity should be given to the real and deliberate sentiments of the working classes in respect to the effects of that policy on their interests: Now, be it known that at a large meeting of the working classes convened to discuss the relative merits of free-trade and protection, the following Reeolutions were unanimously adopted, viz.—
 
 "'1. Resolved—That the science of political economy as now taught, believed, and practised by those who advocate 'cheapness,' by means of unregulated universal competition, miscalled 'free trade,' has a most pernicious effect on the minds and actions of statesmen, is destructive of honest dealing, subversive of morality, ruinous to the national resources and character, tending to slavery, murderous in its operations of humanity, and therefore ought to be entirely abandoned. "'2. That the principle of protection to humanity, to the products of labour, land, and capital in Great Britain and her colonies, is the true basis of political and social economy, calculated to give employment and fair remuneration for labour, profit on capital, promote the development of the national genius, energies, and resources, and thereby secure the peace, prosperity, independence, and happiness of the whole British empire. "'3. That this meeting sympathises with all who are suffering under the miscalled 'free-trade' policy, and hails with great satisfaction the efforts now making to reverse the present system of universal competition, and the introduction of a sound practical protective policy for native industry and capital, and will cheerfully co-operate with all classes to obtain legislative enactments for its realisation.' "These resolutions being founded upon the following address of the Metropolitan Trades' Delegates:— "'Fellow Countrymen—As it is now admitted by all classes that labour is the source of wealth, it evidently follows that the prosperity and independence of Great Britain and her colonies will be best promoted by employing and protecting the greatest number of a healthy, industrious, intelligent, and moral population, that can be educated and comfortably maintained by their own industry; therefore it should be the first and most important duty of a wise Government to adopt such measures as will best secure employment to the entire population, and for their labour an abundance of the necessaries and comforts of life. We, therefore, fearlessly assert, that the unrestricted foreign cheap labour policy which has been for a series of years encouraged by the Legislature of the kingdom, and greatly extended by the late Parliament, is theoretically wrong, and, under the existing constitution of society, practically injurious to the working classes, by compelling them to enter into stimulated, unregulated, and hopeless competition at
 553 "'While reiterating the opinion which we formerly expressed against the present unfair system of reckless competition called free trade, from which its advocates promised so much good, especially to the working classes, but which has only proved "a mockery, a delusion, and a snare," we will not now impute blame on account of the experiment, nor do we desire to awaken in your minds angry feelings or enmity against any class of legislators or politicians; but we boldly call upon you to demand from any party that may hold the reins of office, a protective policy for native industry against unfair competition, so that you may be enabled to live by your labour, and give a rational, practical, and useful education to your children, without which the security and prosperity of the empire are impossible.'" "When you tell me that corn is 60s. a quarter, I ask, Is there not a paramount necessity for maintaining the obligations of public faith? Can I shut out of my consideration altogether the operation of the malt tax, the operation of the poor-law, the operation of the county rate, and of all those bnrdens which press so heavily upon the landed interest?" "If these laws were repealed, land would be
 554 "I do think that 8s. a quarter on corn coming from Poland will afford sufficient protection. Who pays church-rates? Who pays poor-rates? Who pays tithes? I say, not altogether, but chiefly, the landed proprietor; and if there be corn produced by land not pressed by these burdens, it would be clearly unjust to admit it on equal terms." 555 556 557
 SIR BULWER LYTTON  said, that the sole question which the House had to decide was, the adoption of a form of words affirming the principle of free trade, which
 495
 MR. CAYLEY  trusted that he might be allowed to address the House upon the point at issue, the more especially as he was an old soldier upon this question, and he hoped that he had been a consistent one. Ever since protection had been abolished in 1846, he for one had never endeavoured to restore it. He was perfectly conscious that it never could be restored. When the hon. Member for Wolverhampton made his speech the other night upon the Address, he thought that if that hon. Member did not know that protection was dead, and that there was no possibility of restoring it, he was the only man in the country who was ignorant of the fact. It seemed to him, therefore, to be somewhat unfair that he should be placed in such a position as that predicament in which he now found himself—without any  locus pœnitentia 491
 MR. STANHOPE  said, he could not admit that the agricultural interest had suffered no injury. His county (North Lincolnshire) was a fair test of the operation of the Free Trade policy. The farmers held their land at moderate rents; they had a laborious and excellent peasantry; and if any men could have withstood the evil of free trade, those were the men who would have done it. He had seen men once independent obliged to rely for their bread on the charity of their landlords. In that county, where men received a higher remuneration than in any other, the labourers were in a far worse condition since the Act of 1846 than before. Without sufficient employment and sufficient remuneration, the cheapness of provisions was no benefit. Believing that great injury had been inflicted, he could not assent to the words "wise, just, and beneficial;" and, consistently with his duty to his constituents as
 529
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to say by way of explanation, before the House began the debate, that in his speech the other night he had referred to the fact that the Lord Advocate of Scotland had gone as a candidate to Lisburn, and had stood for that borough under the patronage of the Marquess of Hertford. It had been stated in at least one of the papers that he had asserted the gentleman in question had gone to Lisburn under the patronage of the Marquess of Londonderry; and as he did not wish to be supposed capable of making a mistake on such an important question and matter of fact, and as he had received a letter from the son of the noble Lord (the Marquess of Londonderry), who sat in that House, in reference to it, he wished to make that statement, and to correct any erroneous impression which might prevail on the subject.
 MR. BRIGHT : The question was put to the Government, and not to him.
 MR. PHILLIMORE  said, that he should claim the indulgence of the House whilst in a very few words he stated the reasons why he should give his vote that night most decidedly in favour of the Resolution of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton. He regretted that in the speech which had just been delivered, the hon. Member for Cambridge should have been so hurried away by his feelings as to have spoken with such unnecessary disrespect of an eminent man whose memory was revered by many; and however he might differ from him as to some parts of conduct, it was scarcely generous at this moment to press with great severity on those points which might be open to ex-
 558 Sint inepti, sceleris vero crimine liceat multis aliis liceat Cneio Pompeio mortuo carere. 559
 MR. STAPLETON  said, as a Member who had never sat in Parliament before, he owed no allegiance to any one, and he was as willing to vote for a Resolution of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer as for a Resolution of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers). In a proper and logical way, taking the Resolution of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton first, he had to consider whether he could conscientiously support it, and whether in supporting it he should be carrying out those views he had professed upon the hustings —whether he should be fulfilling the promises he had then made, and answering the expectations of those who sent him. The constituency he had the honour to represent had sent him there in preference to a gentleman who had sat on the opposite (the Government) side of the House, and who had declared himself a free-trader as fully and as frankly as the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had done; but he said nothing on the point of compensation, and because he said nothing on that point the constituency would not re-elect him. He marked between these two Resolutions a very great distinction, which had not yet been noticed, and it was this—that whilst Gentlemen of the Manchester school regarded the question from one point, as consumers, and as the great mass of the people regarded it, those on the Ministerial side of the House regarded it from another point, as producers, subjected to unrestricted competition. The question presented different aspects, according to the point from which it was viewed, and in choosing between them he confessed he preferred that aspect in which it was regarded by the great body of the population, rather than that in which it was regarded by particular men. He understood from the speech of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to grant some kind of compensation for this unrestricted competi-
 521
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he apprehended that the supplemental debate which they had witnessed that evening was about one of the most irregular things that had probably ever been witnessed in that House, and he should hope that the commencement of a new Parliament hon. Members would not make a precedent of a debate in which he did think the distinguished order of Baronets had not cut a very distinguished figure. Now his hon. Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay) was a very gentlemanly man —he was a man of very fine and sensitive feelings—and the Resolution of his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers) had gained upon his susceptibility. His
 …"native hue of resolution Seemed sicklied o'er by the pale cast of thought;" Sorrows of Werter, 537 538 in to to Laughter. 539 Hume's Apology for the Stewarts. 540 "He was not one of those who wished a Minister to he obstinate in details, hut he wished him to be obstinate in principle; a man without firmness of principle was dangerous, unfitted for office. Three months before (the repeal of the Corn Laws) Sir Robert Peel spoke strongly in favour of this Bill of three years before.…What a blow to the character of our public men, and, through them, to the character of this country in the face of Europe '. It was not too late to retrace steps so rashly made. He hoped to God the time would never come when the free-trade theory would be consummated; hut, should it please God, in His anger, that it should he effected, then would this great kingdom soon return to her normal and natural state, a weather-beaten island in a northern sea." 541 "If this country wore to continue great and; free, moderate import duties must be established; I the experiment (of free trade) had been tried and failed; common sense always said it would tail. He recommended the tenant-farmers to persevere; let each, when they returned home, tell their neighbours to persevere, and justice would sooner or later take place." "That the difficulty and intolerable distress of
 542 "Mr. Cobden says, if you attempt to reintroduce protection, what he will do, and what will become of the landlords; but I say, if the landlords will stick to us, we will stick to them."[Here—this was the reporter's description of the scene—the assembly rose, and cheered vociferously. Earl Stanhope struck the speaker on the shoulders in approbation of the sentiment, and all on the platform rose and cheered.]"But we will go further—we have got nine-tenths of the horses of the kingdom, and men to ride them.…ֵ We will protect Her Majesty, if She will protect us. (Vociferous cheering.)" "It was painful to speak of the landlords in terms of disparagement, but was it not true they (the farmers) had fallen, not by the League, not by the treachery of Sir Robert Peel, but because their landlords, the aristocracy, had swerved from their duty?" "Would they tell him, a brokenhearted man, passing into a state of poverty, that he was to fear the threats of a demagogue?" "They, the tenant-farmers, would be prepared to take those terrible steps, which it was most frightful to imagine, but which necessity was driving them to contemplate. [Tremendous cheers, it the close of which a gentleman upon the platform proposed three groans for Sir Robert Peel, the archenemy of the human species.]" 543 "To the opinions which I have expressed in this House in favour of Protection I adhere. They sent me to this House, and, if I had relinquished them, I should have relinquished my seat also."[3  Hansard, "Who does not remember the 'sacred cause of protection, the cause for which Sovereigns were thwarted—Parliaments dissolved—and a nation taken in! When one looks at the Ministry, seeing of what they are composed, one is hardly certain whether 'the future' of which they are thinking is indeed posterity, or only the coming quarter day."[ Ibid. "' His life has been one great appropriation clause,' and he concluded,' I believe the country will not long endure this huckstering tyranny of the Treasury bench—these political pedlars, that bought their party in the cheapest market and sold us in the dearest.'"[ Ibid, 544 "I ask you to protect the rights and interests of labour generally—in the first place, by allowing no free imports from countries which meet you with countervailing duties; and, in the second place, with respect to agricultural produce, to compensate the soil for the burdens from which other classes are free, by an equivalent duty."[ 3  Hansard, "'I had placed before me,' he told the House of Lords, 'the choice of separating from my colleagues, or of sacrificing my own individual opinion, and what I conceive to be my own personal consistency and honour. I had to consider the course which, in my opinion, my public duty and my private honour required. I tried to school myself into the belief that, under certain circumstances, the interests of the country might require even the sacrifice of a public and personal character. My Lords,' he exalaimed, 'I could not bring myself to so humiliating a conclusion.'" 545 "If there be any who are of opinion that I am flinching from, or hesitating in the advocacy of, those principles which I held in conjunction with my late Friend (Lord George Bentinck), I authorise you to assure one and all that those who represent that, in my case will find no hesitation, no flinching, no change of opinion. I only look for the day when it may be possible for me to use the memorable words of the Duke of Wellington, on the field of Waterloo [words, by the way, which he (Mr. B. Osborne) believed the Duke never did use], and say, 'Up, Guards, and at' em!'" 546 "Her Majesty having been graciously pleased to entrust to my care the Seals of the Duchy of Lancaster, I accept office under the administration of the Earl of Derby, from a conviction of his sincere desire to reverse'—[let the House mark the word 'reverse']—'to reverse that financial and commercial policy which is so injurious to native industry and capital.'" 547 Boston Herald. "At the time when I accepted office there was a great struggle going on in the country for the maintenance of Protestant and Protectionist principles"— —"I trust the present constitution of Parliament is such as to leave no doubt that they will fully uphold our Protestant institutions; and with regard to the other subject—Protection—I have only emphatically to assure you that I entirely adhere to the opinions and principles I have always expressed. I can see nothing in the present aspect of affairs to alter my conviction that that which is called 'the Protectionist policy' is a true and wise policy for this nation to adopt. At the general election I stated that if the Government were unable to carry a Protective system, which would not except foreign corn—if the complexion of the new Parliament should be such as to prevent Her Majesty's Government from carrying out the principles which would raise from the foreign grower a large portion of revenue, and at the same time afford relief to the suffering class—then it would be their duty to establish such an equalisation and readjustment of the burdens of taxation as"—to do what?—"as indirectly to some extent to effect the same object." 548 "I oppose this Bill on account of the manner in which it has been introduced. I oppose it also on account of the men by whom it has been brought forward, &c.; and to be told, because these men have crossed the House, and have abandoned with their former seats their former professions, these men's measures and actions are to remain unopposed, &c. You have permitted men to gain power and enter place, and then carry measures exactly the reverse of those which they professed when in opposition. I say that the Parliamentary course is for this House to have the advantage of a Government formed on distinct principles, &c, not a Parliamentary middleman, who bamboozles one party and plunders the other. Let us have no party question, but fixity of tenure. Let us dethrone this dynasty of deception by putting an end to the intolerable yoke of official despotism and Parliamentary imposture." 549 550
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, in the early part of this conversation, I felt considerable difficulty to comprehend what was the tendency of the remarks of some of the speakers, and it was only by degrees that I arrived at a full understanding of what is the question at present at issue. When I listened to what was said by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), and other hon. Members, about behaving in a gentlemanly way to each other, and coming to a unanimous agreement on this great question, I was almost for a moment unconscious of what really was at issue between us; but the speech of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham), and the remarks of other speakers, have completely developed what we are now discussing and disputing about. It appears that a Resolution prepared by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle, which contained a phrase asserting that the free-trade measures which had been passed since 1846 had not had the effect of inflicting injury on any great interests—a
 514 515 516 517
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I rise to order. I think it will be admitted on both sides of the House that it will be exceedingly inconvenient that a question should be put, accompanied by a speech, unless it is under circumstances which would admit of a reply. The hon. Gentleman, I submit, would, therefore, better promote the object he has in view if he wishes to make a statement by letting it be understood that he will finish with a Motion.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, he thought the matter had been quite sufficiently debated. The question at issue was, whether the Government should be
 492 493
 MR. BOOKER : Before I proceed to discuss the important question now before the House, I will beg to assure the noble Viscount opposite (Viscount Palmerston), of the high and grateful sense I entertain of the kindness and consideration which prompted him to step forward, under motives and feelings towards this side of the House which he has so well expressed, to make the conciliatory proposition which he has made, and which has been accepted by the Government. I hope, however, the noble Lord will not receive it as any mark of public or personal disrespect, if I, and those who act with me, feel ourselves unable to assent to his Amendment. Sir, there is no Member of this Assembly more thoroughly convinced of the hollowness and unsoundness of that system of commercial legislation now attempted to be forced permanently upon us, or who is more deeply but voluntarily committed to the opposite system, to which I still firmly adhere, than I am: and, notwithstanding I escaped the lash of the hon. Member for Manchester the other night, I desire to avow this—that there is no one who more deeply deplores than I do the course which Her Majesty's Government have been compelled, or have felt it their duty, to pursue, on this question of our future legislation. The speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer may have been a triumphant vindication of the Government—certainly it was a masterly exposition of the position in which the Government have found themselves placed. But in that speech there was no vindication of the course which I have openly and consistently pursued. I have been a member of that great party which has been called the Country party, which I have ever understood to have been united together by a principle, and that principle
 533 534 535 536
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said: We have been reminded, over and over again, that this is a new House of Commons, and that it is so is evident not only from the nature of the opposition, but from the whole course of proceeding on this debate on both sides; for in the nine Parliaments during which I have sat in this House, I never before saw anything like the manner in which it appears the House, and, what is still more to the purpose, the people out of doors, are about to be trifled with. It was only the other evening (Friday) that it was resolved there should he a call of the House on Monday. Monday came, and 400 or 500 Members assembled to answer to their names; but instead of calling them over as they had resolved, and for which purpose only those Members had been summoned, the House immediately proceeded toun vote what it had voted on the previous Friday, and that in the absence of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), at whose instance the Resolution had been passed. I confess I should like to have seen my hon. Friend's face when he learned that the call of the House had been abandoned. But we were told the whole purpose of the call was answered, some thirty or forty Members haying come to the table and taken the oath of abjuration, which having done, of course they immediately went out of town again. Well, we have had one night's debate on the Resolution of my hon. Friend (Mr. C. Villiers), and some of the best speeches I ever heard, particularly that of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), have been spoken. We were told that we had a great duty to perform to the; people. We were to declare that the legislation of 1846 was wise, just, and beneficial, and that not a word of the Resolution of
 489 490
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My hon. Friend the Member for Berkshire seems somewhat to complain that I have not before replied to the question of the hon. Baronet the Member for the Tower Hamlets; but I confess that that question was of so peculiar a character that it was difficult for me to address myself to it. It seemed, in fact, to be a contingency dependent upon an hypothesis—"If an hon. Gentleman with whom I have no political connexion is prepared to do something, am I then prepared to do something else?"1 naturally thought that the most logical and legitimate course would have been for the hon. and learned Member for Wolverhampton, or his friends, to have expressed their feelings upon the subject first; and then, when I was acquainted with their views, I could, of course, communicate my own to the House. But as the hon. and learned Gentleman has not risen, I, on the part of the Government, take the liberty now of addressing you. My noble Friend the Member for North Leicestershire (the Marquess of Granhy)has reminded me how generously, and without reserve, I have been supported by the Protectionist party in this House and in the country; and I can truly say, Sir, that ever since I have been honoured by that confidence, of which till the last hour of my life I shall be proud, I have done every thing that any ability I possess could command, or any energy I had could accomplish, in behalf of the cause of the land of England. I think it has been unjustly treated by recent legisla-
 499 500 501 502 503 504 505 506 507
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I hope the House will allow me to make a remark as to the course Her Majesty's Government are prepared to take. With respect to the Amendment which I proposed, and that which has been proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), I have to say that I shall defer to what appears to be the feeling of the House. I shall not press the Amendment I have given notice of, and the question may now be taken on the Resolution of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers), and the Amendment of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston).
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he rose to explain a misunderstanding into which the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) had fallen. The hon. Member seemed to think, and of course thinking so he could not help resenting it, that there was some connexion between the vote given
 520
 MR. GLADSTONE : As a matter of form I wish to observe, that I understand the Amendment of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) was to be moved in case the Amendment of Government was withdrawn. The noble Lord's Amendment has not yet been moved.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman, in yielding to the general feeling of the House on a subject of great interest, had exercised a wise discretion, and he was sure his constituents would not be dissatisfied with his conduct on that occasion. He would not object to the hon. and learned Gentleman bringing in his Bill, but he was afraid that if the hon. and learned Gentleman liked to put it down for to-morrow night, which was a Government night, the debate on the question now before the House might take up the whole time. He would assist the hon. and learned Member to bring in his Bill, but he could not pledge himself to support it. He might at the same time observe that he would not be able to make his financial statement to-morrow night (Friday), as he had given notice he would.
 MR. BARROW  said, he was ignorant of Parliamentary tactics, but he rose to prevent mistake as to any change in his opinions. He would remind the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), that constituencies in general did not adopt the opinions of candidates, but sought candidates whose opinions coincided with their own. This had occurred in his case: he was not returned by the overwhelming power of great landowners to aid in keeping up their rents, but because he was known to have a strong opinion as to the injuries inflicted on the farming class, who were entitled to relief from peculiar taxation as a matter of justice rather than compensation. If the change of 1846 had been injurious to them because it was hasty, it was an act of injustice, and could not come within the category of "wise, just, and beneficial." He thought with Mr. Huskisson that the right kind of Free Trade was to have moderate protective but not prohibitory duties; and that, he believed, was the only policy under which the country would prosper in future. If they were to have unrestricted competition, it should be unrestricted; all burdens should be removed from farming produce; and farmers should not be prevented from using that produce free from duty in the most advantageous manner as regarded consumption by themselves, their labourers, and their cattle. He objected to the term compensation being fastened upon the farmer, in an offensive sense; he claimed the removal of restrictions by unjust taxes and burdens.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he wished to have had an opportunity of stating the principles of the Bill; but as the House appeared so anxious to resume the debate on Commercial Legislation, he would only ask permission of the House for leave to bring in the Bill.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, the question he had to bring under the notice of the House was one of no ordinary importance. It was, indeed, a matter most important to Irish Members, and to himself, as well as to the constituencies they represented. If those constituencies could be present, and see with their own eyes what was going on, they might, however, understand the importance of the question which the House was anxious to discuss, and of the various propositions before them. If it was the general sense of the House that he ought to give way, he should be very sorry to interpose his Motion, and he was sure he would do no good to his constituents, or to the people of Ireland, in opposing himself to the strongly-declared sense of the House. But, on the other hand, if he gave up this point to the House, he thought the House ought to do something for him. He would ask the right hon. Chan-
 530
 SIR WILLIAM PAGE WOOD  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had stated, and stated most, truly, that that which appeared at all times to create the greatest disgust and indignation at that —the Opposition—side of the House, was any ambiguity in the expression of sentiment by hon. Members. It was on account of his own strong disgust at such ambiguity that he felt it impossible to avoid saying a few words—and they should be but few— which should at least indicate that he had not sat there wholly unimpressed with the extraordinary scene which took place the other night when the Chancellor of the Exchequer was delivering his address-—a scene that to him was the most surprising, since it exhibited the House sitting to listen, in a state, as it appeared to him, of the deepest humiliation at the gauge which the right hon. Gentleman had taken of their intellect, the appreciation he had made of their moral sentiments, when he could suppose that it would be tolerated in that House, in a society of Gentlemen, as the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton had properly reminded them — that he should venture to state, in the presence of so many who had been witnesses to the whole transactions of the last several years, that the line taken by the Protectionist party was one accepting free trade as an established fact, making no attempt to disturb or reverse that policy, and that that course had been pursued by them up to the time when the noble Earl at the head of Her Majesty's Government was called upon to accept office, in 1851, when, as he expressed it, that noble Earl found himself at the head of a large party who had made up their minds that that policy should not be reversed. He felt great respect for the hon. Member who had last spoken, and so distinctly disclaimed all ambiguity in the expression of his sentiments. Unfortunately he was not able very clearly to collect those sentiments; but he understood the hon. Member to advert, towards the close of his observations,
 563 564 565 566 567 Morning Herald Standard 568 569 570 571 572
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that under the circumstances of the case, he would ask the leave of the House to withdraw his Motion for its adjournment.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : My sense, Sir, of public duty will, I am sorry to say, compel me to make a speech, and to bring myself strictly within the rules of the House. I shall conclude with making a Motion. Sir, I beg in the first place to state, that in a new Parliament—having had long experience in this House—I am one of the
 473 474 475 476 477 "That it is the opinion of this House that the improved condition of the country, and especially of the industrious classes, is in a great measure the result of recent legislation, which has abolished taxes imposed for the purpose of protection, which has thereby diminished the cost of the principal articles of food, and which has established unrestricted competition. "It is the opinion of this House that, without inflicting injury on any important interest, this policy, firmly maintained and prudently extended, will best enable the industry of the country to hear its burdens, and will thereby most surely promote the welfare and contentment of the community." "On the whole, I approve of your words; I have seen none which I prefer; but I think there is an objection to the Resolutions, as they stand without some safeguard. If carried adversely, the Government will be of opinion that they are intended to obstruct the course which they deem it their duty to take, and that it is not desired by the House to see the measures which they have announced as prepared." 478 "That this House will be ready to take into consideration any measures consistent with these principles which, in pursuance of Her Majesty's gracious Speech and recommendation, may fee laid before it." "It is the opinion of this House that the improved condition of the country, and especially of the industrious classes, is in a great measure the result of recent legislation, which has established the principle of unrestricted competition, has abolished taxes imposed for the purpose of protection, and has thereby diminished the cost of the principal articles of food." "If you should be of opinion that recent legislation, in contributing, with other causes, to this unhappy"— Laughter, —"this happy result has, at the same time, inflicted unavoidable injury on certain important interests, I recommend you dispassionately to consider how far it may be practicable equitably to mitigate their injury, and to enable the industry of the country to meet successfully that unrestricted competition to which Parliament in its wisdom has decided that it should be subjected." 479 "It is the opinion of this House that without inflicting injury upon any important interest, this policy, firmly maintained and prudently extended, will enable the industry of the country to bear its burdens." "It is the opinion of this House that this policy, firmly maintained and prudently extended, will, without inflicting injury upon any important interests, best enable the industry of the country to bear its burdens, and will thereby most surely promote the welfare and contentment of the people." 480 481 fit "That it is the opinion of this House that the improved condition of the country, and especially of the industrious classes, is mainly the result of recent legislation, which has established the principle of unrestricted competition, has abolished taxes for the purpose of protection"— "—and has thereby diminished the cost of the principal articles of food." "That it is the opinion of this House, that this policy, firmly maintained and prudently extended, will—" —"without inflicting injury upon any important interest—" "— best enable the industry of the country
 482 483
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, if the House will indulge me for but a very few moments, I can assure them that, at this late hour, I will not trespass upon them
 573 574 575 pro tanto, 576 577 s. 578 Hansard 579 Derisive cheers and laughter from the Opposition, and loud cheers from the Ministerial benches. 580 581
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, that he had been called upon to state the reasons why he had asked the hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers) and the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer to withdraw their respective Motions, so as to admit of the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) being adopted. He would reply to that call. But, in the first place, he wished to set right an inaccuracy in the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton. The hon. Gentleman said that he (Sir W. Clay) sent him a note half an hour before the House met, in which he did not specify the nature of the question which he was about to put to him. On the contrary, he had himself left the note at twelve o'clock at a place where he understood the hon. Gentleman's letters were generally left, and in that note he told him that he would suggest that the hon. Gentleman should withdraw his Motion, and adopt as a substitute the Motion of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston). Now, if he (Sir W. Clay) wanted any justification for putting that question, he should find it in what had
 526 527
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY : Sir, I have no intention to make any speech, but it is important that I should put the question, because I think it will have an important bearing on our proceedings here to-night. With these simple words of preface then, as my hon. Friend the Member for the West Biding will not permit me the smallest indulgence in that respect, I ask, first, of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because I believe, in so doing, it will be more in accordance with the usage of this House in similar cases, whether he will be willing to withdraw that Amendment which he has put into your hand on the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton, on the understanding that if it be withdrawn the House will acquiesce in the Resolution proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston)? I ask of my hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton whether, on a like understanding, he will be prepared to withdraw his Motion? And again I ask as a second question of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether, in the event of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton refusing to withdraw his Motion, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) will accept the Resolution proposed by my noble Friend the Member for Tiverton as a substitute for his own Amendment?
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY : Sir, I rise for the purpose of asking, first, of my hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers), and in the next place of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, questions which, not in my own estimation only, but I believe also in the estimation of many other hon. Members, have an important bearing on the proceedings of this House. In so doing I am happy to say that I shall not have occasion, or at least in the very
 472
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I cannot but hope, Sir, that the conversation which has taken place this afternoon affords an indication that we have a prospect of coming nearer to an agreement upon this great question than I had ventured to anticipate. I must say that what we have heard from the hon. Member for the North Riding of Yorkshire (Mr. Cayley) is alike honourable to him and gratifying to us, as coming from a man of his position in the House and in the country, who, always perfectly independent, always respected for his excellent judgment and sound sense, has hitherto strongly supported Protection; and who now, finding himself defeated on that question, gracefully acknowledges his defeat, and yields his private convictions to his sense of public duty and national interest. I should hope, also, that his example will influence those who have acted with him, and that others on that side of the House will adopt the advice which my hon. Friend—if he will allow me to call him so—has so judiciously propounded to the House. My hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) has put a question to me; he wants to know how I came by the Resolution that was originally framed by my right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham). I can only tell the hon. Gentleman that I came by it by very lawful means. I made a slight alteration in it, for the purpose, as I imagined, of avoiding discussion now on collateral points— as to compensation, for example—it being understood that the words proposed by my right hon. Friend apply to the future, and leave the Government open to propose such measures as they please with regard to the past, leaving us equally open to object to those measures if they ever should be brought forward. I have no objection to the insertion of those words, and I understand the hon. Member for the North Riding also to assent to those words. Now, Sir, my hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury has asked a more practical question. My hon. Friend asks what shall I do, supposing the Resolution of my hon. Friend (Mr. C. Villiers) to be rejected— will I then propose my Amendment as a substitute for the Amendment which Her
 494
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I intend to move— [An Hon. MEMBER: Do you
 532
 LORD STANLEY  said, he was perfectly ready to reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman, and he should. do so with the most entire unreserve. The hon. Member's question, as he (Lord Stanley) understood its general purport, was, that he wished to know what was the cause of, and what were the circumstances attending, Sir Henry Bulwer's visit to Rome? The cause of Sir Henry Bulwer's visit to Rome was this: At the time when he went there, Edward Murray, a British subject—concerning whom there was another question on the paper—was lying under sentence of death. There was no fault whatever to be found with the manner in which the British Consul at Rome, Mr. Freeborn, bad conducted the negotiations respecting Edward Murray, and his. consular duties generally; but considering the interest the case had excited, both in England and in Italy, it was thought desirable that there should
 588
 LORD STANLEY  said, the result of the steps taken by the Government on behalf of Edward Murray was, that his life had been saved—that the capital sentence pronounced against him had been commuted to a sentence of perpetual imprisonment and he had been removed to a more healthy and convenient place of confinement, Sir Henry Bulwer had been instructed to press for a further mitigation of that commuted sentence. That was the case, and the Government was not without hopes that some mitigation of the sentence might be obtained; but it might be injurious to the prospect of success if the correspppdence were at present to be laid before the House.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : Sir, although I ventured to trespass on the House the other evening on the discussion which then arose, I hope I may be permitted to do so now for a short time in comment upon these Resolutions. I agree with the hon. Member who has just sat down, that it is impossible to approve of either Resolution; but I disagree with him so far, that I am unable to vote for either. My reasons are threefold. First, I cannot agree with the hon. Gentleman opposite that the prosperity of the country is as great now as it has been under a different, and as I think a wiser, commercial system. I admit prosperity exists, but I say it is not so great as it ought to be. In the second place, admitting prosperity, I say it is to be accounted for by other causes than those either of recent legislation or of unlimited competition. My third reason is this—supposing this prosperity to be owing to recent legislation, that this legislation is not stamped with the principle of unlimited competition. For these three reasons I find it impossible to consent to either Resolution. The hon. Member near me (Mr. Drummond) talked in a sneering way of making certain things clear to the "bucolic mind." I should be glad to know if any hon. Gentleman can enlighten the "bucolic mind" on what I am going to read. It is important for the questions which I shall put to be settled one way or other before the controversy comes to a conclusion. The facts which I shall presently refer to ought to be ascertained before we come to a decision. The questions I am going to put are these:—Colonel Torrens, in a recent statement, proved that the increase of population from 1831 to 1841 was 10 per cent. while the increase from 1841 to 1851 was only 1 per cent. Colonel Torrens also proved there was a commensurate extension of the agricultural interests in the previous years, and in the latter years a corresponding decline. Let these questions be settled before the
 622 "I do not hesitate, notwithstanding the glorious and just fame of Sir Robert Peel, to say that there was in the measure to which he has attached his name a temerity which, in some respects, must be considered as an imprudence. England at this time is obliged to take from abroad one-third part of her consumption of wheat, namely, 30,000,000 of hectolitres. These supplies being conveyed by vessels of 200 to 300 tons, require from 8,000 to 10,000 vessels. It is true that the same vessels make the voyage several times, which reduce the number to 2,000 to 3,000 vessels plying constantly on the seas. England has said, I am mistress of the seas.' It is true, that if we look into the history of the present century, we find that while victory, for a time at least, accompanied us constantly on the Continent; at sea, on the contrary, in spite of the heroism of our men, everything was misfortune. I know that in her last struggle with us England conquered; but it is also known of what formidable navigators Napoleon foresaw the future destiny when abandoning Louisiana to the United States, he said to M. Marbois, 'I may, perhaps, be conquered, but I prepare my revenge.' I know well what will happen; at the present time in England they are turning much land into pasture; they will hasten to grow corn again on this land, but at what price? they provide bread for the English people at pre-
 623 624 s. s., s., l s. s. s.; s. s. l s. 625 l l 
 
 On January 2nd it was £17,000,000 
 On March 27th 19,000,000 
 On June 26th 21,000,000 
 On September 26th 21,000,000 
 On November 13th 20,000,000 l l l l l l 626 l s. l s. l l l l hocus-pocus. hocus, pocus. 627
 CAPTAIN FITZROY  said, he begged the attention of the House while be explained the reasons for the course he felt himself imperatively called upon to pursue on the present occasion. It appeared to him that the course which an independent Member must take on the present occasion was one of very considerable difficulty. It appeared to him extremely difficult to pursue any course in a manner at once satisfactory to his own conscience, satisfactory to the public who were much interested in this question, and satisfactory also to his position in that House, where friendly associations, if not party ties, more or less surrounded every man. With respect to the different propositions now submitted to them, he should be ready, and he should be most anxious, to accept the Amendment moved by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), as affording to the principle they were so anxious to secure all the security that could be given to it by a Resolution of that House. But the case unfortunately was not submitted to the House in a manner that would allow him to express his free opinion with respect to the vote he was about to give on the abstract merits-of the question. The Amendment did not present itself to him in the shape of an abstract Motion, to which he could say aye or no; but it was preceded by a Resolution which embarrassed extremely the course he had to pursue. He was anxious that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Villiers) who had brought forward the original Resolution should feel himself justified even now in withdrawing it from the notice of the House. He would earnestly entreat him, in order to secure the unanimity which it was so important for them to arrive at, if it could be consistent with his sense of duty to the public, to withdraw that Resolution, which could only act as a bone of contention between parties who had one common object in view. But he could only ask himself what course he was to pursue, so as to place his own character in a satisfactory light to those who had sent him to that House? The only distinction that existed between the Resolution and the Amendment consisted in the three words which asserted the policy of Sir Robert Peel to have been "just, wise, and beneficial." Before be addressed himself to the reasons that induced him to give his support to that proposition, he would state his reasons for thinking that one or two extraneous
 628 629 630 Laughter. "Palmam qui meruit ferat."
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he wished as a new Member to state the reasons which induced him to vote for the original Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers), rather than for the Amendment of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston). The main ground on which that Amendment was recommended to the consideration of the Free Trade party was, that it was highly desirable that any Motion embodying the sanction of the House to the Free Trade principle should not be defeated, or be carried merely by a small majority. With regard to the possibility of a defeat, that did not fill him with any serious apprehensions; on the contrary, he thought that such an event would be attended with one or two very compensating results. It would put the Free Traders completely on the alert, and prevent them from being lulled into a state of false security, and prepare them to meet their opponents at future elections. Supposing the Motion should be carried by a small majority, he certainly should be sorry for it; but there was one thing which he should be still more sorry for, and that was, to see the Motion carried by a sham majority. And this led him to ask what was the true object of the Motion? The right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert), had laid it down that the object of the Resolution was to obtain as large a majority as possible. With all submission to the right hon. Gentleman, he (Mr. Blackett) was of opinion that the true object of the Resolution was to enable the people of this country to ascertain who were true Free Traders, and who were insincere professors of that policy. He must believe the evidence of his own eyes and ears, and he could not, even by the utmost stretch of courtesy, conceive it possible that men could be equally sincere in the advocacy of two directly opposite propositions. At the election for North Northumberland, to which the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham) had last night referred, the noble Lords who were elected
 634 alias
 MR. ISAACBUTT  said, that it was not his intention, at that late hour, long to delay the House from the division for which hon. Members were impatient; but he, for one, felt that the tone and temper of the speech they had just heard, made it impossible to go to a division without at least some attempt at a reply. He did not recognise—humble a Member as he was, and perhaps it was fitting that an humble Member of that House should tell him so—that tone of superiority which the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire had thought proper to assume. He could not acknowledge anything in the position, in the political conduct, in the station, nor in the intellect—he boldly repeated it, in the intellect of the hon. Member which authorised him to assume that superiority over him. The hon. Member had assumed the tone and manner of a dictator to the House. He (Mr. Butt) did not need the explanation afforded by that tone and manner to understand the real object of the Resolution before the House. It was to affirm free trade that the original words were insisted on—it was not for the purpose of pledging the House to maintain it
 677 678 679 680
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I had no intention of taking any part in this debate after the admirable speech of my right hon. Friend the Member for South Wiltshire (Mr. S. Herbert); after the observations which I thought were justly made by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord John Russell) on the speech of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer; and, lastly, let me add with greater satisfaction still, after the soothing effect and the fair and moderate tone of the speech of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department. I am content entirely to pass by that portion of the discussion which has related to the antecedent conduct of the Gentlemen who now hold the reins of power; but I heard from the lips of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) an appeal to the Friends of the late Sir Robert Peel, and an expression of astonishment on his part at the course which they intended to pursue, and of his incapacity to understand how it was possible that they could consent, upon a question of Free Trade, to be found voting in the same lobby with the party of Protectionists. That appeal it was quite impossible that I should consent on this occasion to hear in silence. The reasons why upon this occasion the Friends of the late Sir Robert Peel will be found voting in favour of the Amendment of my noble Friend the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), which is likewise supported by Her Majesty's Government and their followers, is because they believe that vote to be dictated by a regard to the principles of justice. I am quite certain that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers), when he proceeded to frame this Motion, did not intend in any manner to embitter party warfare, or to introduce into the usages of our conflicts what might hereafter be a precedent for greater severity and greater exasperation than those by which they have been commonly attended. It would appear from the explanation we have heard to-night that the object of the words to which objection is, I think not unjustly, taken, is simply to preclude the consideration of the question of what has been called compensation. 681 682 683 684 685
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I am about to request the indulgence of the House for a purpose similar to that of my noble Friend, and I shall have to ask for even more forbearance. If we are to be put into a glass beehive, with reference to the whole proceedings connected with the formation of this Resolution, I can only say that there is not a word I have spoken or written which is not entirely in the hands of the House. I have thought it prudent to carry the correspondence in my pocket since these explanations. All I shall now say is this, that, being aware of the numerous misunderstandings which arise in the course of such communications, I thought it but just to declare that my hon. Friend (Mr. C. Villiers) was actuated by upright and single-hearted motives in the whole of his proceedings. But with respect to the charge which he has thought proper to make against me, I meet it by
 696
 MR. PHILLIPS  said: I was not going to enter into any discussion about the comparative merits of Protection and Free-trade, for it appeared to me that the only question before the House was, which of two Resolutions we should adopt—that of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, or that of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton. That as one of the new Members, or, to use the noble Lord's expression, one of the greenhorns who had lately alighted on the benches of this House, I claimed one privilege—not that of being listened to with indulgence, for that I felt sure would be accorded to me—but that of reading the Resolutions in their plain and natural sense—in the sense in which 999 men in every 1000 out of the House would understand them. If I interpreted the Resolution of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton by the meanings affixed to it by different speakers, the more one listened the less one understood. In one speaker's mouth it assumed the shape of a vote of confidence, or the contrary, in the Government; in another, that of a tribute to the memory of Sir Robert Peel; in another, that of fixing the great seal on the charter of free industry, until at last it appeared to become one
 644 Rivals,
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Sir, I trust that the House will give me the opportunity of stating the course I intend to take upon this occasion, and of justifying that course by stating the reasons which, under circumstances of some difficulty, have induced me to come to the decision at which I have arrived. Let me first, however, assure the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester, who spoke before him, that, in coming to that decision I had elements for forming my opinion totally irrespective of the effect which an adverse vote would have upon the fate of the Government. When threats are held out by a Ministry, that in the event of the carrying of a Motion to which they are opposed, they will vacate their seats, that is a consideration which must weigh strongly with all those Gentlemen who are professed followers of that Government; but with respect to Gentlemen who are independent of them, the duty lies upon them to consider, not whether the Government will go out or stay in, but whether they will be justified in going out or in staying in. Sir, this has been said to be a question of confidence in the Government. If it is I never saw a question so mystified, nor was bungling ever carried to such an extremity of perfection. Did any one ever before see a vote of want of confidence which terminates with an expression that the House is ready and willing to consider any measures which Her Majesty's Government intend to bring forward? Well, but how does the question now stand? It will be necessary for me to explain the view which I have taken, and the reasons which have led me to adopt it, by referring—though perhaps it may not be quite regular to do so—to the Amendment no longer upon the table of the House. The debate commenced by two Motions originally given notice of by the hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers), and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Between those two Motions I could not have one moment's hesitation. I saw, as it had been well said, a Resolution moved by a Gentleman who proposed this question to the House years ago, and who had struggled for it under great difficulties and in small minorities. I knew that he had fought his battle with singular skill and con-
 603 604 605 "The great end of that party which owns for its leader Lord Stanley, is first to recover the protection we have lost; but, failing that, to seek compensation in relieving the agricultural interest from the peculiar burdens they bear… The first matter is the recovery of the protection to native industry which we have lost…You, the farmers of England, must do the work. You must not trust to your landlords." "But my hon. Friend has told you we are met here to-day not so much to moralise on the past, as to speculate upon the future. To his theme or plan every man of intelligence did respond. I know that what he states here he practises in another place; but I know and I trust that under other circumstances we shall retrace our steps." "Where is the great agricultural interest which is the basis of the polity of England, and has been so for centuries? I cannot believe that this nation—and when I say this nation I mean all classes—with their primary intelligence, will be
 606 "I hear it said that free trade has been adopted, and that we must proceed in that course.  Vestigia nulla retrorsum. a fait accompli "I cannot, as an honest man, abandon the attempt to relieve the existing distress by retracing the false step which has been taken, and to remedy the wrong done by the imposition of a moderate duty upon corn."—[3  Hansard, "His own opinion was, that the suggestion which had been made that night was a politic suggestion, and would soon be a popular one. Its adoption might be mortifying to the vanity of individuals in that House. It might hurt and offend the self-love even of political parties. He deeply
 607 Hansard, 608 609 610 611 "It is the opinion of the House that the im proved condition of the country, especially of the industrious classes, is mainly the result of recent legislation, which has established the principle of unrestricted competition, has abolished taxes imposed for the purposes of protection—" "and has thereby diminished the cost and increased the abundance of the principal articles of the food of the people. That it is the opinion of this- House that this policy firmly maintained and"— "prudently extended, will best enable the industry of the country to bear its burdens, and will thereby most surely promote the welfare and contentment of the people." per se 612
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : I am willing to submit to the correction of my right hon. Friend. I certainly thought he referred to sugar, and I was the more struck with his speech, and with the speeches of hon. Gentlemen opposite last night, because it appeared to me that there was a considerable difference between the speeches of last night and those of Tuesday. On Tuesday night they were all free-traders—not only for the future, but even retrospectively—in fact, they had never been anything else but freetraders. But it appears to me that they are now getting gradually back to their old position; and that as Tuesday night was devoted to satisfying the country, so last night was devoted to the endeavour to reconcile a party. I must say again, therefore, that the Resolution which was last moved is, in my mind, the stronger of the two, because the words embrace everything—there is no distinction made between sugar and anything else—it applies to all the articles which have been cheapened, and in that way it carries the principle of free trade farther than the other, and, therefore, I am better pleased with it. But then my right hon. Friend says some vindication is necessary to the memory of Sir Robert Peel, and he made a pointed appeal to some of us sitting on these benches, who had the good fortune to be his friends. Sir, I think the memory of Sir Robert Peel stands on a pedestal, from which no counter Motion, even if it could be carried in this House, could remove it. I knew Sir Robert Peel during my whole life almost—I admired him as a politician—I followed him as a leader—and I loved the man. He was a man, mind you, susceptible—proud, and justly proud, of the purity of his motives—jealous of his honour. I sat by him night by night on that bench when he was attacked by the foulest language, and accused of the meanest crimes. But Sir Robert Peel was a man
 613 pointing to the Treasury bench 614
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he would now ask the hon. Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to state to the House the result of the steps taken by the Government on behalf of Edward Murray, at Rome; and whether the correspondence on the subject was now in such a condition that he could lay it before the House?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I now entertain the hope, from the appearance of the House, that there exists a strong desire to bring this discussion to a close tonight; and I am sure that the exhausted state of the debate would well justify us in not prolonging it so as to extend it into another week. But, Sir, I have borne too large a part in these discussions, and I have been too frequently referred to in the course of this debate, not to ask the indulgence of the House whilst I make some brief observations on the state of the
 645 646 647 648 The Delicate Distress, 649 s. 650 s. s. s. l 651 l l l 652 "The State of the Commerce and Manufactures of the United Kingdom has been such as to afford general Employment to the Labouring Classes. I have to lament, however, the Difficulties which are still felt by that important Body among My People who are Owners and Occupiers of Land. But it is My confident Hope that the prosperous Condition of other Classes of My Subjects will have a favourable Effect in diminishing those Difficulties, and promoting the Interests of Agriculture." 653 Hansard 654 655 656 657 658 659
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, whether the interview which Sir Henry Bulwer, our Envoy at the Court of Tuscany, had with the Pope, some time ago, took place in pursuance of instructions from the Government; and whether there would be any objection to lay any communications which might have passed upon the subject between Sir Henry Bulwer and the Foreign Office upon the table of the House?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he claimed the indulgence of the House for a few moments while he alluded to a matter somewhat personal. He assured the House that he thoroughly reciprocated the spirit of the eloquent speech which had just proceeded from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford, and that he rose in that spirit to address them. When the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) said yesterday that if any measures of relief to the agricultural interest were attempted to be introduced into that House, he would excite another agitation out of doors as virulent as the one which he had carried on with respect to the repeal of the Corn Laws, he (Mr. Newdegate) remarked that the hon. Member was a successful demagogue, with a good will to become an autocrat. That expression seemed to have
 686 687
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he would not detain the House long. He was anxious, however, to express fairly and freely what his opinions were. First of all, he begged to avow that he was still a Protectionist. He was ready to vote for any proposition for the reimposition of a duty on foreign corn, and to put a duty on all foreign articles imported into this country which interfered with the industry of the people. As to the Resolutions just now before them, he could only say he looked with great caution and with great suspicion on everything which emanated from either one side of the House or from the other.
 "Cautus enim metuit foveam lupus, accipiterque Suspectos laqueos." 635 636
 MR. C. VILLIERS  said, that in rising to reply, he should detain the House for only a few moments in the exercise of the privilege which attached to him as the mover of the Resolution then before the House; but some. remarks had been made in the course of the debate with respect to the Motion he had brought forward, which, for the sake of his own character, required he should say something. He believed and hoped that it was the last time that he should ever have to make a Motion on the same subject—certainly he thought he should not appear again in the same position, which was that of representing different sections in the House who did not exactly agree together. He was indeed afraid he had not been well selected for the purpose. He had been chosen for a reason which had been stated in the course of the debate, and by which he felt himself much flattered. He should never have thought of saying so much for himself, but it had been said that he had been a consistent advocate of the great policy of Free Trade for a long time, and that in advocating that measure his purpose had always been single. It had been said of him, indeed, that he was one among the few whose conduct had not been tainted with any sinister purpose in the matter. Now, if he deserved that character still, he feared that it had rather disqualified him from being the mover upon this occasion, for he had kept the purpose of the Motion simply in view, while it seemed that other objects should have been considered. He could not say that he had come forward against his will; on the contrary, he had done so readily and consistently with the course which he had received the credit of having hitherto pursued on the question; but he had done so at the request of others, whose purpose and feelings he believed were identical with his own, being a majority of that House; and, under these circumstances, he had proposed a Resolution which certainly embodied his own feelings, which he believed embodied the opinions of a majority of that House, and, what was of more importance, of a majority of the people of this country; and though he told the House last night that he had not the credit of being the author
 688 689 690 —"is mainly the result of recent legislation, which has established the principle of unrestricted competition, has abolished taxes imposed for the purpose of protection, and has thereby diminished the price and increased the abundance of the principal articles of the food of the people." bonâ fide 691 692 693 694
 MR. C. VILLIERS  said, that not a single word had fallen from the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) which did not completely confirm all that he (Mr. C. Villiers) had himself stated. For what he had said was, that the noble Lord had seen the Resolution containing the terms which had since been considered so objectionable, and that those terms were not at that time objected to by the noble Lord; and what he (Mr. C. Villiers) had now argued was, that if those terms were objectionable at one time they were so at another. With regard to what the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gladstone) had said, he (Mr. C. Villiers) would merely say, that the right hon. Gentleman stated that he had been informed that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer considered that the exceptionable words had been inserted in the Resolution expressly for the purpose of preventing hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial benches from concurring in the vote, and his (Mr. C. Villiers') reply to the right hon. Gentleman was, that no such intention had influenced him in inserting those words.
 MR. ROCHE  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer in reference to the remission of duties upon home-made spirits in bond. It would be in the recollection of the House that, in the Session of 1850, the Scotch and Irish Members, with the aid of some English Members, succeeded in carrying a Resolution to the effect that
 586
 MR. WARNER  said, he had no wish to press himself on the attention and patience of the House after so long a debate, but as the representative of a very large constituency (Norwich), who were deeply interested in the matter in question, he felt that he should not be doing his duty if he did not, though a new Member, give to the House some of those reasons which induced him to support the Resolutions, characterised, as he understood, by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer as odious, insulting, and factious. If he could for a moment believe that the Resolutions were brought forward in a factious spirit, with any intention of embarrassing a new Government in a new House of Commons, with any intention of depriving Ministers of that full and fair hearing which was the birthright of Englishmen, he would never give them his support. But it had been satisfactorily shown by those who supported these Resolutions that they were not advocating the cause of a party, but of a policy, not seeking to strike at the stability of a Cabinet, but to consolidate the broad foundation of the commercial prosperity of an empire. He thought it had been triumphantly established by hon. Members on his side of the House, that these Resolutions were, like the policy of 1846 itself, wise, just, and beneficial; and it had been proved with equal success on the other side of the House, that some such Resolutions as these were necessary to the peace of the country, and to the reputation of the House for consistency. He did not consider that this was a question of confidence or no confidence in Ministers, and he regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had thought fit to view it in this light. He believed that the House had a duty to perform, which was paramount to all considerations of party politics, which would cast into the shade of insignificance the destinies of a Ministry, or even, if it must be so, the untimely fate of an embryo policy. It was well known that delusive hopes were cherished by large numbers of the agricultural population of the country—hopes that Parliament was going to do something for them to relieve them from the necessity of depending for success, like the rest of the world, solely on their own energies
 637
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he had been one of the earliest opponents of the Corn Laws, for in 1815 he had worked day after day, in his native town, during a whole fortnight, in obtaining signatures to petitions against the laws which were then enacted, and he had ever since opposed them, because he believed from his heart that the principle of Free Trade was a sound principle. He did not, however, intend to say that the repeal of the Corn Laws was altogether just. He knew that by such repeal injustice might be done to certain parties, but he also knew that while the Corn Laws remained, far greater injustice was done to those who could not remedy the evil, he meant to those who had no power with regard to the making of laws. He felt bound, therefore, to lend his assistance to those who could not help themselves. He had heard some very extraordinary observations made during this debate, which led him to
 619 620 l l l l l 621
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, it was impossible to rise in that debate, after the eloquent speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, without feeling that he was greatly in need of some portion of that which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Middlesex (Mr. Osborne) had called "audacity," or, to use a milder term, "modest assurance;" for he could not help seeing that on the other (the Opposition) side of the House there was arrayed all the talents of the House, with the exception of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He recollected a former occasion when the talents of the House were equally collected on one side of it:—but on that occasion they were on the side of the Government, whereas now they were unfortunately arrayed against it. But, notwithstanding the disadvantage of addressing such an assembly in such circumstances, he could not consent to be mystified and dragged through the dirt he did not know whither. He had a duty to perform to the constituents who had sent him to that House; or, rather, he should say, he had a duty to perform to those who had had no hand in sending him to that House—he meant the labourers of the district in which he resided. There was something due also to himself; and he must, for these reasons, endeavour to steer his way through the complicated mazes of the present debate as God should enable him. He was sorry to say that it seemed to him that the present was a more debate with respect to "the difference between Tweedledum and Tweedledee," or whether twice three or thrice two made six. Nevertheless, if there was so much importance to be attached to
 615 Hansard Hansard 616 617 ad valorem 618
 MR. MILNES GASKELL  said, that notwithstanding the taunts in which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester had indulged, and notwithstanding the threat of Parliamentary reform with which he had just concluded, and which, in his (Mr. Gaskell's) opinion, was a better explanation of this Motion than any which had previously been given, he had yet to learn upon what grounds, so far as the assertion of any public principle was concerned, they were called upon to adopt the terms of the original Resolution in preference to those of the Amendment of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston). The real question they had to decide was, not whether unrestricted competition should be the rule of our commercial policy, for upon that point he apprehended that there was little difference of opinion, but whether the declaration of their intentions should be made in such a manner as to reflect upon the former conduct of a large minority in that House. If, indeed, there had been any doubt as to the intentions of the Government upon that subject, he could have understood the course which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Villiers) was pursuing; but after the distinct assurances which had been given, after the repeated declarations which bad been made, both by the noble Earl at the head of the Government, in another place, and by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer in that House, he owned it appeared to him that it was neither just nor generous to ask the House of Commons to affirm the Resolution of the hon. and learned Gentleman—a Resolution which only differed from the Amendment of the noble Lord in this: that it sought to affix a stigma on political opponents, and to brand with Parliamentary censure the line of conduct which they had pursued. It was true that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Wolverhampton had disclaimed
 599 600 601 602
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, it was important to know whether the Government intended to adopt the Resolution of the noble Lord in-lieu of the Amendment which they had themselves proposed.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, he rose to ask a question of some importance to the House. There was a Resolution, moved by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) as an Amendment to the proposition of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers). Now he perceived that that Resolution was differently worded in the Votes issued that morning to what it was on the previous evening. Those very important words which they were told the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham) had inserted, were left out of the Votes of that morning. He wanted to know whether the Resolution as it stood upon the paper, was the Resolution which the Government had adopted in abandoning the Amendment of which they had given notice?
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  was understood to say that the words he had alluded to were omitted in the Resolution which ap-
 587
 MR. KENDALL  said, that notwithstanding the sneers that had been cast by hon. Members opposite on protection, he was anxious, indeed the more anxious on
 631 632 l l 633
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, on this, probably the very last occasion upon which the controversy between Protection and Free Trade may ever be heard in this House, I shall not perhaps be considered presumptuous if I offer a few remarks. The present circumstances of the discussion bring strongly to my memory the last solemn occasion on which this question was treated—I mean during the discussion of the Bill of Sir Robert Peel in 1846—I remember quite well, that the cause of the greatest concern and uneasiness that I then felt, was the course taken by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Pahnerston) upon that occasion. It is no secret that in that Parliament a very large majority of the House of Commons were in their hearts unfavourable to the total repeal of the Corn Laws. Probably it will not be too much to say that two-thirds of that House were by conviction, if not by interest, opposed to that measure; and I might probably say that not twenty Members of the House of Peers were earnestly in favour of the measure which they passed. Now, that which gave me most concern in this House at that time—so deeply interested as I was in the passing of that measure—was the fear lest there should be found a sufficient number of the leading statesmen of that day on either side or both sides of this House, who would be willing to carry on the business of the country, and maintain a fixed duty on corn; for I am sure that it only required such an organisation of official men to defeat, with the support which a majority of the House would have been ready to tender the proposition of Sir Robert Peel, and to have carried a Motion for a fixed duty. Under those circumstances, I confess that when I heard the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, at the conclusion of an able speech, declare that he was still, even then, in favour of a fixed duty, that declaration gave me—and the feeling is now vividly in my mind—it gave me more
 667 668 per se, 669 670 s. Half Century, "In January, 1817, wheat was 52 s. s. s. 671 s. s. d. s., s. d., 672 673 674 675 676
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, there are some observations in the speech of the noble Lord who has just sat down which induce me to make a few remarks before this debate is brought to a close. The noble Lord's observations are in many respects similar to the Resolution before the House; for in the first place, they divide themselves into three heads; in the second, they are both of a retrospective and prospective character. The points to which the noble Lord particularly refers are—first, retrospectively the conduct of himself and of his friends, and also of his opponents, on the subject of the corn laws; in the second place,
 660 661 The Wealth of Nations, 662 663 664 s. s. ad valorem 665 666
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, I desire very briefly to state to the House some considerations which have occurred to my mind in reference to the Resolution of my hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers), the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston), and the conclusions to which I have come with respect to both Motions. I consider it peculiarly unfortunate for us that the discussion of a Resolution intended to be a simple affirmation of a principle of public policy should have been mixed up with party considerations. I, for one, absolve myself of all responsibility, if that result should take place. I think that although it is true, as the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer says, that it is a mistake for either an individual or a Government to submit to insult, yet, on the other hand, it is not an uncommon stratagem, not an unusual Ministerial manoeuvre, to call Resolutions of this kind votes of want of confidence, in order that thereby a fair expression of the opinion of the House may not be taken; and in order that the Members, who are supporters of Government, may be deterred from expressing their genuine opinions on the question before the House. I am at a loss to understand why it was necessary to say that this Motion of my hon. Friend's was a vote of want of confidence. If ever there was a question on which the House was entitled to be quite unfettered by Governmental considerations it was this, because
 590 591 592 "We are an assemblage of Gentlemen. We who are Gentlemen on this side ought to remember that we are dealing with Gentlemen on the other, and I, for one, cannot reconcile it to my feelings calling on an assemblage of English Gentlemen needlessly to express an opinion they do not entertain, or to recant opinions which may still be lingering in their minds." 593 Runnymede Letters, 594 595 "He (the Earl of Derby) had by no means said he was prepared to abandon protection altogether, and to seek some other mode of relief. Not only had he not said that, and not only would he not say it, but that was the precise opposite of what he had said and of what he would say. What he said was, that whether opposed in that or in the other House, it was the purpose of the Government to seek to afford a just and equitable relief to those classes who, for the benefit of the community at large, had been the victims of the recent change in our legislation. And he believed that, on the part of the English people there was that sense of justice that they would consent to be deprived of a portion of the advantages they had enjoyed in order to reduce a portion of the burdens of those who were suffering unduly." 596 597 598
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Well, the Resolution before the House, and which the Government had determined to abide by, was that which had been proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : On the paper which I hold in my hand the words alluded to are not omitted, and that is the Resolution now before the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I never said that I adopted any Resolution. What I said was, that in deference to the feeling of the House I would withdraw my Amendment on the Motion of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton, and, therefore, the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton was the only Amendment which was lying upon the table of the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was sure that the House would admit that it was scarcely fair that he should be pressed to make a communication with respect to the remission of duties, or the intentions of the Government in that behalf, on the eve of the financial statement. The hon. Member would soon have an ample opportunity for explaining his own views, and learning those of the Government, on the subject to which he referred.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, I presume that the House, which has now been debating for several nights a question mainly turning on the use of words, must be anxious that the discussion should draw to a close. I am the more ready to promise not to occupy long the attention of the House, because I have already, almost unwarrantably, trespassed on the indulgence of the House—strictly within the rules, still in a manner I should blame, if I had not thought it called for by the peculiar circumstances. The hon. Member for East Cornwall (Mr. Kendall) has made an observation, on which I would wish to say one word, He says nothing is so painful to a man as to have to swallow the opinions of others. But I must also tell him there is something not very agreeable in having your own words, on which a Motion has been founded, suddenly brought up and forced upon you when you least expect it. A great deal has been said in the course of the debate to young Members, and to "old stagers." I am afraid I must class myself in the latter category, and, speaking to those young Members, I must give them one piece of advice, the result of my recent experience. Every one knows there is nothing so foolish as to write a book or a pamphlet, but it is still more foolish to
 638 "That the improved condition of the country, and especially of the industrious classes, is mainly the result of recent legislation, which has established the principle of unrestricted competition, has abolished taxes imposed for the purposes of protection, and has thereby diminished the cost and increased the abundance of the principal articles of food of the people." 639 640 Hansard, l l 641 Hansard, "I ask you to protect the rights and interests of labour generally; in the first place by allowing no free imports from countries which meet you with countervailing duties; and, in the second place, with respect to agricultural produce,"—to do what?—"to compensate the soil for the burdens from which other classes are free, by an equivalent daty." [3  Hansard, 642 Livy, caudince, 643 verbatim et literatim
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I beg to say, that I did not argue the question with reference to sugar at all.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am quite aware that I have no right to present myself to the House again on this question, but as my hon. Friend (Mr. C. Villiers) mentioned a circumstance which occurred between himself and me, perhaps the House will indulge me for a few moments. It is perfectly true, as my hon. Friend stated, that one evening, towards the end of the night, he showed me, at the end of that bench, a draught of the Resolution he was about to propose. I considered that he showed it to me for the purpose of seeing whether it was framed in such a manner as that I could vote for for it. I pointed out a part of it to which I could not agree. I argued with him at some length, and that passage did not appear in the Resolu-
 695
 SIR JOHN YARDE BULLER : When the hon. and learned Gentleman first brought forward this matter, he thought it was necessary inquiry should take place; and having listened to the statement which he had now made, he was fully convinced the House ought to agree to the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman to inquire into this case. He was quite satisfied no other course would satisfactorily clear up the charges which had been made, and therefore it became his duty to second the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. As he made no opposition to the Motion on the part of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Beresford), and he knew that his right hon. Friend was most anxious the inquiry should take place, he could not anticipate
 745
 SIR JOHN YARDE BULLER  said, that his right hon. Friend (Mr. Beresford), who had withdrawn from the House, had left it to him (Sir J. Buller) to act for hint in his absence, and, speaking for himself, he would say that he would rather hear counsel than a nominee Member.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had not the slightest objection to the appearance of counsel before the Committee, but he felt a very great objection to Members of the House appearing in that capacity.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down that it was desirable that the Committee should be appointed by the General Committee of Elections, and also that the number of the Members composing the Committee should be five. But he differed very much with him in the suggestion which he had made, following the precedent of the Carlow Election Committee, in 1836, that one Member should be chosen by his hon. and learned Friend (Sir A. Cockburn) on the one hand, and one by the right hon. Secretary at War on the other, for the purpose of acting as assessors to the Committee. He was quite sure that if Members were so selected, they would be precisely what the old nominees were, and that they would be advocates, and not assessors. [Sir C. WOOD: They are not to have votes.] That was precisely the ground of his objection. He wished they had votes, and then they would feel something of the responsibility of Judges. He must say that he did not think it at all a desirable thing that Members should act as advocates in a case where a very grave and serious charge had been brought against a right hon. Member of that House.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  begged to express his readiness to assist his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General for Ireland in making this Bill as beneficial as possible; but when he (Mr. Fitzgerald) informed the House that the Bill consisted of 276 sections, of which 144 were taken from the Common Law Procedure Act of
 753 "Whereas it is expedient to simplify and amend the course of Procedure as to the Process, Practice, Pleadings, and Evidence in the Superior Courts of Common Law in Ireland, so as to make the same less dilatory and expensive, and to prevent substantial justice from being defeated by reason of the variety of forms of action, and the technicalities and prolixity of Pleadings, and the unnecessary length of Records, and to consolidate the provisions of several Statutes and Rules of Court relating to such proceedings, and also to enable the said Superior Courts of Common Law to give effect to certain legal rights and just defences without the expense and delay of a resort to a Court of Equity." 754 755
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was desirous of receiving in a friendly spirit the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Crowder), and quite agreed with him that his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General for Ireland deserved the gratitude of the House, not only for this measure itself, but for the very able and clear manner in which he had introduced it. But the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Crowder), in making some very serious reflections upon the Law Officers of the Crown in England, had forgotten the circumstances under which they had charge of the Bill of last Session, which was said to be so deficient in its amendment of the Common Law Procedure in England, and the utter impossibility of making those additions which were proposed at the time. The hon. and learned Gentleman apparently had forgotten the impatience with which the Opposition side of the House had listened to any attempt to introduce any new measures, attributing to the Ministry that they were endeavouring to prolong the Session unnecessarily, and to disappoint the expectations formed of an early dissolution. This Common Law Procedure Bill came down from the Lords at a very late period of the Session. His hon. and learned Friend suggested various alterations in it, but whether he (the Attorney General) agreed with them or not was perfectly immaterial; there appeared to be a great chance of losing the Bill altogether, and they were therefore obliged to hurry it through the House. He was thus not a free agent in the matter; he had no liberty of choice. It was important to pass the Bill even in an imperfect state, and he had trusted to future occasions to introduce improvements, to which it was impossible to attend at the time they were made. Hs. hon. and learned Friend said the Bill for Ireland was in advance of that for England, and seemed to feel a certain shame that it should be so. He must consider this, that in Ireland they had the opportu-
 765
 MR. BUTT  said, he perceived that in the Bill, as it had been printed, the Acts which the measure was to repeal were alleged to be enumerated in a Schedule; but that Schedule had somehow or other been omitted. He wished to know whether that omission would be supplied before the House was asked to go into Committee on the Bill?
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he would not take a division on the question, but he hoped that this peculiar case would; not be drawn into a precedent.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, it was impossible to deny the extreme importance of the question now brought before the House, and as all appeared unanimous to have the matter investigated by a Committee, it would ill become him to offer any opposition to the Motion for inquiry moved by his hon. and learned Friend, and seconded by the hon. Baronet opposite. At the same time he was most anxious, from the importance of the question, to look at it, not merely as it affected the right hon. Gentleman accused, but as it affected the privileges of that House and the ends of justice, not to allow this proceeding to be taken without entering his protest against this being drawn into a precedent. The House would remember this petition was presented at the commencement of the Session, at a time when an election petition was pending which must necessarily come before Parliament. He believed for the last half century it had been the endeavour of that House and of every great statesman to remove from the jurisdiction of the whole united body of the House all matters relating to elections. With that purpose Mr. Grenville's Act was passed, and to improve it Sir Robert Peel introduced the existing Act of Parliament, removing from the general consideration of the House, where party feeling too
 746 "Since the passing of the Grenville Bill the House had abstained from hearing at the bar evidence which might defeat the ends of justice before a Committee, and he trusted the House, in inquiring into the question of tampering with the witnesses, would shut out questions affecting the merits of the election." "A precedent might be established which might be attended with much inconvenience and much mischief hereafter. It was impossible to keep the two objects distinct, and no doubt, under the Grenville Act, the Committee would be competent to do justice in this case by making a special re-
 747
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he was glad to find the right hon. Gentleman agreed in the appointment of this Committee, and that he did not submit the case on the argument of the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. S. Wortley), who opposed the appointment of the Committee. It appeared to him (Lord John Russell) that the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Walpole) had taken a more constitutional view of this matter than the right hon. and learned Gentleman who preceded him. If any specific case of bribery could be alleged against a person holding the high office of Privy Councillor, and it was only to be inquired into by an Election Committee, he thought the Grenville Act would be a great evil, as barring the House from the performance of one of the greatest functions it could perform, and which ought not to be set aside. With respect to the appointment of the Committee, any suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) ought to be attended to. It was only due to the right hon. Secretary at War, that if there was to be inquiry it should immediately begin, and be conducted to its close as soon as possible.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he should be glad to know what opinions the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department held on this point.
 LORD NAAS  said, he had no objection to the production of any information which could show how that Court had proceeded, but he thought that some of the details on which the hon. Gentleman sought to be enlightened were of a personal and invidious character, and he could not, therefore, assent to the Motion in the shape in which it stood.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he was very glad the hon. and learned Solicitor General for Ireland had brought in this measure, and he should regret much if the Bill should not be read a second time. At the same time he fully agreed with the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Fitzgerald), that it would be a great pity to prematurely hurry the Bill through Committee. He quite concurred in what had been just stated by the hon. and learned Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe), namely, that the Bill now before the House was a great advance upon the English Common Law Procedure Bill of last Session, and thought he could point out the reason for this. The Common Law Commission recommended the abolition of the forms of action; but this important Amendment was abandoned, because certain judicial authorities were alarmed at the recommendation of the Commission going to such great length. We sometimes cut away the mast in order to save the ship, and, on that principle, it was found necessary to give up the proposed alteration. He very much regretted this, and now that the Government were prepared to go so far in the reform of the Irish Law, he trusted they would apply the same principle to the English Common Law. He willingly admitted that this Bill was an advance in other respects upon the Bill adopted in accordance with the Report of the Commission of which he had the honour of being a member. They had thought it necessary to deal with the incidents of an action in its various stages; but the Commission were not prepared to stop there, and their recommendations would form the subject of a Report which would shortly be laid before the House, and in which would considered several most
 761 762
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he must say, with every possible respect for his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, that if this inquiry was to be left to five Gentlemen, uninformed as they must be on the whole matter until they met in Committee, it would be better that the inquiry should not be commenced at all. His hon. and learned Friend said, that the representative Members would be advocates of the parties; why, they were intended to be advocates. Unless his hon. and learned Friend meant to say that the administration of justice was impeded by advocates, and that cross-examination had no efficacy, he did not see why this valuable instrument for the discovery of truth should be shut out. He thought that these two Members should have no voice in the deliberations of the Committee, but that they should be
 752
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he rose to bring under the notice of the House a petition from the borough of Derby, which he considered deserving the serious attention of the House. The petition set forth—
 "That at the last election for the borough of Derby, Michael Thomas Bass, Lawrence Heyworth, and Thomas Berry Horsfall, Esquires, were the candidates; that at the said election an organised system of bribery was resorted to, and successfully carried out, for the purpose of procuring the return of one of the Members, and which did procure, the said return; that the right hon. William Beresford, a Major in the Army, and a Member of the Most Hon. Privy Council, and Secretary at War, and now a Member of that hon. House, was a party to such bribery, and did himself send, or cause to be sent, to the said borough an agent for the purpose of carrying out the said scheme and system of bribery; and the petitioners therefore prayed that the House would institute a full and searching inquiry into the whole of the case; and they prayed this the more earnestly, that the right hon. Gentleman had openly and publicly declared that those who had been instrumental in bringing the bribery to light had been guilty of a foul and scandalous conspiracy, and had resorted, for the purpose of carrying that conspiracy into effect, to falsehood and subornation of perjury. Under these circumstances, the petitioners were
 718 719 l. l. 720 l. 721 722 723 flagrante delicto. 724 l. l. "A good and safe man, with judgment and quickness, is wanted immediately at Derby. I suppose that yon cannot leave your own place; if not, send some one whom you can trust in your place. Let him go to Derby on receiving this, and find the County Tavern, in the centre of the town. Send this card to Cox, Brothers, and Co., Lead-works, as coming from Chester. That will be enough.—Yours, "W. B. "Monday." 725 726 animus 727 flagrante delicto 728 primâ facie, 729 "Ashbury-park. "Dear Sir—I received your letter in London yesterday, just as I was starting. I should think it a good thing indeed to unseat Mr. Strutt for Derby; but I fear that I have not the means of accepting your proposal, as I have not funds at my disposal, just after the expenditure attending a general election, to pay the costs of the petition. If you get up a case, and a subscription for the purpose, I can promise a subscription of 100 l. 730 "Nov. 21." "W. BERESFORD. "Feb. 17. "Dear Sir—I am very glad to hear so good an account as you give of the prospect of success in the Derby petition. I shall be glad to give you any assistance in my power when the case comes on—Yours truly, "W. BERESFORD." l. "Dear Sir—I have an agent who is skilled in all election matters, and understands every manner of scheme with regard to petitions. He will be in Derby next Monday, and will bring an introduction from me. You may trust him most implicitly, and you will get some very useful hints probably from him respecting your petition.— Yours truly, "WILLIAM BERESFORD. "77, Pall Mall, Feb. 25." "Dear Sir—The bearer, Mr. Frail, is the person I wrote to you about.—Yours, truly, "W. BERESFORD." 731 "Dear Sir—I have endeavoured to see Mr. Golville, but I find he is in the country hunting, probably near Atherstone. I will speak to him whenever he comes up to town. I have seen Mr. Frail, who gives me a good account of the case that can be made out against the sitting Members. I have requested him to give you every assistance in his power, and attend to anything that the Derby party desire to be done. I shall be happy to assist you also when the Committee sits." "The great matter to be looked to is to collect funds and to keep the case quiet till it is brought before the Committee.—Yours, truly, "WILLIAM BERESFORD. "77, Pall Mall." "Carlisle, Saturday. "My dear Sir—I have only just received your letters this day. I am much engaged with the election; it will be over on Tuesday, and I hope to be in London on Wednesday. I have written to London for you; arrangements must be made for the lodgings of your witnesses, &c. This shall be attended to without delay. If you can get Andrews and Alexander do, if not, Byles." 732 The Fallacies of Free Trade. "Dear Sir—Mr. Frail has been out of town on very important business for four or five days, and that is the reason why you have not heard from him. I do not think that he has got your letter. I think he will be able to get to Derby on Tuesday night or Wednesday morning, but not before. I have sent to speak to a gentleman from Derby, and will give him any direction I can that may be serviceable. I regret that Frail is out of town.— Yours, truly, "W. BERESFORD. "Saturday,—(1848.)" 733 734 735 736 l l. l., 737 738 739 l. 740 741 742 743 Nisi Prius, primâ facie 744
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was about to solicit the indulgence of the House while he alluded, in a few words, to a matter personal to himself. He had had the honour of being for nearly ten years a Member of that House; he now found himself in a situation which he never before had experienced—that of having twice stated that he would not do what he afterwards had done. He had declared on two occasions that he would not vote upon the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, in the division which had taken place on last Saturday morning; but his name, nevertheless, appeared in the division list as having voted on that occasion. He felt, therefore, that he stood in the position of having broken his word with the House; and, in justice to himself, he was most desirous to assure the House that his having done this was entirely unintentional. He fully intended to have left the House, and not to have voted at all on the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, and to this intention he should have faithfully adhered were it not that having been unexpectedly locked in, he was obliged to vote. This explanation he felt to be due alike to the House and to himself, for he was jealous of his own honour, and he knew that the House paid a just regard to the character and
 713
 MR. SPEAKER : Any Member who may be in either of the rooms at the back of the Chair, at the time of a division, is clearly entitled not to vote. Ever since the House has assembled in its present chamber, it has been ruled that the two rooms behind the Chair are out of the House; and this being so, the House has clearly no power to compel Members to vote who may choose to retire to those rooms.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was glad to find that the right hon. Gentleman was of that opinion, as there was the greatest necessity for the selection of impartial persons to form the Committee, and the best course would therefore be that they should he named by the General Committee of Elections. Probably it would be advisable, also, that the course should be taken in this case which was adopted at the Carlow Election Committee, namely, that two Members, the one representing the petitioners, and the other representing the right
 751
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that as there seemed to be no objection to the appointment of a Committee, he would merely offer a suggestion as to the mode in which that Committee should be constituted. It had been said that this duty ought to devolve on the Committee of Selection; but he thought that it would be more properly discharged by those who were appointed under the Speaker's warrant at the General Committee of Elections. The Committee of Selection was quite a different body.
 MR. MACARTNEY  moved for certain returns connected with the operation of the Incumbered Estates Court in Ireland.
 MR. WHITESIDE  moved that this Bill be now read a Second Time.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he felt bound to make his acknowledgment of the very kind remarks made by various hon. Members on his Bill both in the House and out of the House. He also felt bound to say that he received the most important assistance in preparing that measure from several members of the English Bar. Mr. Willes had favoured him with many valuable suggestions, and his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General had strongly approved of the principle of the Bill. He therefore felt that he did not deserve himself all the commendations which had been bestowed upon him respecting this measure. As to the principle alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe), he (Mr. Whiteside) had no authority to warrant him in adopting it. He could not break down the distinctions between the Courts of Law and Equity. This Bill did not do that; but it removed a great number of obstructions; it facilitated the proceedings; it cheapened the proceedings; and it shortened the proceedings. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Ennis (Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald) had taken several objections to the Bill; but as those objections turned principally on the difference which would prevail between the Common Law Procedure in this country and in Ireland, it was evident that they would hereafter be obviated, for it was the intention of the Law Officers of the Crown in England to adopt hereafter any good which they might find in the present measure. He rejoiced to hear that such improvements as those suggested by the hon. and, learned Member for Southampton (Sir A. Cockburn) were to be made; and he agreed with the hon. and
 768
 MR. WHITESIDE  replied in the affirmative.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he thought that the Common Law Procedure in this country and in Ireland ought to be completely assimilated, and he hoped that before the passing of the present Bill care would be taken to amend it in conformity with those improvements in the English system which it might be found desirable to adopt on the recommendation of the Commissioners, whose Report upon the subject would, it appeared, be published in a few days. There was nothing which could more effectually contribute to complete the union of the two countries than the perfect assimilation of their code of laws. 
 MR. PHILLIMORE  said, he felt much gratified at the introduction of the Bill. He believed it was one of the most comprehensive measures of Law reform that had ever been introduced into that House; and he regretted sincerely that the English lawyers had allowed the lawyers of the sister country to get so completely the start of them by the proposal of so important and useful a Bill. It certainly was necessary that pleadings should be verified, but he entertained a strong objection to the multiplication of oaths, and trusted that some form of declaration would be adopted. He also thought that the form of issue should be submitted to some authorised officer, in order that it might be properly stated.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he wished to make an observation in reply to the suggestion which had been offered by the hon. Baronet the Member for Mallow (Sir D. Norreys). The hon. Baronet said he wished that the jurisdiction of the Assistant Barristers' Courts in Ireland should be extended in the same way in which the jurisdiction of the County Courts had of late years been extended in this country. Now he would remind the hon. Baronet that the present measure would afford the means of obtaining cheap and speedy jus-
 769
 MR. CROWDER  said, he was exceedingly happy to give his cordial vote in favour of the second reading of this Bill, and he begged to congratulate the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General for Ireland upon the able manner in which he had brought it forward The Bill in many respects was undoubtedly an improvement on that passed during the last Session for the Amendment of Common Law Procedure in England. His (Mr. Crowder's) only difficulty was tot understand how the Law Officers of the Crown thought fit to pass the measure of, last Session without the introduction of those very Amendments to which the attention of the House was now being directed, because they had not been discovered since the passing of that Act, for they had been suggested by members of the legal profession, and had even been discussed in that House. He fully concurred at the time in every one of those suggested improvements; but, nevertheless, no notice was taken of them on the second reading of the English Bill; and when the measure passed through Committee, the consequence was that they had a measure applied to the Common Law Courts of this country, which was decidedly inferior to that introduced on the present occasion to regulate the Common Law Procedure in Ireland. With respect to the abolition of the forms of action, he fully approved of that Amendment. It was stated that the Common Law Commission in their Report recommended the abolition of those forms, but that part of their recommendations was, nevertheless, not carried out, owing, as it appeared, to the expressed opinions of certain high judicial personages. He appre-
 763 764
 MR. COLLIER  said, it was not his intention to go into the details of the measure before the House; he would only make a few observations upon its principle. He quite agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Liskeard (Mr. Crowder), that the present measure was a very great improvement on the Bill of last Session. He thought the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General somewhat misunderstood the observations of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Liskeard. He (Mr. Collier) did not understand that hon. and learned Member to cast any reflections on Her Majesty's Law Officers, but only complained that a similar measure, introduced for England, had fallen so very far short of that for Ireland. It seemed to him one great
 766 767
 MR. LOWE  said, that having given a great deal of time and trouble on the subject of law reform, he felt bound to say that this Bill did the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General for Ireland a great deal of credit. In his eloquent and luminous speech he had laid down some excellent and sound principles; and altogether he considered the present measure to be one far in advance of that introduced last Session for the amendment of the law in this Country. The hon. and learned Gentleman abolished all those absurd technicalities and monstrous falsehoods which had so long been the opprobrium of the law, and introduced a noble and just principle—that of making parties verify their pleadings, so that courts of justice should no longer decide as they now did, on merely technical and mendacious grounds, instead of on what was the real and true state of the case between the parties. The Bill also introduced another very valuable principle—namely, the assignment of debts and of  choses in action. 756 757 "The right to recover any debt or damages or personal chattel, in respect of any matter of contract or of tort, or taking or detention, which might have been heretofore the subject of any action of debt, covenant, assumpsit, account, trespass, trespass on the case, trover, replevin, or detinue, shall and may be enforced in an action to be called a 'personal action;' and all actions of 'ejectment' shall henceforth be commenced and prosecuted in the manner hereinafter provided." "The Court shall have and exercies, in and about any matter brought before it, in any such personal action or action of ejectment, under the provisions of this Act, the same jurisdiction, power, authority, and discretion, to all intents and purposes, as it could have exercised in an action for the same purpose instituted in the manner hereinbefore used." 758 inter se, 759 cestuique 760
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had no objection at all to the hearing of counsel by the Committee; on the contrary, he should rather prefer it, and he agreed with his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General in thinking it very undesirable that Members of the House should act as representatives of the parties before Committees.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he begged to explain that he meant to have said the General Committee of Elections.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would assuredly have opposed the Motion had he thought that the privileges of that House would be interfered with, or the rights of individual Members in the least degree infringed upon, by acceding to the appointment of the Committee, or had he thought that any constitutional right would he violated by the concession of that Committee. His right hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down ought to recollect that the power of that House to inquire into bribery and corruption at elections his independent of Statute Law; and
 748 primâ facie 749
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he quite agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir A. Cockburn) that the sitting Member could not be injured by any clear statement of fact in that House, and he did not complain of any statement of fact, but he thought he had a right to complain of some statements which the hon. and learned Gentleman had made, and which were not facts. He acquitted the hon. and learned Gentleman of intentional misrepresentation; but when the hon. and learned Gentleman relied on one statement which related to him (Mr. Horsfall) as an important link, connecting the sitting Member for Derby with the transaction, and on another statement as making the impossibility of a conspiracy conclusive, he thought It only right he should endeavour to point out that the hon. and learned Gentleman's chain had a broken link in it, and that the
 750
 MR. KEOGH  said, he wished to put a question to Mr. Speaker with reference to the order of their proceedings. It would be in the remembrance of the House that, on last Saturday morning, after the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers) had been considered and divided on, another division was taken on the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston). He was informed that, while the division on the latter Motion was being taken, three Members of the House—namely, the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General (Sir F. Kelly), the noble Lord the Member for West Surrey (the Earl of March), and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Middlesex (Mr. B. Osborne), were concealed in the room at the back of Mr. Speaker's chair. Me did not pretend to conjecture for what reason those three Members were so concealed, but he should like to know whether the room in question was a place of legitimate retreat—to which, whenever a Member of the Government might not like to vote with the Government, he was to be at liberty to retire? He should also like to know whether the division of Saturday morning had been properly taken, or whether the three Gentlemen in question might not have been, and ought not to have been, brought to the table, and compelled to say "aye" or "no" to the question?
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, the only question seemed to be one of complaint, that the Irish should have had so much better a Bill than the English. He believed the Gentlemen opposite were anxious to give them cheap law and good; but why were they still unwilling that the jurisdiction of the Assistant Barristers' Courts in Ireland should be assimilated to the County Courts in England, and their jurisdiction extended from 40 l. l.
 MR. F. PEEL  said, he much doubted the propriety of anticipating the future resources of a colony like Jamaica. The aim of the Bill was quite obvious, and it applied to the removal of the Coolies as injurious, not beneficial, to the island.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the Bill was intended more particularly to meet the special case of Jamaica, which colony, by the unfortunate financial circumstances into which it had fallen, had been unable to keep faith with these Coolies. It was considered that a Bill of this nature would be the most convenient method of supplying the deficiency, and he hoped that it would be allowed to pass through the House without unnecessary delay.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would have no objection to do so when the despatch was quite ready.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that, in order to answer the series of questions the hon. Baronet (the Member for the University of Oxford) had addressed to him, he must ask the indulgence of the House for a very few moments, although it was quite impossible in giving such an answer to enter then into all the complicated details with which the subject was necessarily surrounded. His hon. Friend was, of course, aware that the matter to which he bad referred, was one which bad occupied the attention of successive Administrations in this country, and excited very considerable difficulty and embarrassment in Ceylon. The Christian community of Ceylon, and also many parties in the country, had taken objection to anything like a connexion between the Government of Great Britain, or the Representative of the Queen's Government in the island of Ceylon, and the system of idolatry which existed there, and was known by the name of Buddhism. But it appeared to him that it was forgotten by those who had taken an interest in this matter, that there were certain treaty obligations in existence which could not be lost sight of. The House was no doubt aware that the territory of the ancient kings of Kandy was acquired by this country in the year 1815. At that time a Convention was entered into between the Representative of the Government of this country and the King of Kandy, and one of the articles of that Convention ran in these terms:—"That the religion of Buddha professed by the chiefs and inhabitants of this province is declared inviolable, and its rites, ministers, and places of worship are to be maintained and protected." Subsequently a Proclamation was issued by the British Representative in the island, and under that Proclamation he (Sir J. Pakington) was prepared to contend that the obligations which the Government of this country had entered into on the subject of maintaining the Buddhist religion were not in the least altered. True, there wore certain words to
 715 l. 716 l. l. 717
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  begged to ask if the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to lay the despatch which embodied his views upon the table of the House?
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Secretary of State for the Colonies, whether the connexion between the Queen's Government in Ceylon, and the idolatry of any part of Her Majesty's subjects therein, be or be not severed; whether the custody of the
 714
 LORD STANLEY  said, that the noble Lord had stated with accuracy the circumstances which had accompanied the arrest of Mr. Stead. Immediately after that event, Mr. Stead had very properly laid a statement of his case before Lord Bloom-field, our Ambassador at Berlin, who represented the matter to the Prussian authorities, and at the same time Communicated with the Foreign Office. Lord Bloomfield at first received nothing more than the usual formal reply, that inquiry should be instituted and explanation given. After the lapse of a little time, an explanation was offered by the Prussian Government, to the effect that the Prussian police had obtained information from England that a person of the name of Stead was about to leave this country, and that he was implicated in a conspiracy to assassinate the King of Prussia. They were under the impression that Mr. Francis Stead was the person so described, and it was that suspicion that had led to his arrest and expulsion. The Prussian Government had expressed
 782
 MR. HUME  said, that ever since he had been a Member of that House, Ministers' Money had been a subject of annual discontent and discussion, and he could not understand how any Government should not see it to be their interest to have the question settled as speedily as possible, especially when the Church Establishment was possessed of such ample funds, and when the sum in dispute amounted only to some 15,000 l l 797 l
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, that the statement of the noble Member for Bandon (Viscount Barnard), that it was absolutely necessary that additional funds should be appropriated to the rebuilding and repair of churches in Ireland, was fully borne out by the Reports of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. He would be extremely glad if it were possible to provide for the payment of the Ministers' Money in some other way, but he must protest against the charge being thrown entirely upon the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. It was, indeed, clear from the Reports that the funds in the hands of the Commissioners were utterly inadequate for the purpose.
 MR. LAWLESS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. FORTESCUE  said, that he considered the objects for which this obnoxious, unfair, and mischievous tax was levied, ought to be provided for from the funds of the Established Church in Ireland. He thought the revenues of those sinecure livings which disgraced that Establishment might, with great benefit, be applied to this purpose. He hoped the Government would not be too scrupulous in applying the funds of the Established Church to those objects.
 MR. MURPHY  said, it was quite apparent that this was a subject which was not mixed up with any spirit of sectarianism, but was one with reference to which those who differed in religion might agree in point of charity, and which it was as essential for Protestants as for Catholics should be speedily settled. But he asked what further pledge had they now for its settlement than they had had from a series of Governments? It was now some eleven years since he had first presented this question to the consideration of the House, and he was then met by the Government with words as conciliatory in spirit as those which the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had just made use of. The answer had always been that they concurred in the propriety of abolishing this impost, and that they believed it to be a vexatious one, engendering heartburnings; but, while they made specious promises from time to time, nothing had been done. In his opinion they ought to have a more definite promise, and they ought to be informed as to the nature of the measure proposed to be introduced. Another very great objection to this impost was the mode in which it was levied. Houses which formerly let at high rents, were now occupied by poor families, at 2 s. s. 795
 MR. MAGUIRE  threw himself on the indulgence of the House for a few minutes, as he was a new Member, and as this was the first occasion he had attempted to address them. He assured them that he would not have risen on this occasion had it not been that the question before the House was one which was considered exceedingly important in some of the principal localities of Ireland. The immediate object for which he rose was to urge upon the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Fagan) to persevere in his Motion; and he did so in no spirit of hostility to the Government, for he had no hostility towards them on this question; but because the Government had given the Members representing Ire-laud no assurance that this subject should be taken into especial consideration, and because the Attorney General for Ireland had given the House no idea of the principle on which he intended to found his promised Bill. Had the Government given them any assurance that they would provide a satisfactory substitute for the existing mode of levying Ministers' Money, he would have advised his hon. Friend at once to withdraw his Motion, and accept the terms of Government. The right hon. Gentleman had spoken of the importance of avoiding religious controversy; but he should remember that nothing was more
 799 800 Charles 801 l s., 802 803
 MR. NAPIER  said, when his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department stated last Session, that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to take this question into consideration, that was no idle promise for the purpose of postponing it, but with the  bonâ fide 796 l l
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for the city of Cork (Mr. Pagan) had brought forward his Motion in a spirit of great moderation and good temper, and that he had done everything which he could to avert a religious discussion. It would be his endeavour to follow the excellent example which the hon. Member had set, while explaining the views which he (Mr. Walpole) took upon this subject, and the course which the Government intended to pursue. He believed that there were inconveniences attending this impost, and objections to it which ought to be removed. The objections pointed out by the hon. Gentleman as to the mode of valuation were very considerable, and he believed that some alleviation of the hardships they produced was expedient and necessary. The House was probably aware that a house rented at 60 l l "But the paramount objection to ministers' money is of a political and religious kind. The direct payment of an ecclesiastical tax from Roman Catholic occupiers to Protestant incumbents, as a remuneration for services in which the former do not partitipate, is as obnoxious as church cess, and since its abolition, and the commutation
 791 792 simpliciter, "Have you had an opportunity of forming an opinion regarding the effect of ministers' money in Cork?—Certainly; as an officiating clergyman among the people, it necessarily has come under my notice. You consider the tax to be very obnoxious?—Particularly so. Have you had an opportunity of speaking to members of the Established Church, as well as to members of your own persuasion on the subject?—To a great many, lay and clergy. Are the Protestants, generally speaking, opposed to ministers' money?—The Protestants of Cork, principally; I think they prefer any other mode of payment for the clergy. Does the collection of ministers' money lead to discord and rancorous feeling as between the clergy and the inhabitants of Cork?—I would hardly call it a rancorous feeling; there is a feeling of dissatisfaction, and a feeling that it is an injustice; but except in cases here and there, where collectors may have been oppressive, there is no feeling of rancour. The inhabitants of Cork, I presume, would think that the clergy of the Established Church, who have duties to perform, should not be deprived of their livelihood?—On the contrary, I think that the general impression among the respectable classes of Roman Catholics in Cork, and indeed generally, is, that any arrangement which would take from the present incumbents their full amount of subsistence, becoming their rank as clergymen and gentlemen, would be unjust. And you say that it is the wish of the Roman Catholic inhabitants that the clergy of the Established Church in Cork should be paid fully for the duties they perform?—No doubt; and as I know that my examination must be a short one, I hope I do not intrude on the Committee in saying that from experience for the last several years, as secretary to the relief committee of Cork, there has been such a cordial feeling between the clergy of both Churches, they have acted so well and so zealously together; that I do believe that if this cause of irritation were removed in cities a very beneficial change would be produced upon the face and surface of society." 793 794
 MR. FAGAN  rose to submit to the House the Motion which stood opposite his name in the notice paper. Having on three former occasions in the last Parliament submitted a similar Motion, it was not his intention to trespass at any great length on the indulgence of the House. But as he had the honour of addressing many hon. Members who had entered Parliament for the first time, and who knew but little of the subject under discussion, he felt it was due to them, and to the cause of which he was the humble advocate, as shortly and as succinctly as he was able, to place before the House the leading features of the question at issue. And, first, he would premise that he had no intention of interfering with the Church Establishment—that he was not coming forward in opposition to the wishes or the interests of the Protestant ministers who receive the tax called Ministers' Money— on the contrary, as he would show, that his Motion had their approval and concurrence, and that he was proposing nothing at variance with the objects, the purposes, or the preamble of the Church Temporalities Act. This vexatious, and he would call it odious, impost, amounted to the very paltry sum of 15,000 l 783 l l l l l l 784 l l l 785 "And be it enacted, that all parishes and places where, by virtue of any law, statute, or custom, provision may heretofore have been made by vestry or assessment, for the maintenance of any curate, lecturer, clerk, or other minister, or assistant, in the celebration of divine service, such provision by vestry or other assessment shall, from and after the passing of this Act, wholly cease and determine, and it shall and may be lawful for said Commissioners under said Act, by and out of the proceeds of said annual tax, and other funds aforesaid, by this Act vested in them, to provide for all such purposes." "In this state of things, your Committee think it incumbent upon them to state that an augmentation of the funds of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners may be rendered available as a substitute for Ministers' Money, and recommend that, with that view, an amendment of the Church Temporalities Act may be made. Your Committee are aware that the adoption of this measure will involve the interposition of a new trust, and the postponement or relinquishment of some of the ulterior objects contemplated by the Church Temporalities Act; but any objection founded on the displacement of the original objects of the Church Temporalities Act will be more than countervailed by the great advantages which, in a social, moral, and religious view, will arise from the removal of an obstacle to those feelings of amity and good will, which it will be essentially conducive to the general interest of
 786 787 
 
 See Estates £32,638 £50,259 
 Suspended Dignities and Benefices 11,531 15,749 
 Tax on Benefices and Bishoprics 7,541 11,785 
 Total £51,710 £77,793 l l l l l l l l l l 788 l l l l bonâ fide 789 toties quoties l l l l 790
 MR. FAGAN  said, he felt himself bound by a sense of duty to divide the House. If the Government had held out any hope that this obnoxious tax would be abolished, he would not call for a division, but from the sketch placed before the House of the nature of the right hon. and learned Attorney General's Bill, he was quite satisfied there was no intention whatever of abolishing this impost, but simply of transferring it from the occupiers of the houses to the landlords. He therefore felt it due to his constituents, who would not be satisfied with such an arrangement, to press his Motion.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would suggest to his hon. Friend the Member for the city of Cork (Mr. Fagan), that he should not press his Motion after the promise made by the Government to introduce a Bill on the subject. It appeared to be admitted on both sides of the House that the tax was most obnoxious, and its recipients objected to it just as much as those who were called upon to pay it. If his hon. Friend forbore from pressing his Motion now, the House would judge, when the Government brought forward their measure, whether it met the case satisfactorily
 804
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, be had come down to the House intending to give his support to the Motion; and what he had heard during the discussion confirmed him in the opinion that it was necessary this subject should be thoroughly investigated. He thought, however, after the assurances which had been given on the part of Her Majesty's Government, that they would bring in a measure on the subject early after the recess, that the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this Motion would rather damage than advance his cause by pressing the Motion under the circumstances.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  said, that hon. Members should recollect that this was a preliminary Session of Parliament, the avowed object of which was to settle an important commercial question, and that they ought not to bring forward questions of this kind on the present occasion, but allow the Government time to bring forward the measures they had in contemplation. The right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland had told them that he had directed his attention to the subject now under discussion, and that he had the details of a Bill in the course of preparation. This ought to be sufficient to satisfy the House for the present. The House should also bear in mind what had already been stated, that when this tax was originally imposed, it was imposed on the property of Protestants, and that all who had purchased the property since had purchased it subject to the tax; and it should likewise he kept in view that supposing the mode of collecting the tax were changed, and they were to place it on the basis of the Poor Rate, two-thirds of it would still fall upon Protestants, as the great bulk of the property in the cities subjected to the tax belonged to them. The hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) —following the hon. Member for the city of Cork (Mr. Fagan)—had proposed to take the Ministers' Money out of the revenues of the Established Church of Ireland. Now, in the Report of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for Ireland, which was issued only the other day, he found it stated that, although some improvement had recently taken place in the state of their funds, the Commissioners could not promise to
 —"provide for the many pressing wants of the
 798 l
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs relative to the recent expulsion of Mr. Francis Stead from Prussia, by the police authorities of Berlin. It appeared that, in the month of August last, Mr. Stead visited Berlin, and, after residing there for two days, was arrested by the police, by whom he was detained in custody for a whole day, at the expiration of which period he was set at liberty, with an intimation that he must leave Berlin in the course of six hours, and that, if he returned, he would he committed to prison for one month. He (Viscount Goderich) should be glad to know whether the Prussian Government had offered any apology or explanation of such extraordinary conduct?
 MR. MILES  said, that, before the noble Lord answered the appeal of his (Mr. Miles's) hon. Friend (Mr. Buck), he trusted he would take into his consideration a point which he (Mr. Miles) thought was a necessary preliminary to the discussion of to-day. It was desirable that the noble Lord should state distinctly to the House what were his intentions in proposing this Bill. In the last Parliament the noble Lord began by confining his measure to the simple proposition that the Poll for Counties should last but one day. Subse-
 806
 MR. HUME  said, he was surprised that difficulties should be interposed in the way of this measure. Let hon. Gentlemen look at the evidence taken before the Committee of 1836, and they would find what were the practices resorted to for the purpose of bringing up the halt, the lame, and the blind, after the polling had commenced. The whole pressure of an election was now over at 12 o'clock, and he thought that any measure would be a great improvement which would put a stop to the scenes of bribery and corruption which had heretofore disgraced our elections.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he believed that, by having more polling places, much expense would be saved to the voters, and that an end would be put to those practices which generally took place on the first night of the election. He, therefore, hoped that the noble Lord (Lord R. Grosvenor) would not risk that which was good in his measure by mixing it up with the question of voting.
 LORD ALEXANDER LENNOX  said, that as the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Sir G. Pechell) had quoted the borough which he (Lord A. Lennox) had the honour to represent, as an instance that no inconvenience could arise from having only two polling places, and confining the polling to one day, that district being thirty miles long and ten wide, he begged to inform him that the inconvenience was so great, and the complaints so general, that it was his intention to move a clause to the Bill to place the borough of Shoreham upon the same footing as counties.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  did not think that any hon. Gentleman would object to the substance of the hon. and learned Gentleman's proposition, as the feeling of the House was, that all these proceedings should be shortened as much as possible; but with respect to the period between the nomination and polling, he certainly thought that, if the polling should be limited to one day, it would not be unfair to allow more time than at present for preparation between the nomination and the poll. He had been informed by election agents that there would be no difficulty in taking the poll in one day, provided the number of polling places was increased. He thought, too, that as little trouble as possible should be given to the voters, and that the election should be taken to the electors instead of the electors to the election. He would not at present refer further to the suggestion that the poll should be taken by voting papers; but as it was the disposition of the House to deal very stringently with treating and the expenditure of money during an election, it was quite clear that if the candidates were not allowed by Parliament to bring voters up to the poll, they would not be got up. There was only one point more, and that was, that in some districts it would be impossible to get the poll-books up in time to make the declaration of the poll on the day following the election, and he would therefore suggest that the declaration should be deferred until the day but one after the election.
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether any complaint had been made to the Admiralty respecting the conveyance of the mails, to the effect that the Company had not fulfilled their agreement with the Admiralty—for that was the point to look to?
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that there could be no objection on the part of the Admiralty to granting the Returns which the hon. Member asked for; and he begged to take the opportunity of this Motion to say a few words, which, if they did not give the exact state of the case as regarded the  Melbourne, Melbourne Melbourne 815
 MR. A. DUNCOMBE , in reply, begged to state that no such complaint had been received by the Admiralty; and, in the absence of correct information, it would be injudicious in the House to prejudge the case. He had to request the hon. Member to add to his Motion the words "also copies of letters from Captain Phillimore, the Government agent on board the vessel."
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he was of opinion that, if the Bill passed, additional polling places in counties would be indispensably necessary. In the hope that the objectionable parts of the Bill would be rectified in Committee, he would not oppose it in its present stage.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the principle of the Bill having been agreed to by the House, it was desirable that they should carry it into effect with as little delay as possible. With respect to the polling places, no doubt if the polling was confined to one day, it would not only be desirable but necessary to increase the number of those places, for he thought that a person going to vote at a county election ought not to travel further than a person who had to vote for a city or borough, and resided within seven miles of it; but that could be accomplished by the law as it at present stood. It was competent for Justices of the Peace to propose any increase in the number of polling places that they might think expedient, and the power of carrying out their recommendation was reserved to the Queen in Council. There was no reason to suppose that the magistrates would not be actuated by a desire to consult the convenience of the electors, by recommending the erection of additional polling places in such situations as they, judging from their local knowledge, might consider most advantageous. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. G. Butt) who moved the instructions had raised a question as to the time between the issuing of the writ and the time of the election. He thought it would be better to propose that in a separate Bill; but he would ask whether, rather than abridging the time, it would not be better to extend it. Suppose a Member of that House died, and the writ were issued immediately, the constituents ought, in such a case, to have time to consider which candidate would be the best representative, and he thought three days would not be too much for that purpose. The question was one of importance, and perhaps the hon. and learned Gentleman would bring it forward in a separate form.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR , in reply to the question of the hon. Member for North Devonshire (Mr. Buck), said, that if the Bill were then for the first time introduced, there might have been some reason in that hon. Gentleman's request; but the House would recollect that not only was that not the case, but the Bill was brought in last Session with the sanction of the Government to its principle—that since that time an election had taken place— and that he had in the late Parliament given notice that he should again bring forward the measure. It could not be contended, therefore, that the constituencies had not had the most ample opportunity of considering it: the hon. Gentleman would excuse him if he declined to comply with his request. The hon. Member for East Somersetshire (Mr. Miles) had desired him (Lord R. Grosvenor) to state what he really meant to accomplish by his Bill. In the first place, then, the Amendment of which he had given notice for limiting to one day the period between the nomination and the Poll having been received with so little favour by the House, it was his intention, as he had stated on a previous occasion, to withdraw it; so that, as far as he himself was concerned, he proposed now simply to limit the duration of the poll to one day instead of two, and to provide that the official declaration should be made the day following the close of the poll instead of the day but one after.
 MR. PACKE  said, he must complain of the haste with which it was endeavoured to pass this Bill through the House, and he thought more time should be allowed for considering its provisions. The principal ground upon which he was opposed to the Bill was, that it would certainly operate as a measure of disfranchisement in the case of a large portion of the county electors, and these of the most important class. The state of the weather during the last fortnight ought to have convinced the House of the great difficulty which would have been experienced in many counties by the electors attempting to come to the poll at all. For these, among other reasons, he should oppose the further progress of the Bill, and move, as an Amendment, that it should be committed on that day six months.
 MR. PACKE , said, he would not press his Amendment.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had always entertained the same opinion upon this subject. He thought that the Reform Bill was intended to settle all questions of this kind, but it appeared that that was not so. The present measure was essentially a mean one. He must say he did not wish to see any change made in the law of elections. He was perfectly satisfied to represent the city which he had had the honour of representing for so many years, and he had the vanity to think that his constituency did not wish to see any change in their representation. The House was told that this measure would check bribery. Now, he had heard a great deal about bribery, He supposed it would be considered an act of bribery if a man held out his hand to discharge a mere Christian duty to his suffering fellow-creature. He had no reliance on the House of Commons, and therefore what he should do, would be to keep clear of the present proceeding.
 813
 MR. DIVETT  said, that from the time the Australian Royal Steam Company had commenced its operations till now, there had been a continual series of complaints against their management; and he thought that it was the duty of the Admiralty, who were paying the Company an immense sum for the conveyance of the mails, to take every precaution to secure the safe and rapid transit of the passengers. He hoped that the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty would take care that there should be a proper investigation in this case.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he proposed to move an instruction to the Committee to insert a clause for shortening the time between the proclamation and the day of election in counties, and between the time of the receipt of the writ and the election in boroughs. At present county elections took place under the regulations of the Act of 25  Geo. Vict. 809
 MR. G. BUTT  said, that after what had taken place, he would beg to withdraw
 812
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he knew that many of the disturbances which took place at contested elections, arose principally from the circumstances of the polling booth being errected on the premises of a public-house. He would in Committee move a proviso to prevent the continuance of that practice.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he should support the Bill. The whole of the objections which had been urged on that (the Ministerial) side of the House might be obviated by inserting a provision for the establishment of more polling places, and for taking the votes at the houses of the electors in the same manner as was now done at elections of guardians of the poor.
 MR. DRUMMOND  moved for Copies of Reports received at the Admiralty from Commander Wolridge, of Her Majesty's ship  Inflexible, Melbourne Greenock), Melbourne 814
 MR. GEORGE  said, he quite concurred in the necessity of limiting the polling in the counties of Ireland, as well as elsewhere, to one day.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the county papers were generally only circulated once a week in the county, and the notice of nomination and of the election was often not published in the county paper for several days after it had been determined upon. Thus, three-fourths of the county by this means did not know what the other fourth was doing. In his opinion, therefore, more time ought to be extended, instead of having it diminished.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that in the course of twenty-five years' experience he
 811
 MR. BUCK  said, that, as the representative of a very large agricultural district (Devonshire), he felt that, if the Bill were passed in its present shape, it would be impossible for his constituency to exercise the franchise without much inconvenience. It must be evident to every one who was acquainted with the county constituencies that the greatest possible difficulty would arise from the provisions of the Bill; and he now interposed for the purpose of appealing to the noble Lord (Lord R. Grosvenor), and requesting him to postpone its further consideration until after the recess, that hon. Members might have an opportunity of communicating with their constituents, and ascertaining what were their sentiments upon the subject. If, however, the noble Lord would not accede to that suggestion, he trusted he would adopt another course, which he could assure him would meet the concurrence of several Gentlemen on that (the Ministerial) side of the House, and consent to submit the Bill to the consideration of a Select Committee. It was by no means his wish to defeat the Bill; all he desired was that it should be made as satisfactory to the country as it was possible to make it.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had supported the Bill on its second reading, and intended to support the Motion for going into Committee upon it now; and if the noble Lord (Lord R. Grosvenor) confined it to the object he had just stated, he had no doubt that much time would be saved, and the Bill speedily passed. As to the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. G. Butt), he would not say whether his hon. and learned Friend's Amendments were desirable or not; but the House should consider whether it ought to entertain an instruction to the Committee on a question of this kind, which instruction had been placed upon the Votes only the night before. For his part, he had not Seen his hon. and learned Friend's notice until that morning, and he had had no
 810
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he considered the Bill of great importance, not only in regard to England but to Ireland also. He was, however, afraid that the machinery of it could not be beneficially applied to Ireland. By the system which was generally adopted at the elections in the sister country in administering the bribery oath, and two other oaths, for the purposes of delay, only from 100 to 200 votes could be conveniently polled in one day. This was a scandalous practice, and should be put a stop to. He knew a case in which only sixty persons were enabled to poll in the one day in consequence of the many difficulties which the existing law permitted the opposing parties to throw in the way. He was of opinion that a beneficial change would be effected in the law if those oaths were ordered to be taken before a magistrate, and not at the polling booth.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he had no objection to the principle of confining the raking of the poll to one day; but he thought it should be accompanied with other provisions of an important character that were necessary to remedy many evils of their present election law. He should like to see a much more extensive measure introduced than the present one.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he was anxious to see how the measure would work for England before the principles of it were made applicable to Ireland.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he concurred in the opinion expressed by the noble Lord who had charge of the Bill, that the country had had abundant opportunity to make itself acquainted with the provisions of the measure, and that there was therefore no legitimate excuse for further postponement. He did not believe
 807
 MR. HUME  said, he would take the liberty of asking the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure for the Extension of the Franchise, the Protection of the Voters, and the Equalisation of the number of Electors to the number of Representatives?
 MR. HINDLBY  said, in the absence of the right hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass), he would repeat the question which that Gentleman put to the right hon. Home Secretary on Monday—namely, whether, within the last few days, the Lord Chancellor bad placed on the Commission of the Peace for the borough of Derby, Dr. Hilett, Mr. Lewis, and Mr. Henry Fox, all ardent supporters of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Horsfall)?
 MR. HUME  said, be rose to move for Copies of the Correspondence respecting Buddhism not printed by the Committee on Ceylon Affairs in the Appendix to their Reports. The question put by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis) a few nights ago upon this subject was one of great importance, and his (Mr. Hume's) anxiety was to prevent the evils that might follow from the violation of any treaty with the natives of Ceylon. He wished these documents to be laid before the House, so that hon. Members might have time to considers how dangerous it would he if any individual, however zealous he might be for promoting Christianity, were to interfere, with the religious ceremonies of the natives of Ceylon.
 MR. HUME  said, he had to express his perfect satisfaction at the frank explanation of the right hon. Baronet the Colonial Secretary. The right hon. Baronet having distinctly stated that the solemn treaties entered into with the Kings of Kandy would be respected by the Government of this country, he (Mr. Hume) had attained the only object he had in view, and would, therefore, withdraw his Motion.
 MR. HUME  said, he now had to move for Copies of the Correspondence between. the Secretary for the Colonies, and Sir Henry Ward, Lord High Commissioner of the Ionian Islands, since February, 1852. He thought the right hon. Baronet the Colonial Secretary could have no objection to the production of these documents, particularly as, on a previous occasion, he expressed his readiness to afford every information on the subject. Within the last three years no fewer than sixty-eight persons had been "relegated," as it was styled, but which meant "banished" by the police from the Ionian Islands. He had felt it his duty to move for these papers last year, but they were never produced, until after Parliament had been dissolved. Since then a new Parliament had
 827
 MR. HUME  said, he was very glad that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had spoken, because he and the Government were all in the same boat upon this subject: one was as bad as the other. Sir Henry Ward had offered to give up the powers of high police if they would give up the liberty of the press, and publish only what he pleased. This was the proposition which he had made to the Ionian Parliament; and because they had refused it, he had prorogued them. They were quite right not to give up the palladium of their liberties. Sheridan, in one of his eloquent speeches, said, "Give me the liberty of the press, and I care not what you do—I will meet the strongest opposition." So far as to asking questions, they were all witnesses how he had been treated already. He would not expose himself to any insult, and all his questions should be put publicly. He pledged himself within ten days after those papers were laid upon the table of the House to bring the matter under its consideration. As to thirteen Members only voting with him, he would remind the right hon. Gentleman that in 1829 be proposed the repeal of the Corn Laws, and upon that occasion he was left in a minority of thirteen. He
 831
 MR. ELLICE  would suggest that the right hon. Gentleman should state the extent to which he proposed that the inquiry should be carried on in the Committee.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he thought it would be very desirable to extend the terms of the Motion. There were other means of effecting amalgamations besides Amalgamation Bills, and other proceedings which attained the same purposes as Acts of Parliament. It was desirable the Committee should consider the whole of them.
 GENERAL ANSON  said, that it was his opinion that the scope of the Motion should be much more extensive than it was now proposed to be. He should be glad to have the whole subject of the future legislation with regard to railways submitted to a Committee. There were nearly two hundred Bills coming before the House for amalgamation purposes, or running powers, and he viewed it as of the utmost importance that the House should undertake the question, and that they should not be afraid to grapple with it, but should lay down some principle to guide those great companies, the directors of which were frequently unjustly attacked and accused of a monopolising spirit, when their only object was to afford a fair security to those who bad invested their money in these undertakings. It would be quite as well, in his opinion, to defer the Committee for a day or two, and in the meantime the Government might consider whether it would not be better to make the Motion even more extensive than the terms proposed by the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone.) He had no objection to the Committee considering the questions of amalgamation and of leases and agreements, because, in point of fact, they were one and the same thing.
 MR. ELLICE  said, he had had some experience of this matter in former Committees, and he knew that, unless the Government stated for the consideration of the House the policy that was to be submitted to the Committee, their labours would be of very little use indeed, so far as any practical result was concerned.
 MR. GLADSTONE  entirely concurred in what had just fallen from his right hon. Friend the Member for Coventry. If the Motion for the Committee were agreed to, he took it for granted that the right hon. President of the Board of Trade would be ready to state the views of the Government before the names of the Committee were determined on; because it was quite certain, if there were one question more than another on which the House most absolutely required the guidance and assistance and restraint and control of the Government, it was the question of railway legislation. The Government and the House together had made but a very indifferent affair of it heretofore, and if a Committee were to attempt to go into the question without a previous declaration of the policy to be
 833
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  presumed that the right hon. President of the Board of Trade would be ready to state what his views were when he proposed the Committee.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he was glad that the right hon. Gentleman the Colonial Secretary had taken the present opportunity to defend the conduct of the
 830
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he thought it very desirable that they should know what course was to be adopted on this subject. If, on the one hand, it were inconvenient to move the Committee now, on the other hand there would be great inconvenience in the postponement of the Motion for any considerable time. He almost thought that the general convenience of the House would be best promoted if the right hon. Gentleman would move for the Committee that evening, and would take some other opportunity of explaining the views of the Government as to the course they would pursue.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was not aware of the details of the measure which his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade was to have proposed; and, as there seemed to be some doubt whether the terms of the Motion were sufficiently extensive, be thought it would be better not to press it at that time, though he saw no objection to the sugges-
 832
 MR. WALPOLE  said, no doubt he would. His right hon. Friend intended to have clone so that evening if he could have been present.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, under these circumstances, he would rather not move the Resolution at present.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that it would probably be better, in the absence of his right hon. Friend, to postpone for the present the appointment of the Committee.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, in the absence of his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade, he had to move for a Select Committee to consider the principle of amalgamation as applied to Railway or Railway and Canal Bills about to be brought under the consideration of Parliament.
 MR. WALPOLE , in reply, said, if there were any feeling of a want of confidence in Her Majesty's Government, or any complaint to be made with regard to their appointments to the magistracy, let it be expressed openly and directly. He had made inquiries of the Lord Chancellor with respect to the appointments referred to, and the noble and learned Lord had informed him, that, after receiving a memorial from the inhabitants of Derby, he had appointed to the Commission of the Peace there three of the most respectable persons in that town, in lieu of three persons who did not qualify last year when they were appointed by the Government of the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell).
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that if the object of the Bill was still to require the payment of the rate on or before the 20th of July, but that the payment then made must be in respect of rates due in the preceding month of October, instead of the month
 824
 MR. WALPOLE , in reply, said, that a Copy of the Report of the Commissioners had been sent to the University, and to the Heads of the several Colleges in the University, with the request that they would make their observations upon that Report either as affecting the University generally, or the Colleges separately. With regard to the question to which the hon. Gentleman more immediately referred, it was perfectly true that the College of Eton, as mentioned in the Report, was intimately connected with King's College—he had, therefore, thought it proper to send a Copy of the Report to the authorities at Eton, in the same way as he had sent it to King's College; and when he had received their observations upon it, he should be prepared to state what course he might deem it necessary to take upon the subject.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he was convinced that the Bill would be unsatisfactory to the country. In fact, he regarded the proposal of the hon. and gallant Member (Sir De L. Evans) as altogether a retrograde movement. The objections of the public were directed against the whole of the ratepaying clauses of the Reform Bill. They contended that Borough electors ought to be put upon the same footing as County electors—that the payment of rates was no condition for the registration of the latter, and that it ought not to he so for the former. He condemned the Bill as a retrogressive measure, because the measure introduced by the noble Lord the Member for the city of London (Lord John Russell) last year abolished the payment of Assessed taxes as a condition of registration; and the noble Lord was, therefore, in point of fact, in advance of the hon. and gallant Member. The hon. and gallant Member might bring in his Bill if he liked, so far as he (Mr. Duncombe) was concerned; but he must enter his protest on the part of the public that it was only trifling with and frittering away a greater and much more important question.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Is it the intention of the Government to submit to Parliament the same measure which they introduced at the close of the last Session, for allocating the four seats now vacant to new constituencies, and which measure the Government then considered to be one of great urgency?
 MR. PHINN  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether, in consequence of the Report of the Cambridge University Commissioners in reference to King's College, Cambridge, Her Majesty's Government were prepared to recommend to the authorities of Eton College to concert measures with the Provost and Fellows of King's College, for the improvement and extension of the two foundations?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I consider that question also to be a portion of the great subject of "progressive reform," and I prefer giving a more formal notice of the intentions of the Government than that which is to be elicited under the circumstances which have just taken place.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , rising with the hon. Member's question in his hand, said: Mr. Speaker, whenever "it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure for the Extension of the Franchise, the Protection of the Voters, and the Equalisation of the number of Electors to the number of Representatives," they will think it consistent with their duty to give a formal notice to the House of that intention; but it would not be respectful to the House, that any intimation of such an intention on their part should be first made
 822
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  gave notice, that in the event of any measure being introduced by the Government for the allocation of the four seats now vacant in that House, he should propose that those seats be given to the metropolitan districts of Chelsea and Kensington.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to extend the period for payment of rates and taxes for the Elective Franchise. By the Bill of last year on the subject, as it passed the House of Commons, it was provided that the payment of the rates should be made as enacted by the Reform Bill, on or before the 20th of July in each year, hut that the rates so to be paid should be not those which had fallen due on or before the 5th of April previously, but those which had fallen due on or before the preceding 6th of October. In the House of Lords, however, the period was altered from the 6th of October to the 5th of January, and with the date so altered, the Bill was eventually passed. The Bill he now asked leave to introduce was to extend the period backward from the 5th of January to the 10th of October. The principle of the Bill had been repeatedly affirmed by the House.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he heard with very great satisfaction one statement of the short speech of the hon. Member for Montrose—and which he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not forget—namely, that on obtaining those papers he was determined to bring the question before the House. He was perfectly ready and willing to produce the papers moved for, and had the hon. Gentleman asked him for them privately, he should have been just as ready and as willing to have placed them at his disposal. The hon. Gentleman, however, could not forego the opportunity which the Motion gave him of repeating those attacks on Sir Henry Ward and the Government of the Ionian Islands which he had already made on two occasions, in language equally harsh and equally unjust with that which he had chosen to employ that evening. It was but justice, however, to Sir Henry
 828 "I shall be ready and happy to release Signor F. Domeneghini, whenever he thinks proper to comply with the conditions which I have felt it to be my duty to propose, by giving me his word that he will abstain from seditious attempts for the space of twelve months." "I took advantage of the farewell visits paid to me by all those members who have any pretensions to a character for moderation to make a fresh offer to the gentlemen now in confinement under the high police power at Cerigotto, through the medium of Count Lunzi and Signor Corrianiti, two of the members for Zante. I was sincerely in hopes that the Session would not have terminated without a law being passed that would have enabled me to put an end to all questions connected with high police. But as this expectation has not been realised, I must now decide what course to take respecting these prisoners, and I have resolved to propose, once more, to release them, provided they will give me their word to abstain from taking an active part in politics for twelve months." "Before I set out on my visit to the southern, islands, I had the honour to inform you that I had directed my secretary, Mr. Fraser, to acquaint
 829
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he fully concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Member (Mr. Hume). He had stated, in answer to the question from his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir E. H. Inglis), and he had thought it right so to state from what he knew had been stated to the contrary in Ceylon and in this country, that he felt we were bound by treaties, and that whatever course might be taken out of just and proper consideration to the feelings of the Christian part of the community, we were bound to recollect our treaty obligations, and to carry them out in a fair spirit. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume) had expressed his anxiety as to the danger of interfering with the Buddhist people on the subject of their religious ceremonies; and he agreed with the hon. Gentleman that, if there was to be any interference, it should be exercised with the greatest care and caution. But, as regarded the immediate object of the hon. Member, namely, the production of the particular papers for which he had moved, he begged to state that he had felt it to be his duty to make himself acquainted with the contents of those papers. The hon. Member had been a member of the Ceylon Committee, and he no doubt recollected the grounds upon which the Committee drew up their Report and withheld these papers. He (Sir J. Pakington) had not himself been a member of that Committee, consequently the hon. Gentleman must be more conversant with the circumstances than he could possibly be; but he would remind the hon. Gentleman that it was because of the events which had then recently occurred, and the state of excitement which prevailed upon the question, that the Committee thought it prudent not to publish these papers in their Report. The state of things which had induced the Committee to exclude the papers from their Report had now, however, passed away, and, so far as that was concerned, there was no obstacle in the way of producing them. Generally speaking, he was always anxiously desirous of furnishing information to the House, to the utmost extent in his power; and with regard to these papers he should entertain no objection to
 826
 MR. HUME : What will be the loss on hops?
 LORD JOHN RUSSILL : I am not going to make any observations on the statement which the right hon. Gentleman has made; but I wish to ask a question with regard to the mode in which he intends to proceed with the various propositions which he has laid before the House. He must be aware that with respect to many of those duties, and especially concerning his proposition, the house tax, the country will be very anxious to learn the decision of the House. Indeed, if we were now in February the right hon. Gentleman would expect us to come to a specific Resolution on this subject; but at this season of the year I suppose he will propose some other arrangement by which the public interest will be served. I should wish to know the course which he intends to pursue.
 MR. HUME  was glad that this conversation had taken place, because on a question of such a complicated character it was desirable that the House should see its way perfectly clear. He thought it would be right that the House should be called upon to decide whether the income tax was to be a permanent part of the taxation of the country or not. With the exception of the proposition with respect to the light-dues, he agreed entirely with the recommendations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, every one of which had been urged again and again on that (the Opposition) side of the House; but he must express his great regret that the right hon. Gentleman should have merely proposed to reduce the duty on hops. It ought to have been entirely abolished; for after the proposed reduction of 1 d. l 913
 MR. FITZROY  said, that he understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the beginning of his speech, when referring to the burdens of which he was going to relieve the shipping interest, to allude to the duties on marine insurances, at the same time stating that it would be perhaps more convenient to the House that he should mention, in a subsequent part of his speech, the amount of revenue which he was prepared to sacrifice. He thought, however, that the right hon. Gentleman Omitted to state the amount of the sacrifice under that head; and he should be obliged to him if he would now inform the House whether the duties on marine insurance
 917 l
 MR. CLAY  said, the right hon. Gentleman had not given the House the details of those measures which he had proposed affecting the shipping interest; but, with regard to the spirit of those measures, he begged to offer the right hon. Gentleman his congratulations and thanks for the relief projected. He (Mr. Clay) had voted against the repeal of the navigation laws solely upon the principle that, along with the privileges it took away, it did not take away its burdens also. As the representative of a constituency deeply interested in this question, he was convinced of the necessity of removing these burdens.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  begged to ask the right hon. Secretary of State for the
 835
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he wished to make no. objection to the mode of proceeding proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, provided the House were in-
 912
 MR. FREWEN  felt bound heartily to thank the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the very able statement he had put before them, and for a plan which he believed would, in various ways, be beneficial to his constituents. He wished particularly to call attention to one subject in which a great proportion of his constituents were interested—he meant the heavy dues at present levied on shipping in the shape of passing tolls. He did not know whether the right hon. Gentleman was acquainted with the system of taxes on shipping established in France, which he thought well worthy of being adopted in this country. Every ship which went into a French harbour knew what it had to pay for harbour dues, whilst it had nothing to pay for lights. This was a matter in which improved regulations were loudly called for, as many of our harbours were in a disgraceful state. With regard to the proposal to take off half the malt
 920
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  owed it as a duty to his country to say that he could not approve of the measures brought forward by the right hon. Gentleman. He (Colonel Sibthorp) was in favour of protection to all British interests; but there was one interest in particular which had been declared by the right hon. Gentleman to be in a state of great suffering, but of which no notice was now taken. With regard to the malt tax, if only half of it were remitted, they would have all the same difficulties and vexatious proceedings that were complained of at present. He had heard from the right hon. Gentleman that poor-rates were diminished. Why were they so low as they were at present? Because the farmers had stepped forward and given protection and relief to the labouring class, in order to keep them from the parish. He, for one, had always objected to the income tax, because it was properly a war tax, and ought not to be imposed in time of peace. But though he disapproved of the right hon. Gentleman's proposals, yet, comparing one Government with another, he must say that the late Government was worth nothing; while it still remained to be proved whether the present Government was wholly worthless, and he was therefore willing to give it his support as far as he could.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that he was not going to make any observations on the propositions of the right hon. Gentleman. He merely wished to offer a remark or two upon the course of proceeding to be followed. If the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman were merely to reduce the tea duty, or to increase the house duty, he should think it perfectly possible that Resolutions carrying out those measures might be proposed, discussed, and decided upon on Friday next. But surely the right hon. Gentleman did not propose, with so brief an interval, to pass Resolutions involving a complicated scheme, which it had taken him five hours to explain, involving questions of the most difficult nature, on which the most different opinions might be entertained, and which, as he said, hung very much together. A Gentleman might be perfectly ready to agree to a Resolution for the reduction of the tea duties—which was a matter of no great amount, and which might be dealt with out of the existing surplus; but it could not be supposed that the House would be ready to agree without much consideration to his propositions with respect to the income tax, to the increase of the house duty, or to the reduction of the malt tax. And he thought it was quite essential that before they committed themselves to large reductions of taxation —such as the proposed reduction of the malt tax—they should be quite sure that they were ready to vote the subsequent proposition. Let them be sure of the Ways and Means before they rushed into rash reductions. He was not a little alarmed when, on the first day of the Session, he heard the noble Earl at the head of the Government declare in another place that the final measures to be proposed by the Government to carry out their principles might lead to financial embarrassment. Nor was his alarm diminished by what he had heard that night. If the House was ready to assent to the increased taxes proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, then no doubt the reduction might be effected. But he was sure that no man in his position would think himself justified in making so large a reduction as two-and-a-half millions until he had secured those measures on which he relied to make up the deficiency in the revenue thus created. Nor did he think it likely that he could pass his mea-
 910
 MR. CAYLEY  said, that he believed the sentiments of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon this point had been entirely misunderstood. He was sure that no one who read his Speech would come to the conclusion that he wished to tax the Irish funds to the exclusion of any other kind of property. He understood him to state distinctly that the land and all other property in Ireland were just as amenable to the income tax as any property in this country, but that he would not at this moment impose any increase of taxation upon that part of the property of Ireland which had lately suffered so grievous a calamity. Nor had he heard anything in the lucid statement of his right hon. Friend which was calculated to raise the question of country against town. He had heard many Budgets, but never one more comprehensive and impartial. He meant to deal with all the interests that had been suffering for the last two or three years in what was called the spirit of "recent legislation." With respect to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Montrose, he must observe that he and others who acted with him were favourable to direct taxation until it came to be applied to themselves. Nobody was more favourable to the total repeal of the malt tax than he (Mr. Cayley); but the power of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was limited. He believed that the full benefit of the repeal of that tax would not be felt until the whole was repealed; but he must remind his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) that he had always opposed propositions for the total repeal. Indeed, not to confine the observations to him, he might remark, that the year before he first brought for ward the question of the repeal of the malt tax in the last Parliament, the hon. Mem-
 916
 MR. CAYLEY : Is that the report of the Commissioners that you have quoted from?
 MR. HUDSON  could not withhold an expression of the gratification with which he had heard the statement of the right hon. Gentleman with regard to the shipping interest, which would be hailed by his constituents with much pleasure. He rejoiced at the right hon. Gentleman's statement, that the shipping interest would be put now upon a fair footing to compete with foreign countries, and he hoped nothing would prevent the carrying out of the measures contemplated. The timber duties formed another grievance, which he hoped ere long to see redressed.
 MR. GOULBURN  said: It is not my intention on this occasion to enter into the extensive field of inquiry opened up by the statement of the right hon. Gentleman; but I wish to put one or two questions on points which he has not very clearly explained. He has omitted to state whether he proposes the income tax as a permanent tax for the future or not—a point most important in dealing with the question. I should also be glad to know whether the right hon. Gentleman, in reducing the malt duties, intends to repeal the prohibitive duties on the importation of foreign malt, and whether, also, he proposes to repeal the import duty on hops? The right hon. Gentleman will perhaps also state what he proposes to do with regard to the use of molasses in breweries, and with respect to the equalisation of the duties on rum? I further desire to enter my protest against a principle which, as I understand, is enunciated by the right hon. Gentleman. He proposes, if I understand him right, to impose a higher rate of income tax on income derived from funded property than that which he proposes to impose upon other classes of property. In Ireland the tax will be
 908 l
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that as to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman with regard to the shipping interest, he thought he was a little deficient in candour in his statements on that subject. He would have led the House to suppose that since the navigation laws were repealed, nothing had been done in the matter of light-dues, or in any other matter in which the shipping interest was concerned. Now he (Mr. Laboucbere) would go with the right hon. Gentleman in every measure that he proposed for the relief of the shipping interest with the utmost cordiality; but when he proposed to relieve them of 100,000 l 915 l
 MR. LABOUCHERE  inquired whether the right hon. Gentleman would lay on the table on Monday the precise terms of the Resolutions on which his measures were to be founded.
 MR. JAMES WILSON  said, he wished to put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer with regard to one part of his statement. The only proposition that he had made with respect to the West Indian interest was, that sugar should be permitted to be refined in bond. Now, when that question was discussed two or three years ago, two methods were proposed on which the refining was to be carried on. One was, that the refiners should be permitted either to refine in bond, or to refine sugar on which the duty had been paid; and the other was, that they should be obliged to refine in bond. Now the right hon. Gentleman did not state which of these two methods he intended, to adopt; and as it was of the greatest possible importance to those concerned in sugar refineries to know this as early as possible, perhaps the right hon. Gentleman would now state the course he proposed to pursue. With regard to the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge, with respect to the extension of the income tax to Ireland, he must observe that he hoped the House would not depart from the principles on which they had hitherto acted with respect to this tax.
 MR. MACGREGOR  regretted that the right hon. Gentleman had proposed so long a period as five years for effecting the reduction of the tea- duties to a shilling duty. With regard to the house duty, he
 918
 MR. WALPOLE , in reply, said, that after reading the evidence adduced at the committal of Mr. De Rose, he believed the magistrate could not have come to any other decision than that he had arrived at. At the same time, it was due to Mr, De Rose to state that, judging from communications subsequently received, and from new facts which had transpired relative to the case, he must say that he wished those facts had been brought under the consideration of the magistrate, the result of which, he believed, would have been that Mr. De Rose would have been acquitted of the charge then brought against him.
 MR. ALCOCK  begged to tender his thanks to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for his proposal to repeal one-half of the malt tax. He thought that the whole of that tax ought to be done away with; but he was willing to accept the right hon. Gentleman's proposition by way of instalment. With respect to the tea duties, he, for one, was perfectly satisfied with the proposed reduction. He regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not made up his mind to carry out the income tax to the fullest extent possible, so that every man in the country might be taxed, be his income what it might.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman had entirely misunderstood the observations he had made upon the tax on marine insurances. What he had stated was, that the shipping interest had made representations to the Government of the burdens which pressed upon them; and, having treated upon some of these burdens, he came to that of the tax upon marine insurances and charter-parties, and he said that this was a subject which bore upon the general finances of the country, and that therefore he should not now advert to it. In those preliminary observations which he had made he had not entered into details, and in a subsequent portion of his remarks he said that the Government would then confine themselves to those measures only which they were prepared to pass; that the whole question of stamp duties and probate duties had undergone consideration; but, as the Government were not then prepared to recommend any but practical measures, he should not advert to them more particularly. With regard to the malt duty, he had stated that the Treasury would be called upon to repay, by way of drawback, 1,000,000 l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , who was indistinctly heard, said he had never heard a more ingenious perversion of a speaker's words than that just made of his noble Friend's words by the right hon. Gentleman. The observations of the noble Earl at the head of the Government to which the right hon. Baronet had alluded, had not the slightest reference to anything that he had said or proposed. The noble Earl said that we had embarked on a system that might lead to financial embarrassment; but that the noble Earl had said that anything which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) might bring forward might lead to financial embarrassment, was one of the most monstrous statements that he had ever heard made in that House. He firmly believed the measures which he had proposed were as sound as could be proposed, and that they were calculated to conduce to the general welfare. He admitted that his statement had occupied him five hours, and he was very sorry for it, seeing that, besides wearying the Committee, he had given himself a great deal of trouble and labour. He was anxious that the opinion of the House should be taken upon these subjects as soon as possible; and he should, therefore, on Friday next propose to the House Resolutions to carry into effect his recommendations with respect to the reduction of the tea duty and the increase of the house tax. The income and property tax did not expire until the 5th of April, and it was not, therefore, necessary immediately to deal with that; nor should he think of asking the House to consent to the reduction of the malt tax without seeing their way perfectly clear with respect to the means of meeting the deficiency which would be thus created. He never made a proposition in that House of which he did not think that the general effect was to maintain public credit. He
 911
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes; the report of the Com-
 867 d. id. "That it is the opinion of this Committee that the repeal of the malt drawback in Ireland will not be prejudicial either to the trade in spirits, or to the revenue, in that country." 868 869 Pepys's Diary, 870 primâ facie 871 s. 872 Laughter. he s. s. d. 873 d. 2d. s. 874 d. 875 876 877 l l 878 879 l l l l l l l l 880 "There is another point on which I can speak with more frankness in reference to the tax upon property and income. I have not presumed, and will not presume, to give an opinion upon the justice or injustice of a change in the mode by which the assessment of permanent and temporary incomes is effected. But there is a point, I believe, on which the Committee is so unanimous that their opinion need not be a secret; and it is also, I believe, the unanimous opinion of the House of Commons, as I am sure it is of the country—namely, that if taxes of this character— if measures of direct taxation like the income tax —are to form not temporary but permanent features of our system of finance, they cannot rest upon a system of exemptions. Well, but if they are not to rest upon a system of exemptions, do you augment the methods to which a Chancellor of the Exchequer may successfully appeal for the purpose of raising revenue? No doubt direct taxation is in its theory an easy, a simple, and a captivating process; but, when you wish to apply that direct taxation generally, it is astonishing the obstacles you encounter and the prejudices you create. Sir, to my mind—and I think it is a principle now pretty well established—-direct taxation should be nearly as universal in its application as indirect taxation. The man who lives in a palace, and a cottager, as consumers, are proportionally assessed. It is not perhaps, possible that in direct taxation you can effect so complete a result—perhaps it is not necessary; hilt that, if your revenue is to depend mainly, or in a great degree, upon direct taxation—if it is permanently to depend upon direct taxation, you must make the application of the direct tax general, is to me a conclusion which it is impossible to escape. No doubt, by establishing a temporary measure of direct taxation, based upon a large system of exemptions, you may give a great impulse to industry; you may lighten the springs of industry very effectually for a time; but—not to dwell upon the gross and glaring injustice of a system of finance that would tax directly a very limited portion of the population—but looking only to the economical and financial consequences of such a system, who cannot but feel that, in the long run, industry itself must suffer from such a process? For, after all, what is direct taxation founded on a system of exemptions? It is confiscation. It
 881 Hansard, "We deem it our duty to impress upon the Committee and upon the country the dangerous course in which they have embarked—to impress upon them the absolute necessity, now or in another Parliament, of arriving at some definite understanding on what principle the revenue of this country ought to be raised. We deem it our duty to denounce as most pernicious to all classes of this country the systematic reduction of indirect taxation, while at the same time you levy your direct taxes from a very limited class."— —[ 3  Hansard, 882 l l l l l l l l 883 l l l l l l l l 884 "You may remember that, in September last, the sum of 30,000 l "This declaration of solvency, in respect to all the remaining unions of Ireland about whose power of maintaining their poor any doubt remained, is a fact of great importance, and you may think proper to refer to it in your financial statement. The object of establishing a comprehensive and complete Poor Law in Ireland has been finally accomplished, and the whole of Ireland is now able to maintain its own poor, without external pecuniary assistance from any quarter. There is still a balance of the Rate-in-Aid left of upwards of 12,000 l l l 885 886 l l l 887 l 888 d. d. d., l l l d., l l l l l l l l l 889 l l l l l 890 891 892 l l l l l l l 893 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 894 895 896 897 l l s. d l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, though the House has been pleased to honour the remarks which I have to make to-night with the title of "Financial Statement," and though I am indisposed, under any circumstances, to quarrel with the humour of the House,
 837 838 839 840 841 842 l 843 844 845 846 847 l 848 849 850 851 852 Vict, l l l l l l l l l l l l l 853 s. s. s. 854 855 856 a priori, l l 857 d. l Sensation. 858 l l l l Loud cheers from the Opposition. l Great laughter from the Opposition. 859 l l l l l 860 861 ad captan-dum s. d. 862 863 Cheers. 864 865 s. l s. 866 "But, if the importation of foreign barley be not permitted, the tendency of a reduced duty to increase the consumption of malt would be counteracted by the price of British barley becoming higher in consequence of the new demand for it, which would arise from the duty having been lowered; and thus the consequence of a reduction of duty would be, not such an increased consumption of malt as would keep the revenue up to its present amount, but a higher price of barley, and a certain loss of revenue. As, therefore, there is no probability of a reduced duty being followed by such an increased consumption of malt as would prevent a loss of revenue, so long as the importation of foreign barley is restricted, we are of opinion that it will be preferable to endeavour to check illicit malting by the enforcement of the Excise laws, however inadequate they may be to produce a complete remedy, rather than to try the experiment of stopping it by a reduction of duty. If there were no factitious cause for elevating the price of barley, arising from the direct effect of a duty on foreign barley, or from the indirect effect of duties on other kinds of foreign corn, we should not feel any hesitation in saying that the proper way of dealing with the malt duty would be to reduce it one half." "Nothing, in our opinion, can be more unwise than to reduce duties on articles which are fit subjects of taxation, without at the same time taking care to secure the most abundant supply that is possible to be secured of the materials which are necessary for their production."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER ; I intend to proposer certain Resolutions, and then, if they are acceded to, I shall bring in the necessary Bills. Of course, as regards the duties on tea, I should wish that the reductions should take immediate effect, subject of course to the final decision of the Houseman arrangement which I believe will not be attended with any difficulty. I will propose these Resolutions on the earliest day which will be convenient to the House. I do not at present know the feeling of the House on that subject, and I am afraid to appear to be urging the House to a precipitate conclusion; but if there is no objection I would propose this day week. It is not for me to state to the House the day on which they should take these Resolutions into consideration—it is my wish to give them a fair time for the consideration of the subject—
 909
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The duty on hops will not be affected in the financial year 1853–54; it is all payable now for that year—and the proposed reduction of duty will not come into operation till the year 1854–55. The extra estimates for the ensuing year I take at 6o0,000 l 898 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 899 900 901 l l l l l l l l 902 l 903 l l l d. d. l l l. 904 905 l l s. 6d., l s l l l l l l l d. l l l 906 l l l l l l l 907
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  answering in the affirmative,
 SIR B. HALL  wished to state the course which he should feel it his duty to take when the House went into Committee of Ways and Means. When he sat on the other side of the House he moved, when the continuance of the income lax was proposed last year, that it should be extended to Ireland on the same footing as it was now levied in England. That Motion did not receive the support of the then Government, but it was generally supported by the then Opposition, who now occupied the Ministerial benches. When, therefore, the House went into Committee, he should take the opportunity of again proposing the Resolution which he had moved last year. With regard to doubling the house tax instead of imposing other taxes, he agreed with the remark of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, that the Ministerial proposition was one
 914
 SIR J. DUKE  expressed his thanks to the right hon. Gentleman for the interest he had evinced for the welfare of the shipping interest, by giving them that attention to which they were so justly entitled.
 919
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  begged to say, in answer to the first question of the hon. Baronet, which had not, however, been mentioned in the notice-paper, that he had received from Canada the Address to which the hon. Baronet had referred, and which was founded upon certain Resolutions which had been adopted by the
 836
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he should then give notice that, immediately after the Christmas recess, he should move for leave to bring in a Bill to enable the Legislature of Canada to dispose of the proceeds of the Clergy Reserves, subject to the condition which he had just mentioned.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, in putting to the right hon. Secretary of State for the Colonies the question of which he had given notice, he must first ask whether the right hon. Gentleman had received an Address to the Crown to which the House of Assembly of Canada agreed on the 17th of September last, by a majority of fifty-four to twenty-two, and in which they assured Her Majesty that they deeply regretted to learn the contents of a despatch, in which the right hon. Baronet had stated that it was not the intention of Her Majesty's present Government to fulfil a promise which had been made to the Canadian Legislature by the late Government. That promise was, that Her Majesty's Government would recommend to Parliament that an Act should be passed to enable the Canadian Legislature to dispose of the proceeds of the Clergy Reserves, subject to the condition that the vested interests of persons should be secured during their lives. He wished to ask what were the present intentions of Her Majesty's Government, and whether they intended after Christmas to recommend to Parliament the measure which he had just described?
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to know, before the Order was discharged, whether a person complaining of an election was to he obliged to prosecute a petition before a Committee of that House? He could not understand how the character of that House was to be maintained if any person who was able to prove that offences of the most heinous nature against the law had been committed at an election, had not some mode of giving such proof without being ruined by an opposed election petition. He had inquired how far the person in question was able to prove the allegations in this petition, and was informed that that person was perfectly prepared to prove them, but that he would not enter the lists to demand justice, opposed as he would be by two individuals of great property. The petitioner stated that the bribery, treating, violence, and intimidation at the election in question were monstrous, and that every rule and order respecting elections were there outraged.
 MR. HUME  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether any and what measures have been adopted to bring from Egypt the obelisk, known by the name of Cleopatra's Needle, which was presented by the late Mehemet Ali to, and accepted by, George the Fourth for the British nation? He had heard that it had been presented to the proprietors of the Crystal Palace at Sydenham.
 MR. HUME  said, that as a public monument had been taken away from the public, it would be advisable to have some public document containing the terms and the manner of its cession.
 MR. GLADSTONE : Sir, I wish to call the attention of the House to a subject which appears to be of the utmost importance—of constitutional importance, I may fairly say—in connexion with the financial statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. On Friday last the right hon. Gentleman, I understood, announced that on Friday next he should propose to the House to augment the House tax, the inference being that the arrangement was to take place from the 5th of April next. I conclude, of course, that the right hon. Gentleman has no intention of making a change in the House tax during the residue of the current year. The right hon. Gentleman likewise stated that the subject of the Income tax might stand over until after the recess. I think the right hon. Gentleman was understood to say that the question of the Tea duties was to accompany, on Friday, the question of the House tax. I apprehend I am correct in stating that, with regard to any reduction of the Tea duties, or any other such matter, no preliminary Committee is considered necessary, but that it is the intention of the
 982 983 l l l 984 d. "I shall have no hesitation in submitting to the Committee, that when a general assessment upon income is to take place, no distinction ought to; be made as to the sources from which that income may arise…Whenever an idea has been started of imposing upon the stockholders separately and distinctly any sort of tax, I have reprobated the attempt, as utterly inconsistent with the good faith of public engagement. But the matter is materially reversed when a tax is to be levied on the income of every description of persons in the realm; when it is no longer in the power of the stockholder to say, 'I could avoid this tax by
 985 Hansard, Parl. Hist, "And be it further enacted, that such contributors, duly paying in the whole sum so subscribed at or before the respective times in this Act limited in that behalf, and their respective executors, administrators, successors, and assignees, shall have, receive, and enjoy the said annuities by this Act granted in respect of the sum so subscribed, out of the moneys granted and appropriated in this Session of Parliament for payment thereof, and shall have good and sure interests and estates therein, according to the several provisions in this Act contained, and that the said annuities shall be free from all taxes, charges, and impositions whatsoever." 986 l 987 d. d.
 MR. HUME  begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether in the order of proceedings with regard to our future finance, it would not be better first to determine whether the Income tax was to be permanent or temporary. In 1842 it was imposed as a temporary measure for three years, and was demanded by Sir Robert Peel in order to give him a margin in carrying
 988 l
 MR. GLADSTONE : What Committee? As to the Tea duties?
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that in discharging the duty which devolved upon him on the present occasion, he hoped the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume)—inasmuch as his observations had been answered by his (Mr. Stafford's) right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer—would not expect him to encumber the question before the Committee by any reference to those questions to which he had alluded. No time could be more inopportune for such discussions than that at which a Supplemental Estimate was brought forward. In bringing forward this Supplemental Estimate, he wished to state that he had no intention of casting any imputations on the late Board of Admiralty, or on the right hon. Gentlemen who preceded the present Government in office. The present Government had taken the Estimates prepared by their predecessors. They had taken them in no party spirit, but in the belief that unless circumstances changed they would be amply sufficient for the public servise. It was usual in asking the House of Commons to grant a sum of money, to lay before it the fullest information with regard to it. At, present he felt that if he entered into details he
 1001 l l 1002 1003 l l l l l 1004 de novo. 1005 1006 1007
 MR. HUME  said, he had always declared his objections to the building of more ships than we could employ; and now it was discovered, after laying out millions of money upon war steamers with paddle-wheels, that they would not answer the purpose, and therefore a new fleet of screw steamers was necessary. That ought to show us the folly of which we had been guilty for so many years of keeping up such enormous establishments. We had been throwing away 2,000,000 l
 Mr. HUME  said, he understood the object of going into Committee of Supply, to be to propose Votes amounting to 435,000 l l l l l 998 l l 999 l
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that 30,000 l 1011
 MR. CORRY  said, he should not have addressed the Committee upon the present occasion had it not been for an observation which had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member who had just addressed the Committee. The hon. and gallant Member had expressed a hope that the Admiralty would not go too fast in constructing screw vessels, but would wait and see what improvements might be introduced in that motive power. Now, it would no doubt be desirable that experiments should be carefully made before any considerable expense was incurred in the construction of our ships, if time were afforded for such experiments; but it should be remembered that the most important point of all was that provision should be made for the safety of the country. The Board of Admiralty felt that they could not postpone the construction of screw steamers while other nations
 1013 "The alteration of ships of the line into steam vessels had become a political and naval necessity of the first order. It was impossible to postpone those changes any longer without reducing France from the rank she ought to hold among the nations of the world. The greater portion of the naval estimates for the year 1853 was to be applied to that useful work."
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to know how it happened that of 160 sail of the line which we possessed, only twelve or thirteen were kept at home for the defence of our shores. He was desirous as any man could be that we should have a powerful fleet, but he protested against its being broken up into fragments, and scattered throughout every sea, instead of being maintained in great measure for the defence of our own shores.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  begged to express his approval of the proposed increase. No one knew more than himself how difficult it was to state the grounds for any increase. It was for the Government to state, on their responsibility, what they thought necessary for the service of the country, and he was not one of those who would oppose what they so thought necessary. It was the habit of many hon. Gentlemen in that House to keep up a sort of rattling fire upon every Board of Admiralty; but when the proper time arrived, if hon. Gentlemen pleased to attack the course he and his Colleagues had pursued when in office upon the Naval Estimates, he should be ready to say what he thought
 1014
 MR. HUME  said, the Committee had just seen a specimen of the manner in which Gentlemen who had been in office attempted to put down any one who dared to complain of the acts of any branch of the Executive Government. It was idle to talk of the responsibility of a Minister in matters of Naval or Military expenditure, for everybody know that such responsibility was only theoretic and imaginary. Responsibility no doubt did attach morally to a Minister in such matters; but where was the Minister who was ready to answer for that responsibility? There were, at the present moment, no fewer than 39,000 seamen and marines in the service of Great Britain, and now it was sought to augment that prodigious number by the addition of 6,500 more; but before any such augmentation was agreed to, the Committee ought to be informed of the present position and actual employment of this enormous force at present in pay. Where were they, and what were they doing? For his own part, he was disposed to regard with disfavour and suspicion this proposition for an increase of our naval force, for he could not forget that Mr. Pitt, whose authority was considered paramount on the Ministerial side of the House (as long as it coincided with their own policy) had always maintained that 16,000 marines and seamen were all that were required for the maritime defence of the country. No doubt the times were changed, for Ministers had been going on from one act of extavagance to another of late years; but still there was reason in all things, or there ought to be, and he was sure the present naval force was quite sufficient for all purposes of national defence.
 MR. STAFFORD  begged to explain, that the number of men at present employed, with the additional 5,000 demanded, would man the fleet and leave a reserve,
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE  said, that two-thirds of the sum sought for under the present Vote would doubtless pass into the pockets of the hon. Member's (Mr. M'Gregor's) constituents, from whom the requisite steam machinery would be obtained.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that in explaining the additional means of defence it was proposed to carry out in his department, he would remind the Committee that of those means, none were more important than the artillery force. To that force it was now proposed to make but a very modest addition. In the first place, it was intended to add 2,000 to the number of the men, and to make an addition of 1,000 horses—not 30,000, as had been stated by an hon. and gallant Member opposite. They were all aware that a portion of the artillery force was called the Horse Artillery. At present it was usual to take the horses of the men of this arm of the force, for the purpose of drawing the guns and carriages; and the consequence of this was, that the men had not that constant drill which was necessary to keep them in the most perfect efficiency. It was to remedy this defect that the additional 1,000 horses were required. The charge for this extra force would be 70,825 l l l l l
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the sum of 10 l l l s., l s. d.
 SIR FREDERICK SMITH  begged to say, in reference to some observations of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) as to the number of men now required for the artillery, that there was a great inequality between the number of guns and artillerymen in such garrisons as Portsmouth and Gibraltar. As regarded the horses required, it required long practice to make them so steady under fire as to stand to the guns. As regarded the strength of the force of artillery, it should be remembered that recent battles had
 1019
 MR. HUME  said, if there was such a disproportion between the number of artillerymen and the number of guns, what had become of the artillerymen of the dockyard battalions?
 SIR FREDERICK SMITH  said, that the dockyard battalions were available only in naval depots, and that artillerymen were wanted in other garrisons as well as in the Martello Towers.
 MR. HUME  said, he could not refrain from expressing his surprise at anything being said of those monuments of folly.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was compelled to admit that the present practice-ground at Woolwich was almost useless; but negotiations which had been opened before he came into office were now going on for the purchase of a practice-ground at Shoeburyness, which he had reason to hope would have the effect of removing the difficulty. It was not an easy matter to get a practice-ground for artillery, seeing that the shot was sometimes thrown a distance of five miles; but he hoped by the success of the negotiations he alluded to, soon to be in a position to submit a proposition for the purchase of a site in every way adapted for the purpose.
 MR. HUME  thought it told little for the attention paid to the artillery that they had not sufficient practice-ground. He objected to the proposed increase, which would add about 400,000 l l
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the whole number of artillerymen was 12,408, of whom there were but 5,000 at home.
 MR. HUME  said, if this vote was for new ordnance or experiments in new guns, he would not oppose it, but he should like to know.
 SIR FREDERICK SMITH  said, that foreign Powers, especially France, had of late armed their ships with 10-inch guns, which exploded shells containing 4lbs. of powder, while in this country hitherto we had only used 8-inch guns, which threw shells containing only 2 lbs. of powder. Captain Chads had stated that a 10-inch gun with such shells would at once destroy
 1020
 MR. HUME  said, if the vote was intended for experiments of that kind, he not only had no objection to it, but thought it was only the duty of the Ordnance to attend to such matters. He remembered that the late Sir Hussey Vivian had sent all over Europe to find whether there were any weapons in use superior to our own: and in doing so that gallant officer acted most properly.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he had spoken only of artillery, while the number spoken of by the hon. Gentleman included the Sappers and Miners.
 The CHAIRMAN  then read the Resolution, which was handed to him by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and which was to the following effect:—
 "That a sum not exceeding 150,000 l
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he believed that the people of this country had been imagining that they wore superior to those of all other countries in manufacturing art;
 1027 l 1028 l
 MR. HUME  said, he had heard the statement of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer with great satisfaction, and he agreed that it was most desirable that the Government should come forward to aid the energy and public spirit of the people. The House must, however, consider what were to be the results of what they were now asked to do. The noble Lord (Lord Seymour) had inquired who were to have the management of the scheme, and on whom the responsibility would rest? He (Mr. Hume was perfectly satisfied, that under the superintendence of the illustrious Prince who had been alluded to as presiding over the Commission, matters would go on well enough; hut the House must look at the future, and he asked them to consider what was the constitution of the Commission. The Crown alone possessed any power over it—that House had nothing to do with it—and before they invested public property in the hands of such a Commission they ought to look, not only to the management of the property, but also to the use which might eventually be made of it. He thought they ought also to consider whether, on the site which was recommended such an institution would afford all the advantages which it ought to afford. He had heard that it was intended to remove the National Gallery to Kensington, where, in his opinion, it would not be visited by one out of the ten persons who now went there. He doubted whether the pictures would not suffer more injury from the removal than they possibly could receive from the impurity of the atmosphere to which they were now subjected.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he thought that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had not replied to the objection of his (Mr. V. Smith's) noble Friend (Lord Seymour. He thought the right hon. Gentleman should give an answer to the question that had been put by the noble Lord the Member for Totnes (Lord Seymour), whether it was proposed to raise buildings at the public expense upon the ground that had been purchased, and whether the ground was to be under the control of the Commissioners or of a Minister of the Crown.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, they had not yet heard what was the quantity of ground to be purchased, or what portion was to be made over to the public.
 MR. CLAY  said, he wished to know if a conditional contract had been entered into for all the land, because it was reported that the owner of a small portion of the land, four acres only, asked 70,000 l
 MR. HUME  said, he was satisfied with the assurance that the land should be under the control of a Minister of the Crown, but hoped the Vote would be postponed until the plan of the property was before the Committee.
 MR. HUME  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer ought to make some answer to the statement that had been made by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Locke). If anything like the system that prevailed in France were to be the result of this Vote, he thought there was great danger in agreeing to it without further information.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought that before this money was voted there ought to be an account rendered, if not a Committee to inquire respecting alleged mismanage-
 1037
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to remind the Committee of a very good rule which had been hitherto observed, that when a Minister undertook expenditure, he always laid an estimate on the table, and assumed the responsibility; but when an estimate could not be supplied, no money was paid till an account was produced. Why not wait in the present instance till all the accounts were collected?
 MR. HUME  said, he commended the hon. Member for Tavistock (Mr. S. Carter) as having, on a former occasion, done his duty. He (Mr. Hume) considered that the Committee were acting in the most disorderly manner. If the Government would not keep their followers in better order, and the Chairman could not obtain that order which was necessary to let the hon. Gentleman speak, business could not be proceeded with. He (Mr. Hume) should, therefore, propose that the Chairman should report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. HUME  said, he must call upon the right hon. and learned Gentleman to withdraw the expression "any honest amendments." It was a mode of expression which ought not to be addressed towards any hon. Member of that House.
An  HON. MEMBER  submitted that there was no question before the House.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he had not heard why to-morrow should not be taken for the discussion. It was important that measures relating to Ireland should be approached by the House in a temperate and friendly spirit. Under all the circumstance*, he thought these Bills should not be postponed till after the recess.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that, in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to the Stamp Duties upon Newspapers, he would not detain the House at any length. By the 6 &7 Will. 4, chap. 76, which was the Act imposing a duty on newspapers, a definition was given of what should he considered a newspaper within the meaning of the Act, and it was as follows:—
 "Any paper containing public news, intelligence, or occurrences printed in any part of the United Kingdom to be dispersed and made public; also any paper printed in any part of the United Kingdom weekly or oftener, or at intervals not exceeding twenty-six days, containing only or principally advertisements; and also any paper containing any public news, intelligence, or occurrences, or any remarks or observations thereon, printed in any part of the United Kingdom for sale, and published periodically, or in parts, or numbers, at intervals not exceeding twenty-six days between the publication of any two such papers, parts, or numbers, where any of the said papers, parts, or numbers respectively shall not exceed two sheets of the dimensions hereinafter specified (exclusive of any cover or blank leaf, or any other leaf upon which any advertisement or other notice shall be printed), or shall be published for sale for a less sum than 6d, exclusive of the duty by this Act imposed thereon." Household Narrative of Current Events 1046 1047
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in his opinion, the Bill would not bring within the definition of newspapers publications not now liable to the Stamp Duties. He would, therefore, take his chance, and beg leave to introduce the Bill then.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, he was very glad that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bankes) proposed to appoint this Committee. It was quite obvious that the subject of railway amalgamation among the great companies deserved every attention. Even if it had not now been proposed to amalgamate those concerns, yet
 1056 l
 GENERAL ANSON  said, he was glad that the purview of the Committee was to be so extended as to include every description of case which implied amalgamation, such as leases and arrangements; for he was now satisfied that the inquiry would be as extensive as he could wish it. He was convinced that the system under which we were at present proceeding, was extremely injurious to all those who had invested capital in these concerns.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  expressed a hope that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer would use his powerful influence to prevent the spoliation of the splendid works of art now going on in the National Gallery.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  hoped there would be no division on the Vote. The unanimous acquiescence of the Committee in it, taken in conjunction with the establishment of the militia, would prove to the world that the people of England, however anxious for economy, were willing to make any sacrifice that the Government might think necessary for perfectly securing the state of our national defences.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the objection taken by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Gladstone) did not appear to have been understood by the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat. The noble Lord said the additional tax would not produce above 500,000 l l l
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished to repeat the question he had previously put as to whether the estimate of 80,000 l
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that he thought this a very unsatisfactory mode of proceeding. A gentleman in private life would not act thus; and hon. Members must expect to be told by their constituents that they were not doing their duty. ["Oh, oh!"] No doubt it was a very invidious thing to make any objection, however slight, to this Vote, and in some degree he rejoiced at that, because it showed the universal desire to do honour to the memory of the illustrious hero whom we had lost; and, for himself, he was second to none in veneration of a man whom he looked upon as the greatest man this country had ever produced. It would, however, have been more respectful to the people, more decent, and more constitutional, to put off asking for the money till the Government had their estimate ready. With respect to the sum, he was not prepared to say that it was excessive; but 80,000 l l 1038 l Cries of
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he was responsible for a certain share of the Vote to which the noble Lord objected; and as he was one of those who gave his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the, Exchequer to understand that it was impossible to place before the House of Commons any reliable estimate before the funeral took place, he thought it right to say a few words in answer to the noble Lord's observations. He could assure the noble Lord and the Committee that from the moment when he heard that the funeral was to take place, he was most anxious that estimates should be prepared; but he found on inquiry that, owing to the limited time given for making such great preparations, the novel nature of the service re-
 1039
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that there appeared to be a mistake on the part of some hon. Gentlemen, who seemed to suppose that the proposition for increasing the House tax would materially raise the Ways and Means of the next year, while the remission of the Tea duties would only diminish the revenue by some 400,000 l l 996
 LOUD JOHN MANNERS  said, that he had applied to Mr. Walker, the engineer of the bridge, who said that proper persons were appointed to watch it daily. It was almost entirely supported by timber, and he was not aware that there was any more immediate cause of alarm than there was in March last. With respect to the other questions, it was the intention of the Government to introduce a measure for the purpose of erecting a new bridge upon the site of the present, and Government had not as yet decided whether the design should be opened to competition, or that one should be selected from those already sent in. It was the intention to enlarge the space of the roadway of the bridge by means of lateral additions to the present bridge, which would he open to the public while the rest of the new bridge was being constructed.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I did not suggest any course whatever to the right hon. Gentleman on Friday night. Many of his propositions, of course the greater part of them, were new to me, and I only said it was of importance that the House should know what course the Government intended to adopt. The right hon. Gentleman stated that he should propose on Friday to take, as I understood, the Resolutions in respect to the House duty and the Tea duties. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: First.] Yes, first on Friday night; and I certainly stated that I had no objection to that course being taken. I think, however, that there is great force in what the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) said, as to the necessity of taking both the Income tax and the House tax, before we are asked to concur in any Resolution with respect to the relief of taxes. On both these questions there may be great differences of
 991 l l l l l l 992 l
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he wished to inquire whether the right hon. Gentleman would have any objection to place the despatch upon the table of the House?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that as one of the Royal Commissioners, he might perhaps be allowed to say a few words upon, this subject, though the information he could give would be very imperfect. The further carrying out of this plan must depend very much upon the Government, upon whose aid the Commissioners had relied in order to bring it to the perfection which he hoped it might attain. The Commissioners had been anxious, when they found the large suras in their hands, that some institution should be established which might commemorate the Great Exhibition of 1851. It was thought it would be unwise to allow the benefits of that Exhibition to be merely transitory, and that some attempt should be made to perpetuate the advantages which were derived from it. Nothing appeared more likely to effect that object than an institution for extending the advantages of science and art in the industry of the country. He thought no one could have inspected the Great Exhibition without being convinced of the truth of an observation in one of the Reports of the Commissioners, that in future there would be great and severe competition in the industry of the world, which would assume a more intellectual character. Now that House had been exceedingly willing to vote very large sums for scientific institutions, and more especially for the British Museum. He thought any one who had considered the large sums—he believed, on an average, about 40,000 l 1029 1030
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the question before the Committee related to the raising of 5,000 additional seamen and 1,500 marines. That question had no connexion with those to which the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had referred, such as the expenditure in the dockyards and the age of admirals. He (Lord J. Russell) conceived that those topics might be fitly discussed when the Naval Estimates came under consideration, and then it would be for the. members of the late and of the present Government to state their views upon these subjects. But the present proposal was to raise 5,000 additional sailors, and 1,500 more marines, and he must say that such a proposal had his warm assent. He believed that it was right and necessary to provide a sufficient defence for this island, which was the citadel of a vast Empire, and he was very glad that Her Majesty's Government, having been persuaded that such a force was necessary, had not shrunk from proposing it. He believed that so far from its being an unpopular Vote, the nation
 1008
 MR. COWAN  hoped the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer would postpone the Vote, as the Committee evidently was not in a position to consent to it.
 MR. COWAN  said, he was convinced that many amalgamations, if properly carried out, would prove of great public advantage. He would suggest that some better means should be taken for procuring
 1057
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that no doubt, if the effect of the Bill was to impose an additional Stamp Duty, it should be introduced by a Committee of the whole House; it was, however, impossible for him to say whether this would be its effect until it was introduced, and he had an opportunity of examining it.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the question before the House was, that the Bill be postponed till Monday.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that since the petition referred to by the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. F. French) had been printed, he had read it, and had no doubt that it was in the nature of an election petition, and, having been presented after the time for receiving election petitions, that petition ought not to have been received.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had one remark to make relative to the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He had heard little or nothing of what fell from him, but he did hear the word "metal" escape from him. Now, from the specimen they had had of the hon. Gentleman, he thought they were likely to find a great deal of "dross" in him. Sure he was that, whatever circulation might take place of the hon. Gentleman's metal, it would never be circulated through the United Kingdom. Prom all that he (Col.
 1041
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that it was possible the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer might have been led into an error as to the mode of proceeding by the course which he (Sir C. Wood) took the year before last, in reference to commuting the tax upon houses levied according to the number of windows into a tax levied according to the value of houses. Between that day and Friday, however, the right hon. Gentleman would have time to ascertain what was the most correct mode of proceeding. What he (Sir C. Wood) had proposed was to reduce a tax, which could be done without a Committee of Ways and Means; but the right hon. Gentleman now proposed to double a tax, and, giving an opinion without reference to authorities, he (Sir C. Wood) agreed with the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) that it would be necessary for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to go into Committee of Ways and Means in order to propose the increased tax. He (Sir C. Wood) had abstained on a former occasion from giving any opinion as to the proposals of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he would pursue the same course tonight, because both then and now his only object had been to speak as to the course
 994
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, it was impossible not to feel that the principle of direct taxation was threatened with new dangers, and surrounded with new difficulties. There was a great disinclination on the part of many hon. Gentlemen to proceed with the reduction of duties on any article until the main question of the renewal or non-renewal of the Property and Income Tax had been settled by the House. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that he thought his proposal would afford the most convenient means of discussing that subject; but, so strongly did he (Mr. Denison) feel the obligation
 997
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he considered that competition afforded no real security as regarded the conduct of railway companies, and that, if these measures of amalgamation were sanctioned, competition would become a mere dead letter. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade would propose this Committee as soon as possible, and that it would meet before the recess, so as to arrange their course of proceeding, and to give such intimations as they could to guide the different railway companies
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  begged to inquire whether this petition was not something of the same nature with that which had been presented respecting the election for Cork, and which, on the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. J. Butt), was ordered to be printed with the Votes?
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he believed that the sum in question would more than cover every possible expense of the funeral.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that it had been already explained by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was desirable to close the accounts as early as possible. He could assure the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) that immediately after the Funeral took place, means were taken to collect the various accounts, and he held in his hand an abstract of those accounts so far as be had been able to obtain them. The principal items were as follows: The accounts in the Department of Public Works, including all that was done in the Cathedral, amounted to 25,000 l l l l l
 MR. HUDSON  said, he regretted that the hon. Member for Montrose should have been the party who moved that progress be reported. It was his wish that this Vote should have been passed unanimously and without observation, expressing the conviction that, whatever the sum bestowed on the solemnity, it would not be grudged after the satisfaction which had been afforded to every Englishman who beheld the scene. The hon. Member for Montrose would have acted more in accordance with the universal feeling of the country had he agreed to pass the Vote, and con-
 1040
 MR. HUDSON  said, he hoped that Parliament would not force upon companies the execution of schemes which must involve considerable loss. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade would confine his Committee to the principles which he had laid down. They were extensive enough; indeed, he thought, far too extensive. Do not let them go into the question of abandoned railways, and call upon companies to complete worthless schemes. He was rather surprised to find the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Locke) proposing what he did.
 MR. G. H. MOORE  said, he was quite prepared to meet the discussion of these Bills in a calm and temperate spirit, and
 1044
 MR. MUNTZ  said, that it was of no use having more artillerymen and more horses unless a better practice-ground was provided for them. He had been that day at the practice-ground at Woolwich, and found it to be of small dimensions and at right angles to the Thames, and on inquiry he was told that the men were often compelled to suspend their practice, and stand
 1018 l
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that he would take occasion to observe, that much good would probably result to the service if the
 1017
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that there were now 10,000 artillery in this country; and as we had got the militia to take care of us in 1852, and the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty had stated that by his proposed plan the coasts would be safe in 1853, he thought this addition to the artillery might have been left to 1854.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  begged to congratulate the Committee and the country that at last they were about to take the right means for our national defence. He had always held that they had reason to Complain, when they were discussing the question of defences last year, that the militia force Was put in advance of recruiting the Navy, and using those natural means for the safety of the country which Providence had given us. What the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) then said about nothing being able to resist the enemy approaching our Coast and landing on our shores, had fallen to the ground, since it was proposed to have a full command of the Channel by the formation of a fleet ready at any moment to encounter the enemy. He thought, also, that there would be plenty of means of saving the money expended on this extra force, if they only instituted a rigid examination into the way in which naval money was now spent, for at present, in almost every item, the expenditure was susceptible of very great improvement. To those who knew the way in which the public money was spent in the dockyards, there was a fruitful source of economy to be found in that. The Admiralty began some time back by having a paddle fleet; how he was glad to find they had become converts to a screw fleet. He certainly thought they were right, but warned them hot to run on before the science of the day. They would not live two years before they saw further improvements, and therefore when they talked of assembling fleets at Portsmouth, Plymouth, and the Nore, they should not run into hasty expense. The great point Was this—to take care that England had the command of those waters which made her invulnerable. No nation had the right to say to England, "Why do you increase your Navy?" It Was our natural defence. They had their armies as theirs. We had the ocean as our field of defence, and not from any jealousy, but simply for the purposes of defence. We must avail ourselves of the
 1012
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, it would be very difficult to speak in that House on naval subjects, if each representative of the different Boards of Admiralty were always to get up and make an attack on the speakers. The very measure before the
 1015
 MR. H. DRUMMOND : Sir, I entirely agree in what has been said relative to the public advantage to be derived from
 1031 1032 l l par excellence "That which with them is always  gout, With us is only gout."
 MR. GOULBURN  said, his right hon. Friend near him (Mr. Gladstone) had so fully and ably expressed his feelings on this subject, that he would not have thought it necessary to say a word, but for the fear that some misunderstanding might exist with regard to the clause of the Income-tax Act which subjected funded property in Ireland received by persons in Great Britain to this tax. That was not an exclusive burden. If any gentleman in Ireland deriving his property from land, resided in this country and received his rents here, he paid the full amount of the tax. If any Irish gentleman having funded property resided in England, he paid 7 d. 993
 MR. RICH  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In the statement which he made to the House the other night, the right hon. Gentleman said that 30,000 l d. B¼d. l datum l
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to make some observations on the remarks of the hon. and learned Member for Athlone (Mr. Keogh), who had pronounced these Bills to be all nonsense.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he was not at all surprised at the hon. and learned Gentleman adhering to a criticism of which he thought he ought to be proud. It was the privilege of genius to exhibit itself in declamation, and leave the work of patient legislation to inferior minds. The hon. and learned Member had spoken most severely of the measure, and the hon. Member for Carlow (Mr. Sadleir) said that the House of Commons is the place for the discussion of this question; but if he (Mr. Whiteside) was to believe the hon. Member, a public discussion and decision had taken place elsewhere. Hon. Members were prepared to come to a discussion after deciding the question in another place. They undertook to speak the sentiments of the people of Ireland; but he (Mr. Whiteside) was sure that it was of a portion only, for those hon. Members who sat around himself and his friends were the representatives of a large portion of the Irish people, and were in no way inferior to those opposite. In submitting this Bill to the consideration of the House, he felt conscious that it possessed many defects; but however defective it might be, either in matter or style, or however defective it might be for the amendment of those evils which existed, he felt sure that the justice and wisdom of the House would discuss it in calmness, and improve all the defects it contained.
 MR. J. BALL  said, he left to Her Majesty's Ministers the boast of discussing these Bills in calmness, but he thought the proof, so far as they had gone, was not shown. He hoped, however, that measures of so much importance would have all the calmness and moderation which the subject deserved. He desired to press most earnestly upon the mind of the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland the great importance of these Bills. The subject was one upon which honest men might differ in opinion; but he thought a fair and temperate discussion would bring
 1045
 MR. HERRIES  begged leave to assure the hon. Gentleman that the Government were extremely desirous of promoting the extension of the railway system in India. This subject had engaged the attention of the Board of Directors, and they had it under their consideration what was the best mode of extending the original experimental railroads already established.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, that the House, before meddling with any other question of taxation, ought first to consider the Income tax; otherwise the whole credit of the country would he thrown into a state of suspense and dissatisfaction. He took a similar view both as regarded the order of discussing the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer's Resolutions, and as to the extension of the Income tax to Ireland, for he saw no good reason why it should not be levied upon every description of property in that country as well as upon funded property.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he must complain that a large unnecessary expenditure had been annually incurred for want of due attention and economy in the naval yards. It mattered not who was at the head of Admiralty affairs, no efficient reform could be introduced without a complete reconstruction of the system. He thought an account should be laid before Parliament showing the cost of every ship in the Navy, not only for her first construction, but for all repairs and alterations she might undergo. He believed the  Windsor Castle
 MR. JOHN SADLEIR  said, he thought the right hon. and learned Gentleman could have no difficulty in perceiving that it was the intention of the Members for Ireland to give an honest opposition to these Bills. He (Mr. Sadleir) did not approve of their being sent to Ireland without previous discussion in the House of Commons; for that was alone the means of enabling the people of that country to understand them. He hoped, therefore, that Thursday next would be fixed for the Bills being brought forward.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he was in-
 1043
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he believed the Committee would unanimously agree to the Vote, if a plan of the ground were laid upon the table. He hoped a plan would be laid on the table before the money was paid out of the Exchequer.
 MR. HENLEY , in rising to move the appointment of a Select Committee on the subject of Railway Amalgamation, as applied to Railway and Canal Bills about to be brought under the consideration of Parliament, said he hoped the House would allow him to make a few remarks, and at that late hour he would promise that they should be but few. The House was aware that at the present moment public notice had been given of a considerable number of Railway Bills that were to be brought before them in the course of the Session—he believed to the number of 150 or 160—and amongst that number there were some twenty of what were called Amalgamation Bills; and of that twenty, some of them were of a nature so large, that the House had, perhaps, never had to deal with Bills of such magnitude. It was
 1049 1050 locus standi 1051 1052 1053
 MR. HENLEY  said, it would be for the Committee carefully to consider the question thrown out by the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Cowan), which he regarded as a most important one. As soon as the question of railway amalgamation should be disposed of, he should endeavour to lay down some definite rules of railway management which should prove satisfactory. He would only observe, with reference to some observations that had been made, that though under the system of this country hitherto railways had cost more money, and we had perhaps had more made than was necessary, we had yet attained to a higher speed than was generally accessible on the Continent. With reference to the Committee, he should wish it to consist as little as possible of Members connected with the railway interest,
 MR. LOCKE  begged to express his gratification at the observations of the right hon. Gentleman, with reference to the decrease of railway accidents, which he was sure the public would learn with great satisfaction. He was also gratified at his statement, that the Committee was not to enter on the question of interference with the management of railway boards, for he was convinced that if the Government in any way lessened the responsibilities of the directors, there would not be a likelihood of a still greater decrease of accidents. If he understood the right hon. Gentleman correctly, the Committee was to inquire into the powers of railway companies, and also to inquire how far the powers allowed had been fulfilled. He would put this case:—A company came to Parliament, and asked for powers to complete a railway; these powers it allowed to expire, and after the lapse of a considerable time left the landowners and the country totally without the line they had expected. Such companies there were in Parliament this year, asking for other powers, whilst they had not executed those already granted them. That was a case requiring consideration. But he could instance a still stronger one. A railway company obtain- ed from that House power to execute a railway of given length; after three or four years their funds became deficient; they determined to stop all further proceedings; they appointed a committee; that committee recommended them to go half way, and no further; the shareholders agreed. What, he asked, would be the disposition of Parliament with reference to such a company—a company which, having obtained powers on the supposition that it was to go the whole distance, fancied subsequently that it had a right to make merely a portion of the line? He wanted to know whether a case of that kind would
 1054
 MR. LOCKE  said, he could not sit still when he heard it stated that the Committee was almost unanimous upon the Vote about to be given. He had a strong opinion, which induced him to enter his protest against this Vote. But this was not on account of the various arguments that had been used that night. He did not agree in the low estimate that had been formed of the character of Englishmen by some hon. Gentlemen opposite, nor that the perfection of mechanical skill was due to the Govermental schools. He had a great faith
 1036 Ecole Polytechnique
 MR. NAPIER  said, if the hon. and learned Gentleman really entertained the objection he now stated to the Bills before the House, he ought to have given notice of his intention to move that they should be read that day six months. He understood that to three of the Bills there could
 1042
 MR. MONTAGUE CHAMBERS  said, he was at a loss to know whether they were contributing to the purchase of seventy or one hundred and forty acres. He intended to vote against the proposition, because he knew not what was to be done with the money. He was exceedingly desirous that the Committee should know the purpose to which the land would be devoted, whether it was proposed to erect a building on it, or whether it was proposed to use the land for nothing. He apprehended this was only the commencement of claims for larger sums for the erection of buildings upon this piece of land. He would not concur in any vote where information was not given of the appropriation of the money.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he could not consent to give his vote until he knew to whom the land would be conveyed who would have the control of the land, and for
 1033
 MR. MANGLES  trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would not rest satisfied with the Report of the Committee, but that he would adopt some final legislation on the subject,
 MR. S. CARTER  again rose to address the House. He said he was entitled to a hearing, and he was determined to exercise his privilege. [ Loud cries of l l l
 MR. S. CARTER  rose to address the Committee, but was received with loud cries of "Oh, oh!" from the Ministerial benches.
 MR. LAING  said, he was himself much interested in railways, and he begged to thank the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade for this measure, as well as for the terms in which he had spoken of that much-calumniated and rather unpopular class, the railway interest generally. These questions were of that importance that made it desirable they should be investigated and settled as soon as possible, on some sound and intelligible footing. No persons were more anxious than railway directors for this, and he did hope that an effort would now he made to remedy the evils of railway legislation, and settle it on a sounder and better basis for the future. In 1844 a Select Committee was appointed, and the subject was investigated by them with great care. The principles embodied in their report had never been impugned; but those principles were swept away in the vortex of speculation which afterwards took place, and the consequence was, that we had now in round numbers 7,000 miles of railway, which had cost us 36,000 l l 1055 l l l l l l l l
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was far from wishing to prolong the discussion, but he was desirous of stating that Her Majesty's Government had no intention whatever of putting the financial condition of the country in any degree of jeopardy by not obtaining from the House, in the first instance, a deliberate judgment upon the more important points of his right hon. Friend's propositions. The House would not be called upon on Friday to determine whether they would agree to the whole of the Resolutions which would be placed upon the table, for time could scarcely admit of their being discussed in one evening; but such Resolutions would be brought before the House as would raise the whole question of the financial policy of the Government, and he did not see how that question could be better raised than by the Resolu-
 995 l l
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  would suggest whether it would not be better for the hon. and learned Attorney General to keep himself on the safe side, and to move the Bill in a Committee of the whole House?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he had no wish to enter into the general question, but he wished to advert to a point of form. The hon. and learned Attory General said that he was going to introduce a Bill to declare what a newspaper was in such a way as to exclude from the operation of the present Newspaper Stamp Act certain monthly publications. He (Mr. Gibson) thought, however, that the definition which the hon. and learned Gentleman had given would extend the operation of the Stamp Act to publications which were not now liable to duty; and if that were so, he presumed that the House should resolve itself into a Committee upon the Newspaper Stamp Laws before the Bill was introduced. He thought that the proposed Bill would extend the operation of the Stamp Act, because, from the hon. and learned Attorney General's remarks, it appeared that no papers were for the future to be considered newspapers which were published at a longer interval than once in twenty-six days, but that all papers published at less intervals than twenty-six days were to be considered newspapers. At present all papers of more than two sheets, and at a higher price than 6 d., 1048
 MR. THORNELY  said, that on Thursday last the hon. Member for Montrose
 978
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had no objection to place the document upon the table of the House. The terms, of it were, that the country should have the obelisk whenever they paid the expenses of bringing it over.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the conditions to which Her Majesty's Government had agreed with the proprietors of the Crystal Palace were to this effect: That the obelisk should be transported to England at their expense, and in case the Crystal Palace did not become so popular as it was expected, that then the Government should have a right, upon payment of the expenses, to take possession of it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman had quite misconceived the effect of the new Schedule proposed, and he was quite willing to believe that this misconception arose from his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) imperfect explanation of it. What he had said, at all events intended to say, was, that it being impossible to assess clergymen under any other schedule than Schedule A, by reason of the tenure of the property on which they paid the duty, and it being at the same time very hard indeed upon a clergyman to make him pay upon 100 l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I have to state to the House that Her Majesty has received a notification that there is a change in the form of Government in France; that the Empire has been re-established in France, and that the Emperor has been proclaimed under the title of Napoleon III. Her Majesty's Ministers, acting upon that policy so long pursued by this country—namely, of recognising every  de facto 981
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I think there will be no objection to comply with the desire of the noble Lord; I have not, however, considered the question, and I trust that the noble Lord I will not press me for a more definite answer.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : As regards the Tea duties and the House duty both, it will be necessary that the House should go into Committee. If I am in error, I can be corrected, but at present I apprehend that I am not in error. With regard to the second point, to which the right hon. Gentleman rather personally adverted—namely, as to what he called the extension of the Income tax to funded property in Ireland, I believe I am not in error if I say that the Income tax is at present extended to funded property in Ireland, and that, if there be any funded property in Ireland which does not pay it, it is by special exemption. Under schedule A the tax, as regards land, is limited to England, and therefore does not apply to Ireland; but as regards schedule C, it is extended to all funded property, whether in Ireland or wherever it may be. Therefore the whole of the argument with which we have been favoured by the right hon. Gentleman, appears to be a fallacious one, and I shall be perfectly prepared to enter into the consideration of the question at the proper time. The third point is that on which the right hon. Gentleman questions the policy of the Government with regard to the reconstruction of the Schedules of the Property and Income tax. It is not, in my opinion, expedient to have a general discussion upon the principle of this measure on the present occasion. It will not be expected, therefore, I should prolong a discussion on an important and weighty topic, which Her Majesty's Government will be shortly prepared to bring under the consideration of the House. Of course the Government have well weighed the important topic to which the right hon, Gentleman has alluded, and our conviction is that there is no breach whatever of the agreement with the public creditor; our conviction is that the course which we have laid down as to the reconstruction of the Schedules is in principle just. We believe that no Income tax would be just that was not constructed on those principles; and, with the greatest deference to all the high authories to which the right hon. Gentleman referred, I be-live it to be rather the duty of the Ministry to act in accordance with what they think to be just and proper, than in deference to the opinion of other Ministers. I shall be
 990
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I collected from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone), that he rose to make some objections to the course proposed by the Government. One was a technical objection as to the mode in which we propose to bring our measures before the House, and the others were objections to the policy of one of the principal measures we propose. With regard to the first objection—namely, to the course recommended by the Government, that we should go into a Committee, and in Committee should propose Resolutions, all I can say, with great deference to the opinion of so distinguished a Member of the House, is, that I am still of opinion that the course which I have proposed is the correct one. If I am in error, I shall be, I am sure, set right by that authority to which we must all bow; but I assume, from all I have read and inquired, that the proper course for me is to ask the House
 989
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that hon. Gentleman (Mr. Locke) had made a startling assertion, for which there was not the slightest foundation, to raise an argument against this Vote. He could assure the hon. Gentleman he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had heard, for the first time, the statement respecting this scheme, and he could say with perfect confidence that it was an assertion for which there was not the slightest imaginable foundation.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the proposition before the Committee was not to build any new National Gallery, or to raise any other edifice whatever. The proposition before the Committee was whether they should contribute an equal sum with that already voted by the Royal Commissioners for the purchase of some land, which was the only plot of land which, he believed, ever could be purchased in the immediate vicinity of this metropolis. Hereafter, if it should be submitted to that House that it was a convenient site, among other things, for the National Gallery, which must be removed somewhere or other, for at present there was not a single place where works of art could be deposited in safety, it would be for the House fairly to consider that question, and it would be entirely under their control. All he wished the Committee now to do was to agree to vote this sum of 150,000 l dilettante 1034
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be very convenient if the Committee would now dispose of the Vote. The country would understand they were paying 150,000 l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that offer had been treated with the contempt it deserved. There was no conditional agreement whatever. Se-
 1035
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that there was no vote before the House for building a National Gallery; the only vote before the House was the purchase of land under rather peculiar circumstances, part of which land might certainly be devoted subsequently to the erection of a National Gallery, but really that had nothing to do with the question now before the House. When it came on, he should lay before the House the reasons which induced the Government to ask the House to vote a sum equal to that which was to be contributed by the Commissioners of the Great Exhibition for purposes of great national interest and importance. There was no specific Vote for a National Gallery, and the only object of this Vote was the purchase of land which otherwise could never probably be obtained by the public. With regard to the funeral of the great personage whom we had lost, he would beg to remind the House that they were told in a taunting manner that probably 250,000 l 1000
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Patten, with regard to the next Vote, I wish to correct an impression which has been erroneously adopted by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) respecting its object. It is a Vote for a considerable sum of money, not less than 150,000 l 1021 l l l 1022 l l 1023 1024 l 1025 1026
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought there was no chance, if the Bills were fixed for Thursday, that they could be got through on that day, and then the discussion on the Budget was appointed for Friday, which he did not think was likely to be terminated on that day. On Thursday, too, there was a subject of considerable importance, the Motion of the hon. Member for Westbury (Mr. J. Wilson), was appointed for discussion, which had an intimate relation to the financial statement of Friday last. With respect to the Bills themselves, he was confident that the more they were known, the more they would be appreciated. He did not think if they were brought forward on Thursday they could be fully discussed; therefore he would recommend his right hon. and learned Friend not to move any further with the Bills until after the recess.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not secure the Bills coming on to-morrow, that not being a Government day; all they could do was to put them on the paper for that day, and take the change of being able to bring them on.
 MR. EWART  said, he thought the exact state of the case did not seem to be quite understood by some hon. Members. From the results of the Great Exhibition there remained 175,000 l
 MR. EWART  said, he should support the proposal, which was the purchase of a piece of land, and if the Committee did not afterwards wish to use it, he had no doubt the land would fetch the price which they were now about to give for it. He was, however, at issue with the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond) upon the question as to the taste of the English people for the fine arts. He contended that it was almost disgraceful to humanity that any nation, even blacks, should be devoid of taste for those great works, or with proper education unable to arrive at some degree of perfection in them. The plan of the Royal Commissioners was undoubtedly creditable in its conception, and would be energetically and successfully carried out.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he begged to ask the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland what was the course he intended to pursue with respect to the several Bills he had introduced? He hoped an opportunity would be given for discussing them. With respect to two of the Bills, he considered them to be of the most objectionable nature. He begged to say, that one Bill for which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had taken the most credit to himself, was one which not fifty Members of that House could think of sanctioning—no, not a single line of it. [ Leughter.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he had pronounced thus unfavourably of only one of the measures, and with reference to which Bill he adhered to every word that he had said.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that by a return which he held in his hand, it appeared that the number of men voted to the Ordnance last year was 15,000, and it was now proposed to add 2,000 more, making 17,000.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that, including the dockyard battalions, we had now 20,000 more men trained to arms than we had fifteen years ago, and yet it was proposed to increase the artillery,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought that Her Majesty's Government were justified in proposing this increase to the Navy. He deeply regretted that, during the discussions last Session on the defences of the country, the Navy was placed almost entirely out of view. The Navy, in his opinion, ought at all times to be regarded as the very bulwark of our defences. But he agreed to this proposed increase of 6,500 men to the two branches of the Navy, not because he thought it necessary, but in deference to the opinion of the people of this country, whose alarms on the subject of our national defences, ought, he thought, to be calmed by such a step as this. But when the public out of doors were informed of the present state of our national defences, he hoped they would be satisfied that we were in a state of security against any attack, come from what quarter it might. We had, as defences of the country, cavalry, infantry, and artillery of the line, with its auxiliaries—which forces included 187,000 men. To that were to be added, for sailors and marines afloat, 39,500 men—making a total of 226,500 men. We had, besides, in the Colonies 46,500 men, and in India 30,500, which gave us a force at home and abroad of 303,500 men. Our defences were, therefore, on a footing of unquestionable security. We had now 138,000 men engaged in the national defence more than we had in 1835. Such an increase was incredible. He was willing to admit that the Admiralty was the most efficient branch of the public service, and the present Board displayed more energy and had done more real good than any of its late predecessors. He trusted that the hon. Secretary of the Admiralty would do nothing to forfeit the good opinion thus expressed of the manner in which he had discharged his duties. He wished to call the attention of that hon. Gentleman to the system of corporal punishment at present pursued in the Navy. That system was the great obstacle to the proper manning of our fleet. It gave a power to one man to inflict punishment, without the control of any other party—a power which, he thought, ought never to be vested in the hands of any man. He (Mr. Williams) trusted also that savings banks would be established in the Navy, as had been the case (with the most beneficial results) in the Army. If they were
 1009
 MR. GRENVILLE BERKELEY  said, he could state, upon good authority, that the most unqualified contradiction could be given to the assertions contained in the petition presented by the hon. Member for Montrose.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he believed there were very few persons, either in or out of the House, who were not disposed to concur with the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Admiralty as to the necessity of increasing the efficiency of the Navy; but the hon. Gentleman had not stated that the money voted for that purpose last Session was not sufficient. He had not told the House what had be come of the 30,000 l 1010
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, there was certainly a very prevailing opinion that the amount already voted for steam ships would be perfectly sufficient if the Admiralty knew their own mind. Unfortunately they did not. A ship just ready for launching was pulled about in the most extraordinary manner. There was the  St. Vincent, Windsor Castle, Ajax Blenheim 1016
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  was sorry for the dispute between the two Boards of Admiralty, but thought for his own part that for the last seventeen years there had been a good deal to complain of.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he objected to the Vote, as there were already so many guns in store.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, the difficulty which he experienced was this. A Resolution was to be proposed with regard to the House tax, and decided one way or the other. Now, if on future discussions any great alterations should take place in the Income tax, in what position would the House be placed? He concluded, therefore, that it was absolutely necessary to deal with the Income tax first, and to know what would be the result of that discussion. If that tax should be extended to Ireland, it must be extended to every class of property there as it was in this country. In that case there would be some increase in the amount of receipts, and the House would then be able to approach the second question. He confessed that he had no predilection for a double House tax. He did not mean to say that he should not vote for it if he considered it absolutely necessary; but it appeared to him that that question should be considered at the end of the financial proceedings, and not at the beginning.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, it appeared to him to be unnecessary, with regard to the remission of the duty on tea, to go at once into the question of doubling the House tax; and he would put it to the Government whether it was fair towards those whom he had the honour to represent, who were peculiarly interested in that tax, to press it forward so hastily without allowing householders time to ascertain how they would be affected by such a proposition. Before proposing any remission of duty, he thought the question of the Income tax ought to be fully considered.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord at the head of the Board of Works. Six years ago a Committee of that House unanimously recommended that Westminster Bridge should be pulled down, and that a new bridge should be built upon the site. He desired to inquire—first, what was the present state of the bridge? Secondly, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any Bill this Session for the purpose of enabling a new bridge to be constructed? Thirdly, whether the new bridge will be built upon the same site, or further up the river? And fourthly, whether it was the intention of the Government to open to competition, limited or otherwise, the design of the new bridge?
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he begged to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Control whether it was intended to encourage, by a guarantee such as had been afforded to other railway undertakings in India, or by any other means, the early commencement of a line of railroad between Allahabad and Delhi, and whether the Government would lay on the table of the House a statement of all railways now in progress in India, showing the length of each line, the amount of capital required for its completion, and the rate of interest guaranteed by the Government of the capital embarked in it?
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, he did not mean to offer any captious objection to the Bill; but when he heard the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland describe the grievances that arise from the right of distress for rent, he was not prepared for the conclusion he had come to. He (Viscount Monck) was prepared to hear him say that having given great facilities to the landlord to recover his rent and possession of his land, he would abolish that incident to the feudal tenures, the right of distress for rent. He was very anxious that an early day should be fixed for the discussion of those Bills; and as Thursday was unoccupied by any other business, perhaps the right hon. and learned Gentleman would not object to fixing that day.
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, that he thought it was the interest of the landlords to give the tenants such an interest in the land as would induce them to invest their capital in it. [  Cries of
 MR. HEADLAM  concurred most cordially in the object of the Motion, but would make one suggestion which he thought might add to its utility. At the present moment there was not only a difficulty in obtaining the Parliamentary papers on the part of those who could not afford to pay for them, but those who were able and willing to pay for them, and did not know exactly how to proceed, and the places where they were sold, frequently could not obtain them, because the booksellers, getting no profit on them, would not have anything to do with them. The public were not generally aware of
 1067
 MR. HUME  said, the question involved had been decided two or three times already; and he must remind the House of the boon which had been already conferred on the public by the adoption of the recommendation of the Committee of which he had been a Member—to reduce the price of Parliamentary papers to the mere cost of the paper and the printing. The price fixed by the Committee was 1 d. 1068
 MR. CLAY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HUME  concurred with the noble Lord (Viscount Goderich) that by granting this charter the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) would be violating the great and important principle of unrestricted competition. No charter could be given without granting exclusive privileges, and no exclusive privileges could be granted without interfering with individual adventurers. When a great work could only be accomplished by the congregation of an immense capital, which could not be obtained without a charter, a charter might be granted; but that was the only exception which he admitted. But it was not usual to ask for documents  pendente lite;
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  understood the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) objected to this Motion because the ques-
 1084
 MR. STAFFORD  said, this matter had been under the consideration of the Admiralty, and it was their wish to get as many boys as they could.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  was of opinion that, if the President of the Board of Trade would leave the matter to the enterprise of private parties, steam communication would be established not only between England and Canada, but between England and China. Screw-ships were building for the latter trade. Emigrants, he believed, would be as well accommodated by a company without a subsidy or a charter, as by one with a subsidy or a charter. He recommended his hon. Friend to withdraw the Motion.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  regretted that the hon. Member opposed the moderate, conciliatory, and equitable course proposed by the Home Secretary. It would be a very one-sided proceeding to send up one Bill to the Committee, and to reject the other. As to examining witnesses before the Committee, he was of opinion it would be useless, as very few witnesses could be found who would fully understand the subject.
 The SPEAKER  reminded the House that the debate had been adjourned, but that no day was named to which the adjournment was to take place.
 MR. TURNER  had been surprised to hear an hon. Member advocate the grant of a charter on the ground of unrestricted competition. The company came for privileges not enjoyed by shipowners in general, their object being to induce a number of persons of small capital to embark in the undertaking. Unless there was a want of capital in the trade—unless a charter was necessary on grounds of public utility, it was surely unjust to allow a company to overbear private individuals. The hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe) said, the law of unlimited liability prevented many from embarking in trade. He had no question such was the case, and very properly. Euglish people were quite prone enough to speculation, as successive panics, which occurred periodically, proved; and if the parties were not liable to the extent of their whole property, those panics would be of much more frequent occurrence. They all recollected the American panic
 1085
 MR. FORTESCUE,  as one who took a strong interest in mechanics' institutes, begged to thank his right hon. Friend for this attempt to extend a new class of reading to them. It was said, that judging from the decline in the circulation of  Chambers's Journal, Penny Magazine,
 MR. ROCHE  said, that he Would vote with the right hon. Gentleman if he persisted in refusing the correspondence, having confidence in his exercise of the powers entrusted to him. He would, observe, however, that the company had put forward in their prospectus that it was intended to open communication between Ireland, Canada, and the United States; and he thought the way in which the question affected Ireland had been entirely left out of consideration. It was a point, however, of very great importance. The emigration from Liverpool alone had, in the present year, been over
 1082
 MR. ROCHE  wished to have some intimation from the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he would agree to fix an early day for the continuation of the discussion—otherwise they would be obliged to go on with the discussion then?
 MR. LUCAS  thought the Leasing Powers Bill should be referred to the Select Committee. It contained an important principle connected with compensation. He also thought it would be of great importance that the Committee should have the power of hearing evidence to show what would be the exact operation of the various clauses of the two Bills. If they did- not, they would be legislating in the dark.
 MR. LUCAS  wished to say a very few words strictly on the question of adjournment. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had truly observed that he had given every facility for the discussion that night. What was the object for which that discussion had been sought? A Bill bad been brought forward in a long speech by the Attorney General for Ireland; and the impression made on the most plausible statement of its contents was confirmed and strengthened on examining it—for it seemed to involve a confiscation of all tenant-right that existed in Ireland, and a confusion of all such property in future. On examination, it was found to he infinitely worse than had been suspected; it was calculated to excite the greatest possible discontent in Ireland, and, instead of healing the wounds of that
 1136 1137
 MR. FULKE GREVILLE  deprecated the personal tone which had been imported into the debate; but, entering fully into the feelings of the right hon. Gentleman, and giving him the greatest credit for his labours and exertions in this matter, he must say that there was this to be said for the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Athlone (Mr. Keogh)—that the Solicitor General for Ireland did last night make observations with regard to several Gentlemen on that side of the House, and among others the hon. and learned Gentleman, at which he was not surprised that hon. Member should feel annoyed. He begged to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether he would allow the second Bill of the Attorney General, the Leasing Powers Bill, to be referred to the Committee at the same time as the other Bills, because it did contain clauses which were open to the same objection.
 MR. HUDSON  said, the Act of Parliament left it to the Board of Trade, whether a charter should be granted or not, and his constituents were quite satisfied with the sound judgment of the President of the Board of Trade. In many of the principles laid down he perfectly concurred; but there were cases where it was most desirable that limited responsibility should be given, but the Board of Trade might foster projects which did not come within the scope of private enterprise. He thought that private enterprise was much more likely to be successful, than enterprises undertaken by companies managed by boards of directors. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would not persevere in the Motion he had made.
 MR. TUFNELL  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the expediency of distributing a selection from the Reports and Returns printed by order of the House of Commons, amongst the Literary and Scientific Institutions of the United Kingdom. The hon. Gentleman said, that his proposition was confined to a selection of the Parliamentary Reports and Papers—for to send down all those documents to any institution would be to overwhelm it—as the Members of the House were—with a mass of papers a considerable portion of which would he utterly useless. Indeed, he should be very glad to have the principle of selection extended to the documents printed for the use of Parliament itself; for, though nothing could exceed the value and interest of much that was printed in the "blue books" and papers, there could be no doubt that a great deal was printed needlessly. From 1731 to 1800 there were printed 110 volumes, and from 1801 down to the present time there were printed 1,794 volumes, not a few of which might have been very well dispensed with. In 1800 the annual number of volumes printed by the House was 20, now it was 60. He proposed that the Committee should lay down some rule as to what institutions should be entitled to these papers. An institution, for instance, ought to have a certain number of members to entitle them to the privilege. The mechanics' institutes had taken deep root in the country; they formed the great means by which the middle classes of society were enabled to obtain intellectual improvement; they were therefore deserving of peculiar favour, and many of the highest persons in the land, and some of the greatest statesmen of the age, did not disdain to lecture at some of them. To a conference held last year by the Society of Arts, the various mechanics' institutes sent delegates. The object of the conference was that such of those institutions as wished to affiliate themselves should enjoy the advantages which such affiliation would confer. He understood that since that time 230 institutions, numbering between 60,000 and 70,000 members, had so affiliated themselves. The
 1066
 MR. JAMES CLAY  said, that although at first sight it might seem of small consequence whether a charter was or was not granted to this company, it involved, in point of fact, a very great principle— namely, whether any persons under any circumstances were to have special privileges as against their competitors in trade. If this charter were granted, what would become of the principle that unrestricted competition was to be the governing principle of our commercial legislation? If this charter were granted, the applicants would have the advantage of limited liability, whatever that might be, and by the amount of that advantage their competitors would be restricted in their competition. But the right hon. Gentleman had said that the hon. Member (Mr. Brown) ought not to have taken the course he had adopted until he (Mr. Henley) had decided the question. With great deference to the right hon. Gentleman, he begged to say that it would then have been too late to agitate the subject. He agreed, however, with the right hon. Gentleman that the best course which those who thought as he (Mr. Clay) did on this subject, could adopt, was without delay to bring before the House the question whether, under present circumstances, and with the commercial principles which the House had recently sanctioned, the power of granting charters ought to be left with the Board of Trade. He believed that the principle on which the Board of Trade had hitherto acted in occasionally granting charters of limited liability to companies, was to grant them only in cases in which the capital was of
 1078 l l l 1079 en commandité;
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would not detain the House one minute. He regretted nothing so much as that those measures which had been laid on the table with the best intentions towards Ireland, should have been made the subject of personal attack. He wished to state one fact, and he hoped he should be believed; he had been present last summer at the preparation of a great portion of these four Bills. They had been prepared in a great degree under his own eyes, and those of his hon. Friend the Attorney General. With regard to the pigeon-holes of the Castle, he was not in the habit of rummaging in pigeon-holes. But he could state that neither in the pigeon-holes nor out of the pigeon-holes had they found any Bill of the late Government, to enable him to prepare the Bills before the House. He staked his veracity on that statement. He was surprised that hon. Gentlemen had taken the course they had done on the large constitutional question to which they had addressed themselves. Not one word had been said on the merits of the Bills, with the exception of the quibble raised on the omission of one word. The hon. Member for Middlesex regretted that the Bills had been refered to a Select Committee. So did he. It was admitted that three of the Bills were unexceptionable, and regretted that the friends of Ireland had been the cause of preventing them becoming law.
 MR. JOHN BALL  observed, that having for many years held a position in Ireland, in which it was his duty as much as it was his inclination to avoid becoming a partisan of any class, he had endeavoured to study the question which was now before the House, and he was intensely anxious to see this question involving such important interests, settled, as well for the sake of the two classes immediately interested in it, as for the sake of the general tranquillity of Ireland. There had been agitation upon this question; but that was natural, as great social evils were at the bottom of it. The right hon. Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland had admitted the existence of this social evil in Ireland, and had endeavoured to provide a remedy for it; but it was with extreme regret that he found the measure of the right hon. Gentleman had altogether failed in its intention to legislate effectually for the evil, or to meet the just claims of the Irish tenantry. If he looked to this measure and not to the preamble of it, he would hardly feel justified in voting even for its second reading. The provisions of the Bill failed to carry out the intentions of the preamble. The preamble stated that the object of the Bill was to give security to the tenant for the improvements he should make on the land. Now, he was bound to say that
 1129 1130 1131 1132
 MR. GEORGE  rose to order.
 MR. GEORGE  protested, as an independent Member, against its being supposed that he assented to the principle of the Bills of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, many of the clauses in which were not to be found in any of Mr. Crawford's Bills.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  expressed his conviction that steam navigation to Canada would be as effectually carried out by private enterprise from Glasgow and Liverpool as by means of any charter whatever.
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  had certainly brought under the notice of the Board of Trade a memorial, setting forth the claims of this new company for a charter; and in doing so had not desired to establish what had been termed a monopoly. The Iron Screw-ship Company would not displace any other company in the same trade, for he understood that no British ships were employed in the Canada trade from the port of London. His object in bringing the memorial to the notice of the Board of Trade was because he thought that to build British ships of British iron to trade to British ports, was doing a public service; and he could not help thinking that such a purpose must prove generally beneficial. If Dr. Johnson was right in saying that a ship was a prison with the additional disadvantage of the risk of being drowned, he thought that a man who assisted emigrants to make a shorter voyage did a service to his country.
 MR. WALTER  begged to ask whether the attention of the President of the Poor Law Board had been drawn to a case, reported in last Saturday's papers of a circumstance that had occurred in reference to a poor young woman who, in the last stage of pregnancy, and utterly destitute, had been, as was alleged, refused admittance into Lambeth workhouse?' He wished also to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether the Poor Law Board had not the power to compel the Guardians to do their duty in such cases as that reported, without the intervention of the police; and, further, whether, if the right hon. Gentleman had noticed the case, he had taken any steps in the matter?
 MR. BROTHERTON  remembered, years ago, a chartered company which issued 30,000 l
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that by sending the volumes of Parliamentary reports to mechanics' institutes the public would have greater access to them, and he was convinced that the people of this country were fully able to appreciate the information conveyed in them. If the people were seeking political power it was important that they should have the best political education; and as this country was now governed by public opinion, it
 1071
 MR. BROTHERTON  reminded hon. Members that they had to meet again tomorrow at 12 o'clock, and that they had sat very late on the previous night. It was impossible that they, could go on sitting so late every night, especially when there was a morning sitting next day; and he must, therefore, move that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the hon. Gen-
 1076 sub judice. sub judice. 1077 sub judice. sub judice,
 MR. HENLEY  said, letters and papers on the subject were coming in day by day, and therefore, before he saw the whole case before him, he thought it would be inconvenient to lay the papers on the table of the House. As the whole case was not before him, he could not form a judgment upon it, and on those grounds he considered it inexpedient to accede to the Motion. That was what he had intended to express by his previous statement. He still thought it was inconvenient to agree to the Motion, because only half the case would be before the House.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that considering the attack which had been made on his character and on his honour as a gentleman, he was sure the House would allow him to move they should now adjourn, for the purpose of enabling him to answer a charge, of which, if he was guilty, he should deserve to be stigmatised as a man wanting in honour and in the principles of a gentleman, and not worthy of a seat in that House, which he had for some years enjoyed. On the honour of a gentleman, then, till that Bill was stated to the House —till it had been laid on the table—he had never even seen the pamphlet of Mr. Tighe Hamilton, or any Bill, or any paper relating to it. He never saw, he never read, he never heard of any such paper. But he would explain the circumstances connected with that pamphlet. In 1850 he asked Messrs. Vance and Ferguson to write the book which had been adverted to in the course of the debate. They wrote it in 1850, and, having been printed for private circulation, it was put in possession of several Members of the House. Mr. Tighe Hamilton had been examined before the Committee, of which he (Mr. Napier) was Chairman, and had given important evidence with respect to the relations between landlord and tenant in Ireland, and in 1850 a copy of the book had been, therefore, transmitted to him. That book was published under his (the Attorney General's) own superintendence; he furnished a great portion of its materials, which were collected by his own industry; to the gentlemen by whom it was published he had handed all the papers in his possession; and it contained substantially his views upon that question. Sentence for sentence, and paragraph for paragraph of that book, would be found in the pamphlet of Mr. Tighe Hamilton, in 1852—whole passages and pages were taken without a word of acknowledgment. His Bill was, he owned, founded upon the first pamphlet, with the exception of the Land Improvement Act; but he was, upon the honour of a gentleman, quite guiltless of every part of the charge brought against him, and he
 1142
 MR. NAPIER  said, he had intended to follow the hon. Member for Carlow county (Mr. Ball), but that the adjournment of the debate was moved just after he sat down, and he (Mr. Napier) thought that, having spoken at length on introducing the Bill, it would only be fair to give hon. Members an opportunity of stating their opinions. He was quite prepared to answer the hon. and learned Gentleman in his remarks on the Tenant Bill. He might add, before he sat down, that having prepared abstracts of the Bill for the better comprehension of it, he found, on looking to one of them then in his hand, that the printer's error had not crept into it.
 MR. M'MAHON  then proceeded to address the House.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that, in rising for the first time in that House to speak on a topic of great interest, he was exceedingly anxious to act in conformity with the wishes and usages of the House; and he believed that he should be acting strictly in accordance with the practice of the House if he stated briefly why he thought the House should not then adjourn. The question was one of extreme importance not only to the people of Ireland, but to the welfare and permanent power and prosperity of England;—and he did think that after the subject had occupied so much attention in Ireland, which it specially concerned, the debate should not be adjourned at that very early hour of the night; but that those Gentlemen who took a deep interest in the question should be allowed to sit there and consider it. He wished in the fewest possible words to call the attention of hon. Members to the real question be-
 1133 1134 "With respect to the encouragement of husbandry; in this, as in every other employment, the true reward of industry is in the price and sale of the produce. The exclusive right to the produce is the only incitement, which acts constantly and universally — the only spring which keeps human labour in motion. All, therefore, that the laws can do is to secure this right to the occupier of the ground —that is, to constitute such a system of tenure that the full and entire advantage of every improvement go to the benefit of the improver; that every man work for himself, and not for another; and that no one share in the profit who does not assist in the production,"[ Philosophy,xi. 1135
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, the House must remember that if there had been any personal infusion of bitterness into this debate, it was originated by the hon. and learned Gentleman on the other side of the House (Mr. Whiteside), who had used last night, he thought, a rather strong term in speaking of the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Athlone (Mr. Keogh). What had the hon. Member for Athlone said this evening? It was true he had referred to the pamphlet of Mr. Hamilton, but he had not only referred to that pamphlet, he referred also to certain pigeon-holes in Dublin Castle. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Napier), with the sanctity which became a Member of the College—["Oh, oh!"]—well, then, with that want of sanctity—["Oh, oh!"]— well, with that boldness which became a Member for the University of Dublin, had asserted—and he (Mr. Osborne) believed him—that he did not take his Bill from that pamphlet. But it was well known that the late Government had left certain
 1143
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  begged also to rise to order. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. M'Mahon) was perfectly in order in speaking to the adjournment.
 MR. R. M. FOX  begged leave to set the House right with regard to this company, of which he would state in the outset that he was one of the directors. The Government of Canada was anxious to obtain steam communication with this country; but private enterprise had been appealed to in vain, and at last this company was started. The opposition to the charter did not proceed "from private enterprise," but from parties who received from Government 140,000 l bonâ fide 1086
 MR. R. M. FOX  regretted that the Irish Members had consented to send the Tenant-right Bill before a Select Committee at all. He was convinced, from what he had seen of other Select Committees, the whole thing would end in nothing being done. Some explanation was due to the House of the extraordinary silence preserved during the debate by Her Majesty's Ministers.
 MR. R. M. FOX  protested against the Bills being hung up in a Select Committee,
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he rose to confirm the observation of the hon. Member for Newcastle (Mr. Headlam), for it was the fact, that it was not generally known that Parliamentary papers were to be bought freely, and at a very low price —indeed, it was generally supposed that they could not be obtained at all without the intervention of a Member of that House. He had himself had many applications to him by persons to assist them in procuring them, who were unaware that they could get them so easily. He wished to take this opportunity of expressing his dislike to the change which had been made in the form of the reports of the House. The good old large orthodox folio had been abolished, and a little, thick, dumpy volume substituted, which was far less convenient, for by turning over a folio page you could see at a glance whether there was anything in it which you wanted to read, while in a small volume you took twice the time in finding it out. He quite agreed in the proposal of his right hon. Friend, and he only hoped that if the papers of the House were to be more largely circulated, that Committees would be more careful as to the extent of questions that were put, so as to avoid collecting together, as was now the case, a quantity of unreadable stuff.
 MR. HILDYARD  said, that in the town he represented there was difficulty in raising the funds necessary for keeping up mechanics' institutions, and he believed it was so elsewhere; and as the best mode of securing such funds was by increasing the honorary members, he begged to suggest that in the selection of Parliamentary papers which were sent to mechanics' institutions, regard should be had not merely to such as would be interesting to mechanics alone, but to the class above them; and when it was known that mechanics' institutions were the depositories of Parliamentary papers, the number of honorary members would be increased.
 MR. LOWE  said, he could imagine no course more inconvenient than, when a matter had, by Act of Parliament, been referred for adjudication to a specific and responsible department of Government, for the House of Commons, while the matter was still undecided, to employ itself in debating the question on its merits. And therefore on the claim of the company he should not say a single word, not doubting for a moment that it would be equitably and properly dealt with by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, on whom, by virtue of the Act of Parliament, that responsible duty devolved. Had he (Mr. Lowe) had the least notion before he came down to the House that the Motion of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Brown) had involved a question of so serious a character, he would have taken pains to prepare himself for its discussion in a manner worthy of its importance. But, little right as he had to trespass on the attention of the House, he could not keep his seat and hear an hon. Gentleman rise in his place and call upon the House to take measures which would have the effect of eliminating from the field of common exertion a formidable and new competitor, and yet say that they ought to do so on the principle of unrestricted competition; for if there was any meaning in the petition to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, it was this—that those who were already concerned in the shipping trade with North America were anxious that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade should not, by granting a charter to the Screw Company, raise up a new and formidable competitor to share
 1080 prœmunire pro tanto, 1081
 MR. ROSS MOORE  said, as one of the representatives of the North of Ireland, he trusted the House would excuse him for making a few observations on the subject matter of the Bill under discussion. Approving as he did of the principles and generally of the details of the several Bills
 1124 ad misericordiam, 1125 Quo tenearn mutantern Protea for-mam? "We should at once recommend the custom of Ulster, which, on the whole, has worked so well, to be embodied in a law, were it not for two considerations—first, that amidst the prejudices, the mistaken selfishness, and the great ignorance of many, we cannot at present hope for the introduction of so good and wise a law into those portions of the country which most require it; and secondly, because the usage of Ulster is not uniform, either as to the value of tenant-right or the regulations connected with its observance. On some estates, in consequence of the liberality of the landlords, the tenant-right is worth from 20 l l l l veto 1126 1127 1128
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had certainly twice if not three times brought in Bills on this subject; but these Bills were not the same. One of these Bills was referred to a Select Committee, which made great alterations in it, and then, if he recollected aright, the right hon. Gentleman brought in another Bill last year, which did not contain all the recommendations of the Committee. He should not oppose the introduction of the Bill; but as the clauses were not explained, he reserved to himself the fullest power of expressly disapproving of the second reading if it did not contain, as it ought, a provision that the magistrates should have the fullest power over, and management of, gaols, lunatic asylums, and bridges.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he should of course communicate with the hon. and learned Gentleman upon that point. His desire was that the Committee should consist of a fair proportion of Irish Members on both sides of the House.
 MR. WALPOLE  had no objection to adopt the course suggested. As to the Land Improvement Bill, that, he understood, would be allowed to pass the second reading.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that, considering the great interest taken in this subject, and that it was important the matter
 1139
 MR. WALPOLE  suggested the 15th December.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to establish county financial boards for the assessing of county rates, and for the administration of county expenditure in England and Wales. It would not be necessary for him to go into the details of this Bill, when he informed the House that the principle of the Bill had been sanctioned twice during the last Session, the second reading having been passed without a division; and, there having been two Committees of that House who had paid great attention and given much time and consideration to the question, he thought the House would conceive that the mere asking for leave to bring in the Bill would probably not be opposed. It had been remarked to him by a friend that he was surprised that one who had sat in that House so long as he had, should undertake to bring in a Bill, especially one of so great importance, and containing so many clauses. And certainly his experience of the difficulty of a private Member carrying a Bill in that House, somewhat justified this remark; but he was encouraged to proceed by the observations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer the other evening, when he said he was favourable (as he understood) to the introduction of the representative principle into local administration. That was the principle of this Bill. He proposed to give the ratepayers a control over county expenditure. He did not propose to constitute financial hoards from which the magistrates should be excluded: quite the reverse. He took the security in this Bill that one-half of the board should consist of magistrates; he took care that the judicial power of the magistrates, and their powers as to the regulation of gaols, should not be interfered with by these financial boards. He wished as far as possible to assimilate these county financial boards to town councils, and to give them no more power than was necessary for the control of expenditure
 1088
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, it might be a reason for not granting a charter in this case if there were no peculiar facilities granted to other companies; but they knew very well that there were two large and powerful companies who were largely assisted by this country and the United States, and in consequence they had a monopoly now. He wished strongly to impress upon the House the importance of steam communication between Ireland and Canada, which appeared to have been left entirely out of consideration.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there could be no doubt that the Parliamentary literature of this country was one of the most remarkable features
 1069 1070
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman should remember that he had no day at his command; that Thursday was not under the control of the Government; and that Friday had already been fixed far a very important discussion. All he could do was to facilitate the discussion that night, and that he had done.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought the discussion had become somewhat irregular. At that late hour, and after the arrangement which had been agreed upon, he thought the discussion should not proceed further.
 MR. W. BROWN  said, what they wanted was, "a clear stage and no favour" for any company whatever. He should be extremely sorry to ask for papers, the production of which would embarrass the right hon. Gentleman. If there was any negotiation going on with any foreign State, there might be a difficulty, but there was no difficulty in the present case; but as the right hon. Gentleman was of a different opinion, he would withdraw the Motion,
 1087
 MR. W. BROWN  rose to move for copies of all applications made by the London, Liverpool, and North American Screw Steam-ship Company to the Board of Trade for a charter, and of all correspondence between the said company and the Board of Trade on the subject thereof; and of all letters, memorials, and other communications received by the Board of Trade from other persons, companies, and associations relating to such application. The hon. Gentleman (who was very imperfectly heard) observed, that his Motion arose out of a feeling that injustice might be done in consequence of an application which had been made to the Board of Trade by the London, Liverpool, and North
 1072 "The Memorial of the undersigned Shipowners of the Port of Liverpool, "Sheweth— That your Memorialists have observed that an application by the London, Liverpool, and North American Screw Steam-ship Company, for a Charter, with limited Liability, is still under the consideration of your Honourable Board. "That your Memorialists have an immense stake in the Shipping of this country, and they have embarked their capital therein, willing to incur all the responsibilities and risks of Shipowners, to the fullest amount of individual liability, and content to compete, fairly and freely, one with another, like any other unprivileged class of British Traders. "That to encourage by a Charter, with Limited Liability, a body of Speculators to compete with your Memorialists, at a very small risk to themselves, and to deprive your Memorialists of a very considerable portion of that trade which has been created by their industry and perseverance through all difficulties and disadvantages, would not only be most unjust and injurious to your Memorialists, but a great discouragement to all future private enterprise. "That the granting of such a Charter is not called for by any public necessity at the present time; and there can be no doubt, that if your Memorialists and others engaged in Shipping are not discouraged (as they will be if such a Charter as the one sought for is granted), an almost unlimited amount of Capital will, in a few years, be invested in Screw and other Steam-ships, to trade between this Country and North America. "That it is only by encouraging free and un-
 1073 1074 1075
 MR. EWART  seconded the Motion.
 MR. KEOGH  supposed his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Serjeant Shee) would be allowed to name the Committee as early as possible.
 MR. KEOGH  remarked that it was a very extraordinary circumstance that the same mistake should have crept into all the right hon. Gentleman's Bills. The Bill would in effect be found a delusion, for when the right hon. Gentleman had laid it down that thirty-one years should be the compensating period of enjoyment, he sent the tenant who might be evicted before a tribunal which was limited in jurisdiction to four years' clear yearly value of the lands. The right hon. Gentleman had told them that the preparation of those Bills had added many an hour of toil to a life not professionally unemployed. This certainly was the great age of concession and appropriation. The House would hear with surprise that the materials which had added those weary hours to the right hon. Gentleman's life, had been supplied by the pigeon-holes of Dublin Castle. Why did he say so? Because an hon. Member now in the House had a pamphlet in his pocket written by Mr. Tighe Hamilton, formerly Assistant Secretary at Dublin Castle, and dated at Nice on the 2nd of last month, which, when compared with the right hon. Gentleman's Bill, was almost section by section, and in every principle and proposal, the same. The labours of the right hon. Gentleman,
 1141
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  admitted that he had agreed to the proposal to refer the Bills to a Select Committee; but he thought it would be of great advantage, if
 1144
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, that, in bringing under the consideration of the House the course which he proposed to take with regard to this Bill and to another Bill on the same subject, which stood in his name on the Orders of the Day, he was anxious that the House should understand the circumstances under which he had undertaken a task of very great importance, and in discharging which he should need all its indulgence. The right hon. Gentleman the Attorney General for Iceland, in the very able exposition which he gave the House a few evenings ago of the new code of Landlord and Tenant by which he hoped to resuscitate the fortunes of his country, respectfully noticed the labours of an hon. Friend of his (Mr. Sharman Crawford) who was long a Member of that House, and to whose exertions towards bettering the condition of the agricultural classes in Ireland the right hon. Gentleman handsomely attributed, as the primary cause, much of the credit he anticipated from his own proposed measures towards the same object. He had no wish to depreciate the efforts of the right hon. Gentleman, or of those who, agreeing generally with him on this question, had gone before him on the same path. It were ungenerous, with these evidences of his learning and industry before him, not to thank him for the many hours of anxiety, snatched, as he had told them, from the rare leisure of a life of no ordinary toil, to be devoted to the intricacies of this question; but when he reminded the House that in the years 1835 and 1836,
 1090 1091 1092 1093 1094 1095 Political Economy, 1096 1097 Quicquid solo plantatur solo cedit. 1098 1099 Geo. Anne, c. l Geo. c. s. 1100 "Upon the determination of all leases made before 1690, a gentleman thinks he has but indifferently improved his estate if he has only doubled his rent-roll. Leases are granted but for a small term of years. Tenants are tied down to hard conditions, and discouraged from cultivating the land they occupy to the best advantage, by the certainty they have of their rent being raised on the expiration of their leases proportionably to the improvements they shall make. Thus it is that honest industry is depressed, and the farmer becomes a slave to his landlord." "The Catholics," says Lord Taafe, in 1766,"keep their farms in a bad plight, as they are excluded by law from durable and profitable tenures." "If a Papist," says Lord Macartney, in 1773,"becomes a farmer, he shall not cultivate or improve his possession, being discouraged by the short limitation of his tenure; and yet we complain of the dulness and laziness of a people whose spirit is restrained from exertion, and whose industry has no reward to excite it." 1101 "The bad state and deficiency of the agricultural buildings, and the unimproved condition of many farmers, may arise from various causes. Firstly, nothing is ever built or repaired by the landlords. These expenses, as well as those of every other improvement, are left to the tenant, who generally comes into a dilapidated building, without capital to stock it, still less to build, fence, or drain. Secondly, there is generally a want of confidence between the landlord and the occupier. Thirdly, there is generally in the tenant a disposition to make that answer which has answered in some degree before; and if it fails, then to look for a temporary shift, which he thinks will do well enough." "The general, or almost universal, topic of complaint brought before us in every part of Ireland was the want of tenure, to use the expression most commonly employed by the witnesses. The uncertainty of tenure is constantly referred to as a pressing grievance by all classes of tenants. It is said to paralyse all exertion, and to place a fatal impediment in the way of improvement. We have no doubt that this is the case in many instances; and although it is certainly desirable that the fair remuneration to which a tenant is entitled for his outlay of his capital or of his labour should be secured to him by voluntary agreement, rather than by compulsion of law, yet, upon a review of all the evidence furnished to us on this subject, we believe that some legislative measures will be found necessary in order to give efficacy to such agreements, as well as to provide for cases which cannot be settled by private arrangement. We are convinced that in the present state of things no single measure can be better calculated to allay discontent in Ireland, and to promote substantial improvement throughout the country. It frequently happens that large estates in Ireland are held by the proprietors in strict limitation; and their pecuniary circumstances disable many of even the best-disposed landlords from improving their property, or encouraging improvements amongst their tenantry, in a manner that would conduce at once to their own interest and the public advantage. It is admitted on all hands that according to the general practice of Ireland, the landlord neither builds dwelling-houses nor farm offices, nor puts gates and fences in good order before he lets the land to a tenant. In most cases, whatever is done in the way of building or fencing is done by the tenant; and, in the ordinary language of the country, dwelling-houses, farm buildings, and even the making of fences, are described by the general word, 'improvements.' The cases in which the landlord does these things are the exceptions." 1102 1103 1104 1105 1106 "The laws have disabled three-fourths of the inhabitants of Ireland from acquiring any estate of inheritance for life or years, or any charge whatsoever on which two-thirds of the improved yearly value is not reserved for thirty years. This confinement of landed property to one set of hands, and preventing its free circulation through the community, is a most leading article of ill policy; because it is one of the most capital discouragements to all that industry which may be employed on the lasting improvement of the soil, or in any way conversant about land. A tenure of thirty years is evidently no tenure upon which to build, to plant, to raise inclosures, to change the nature of the ground, to make any new experiment which might improve agriculture, or to do anything more than what may answer the immediate and momentary calls of rent to the landlord, and leave subsistence to the tenant and his family. The desire of acquisition is always a passion of long views. Confine a man to momentary possession, and you at once cut off that laudable avarice which every wise State has cherished as one of the first principles of its greatness. Allow a man but a temporary possession; lay it down as a maxim that he never can have any other, and you immediately and infallibly turn him to temporary enjoyments; and these enjoyments are never the pleasures of labour and free industry, and whose quality is to famish the present hours, and squander all upon prospect and futurity; they are, on the contrary, those of a
 1107 emphyteusis, Tracts on the Popery Laws. 1108 1109 scriptura interveniente In con-tractibus tacite insunt quae sunt moris et consuetudinis. 1110 v. Quicquid solo plantator solo cedit; 1111 juris gentium Report of Devon Commission l 1112 "It is one of the sacred rights of the country which cannot be treated with impunity; if systematic efforts were made amongst the proprietors of Ulster to invade tenant-right, I do not believe there is any force at the disposal of the Horse Guards sufficient to keep the peace of the province, and when we consider that all the improvements have been effected at the expense of the tenant, it is perfectly right that this tenant-right should exist. His money has been laid out on the faith of compensation in that shape."—[ Report of Devon Commission. l l 1113 "The size of my farm is thirty-five statute acres; the rent 42 l s. l l l l "I hold fifty-seven acres at 27 s. d. l l l l l l l "I hold thirty-six acres, at the yearly rent of 54 l s. d. l s. l l l l l l l 1114 1115 bonâ fide Quicquid solo plantatur solo cedit 1116 "In conducto fundo si conductor sua opera aliquid necessario et utiliter auxerit ant âdifi-caverit—vel instituerit cum id non convenisset ad recipienda ea quâ impendit cum domino fundi experiri potest." "Ad quid actio conducti datur? Ad expensas a conductore in re conducta necessario et utiliter factas (etiamsi non sit de eis repetendis conventum) repetendas." 1117 l l l l 1118 l l l 1119 1120 1121 l l l 1122 lei 1123
 MR. GROGAN  objected to sending Mr. Crawford's Bill to a Select Committee, on the ground that it had been already rejected by the House because it involved a violation of the rights of property.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stafford) proposed to raise 2,000 men this year, and then the remainder were to be raised in April next, if they could get them. He suggested that if they could not raise sufficient men they should supply the remainder by boys.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, there was some difference of opinion as to the number of guns and iron ordnance now lying at Portsmouth, Woolwich, and Devon-port, and our various colonies. Now, in the Report of the Ordnance Committee of 1849, he found that at that time there were at Woolwich no less than 11,679 serviceable guns—great big guns, from a 13-inch mortar to a 9-pounder. At Portsmouth there were 1,456 guns serviceable; at Devonport, 927 serviceable; at Chatham, 333 serviceable; at Plymouth about the same number, and 549 obsolete guns; and
 1089 l l
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he had seen the report referred to, and had directed inquiries to be made into the whole case. Mr. Hall, the Metropolitan Poor Law Inspector, had that day, by his instructions, proceeded to Lambeth workhouse to investigate the matter, and to report the result of his inquiries to the Poor Law Board; but when he (Sir J. Trollope) left his office, half an hour since, Mr. Hall had not yet returned. So soon as he had possession of the facts himself, he should be ready to state them to the House. As to any power in the
 1065
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  did not apprehend that there was any ground for imputing a desire to eliminate from the field of commerce a new and powerful competitor. All that was sought was, that there should be in this case the same freedom of trade as in others. It was not usual to grant a charter to one company which would come in competition with other companies not having charters; and in this instance it would be the more unfair, because the established companies had sunk three millions of money in the undertaking. The hon. Member for the county of Cork (Mr. Roche) was anxious to get cheaper freights for Irish emigrants; he however, did not see how the hon. Gentleman would obtain that object if he advocated the establishment of a company which by these special privileges would speedily drive all other persons out of the trade, and thereby raise freights to monopoly prices. The objection to the Screw Company was, that, if they obtained these privileges, they would inevit-
 1083 l
 LORD STANLEY  said, the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir De L. Evans) had placed those who opposed the Bill in some difficulty, as he had really given them nothing to oppose. In 1848 the hon. and gallant Gentleman obtained an extension of the time of payment of rates and taxes from three months to six months, and he (Lord Stanley) did not think there was any necessity for a further extension. The hon. and gallant Member had not laid before them a statement of any practical grievance arising out of the existing state of the law; yet he (Lord Stanley) thought some such grievance should be shown before any alteration of the law was proposed. The hon. and gallant Member had not brought forward one single reason, stated one single fact, or alleged one particular grievance, upon which he could justify the introduction of this measure. Those who had lost their votes had lost them through their own fault. If they were disfranchised, it was because they had not paid their taxes. Had they been disfranchised through the operation of the law, recollecting the number of contested elections that there had been throughout England, recollecting how evenly balanced the state of parties was in many places throughout the Kingdom, the House of Commons would not have been left to learn the fact from the simple statement of the hon, and gallant Gentle-
 1146
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was far too much occupied to be enabled to attend to all the decisions of the assistant barristers, and to be also ready to explain them. He understood, however, the case to be this: The question in the Common Pleas arose as to the time when certain taxes became payable—whether particular taxes became payable at a certain time or at a different time. The hon, and gallant Gentleman (Sir De L. Evans) now proposed to introduce a law to amend the existing one, on the ground of the hardship and inconvenience it inflicted upon the voter. He (the Attorney General) did not understand how this measure would effect that object. The same question must arise whatever limit was affixed for the payment of the rate as qualification for being put upon the register. These 118,000 voters had been disfranchised, not by reason of qualification, but by reason of not having paid in sufficient time the taxes
 1147 1148
 LORD STANLEY  said, he wished to explain to the hon. and gallant Gentleman, what he had said was, that in 1848 the hon. and gallant Gentleman made out a case for the extension of time from three months to six months, but that there was no necessity for further extension.
 SIR ALEXANDER COOKBURN  said, it did appear to him, that by the present plan of collecting taxes a delusion was practised on the voters, and that something ought to be done, either by the House or the Treasury, to put matters on a more satisfactory basis. No man paid taxes until he was asked. The law required, in order to give the franchise, that taxes due up to a given period should be paid by the parties claiming the vote, and they were not asked for those taxes till the time was gone by when, by the Act, they ought to have been paid. He did not say it was intentional that the order of the Treasury should have that effect. He did not say hon. Gentlemen opposite wished to disfranchise voters; but if the Parliamentary franchise was to turn upon the payment of taxes, they ought not to have the practice of collecting those taxes in disunion with the law requiring payment within a given period. If they did not ask for the taxes
 1150
 MR. FREWEN  said, it was his intention to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, as he thought it was a little too soon after the alteration had been made by the House of Lords, and acquiesced in by this House, to come to this House for a restoration of the date that was in the Bill when it was sent up to the House of Lords.
 MR. CROWDER  thought the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) had fallen into a great mistake as to the payment of assessed taxes. It was to that point that his hon. and gallant Friend (Sir De L. Evans) referred when he spoke of a body of persons being disfranchised by the decision of the Court of Common Pleas. He begged permission to state the position in which he understood the matter practically to stand with reference to the collection of these taxes. They might or might not be due quarterly. Undoubtedly some lawyers maintained the one proposition on one side, and others the other, but practically that did not affect the question as to the way in which these taxes were collected. It was well known, and he thought it was well known by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole), that the collection of assessed taxes was by the half-year, and that two quarters became due in April and October. The two quarters falling due in April included a quarter due in January, and the collection of those two quarters which terminated in April was made in the month of July, and in the month of July the collector might call for the payment of those quarters, which would include the quarter due in January, and not before, and therefore in truth it was a delusion on the part of the payer of these taxes, if, not being called on, without the slightest disposition to avoid payment, he was disfranchised. He thought his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Southampton (Sir A.Cockburn) had put the matter in its true light, and he fully agreed with him that there ought either to be legislation such as that proposed, or a different mode of collecting these rates, so that practically the parties might have six months for their payment.
 MR. WALPOLE  thought the hon. and learned Gentleman had entirely mistaken the question before the House. The rate-paying clauses were inserted in the Reform Bill for two purposes: to obtain distinct evidence of occupation in respect to the property for which the voter claimed the right to vote, and to have the test of his credit, respectability, and independence. Whether they should continue the Reform Act on those principles was a distinct subject for discussion, which ought to be brought before the House on a distinct Motion, and not confounded with the question whether six months was a sufficient time for the payment of those taxes in respect to the qualification for which the voter claimed to vote. [Sir Be L. EVANS: We want a  bonâ fide 1151
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought the payment of rates and taxes as a qualification to be placed on the register should be altogether abolished.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, as it had been before the House upon several occasions, he would not now enter into any explanation of it. He would merely observe, that five or six years ago he had introduced a Bill which dealt with the question now under consideration, and the present Bill was necessitated by a decision of the Court of Common Pleas upon the 13th of last month. The original reason for introducing the Bill was the great disparity which existed in the ratepaying clauses of the Reform Act, which were intended to exclude insolvent voters, but which really excluded a great many others; and to remedy that defect he had introduced the measure which received the sanction of the House four years ago. The original date of payment was the 11th of October; but that had been subsequently altered by the House of Lords to the 5th of January. This alteration had given rise to many conflicting decisions by the revising barristers; and therefore he had waited until the question was decided by a Court of Appeal. But the Lord Chief Justice of the Court of Common Pleas last month had stated that the law was uncertain, and that its practical effect was to disfranchise a great number of voters. In Westminster a great number of voters had been disfranchised; and he believed that no fewer than 100,000 to 150,000 solvent voters throughout the country had been disfranchised in consequence of the
 1145
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he was glad to find that at all events the noble Lord admitted his argument on that occasion was a strong one. There had been no attempt to inquire what number of persons had been disfranchised since, because the judgment passed on the 13th of last month in the Court of Common Pleas was considered the most conclusive reason for a change in the law which could by possibility be offered. With regard to the remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General, he really must assume, unless he were corrected, that the hon. and
 1149
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) had charged him with having adduced no argument in favour of this Bill; but that was rather a proof that he wished to spare the time of the House, having full confidence in the merits of the Bill. The noble Lord, he believed, admitted, that in 1848 he did use arguments of weight and importance, and that he did show on that occasion that a large number of persons had been disfranchised, a large majority unfairly and unjustly, because they were not insolvent, and had no intention of evading the payment of rates.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, if the noble Lord wanted a proof that a grievance was inflicted upon a large class of voters, he would refer him to the opinion of the Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, who, in delivering his judgment, said—
 "No doubt this was a case of great importance, because the general impression, when these taxes were payable, might have disfranchised a great number of household voters, because a householder's attention was not directed to the payment of these taxes until they were demanded, and they did not pay the tax quarterly as it was due."
 MR. HUME  presented a petition from Mr. Grantley Berkeley, setting forth the violations of the law which had taken place at the last election for West Gloucestershire. The petitioner prayed the House to institute a full inquiry in the matter complained of. He (Mr. Hume) presumed that the House would not refuse to entertain the petition, as it did not contain any allusion whatever to the sitting Members, and could not, therefore, be said to come within the limits of an election petition.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to know if it was to be understood that the door was henceforth to be closed against all inquiry in such cases, when the complaining parties were not in a position to bear the expense of prosecuting an election petition. The object of the Bill of the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J.
 1153
 MR. HUME  would ask if he was to understand that complaints of infractions of the election law, were not in future to be inquired into by that House, except when brought before them by means of the costly process of an election Committee? If any mode was pointed out by which an inquiry could be obtained, he was ready to adopt it.
 MR. HUME  said, he was only anxious that some investigation should take place,
 1154
 MR. HUME  said, he begged to inquire whether the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would detail the course which he intended to pursue with regard to the public business of tomorrow? By the paper which he held in his hand, he saw that the right hon. Gentleman proposed to bring forward—first, the question of the Inhabited House Duties; second, that of the Tea Duties; third, that of the reduction of the duty upon Malt; and, lastly, the Property and Income Tax. The House must vote separately upon all these propositions, and he wished to know whether one vote was to decide the fate of all.
 MR. HUME  said, he also participated in the gratification which the renunciation, on the part of the Government, to revert to the protective system, had manifestly created in the House. The Colonies had suffered from nothing so grievously as from the continual upsetting of their affairs; and he, for one, would never give his assent to any further tampering with a settlement which was offered and accepted as final. He hoped that the differential duties would be allowed to wear out tranquilly, and that the colonies would be taught to depend as much as possible upon their own resources. He would not give to the planters one shilling from the public purse, but he would legislate for them in a fair and impartial spirit, and there was no assistance which could be given to them without injury to other interests which he would not be most happy to offer. He would reduce as much as possible the expense of cultivation, and would afford them increased facilities for procuring labour, confident that by this means he would promote their welfare more effectively a thousand times than if he were to perpetuate the differential duties. He approved of the Government's intention to send a Commissioner to Jamaica, and strongly urged the propriety of directing
 1192
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that it was very desirable that the Government should state whether the right to refine in bond was to be considered as compulsory or optional. Was the exercise of the right to be optional, or was the system to be uniform?
 LORD STANLEY  said, that the hon. Member for Ashburton (Mr. Moffatt) was quite right in calling their attention to the points to which he had just alluded. They were very important, and it was desirable that the House and the country should receive information with respect to them at the earliest possible moment. But at the same time they belonged rather to the department of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, than to any other; and he believed he might say, on behalf of his right hon. Friend, who was not now present, that he would be prepared to answer those inquiries whenever they should come directly before the House. As regarded the general question at issue, he (Lord Stanley) had no desire to prolong the debate, which appeared to him to be rapidly verging towards a natural death; but he must say that, in his opinion, there was some little discrepancy in the language of hon. Gentlemen opposite. The hon. Member for Westbury (Mr. Wilson), addressing them in a very long and a very eloquent and instructive speech, had professed his object to be to prove that the West India colonies had not suffered in reality by the passing of the Act of 1846. His object seemed to be to comfort those colonies by showing them that they had not suffered from the legislation of recent years. But immediately after that hon. Gentleman the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) rose on the same side of the House, and told them it was quite true that the great financial and commercial changes which had taken place must have inflicted severe injury on individuals, however they might have benefited the British community at large. The hon. Member for Dumfries admitted the suffering, which the hon. Member for Westbury denied, but said it was owing to an inevitable necessity;
 1193 1194 Hansard 1195 1196 "It would be a melancholy task to dwell on the misery and ruin which so alarming a change as the Act of 1846 had occasioned." 1197 "They felt themselves called upon to notice the effect which the wholesale abandonment of property had produced in the Colony—an abandonment under which it was not to be wondered at that the most ordinary marks of civilisation were rapidly disappearing, while in many districts all travelling communication by land would soon be utterly impracticable." "he proceeded to review the state of the Colony with a feeling of great regret—that the Colony still remained in a very struggling condition;" "the revenue of the Colony did not fully meet the authorised public expenditure, although that expenditure had been already reduced fully one-third." 1198 1199
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that the Committee, as nominated by the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, only consisted of twelve Members; and if the three names suggested by the hon. Member for Sandwich (Mr. M'Gregor) were added, there would not be more than fifteen Members; the number which the House had fixed as the limit for a Select Committee.
 MR. FREWEN  said, he would now give notice that he should move, as an Amendment upon the Malt Resolution, that the Duty on Hops be repealed altogether.
 MR. GEACH  said, he thought it desirable that when questions connected with a particular interest were to be investigated, that interest should be represented on the Committee, whose deliberations would, he believed, be materially assisted by the presence of Gentlemen more particularly acquainted with railway matters.
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he did not at all agree with the hon. Member for Sandwich. He thought that the Committee should be wholly independent of the railway interest. He was quite sure that the Gentlemen named for the Committee would do perfect justice to it; and, if they did not, the railway companies had sufficient influence in that House to protect themselves. If they placed on the Committee General Anson, the chairman of the London and North-Western Company, they would have a demand that the Chairman of the Great Northern should also be on the Committee, and in like manner the chairmen of other railways.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the present petition was open to the same objection as the one which had been previously offered and withdrawn—that was, that it was a petition complaining of an undue return, in consequence of bribery and corruption having been employed to influence the return of an hon. Member of that House. That being the case, and the petition not having been presented within the time prescribed for the presentation of election petitions, it could not be received.
 MR. SPEAKER : Then my opinion is that the petition should be withdrawn.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Gentleman could not then make such a Motion; he must give notice of it.
 MR. MUNTZ  begged to remark that if the Committee desired any information from the chairmen of railways, they could be examined as witnesses. If the Members of the House generally did not themselves
 1204
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the effects of the Sugar Acts of 1846 and 1848 upon the British Sugar Colonies, and upon the Sugar Trade of the United Kingdom. It might, perhaps, be objected that, after the speech made the other night by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he ought not to persevere with this Motion; but he felt it his duty to draw the attention of the House to this subject, not for the purpose of placing the Government in an unpleasant position, but in order that the anxieties of the Colonists might be put an end to upon this most important subject. On Friday last the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer stated what he intended to do with regard to the Colonists, and if he had confined himself to that statement, he (Mr. Wilson) should have been satisfied to have let the question rest where it was. But the right hon. Gentleman, not merely content with stating what he intended to do, thought proper to impugn the acts of that House, on this question during the last four or five years, as acts of injustice and harshness towards the West Indian Colonies. Now, he thought that if these acts thus stigmatised were capable of vindication, they should be vindicated, and if they were not, that justice should be afforded to the Colonists; and it was because he took the former view of the question, that he determined to persevere with this Motion. The exact position in which the question now stood was this. It might be recollected that about a year ago they had information that the great battle to be fought between the two great parties in that House would be upon the question of the Sugar Duties. And they were aware that a very extensively organised system—he did not say that the right hon. Gentleman was connected with that organisation —had been established throughout tbff whole of the Sugar Colonies, by petitions to Parliament and otherwise, for the purpose of repealing or arresting the descend-
 1157 "Sir, I felt it to be my duty, as a member of the Opposition, to press upon Her Majesty's Ministers What I believed to be the disastrous effects of their own acts. I refer to the Act of 1846, modified by the subsequent Act of 1848, regulating the duties on sugar. Sir, as a member of Her Majesty's present Government, which is in an acknowledged minority in this House, I conceive it to be no less my duty to take whatever course I may think best for the promotion of the object we have in view; and we do not think that it would tend to the relief of West Indian distress if we were, during the present Session, to press forward views and plans against which there are recorded majorities on several occasions during the present Parliament. Sir, we further think that there is nothing in the question of the Sugar Duties sufficiently special or sufficiently exceptionable to justify us in making it an exception to that intention on the part of Her Majesty's Government, which has been announced in another place by my noble Friend the Prime Minister, that intention being not unnecessarily to press upon Parliament during the present Session those controverted questions of policy which we think it best to reserve for the judgment of another Parliament. Sir, for these reasons it is not my intention to bring forward during the present Session the Motion to which the hon. Member for West-bury has alluded. But, Sir, I must beg leave to add one word more. The opinions which I have repeatedly expressed in this House upon the Acts of Parliament regulating the duties on sugar, whether in relation to their effects upon the British Colonies, or in relation to their effects on the great question of slavery and the slave trade, have undergone no change whatever. On the contrary, I am now receiving, almost daily, the most painful proofs of the distress which has existed in the British Colonies; but, without being at all indifferent to that distress, we have determined that those questions, like others of the same nature, ought to be kept for the consideration of a future Parliament, reserving distinctly to ourselves the right hereafter to deal with this question, if we shall be in a position so to do—to deal with this question in such a manner as we shall consider to be required by the justice of the case, and by a due regard to the interests of all
 1158 Hansard, "Whatever other alleviation might be afforded to the distress of the planters, they could only be enabled effectually and permanently to meet the competition of foreign countries by some measure which should have the effect, if not of establishing the old differential duties, at least of preventing the further reduction of those which now subsisted between British and slave-grown sugar." 1159 "With reference to the year 1851 [the year to which the right hon. Gentleman referred], the above comparison shows moreover most clearly that any inference unfavourable to the claims of the West Indies founded on 1851, must be untenable, and that in such a complicated question no safe conclusion can be based on the returns of any single year." 1160 1161 1162 1163 1164 l. l., l. 1165 l., l. 1166 l. l., l. s. s. l. s. d., l., l. s. s., l. l. l., l. l., l. 1167 l. l. l. l. "I conceive that the balance of trade is 600,000 l, l. l. l. l. 1168 s. l. s. s. s.; s. s., s. 1169 ad valorem 1170 "That on referring to the report made by the officers of Excise when the subject of refining in bond was investigated by them in 1849, wherein it was stated that in order to protect the revenue from fraud it was necessary to impose inconvenient restrictions on the working of the sugar houses, and having fully considered the present state of the sugar trade, it does not appear to this meeting to be for the interest of the trade to press upon the Government at the present time the introduction of a law for altering the system of working the refineries." 1171 ad valorem
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  said, he should be sorry to have to give such a notice without the assent of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. If, however, he could obtain that assent, he would on Monday next move that the names of Mr. Robert Stephenson, Lord Barrington, and General Anson should be added to the Committee.
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  said, he had no objection to any Gentleman nominated upon the Committee, but he thought that, in addition to those already named, there should be some Members specially identified with the railway interest. If the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had no objection to this, he would move that certain Gentlemen connected with that interest should be added.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that if the House and the railway interest wished that the additional names proposed should be placed upon the Committee, he should offer no objection to it. The only reason he did not place on the Committee some Gentlemen connected with the railway interest was, because there were so many directors in that House, that he was afraid to offend by making a selection.
 MR. HENLEY  moved the appointment of the Members of the Select Committee on Railway and Canal Bills.
 MR. HILDYARD  begged to remind the House of a petition presented in the last Parliament of a similar nature, in which precisely the same question was raised. That petition, which had reference to the then recent election for the Falkirk burghs, alleged that treating had been carried on to an alarming extent, and prayed for inquiry; but the then Attorney! General (Sir A. Cockburn) held that the allegations of the petitioner were such as, if proved, would amount to those of an I election petition; and that as no election petition had been presented within the prescribed time, it was not competent for the House to deal with the question; and: according to that view the House decided. Now, with this decision before them, it was impossible, he thought, for the House to entertain the present petition.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman had made a Motion in conformity with the prayer of the petition, it would have had the effect of doing away with a rule that the House had expressly
 1201 1202
 MR. MILLER  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies whether Mr. Enderby had been recalled from the Auckland Islands; if so, the circumstances under which his recall had taken place; and whether the right hon. Baronet had any objection to place upon the table of the House the Correspondence relating thereto, together with a Copy of any grant, lease, or charter made in relation to the Auckland Islands, either to Mr. Enderby or any other person or persons; also whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to appoint any other Governor in the place of Mr. Enderby, or to take any steps with a view to the colonisation of the said Islands?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that the; question before them was, whether this petition referred to matters that could be inquired into in the ordinary way before an election Committee, or under the Corrupt Practices at Elections Act? It appeared to him that the complaint was against certain individuals who had spent their money at the election in favour of a particular candidate, and not generally against a constituency. If the petition charged the constituency in general with corruption, then no doubt, under the Act he had referred to, it would have been open for his hon. Friend to move an Address to the Crown to institute an inquiry; but, as far as he understood it, it did not.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  did not contemplate anything more than was contained in the order of reference. It might be necessary to inquire into particular cases to discover the abuses that existed, and their remedy; but he could not foresee what course the Committee would decide upon.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON,  on presenting a petition from the gentlemen who had signed the recognisances in the petition of Mr. Torrens M'Cullagh against the sitting Members for Great Yarmouth, said that they believed they had bound themselves by the recognisances they had signed, regretting that the sureties had been declared insufficient, and praying the House to redress the grievance under which they laboured, and to take means for preventing that recurrence in future. He wished to call the attention of the House to the petition presented by Mr. M'Cullagh, who claimed to have been elected for Great Yarmouth, and who disputed the return. He did not ask the House to review the decision of the examiner of recognisances, or to pass any opinion of its validity, or in any way to sit as a court of appeal. He was well aware that the decision of the examiner in these matters was final and conclusive. His object was to show that, on the face of these proceedings, circumstances had arisen which rendered it necessary for Parliament to consider whether it might not be necessary to amend the Act itself under which proceedings were taken in reference to the trial of election petitions. The reason of the decision was, that the words "sitting Members" were used instead of "sitting Member." On the same day the examiner had reported that a similar recognisance in
 1200 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the operation of the Act 11 & 12  Vic,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in Resolutions of this nature it was not customary to explain the reason of any alterations. But it was not his intention to alter in any important point the general statement which he had the honour of salmitting to the House on a previous occasion.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  begged to state that with respect to the Committee which he should move the House to resolve itself into, it had been a question whether it should be a Committee of Ways and Means, or one upon the Bill. He had consulted the highest authority upon that subject, who was of opinion that it might be either. It was his intention, therefore, to propose with respect to the first Resolution, that the House resolve itself into a Committee of Ways and Means, and upon the Tea duties he should move that the House go into Committee upon the Bill.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he desired that the decision of the House should be taken upon the whole of the financial scheme. He understood that to be the wish of the House, and it was certainly the wish of the Government. It was for that reason he had placed all the Resolutions upon the table. It would of course be necessary formally to take the decision of the House upon the first Resolution, but he would look upon that decision as conclusive of the general policy they had recommended.
 MR. EWART  said, these colonies were suffering on account of the false position which they occupied. They were no doubt suffering from the recent sugar laws, but whilst these laws had occasioned cases of individual suffering, they had contributed to the comfort of the great body of the Empire. He rejoiced to hear that it was the intention of the Government to send out a Commissioner to Jamaica, to inquire into her financial condition. He remembered that when Malta had been long suffering from financial embarrassment, a Commissioner was sent out to that Island, and from the time that the reforms he
 1191
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, as he observed a difference between the Financial Statement and the Resolutions which were laid upon the table of the House, he should wish to know whether the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had abandoned his original intentions?
 MR. GRENVILLE BERKELEY  moved that the petition be read by the Clerk at the table.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  begged to ask if the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Gibson) intended his Committee to have a retrospective operation?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz). He thought that none of these railway magnates should be admitted upon the Committee; they would be more useful in the character of witnesses than of members.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wilson) had addressed the House in an able speech, which evinced the extensive knowledge and accurate details he brought to bear, and had
 1172 1173 1174 
 
 In 1842 the importation to Brazil was 17,435 
 1843 19,095 
 1844 22,849 
 1845 19,453 nil. 1175 1176 1177 "I was prepared for desolation, but not for what I saw. The whole land was strewn with ruins of houses and mills, and those not old, but new buildings." "Out of a total of about 600 estates, now or formerly existing in British Guiana, the Commissioners report 26 as having been placed under sequestration between 1847 and 1849. I have it on private authority, that in the latter year 19 more have been added to this list, while 33 have been disposed of by execution sale. In the single month of May, 1850, seven estates were sold in the above manner. Their collective value was at one time upwards of 170,000 l. l. l. l. "So utterly do I despair of this island rising readily from the load of distress under which she has suffered, and still suffers, that I am now offering, quite voluntarily on my part, to give up my estate—a good one—for a debt less than one-fifth of the sum it cost me since freedom, due to
 1178 l "In 1819 these estates netted the proprietor 22,000 l. "You can form no conception of the depression day by day going on here. You have not yet been away six months, and the change you would perceive would alarm you. Our lower orders are becoming daily more reckless, putting aside all decency, and vice and crime are now walking in daylight along our streets. The better class of men appear to have lost all hope, and the aspect of things is truly distressing." l, l. 1179 l. s. s. s. d., s. d. 1180 s. d. 1181 1182 l. s. d., s. d, l. s. l. s. l. s. d.; s. d.; l. s. d. s. d., 1183 s. d., l. s. d. 1184 "In this combination of fortuitous and favouring circumstances, it may be affirmed that Mauritius stands unsurpassed, if not unrivalled, among the sugar-producing possessions of the Crown; and, when added to these highly-valuable Conditions, there is manifested a growing self-reliance and increasing confidence in local resources, united with the severe lessons of previous, experience, so legible and distinct that 'those who run may read,' and, above all, a manly resolution to overcome the remaining obstacles opposed to the profitable cultivation of the soil, I do hot believe that I am either deceiving myself or misleading Her Majesty's Government in expressing a conviction that our earnest hopes and aspirations for the restoration and enduring prosperity of this most important dependency of the Crown are in course of fulfilment, and will at no very distant day be realised." "I do not venture to submit this opinion without hesitation and diffidence, seeing that a very different tone pervades the petitions for relief to the agricultural interest which have been put forth both here and in the mother country; nor
 1185 l l. "He had at one time doubted whether emigration would be of any use, but he at present saw the enormous advantage of it, and he believed that to emigration, under God, the safety of the colony which he governed must be owing." s. d. s,; s. d. s. d. s. d. d. s. d. s. d. 1186 1187 "But the depression also of the planting interest from the altered policy of the Parent State in its colonial relations has continued; and it seems now to be assuming a steadier and more pregnant form, and the finances of the colony have gone on, and are still going on, from bad to worse. The supplies granted for the year have in no instance been equal to the authorised expenditure, although that expenditure has been materially and largely curtailed; and the public debt and liabilities, which, in official returns, are stated to have not exceeded 580.000 l l. 1188 l. l. "That the Session of the local Legislature brought to a close on the 26th of February had been chiefly remarkable, first, for the renewed pertinacity with which the Government here is entirely excluded, not only from those functions in the body of the Legislature which the Crown exercises through its Ministers in both Houses of the English Parliament, but from all guidance, even by advice, of the proceedings of the Assembly." 1189 1190
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  begged in explanation to give his assurance that there was no intention on the part of the Government to propose the prolongation of the differential duties.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, in the first place Mr. Enderby had not been recalled from the Governorship of the Auckland Islands, therefore, he could not state the circumstances under which that recall took place. He would beg to remind the hon. Member of the circumstances under which Mr. Enderby came to the appointment of Lieutenant Governor of these. Islands. In 1848 a lease was granted by the Crown to a Company for the purposes of the whale fishery, and Mr. Enderby was sent out by that Company as their Commissioner, and it was in compliance with the Company's request that Mr. Enderby received from the Crown the Commission as Lieutenant Governor that he might preserve order in the Islands. At a subsequent period the Company became dissatisfied, and sent out other Commissioners, who prevailed on Mr. Enderby to send in his resignation. The whole of the circumstances had been brought to the notice of the Governor of New Zealand, and a report
 1156
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  begged to give notice that he would move, as an Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman's Resolutions, that the whole subject should be postponed until after the Christmas recess.
 MR. T. BUNCOMBE : I feel, Sir, that the House is placed in rathe a peculiar position in reference to the Motion just made—that you, Sir, leave the Chair for the purpose of our going into Committee of Ways and Means, to entertain the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer — that is, his Budget. I also think that I should ill discharge my duty to my constituents if I did not at once state that they do not wish their Representatives in this House of Commons, if they could he so persuaded, to entertain the proposition of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer at all. I dare say, and I should not be surprised if this proceeding of mine were called factious. But that is a very old story with me. I have been called factious by all Governments ever since I first had the honour of a seat in this House, and I
 1215 1216 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1217 1218
 SIR EDWARD BULWER LYTTON : Sir, I shall not follow the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down through all the points on which he has touched. It is true that the whole Budget is indirectly open to our consideration; but I do not think it necessary to touch upon those parts on which the House are agreed, such,
 1221 1222 1223 1224 d. 1225 l. mutatis mutandis, 1226 1227 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1228 l. animus 1229 1230 1231 1232
 MR. GLADSTONE : Mr. Speaker, if it be any satisfaction to the hon. Baronet, my hon. Friend who has just sat down, to widen the question now raised respecting the House resolving itself into Committee, in order that we may proceed to the consideration of the House Tax—to extend that question, in the first place, to a detailed discussion of all the more important items in the Budget, and then to pass from the discussion of the entire Budget to an eloquent and elaborate defence of the policy of the Government, and likewise to enter on a spirited vindication of his own character and conduct—so far as I am aware, impugned by no man—it is a satisfaction of which I, for one, would be most sorry to have deprived him. But, on the part of this House, on the part of the principles which regulate the conduct of public business, I cannot refrain from making an appeal to you and to others, and from pointing out that if it is really intended that we should make progress towards a decision on the measures of the Government, it is most important that we should condescend, at whatever sacrifice of our
 1233 1234 l. l. l. l. 1235 l. l. l. l. l 1236 l. "That according to an Estimate of the probable future produce of the existing taxes, submitted to this House by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it appears that a surplus Revenue may be expected in the present year to the extent of about 2,000,000 l. l. Hansard, l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1237 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1238
 MR. HUME  was of opinion that the question to which the hon. Members for Finsbury and Middlesex were so anxious to obtain a reply, had been answered Already. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had asked for a question on which to take a vote on the whole policy of the Government; but that vote would not bind each individual Member as to every item of the Budget. He apprehended that it was perfectly understood, on both sides of the House, that upon each and every one of the votes proposed by the Government, whether with respect to the house tax, the malt tax, or the tea duties, hon. Members were to have an opportunity in Committee of submitting any amendments they pleased. He trusted that, under these circumstances, his hon. Friends would perceive that the very best course that the House could pursue was to go, with as little delay as possible, into a Committee of Ways and Means.
 MR. HUME  begged to ask how they were to come to a decision upon this subject? He would venture to submit to his hon. Friend (Mr. Williams) that his Amendment did not meet the object for which the question had been brought forward. The point they had to decide, was, whether they were disposed to accept the Budget, and give the Ministers time to carry it out; or whether they should,  in limine, 1249
 MR. HEADLAM : * Sir, I think I am acting upon the common understanding of both sides of the House, and upon the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, when I assume that the question we are now considering is the whole financial scheme proposed to us by Her Majesty's Government, and not merely the first Resolution concerning the House tax, which constitutes the technical question put by you from the chair. It is, indeed, essential that we should so consider the subject; for without we have regard to the subsequent Resolutions for the remission of taxation, no basis whatever has been laid, no shadow of argument has been given, for the imposition of any new tax, still less for the imposition of a new tax so harsh and oppressive in its bearing as this proposed new House tax. Considering, then, the whole Budget, I am bound, in the first place to call the attention of the Committee to the present financial condition of the country, partly because I have the misfortune to differ, in some respects, from the view presented to us by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and partly because it is absolutely necessary, before we come to a definite conclusion on any financial changes, that we should carefully investigate the existing condition of the country to which these new proposed schemes are intended to be applied. l. 1276 l. l. l. l. l. 1277 l. l. 1278 s. d. l. s. l. l. l. l. 1279 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1280 l. l. 1281 1282
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he wished to state, as his hon. Friend (Mr. Duncombe) had intimated that he had doubts whether he should divide the House, that if he thought proper to divide, he (Lord J. Russell) could not take that course with him, but should be ready to go into Committee upon the propositions of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He would only say, further, that he supposed the right hon. Gentleman would expect that when they went into Committee they should not merely discuss a single proposition that might be
 1242
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, if I agreed with my hon. Friend who has just sat down, that the common sense of the country has already accepted the Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I should hardly think it worth my while, on the present occasion, to rise for the purpose of discussing it. But, with great deference to my hon. Friend, I take leave to doubt whether the country has accepted, or will accept, the Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The Resolution which has been placed in your hands, Sir,
 1293 1294 1295 1296 1297 1298 d. d., d. d., 1299 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. in limine; 1300 l. l. l. l. 1301 l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1302 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. s. d. 1303 s. s. d. 1304 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1305 d. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1306 s. d. s. l. s. d., l. "We do not conceive that it can be shown that any actual tax is less objectionable than the Malt Tax. We believe that the paying of it is less felt and less obnoxious than the paying of any other. Besides, no other tax is collected at so small an expense in proportion to the revenue derived." 1307
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Mr. Taylor says, in reply to a question put to him—"We have almost had all the restrictions removed some years ago, and the higher class of manufacturers have been from that time quite satisfied." I must say, therefore, I think my hon. Friend is entirely mistaken in the statement he has made to the House. Now, I am much inelihed to believe, with the hon. Member for Wakefield (Mr. Sandars), that if half the Malt tax be reduced, looking at the small amount it is possible to reduce in the price of a pot of beer, the maltster and the brewer between them will pocket the whole of that small amount. It would be no doubt a remarkably agreeable thing to Chancellors of the Exchequer if they could do without revenue at all; but since that is impossible, all that we can do is to retain those taxes which are the least objectionable and the least expensive in their collection, and certainly one of the least objectionable is the Malt duty. Now, there is a protective duty on timber: that might he reduced with great advantage; and I am anxious to know whether the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire would vote for the proposition of which notice has been given by an horn Member (Mr. Ewart), for reducing the duties on butter and cheese. Those duties raise the price of the articles far above the amount of the duty; but the Malt tax does not and they are avowedly protective duties. The Chancellor of the Exchequer might deal with the soap duties, remove some of the inequalities of the assessed taxes, or reduce various duties more beneficially than the Malt tax. I will not, however, occupy time with any suggestions of my own. I have shown how unwisely he has dealt with indirect taxes. I will now proceed to consider how he deals with direct taxation; and this I think be has done as ill, and I should say this even if I was the most devoted admirer of direct taxation—if I went so far as my hon. Friend the Member for West Surrey (Mr. H. Drummond), who would carry direct taxation to a point which would make it intolerable. Indeed it seems to me
 1308 l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. 1309 l. l. l. 1310 l. d. d. d. d. d. d. d.; d. d.; 1311 d. l. l
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : The same tenant, therefore, who now pays Income tax, and no other, will pay it under your scheme. You bring under taxation a large class in Schedules D and E who do not pay now, and you do not add a single tenant-farmer who does not now pay. After having extended your tax to persons of all professions, you continue their present exemption to all persons under Schedule B. This is gross injustice. Now I will state a piece of miscalculation pretty nearly as gross. The right hon. Gentleman said that he intended to confer a boon upon the clergy, and that the amount of that boon would be 30,000 l. d. d. l. l.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I think I am right, for, as I understood the right hon. Gentleman, the clergyman who is under Schedule A will have to pay under Schedule D.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  then continued: I am quite aware of that, he is exempted now, but I will not pursue this minor point. I come now to the last question of the house tax. I have never swerved from my opinion that the house tax is a good one. I should not have proposed it if I did not think so. I do not think, and I never said, that there was any peculiar virtue in a limit of 20 l. l. l. 1313 l l. l. l. 1314
 MR. E. BALL  said, he could not, like the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, apologise to the Committee for addressing them as a new Member, for he thought if there was one Member entitled to greater consideration than another it was the youngest and most recently elected. He had listened to the hon. and learned Member with dissatisfaction—not because he was a young Member, but—because, as a professional man, he had not justified the conclusions at which he had arrived in the course of his address by any fair reasoning. He stated there would be a disfranchisement of the 10 l. 1260 l. 1261 1262 ad valorem 1263
 MR. CAYLEY  admired the inconsistency of the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, in which the hon. Gentleman had first accused the Chancellor of the Exchequer of courting popularity by his Budget, and afterwards turned round and almost in the same breath counselled his right hon. Friend, for the sake of his popularity, not to persevere with his measures. He (Mr. Cayley) was afraid that the hon. Gentleman's own fear to face unpopularity out of doors lay really at the bottom of his objections to this Budget. The general objections raised to the Budget on the opposite side were equally inconsistent. It was against all rule, some said, to supply a deficiency before a deficit was created—while others resisted the repeal of a tax until the substitute was found. He left it to hon. Members opposite to escape as they could from so evident a dilemma. How any financial reformation could take place under such rules, he (Mr. Cayley) was at a loss to con-
 1283 1284 1285 s. s. s. s. d., d. d. 1286 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1287 l. l. d. d. d. l. l. d. 1288 d. d. d. l. d. d. l. l. l. d. d. d. 1289 1290 l. l. 1291 l. l. l. l. 1292
 MR. CAYLEY : The maltsters and brewers are the great monopolists.
 MR. HUDSON : Sir, having been per-
 1243
 MR. HUDSON  said, that the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had asked the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) to withdraw his Amendment, on the ground that no new tax was wanted. But the hon. Member for Lambeth would be under this difficulty, that he had admitted his entire approval of the Budget, and allowed that a new tax was required. Under these circumstances he (Mr. Hudson) could not see how the Amendment could be withdrawn. Having presented a petition from his constituents against the increase of the House tax, he wished to make a few observations explanatory of his reasons for disagreeing with the prayer of that petition, and intending to support the increase of the tax. Already he thought his constituents were under much obligation to the Government, for their removal from the shipping interest of all those impositions and causes of complaints which that interest had so grievously laboured under. That interest had had justice done to them, and no more than justice. But even that they had sought unsuccessfully for years, and whatever Government was at the head of affairs, he had assisted them. From this Government they had obtained it, and in the removal of their grievances, and so far as that part of the Budget went, his constituents were under very great obligations to the present Government. If, then, they were to have added to this the benefits of cheap tea and cheap beer, they could scarcely complain if they suffered a little in some other way, especially when the loss was so disproportionate to the gain. When he looked at the result of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer's operations, he found a reduction of 3,000,000 l. l. 1252 l. 1253 l. l. l. 1254
 MR. SANDARS  rose for the purpose of expressing, in a very few words, his reasons for the vote which he intended to give upon this important question. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had laid before that House and the country a large and important measure of finance, and he told the House that, as a whole, they must take or reject it. Mr. Sandars regretted that decision; for while there was much in the scheme of which he approved, there were parts of it to which he felt a strong objection, and he was desirous of having the opportunity of going into Committee on the whole Budget, with a view of weeding out the bad, and preserving the good. But as this course was not left open to him, he must consider the question as a whole, to see whether the good or evil preponderated. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Pontefract, who had just sat down, had objected to the House Tax mainly on account of its including houses of 10 l. l. s. s. 1270 s. s. s. s. 1271 d. d. d. d.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  was never much disposed at any time, in shaping his course in that House, to be governed by considerations affecting the upholding or upsetting of any party or faction; and he certainly was less disposed than ever to be influenced by such motives on the present occasion, when we were about to enter on a new course of taxation, for sure he was that, whether the present Government should continue in office, or be succeeded by another, the principles laid down by the Chancellor of the Exchequer must be adopted and carried out by every Chancellor of the Exchequer who might come after him. This was, perhaps, the first time that any Chancellor of the Exchequer had been able to take advantage of circumstances, and to act as the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire had done. He cast no blame on Chancellors of the Exchequer gone by. He must say that the right hon. Gentleman had done well to bring forward measures which, on the whole, were entitled to the approbation of the enlightened, whatever difference of opinion might prevail as to various portions of the details. But it was, however,
 1273 "Whence and who art thou, execrable shape, That darest, though grim and terrible, advance Thy miscreated front athwart my way?" go Ce systeme, si beau dans la theorie, si faux dans la pratique. 1274 1275
 MR. H. H. VIVIAN  said, he wished to address himself to one or two practical points of the financial scheme. He considered the Budget had set at rest the great question of Free Trade and Protection much more peaceably than it would have been even had the Resolution of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. C. Villiers) been carried. There was a good deal of good in it, and for his part he had
 1272 l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he concurred entirely with the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) in regard to the tax he suggested as a substitute, provided one was necessary; it would be very much better than the Chancellor of the Exchequer's proposition, and very much more just to the country. But he did not think it advisable that that proposition should he interjected at that moment, when the House was about to consider a distinct proposition made by the Government. As a Resolution with regard to the House tax was now before the Committee, it would be much better to vote "aye" or "no" to that proposition. He did not himself see the necessity for any new tax at all. When there was such necessity, he thought a tax upon successions applying generally to all property, would be the tax that that House ought to agree to; and till that was agreed to, he did not mean to give a vote in favour of any new tax whatever. He begged to suggest to the hon. Member for Lambeth,
 1251
 MR. WALTER  said, that if the hon. Gentleman (Mr. T. Duncombe) persevered in his Amendment, and divided the House upon it, he should be very happy to divide with him, not putting the question, however, upon the harsher ground of "No confidence," but on the more charitable footing, that if the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer was resolved upon committing an act of suicide, he should have a little more time for repentance. The right hon. Gentleman had run together a string of Resolutions which had no more to do with one another than chalk with cheese. If the House was called upon to discuss them as they stood, a more miscellaneous debate would never have been heard within those walls. He denied that there was any sort of necessity on the part of the Government to compel the House to a vote of confidence or no confidence in such a case as this. There was no deficit to make up, as when Sir Robert Peel came down to the House in 1842, yet the first thing the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer did was to propose an increase of taxation. He (Mr. Walter) demanded that a case should first be made out by the right hon. Gentleman for that increase of taxation. For himself, he had no abstract objection to a House tax, and he did not scruple to say that, were an increase of taxation really necessary, he should, without paying the slightest attention to any clamours outside, vote for such a House Tax as might be requisite; but to the utterly unnecessary and uncalled-for reduction of the Malt duties he was decidedly opposed. He had never met with an intelligent farmer who considered that either he or the public at large would be benefited by the removal of that tax; he did not know whether the farmers of Oxford-
 1219
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he hoped the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer would give an answer to the question of the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Duncombe) because on the answer of the right hon. Gentleman would depend a considerable number of votes on that side of the House. He had no wish to divide with his hon. Friend the Member for Fins-bury, if he was mistaken in his view with regard to what was said on a former occasion by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he must say it was an insult to this House and to the country, if they were to he told— [Mr. HUDSON: Hear, hear!] At such an early hour of the evening he would beg to inform the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Hudson) that he had no excuse for the interruption he was causing. He was saying he thought it was an insult to this House and to the country, if they were told, that, unless every item of the Budget was accepted by the House there should be no Budget, and the Ministry would stand or fall by the Budget. Under such circumstances his hon. Friend could take no other course than to move an Amendment to going into Committee on such terms. He called on the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer to give a distinct answer to that question. If he refused to give an answer, he hoped the hon. Member for Finsbury would not withdraw his Motion. He hoped that there were a sufficient number of Gentlemen in the House to show by their votes the opinion which they entertained of Her Majesty's Government on this occasion.
 MR. COBDEN : And the person receiving 300 l. l.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he was sure that hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House would receive with great pleasure the adhesion of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and would gladly receive him into their ranks as an honest Freetrader for ever. With respect to the subject before the Committee, he believed
 1264 1265 1266 l. 1267 1268 l. s., l. s. l. s. 1269
 MR. WALPOLE : All clergymen under 100 l.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he should have no hesitation in voting against the proposition for increasing the House tax, though he should have some doubts on the subject if he thought it would endanger the proposed reduction of the Tea duties. That was an undeniable proposition, and he believed there was no man in the country but must approve of it. He did not, however, see that it was at all necessary to postpone the question of the House tax until the question of the Tea duties and the Malt duties was considered. For his own part he should be very glad to accept the offer to remit one-half the Malt duty as an earnest that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would, as soon as porsible, abolish it altogether. He thought the country owed a deep debt of gratitude to the right hon. Gentleman for having been bold and honest enough to propose the reduction of the Tea and the Malt duties. He differed altogether from those who contended that no benefit would be derived from the repeal of half the Malt duty. He looked upon that reduction as a boon, not only to the consumer, but to the landed interest also. Was it not monstrous that 5,000,000 l. l. s. s. 1220 s. s. l l. l. l. l. s. s. l. l.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer one question. He understood on a former occasion that the right hon. Gentleman stated that Ministers intended to stand or fall by the proposition he then made. His (Mr. Duncombe's) objection, therefore, was that the House was to have the Budget, the whole Budget, and nothing but the Budget; and that, if so, they were not going into Committee for the purpose of amending this Budget, rejecting or adopting any particular item, but of swallowing it altogether. To that he objected. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer would state that he had been misunderstood, and that he meant to treat that as a deliberative assembly, and that they might alter and amend the Budget, it would be unreasonable and unjustifiable in him (Mr. Duncombe) to divide; but unless he had that assurance he should certainly take the sense of the House on the question of the Speaker leaving the chair.
 MR. DUNCOMBE  said, that after the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman, he did not think it necessary to press the Motion to a division.
 MR. PHINN  said, he would not have ventured to present himself to the House thus early in his career as one of its Members, because he knew that on financial topics and on questions of such magnitude professional men were rarely listened to, and that they were expected to confine themselves to subjects in more immediate connexion with their own pursuits; but that, representing a large and important constituency, who had thought fit to confide their interests to a lawyer, he felt it his duty to disregard all those feelings and inclinations of his own which would have induced him to postpone addressing the House, and to represent the views and wishes of those who had sent him to Parliament on that important and most momentous question. The great controversy of free trade having been settled by the late election, it had been his wish to give Her Majesty's Government the fullest support in any measure they might propose to carry out the policy they had adopted, and to give them the most ample consideration for the position in which they were placed; and it was in no factious spirit, and with no party object, that he rose now, feeling it necessary that he should do so, to offer his most determined opposition to the plan submitted to the judgment of the Committee. His reasons for that opposition were twofold. He felt that the House tax was not called for by the exigencies of the country, and that it would inflict on the people twofold evils. First, it would affect them financially most unfairly and unjustly; and, secondly, their political existence was involved in this proposition, because they felt it was a measure of disfranchisement to a great body of those who had hitherto been admitted to
 1255 l. 1256 1257 l. l. 1258 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s., s. 1259 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved the following Resolution:—
 "That, from and after the 5th day of April, 1863, the Duties granted and made payable by the Act 14 & 15  Vict., "For every Inhabited Dwelling House which with the household and other offices, yards, and gardens therewith occupied and charged, is or shall he worth the rent of 10 l. "Where any such Dwelling House shall be occupied by any person in trade who shall expose to sale and sell any goods, wares, or merchandise in any shop or warehouse, being part of the same Dwelling House, and in the front and on the ground or basement story thereof; "And also where any such Dwelling House shall be occupied by any person who shall be duly licensed by the Laws in force to sell therein by retail beer, ale, wine, or other liquors, although the room or rooms thereof in which any such liquors shall be exposed to sale, sold, drunk, or consumed, shall not be such shop or warehouse as aforesaid; "And also where any such Dwelling House shall be a farm-house occupied by a tenant or farm servant, and  bonâ fide "There shall be charged for every twenty shillings of such annual value of any such Dwelling House, the sum of One Shilling. "And where any such Dwelling House shall not be occupied and used for any such purpose and in manner aforesaid, there shall be charged for every Twenty Shillings of such annual value thereof, the sum of One Shilling and Sixpence."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I do not think the address of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford has a tendency to facilitate that progress of the public business which he says it is his object to promote. One would have supposed, from the observations of the right hon. Gentleman, that my hon. Friend the Member for Hertfordshire (Sir E. Bulwer Lytton) had originated a discussion which was an obstacle to that progress which I presume all desire. I am grateful to any circumstance that gave my hon. Friend the opportunity of making one of the most masterly speeches I have ever heard. Certainly no Gentleman in this House could have risen more legitimately than my hon. Friend. What has taken place? No sooner had the Motion been made by the Secretary of the Treasury that you, Sir, leave the chair, and we should go into Committee and proceed to business, than one of the most influential and distinguished Members of the Opposition, representing, I suppose, the united opinion of what I must term the somewhat discordant aggregation of sections of which it is composed—with that vivacious tone which distinguishes him, and with that energy of language which is always at his disposal, seemed to me, in opening the campaign, to indicate the line
 1239 1240 1241 Cheers
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER : I beg the House to believe that I have no desire to answer, otherwise than in the most satisfactory manner in my power, any questions that any hon. Member may think fit to put to me. I thought there was a most distinct understanding on all sides of the House as to the course to be pursued on this subject; and if I had any doubt as to the existence of such an understanding, it would have been dispelled by the remarks which have fallen
 1244 1245
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The right hon. Gentleman misrepresents what I said. My statement was simply this—that clergymen of 100 l. 1312
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had he-stowed great attention upon the whole scheme proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but he intended to confine his observations entirely to his proposal to increase the House Tax. When the right hon. Baronet the late Chancellor of the Exchequer (Sir C.
 1246 l. l. l. l. 1247 l, l. l. l. 1248 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the Motion he was proposing could not be brought forward as an Amendment on such a Bill as that to which the hon. Member for Montrose had alluded. He was supported by a high authority in the opinion that this was the best and most just means of bringing the question forward.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would beg leave to withdraw his Amendment. As many hon. Members near him shared in the feeling of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), that a distinct vote should he taken on the House tax, unencumbered by any other Motion, and as he should be very sorry to risk the loss of one vote against that tax; he would consent to the appeal which had been made to him, and withdraw his Motion, but he would take the earliest opportunity of submitting it again to the House.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the hon. Baronet might recollect that when the important petition to which he referred was presented to the House last Session, he (Sir J. Pakington) had given a pledge that during the then ensuing recess he would closely and carefully analyse the prayer of that petition. This pledge he had redeemed; he had carefully investigated every portion of the petition, and, with his Colleagues, had taken into consideration the very important statements it contained, with a full and anxious sense of the growing importance of the Australian Colonies, and of the extraordinary circumstances in which those colonies were now placed. The Government, after mature deliberation, had decided upon the extent to which they thought concession to that petition ought to be made, and upon the policy which they thought ought to be adopted towards those colonies; the hon. Baronet, however, would admit the impossibility, in answer to a question of this kind, of entering into an explanation of the views and intentions of Government on so large and complicated a subject. On an early day after the recess he hoped to be in a position to give to the House a full statement on the subject.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he wished to make an observation on what had fallen from the two Arcadians opposite. He agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) that the proper time for raising the question, which the junior Arcadian (Mr. Williams) had introduced was when a Bill was brought forward. Strange to say, he agreed with that hon. Member in his concluding observations: he felt that an appeal ought to be made to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to reconsider the exemptions that were previously in force, and some of which he proposed by this measure to continue. He could very well understand a system of taxation which excluded all exemptions whatever, and touched the labourer at 12 s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1250 l. l. s. d. l. l. l. l.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he begged to put to the right hon. Secretary of State for the Colonies a question with reference to the very important petition which had been presented last Session by the noble Lord the Secretary for Ireland from the Legislative Council of the Colony of New South Wales. In that petition the Legislative Council of New South Wales repeated the solemn protest and declaration of their predecessors, the Legislative Council of the whole Colony, now divided into New South Wales and Victoria. That solemn declaration was to the effect—1. That the Imperial Parliament ought not to appropriate any of the moneys levied by the authority of the Colonial Legislature, as Parliament had done by the schedules to the Imperial Act 13 &14  Vic. c. Vic. c. 1214
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE  said, he felt that after the eloquent and and lucid statement made by the right hon. Gentleman
 1369 l. l. l. 1370 1371
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, if the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had made nothing else plain, he had at least made this plain that he and his party would never really consent to the system which had been termed "unrestricted competition;" for he had told them, with perfect fairness, that he objected to the term itself, and that he preferred that one-sided system of legislation which might more properly be termed "free imports." But if the hon. Gentleman had made this plain, he could not compliment him on having redeemed his pro-
 1337 1338 1339 l. l. 1340 l. l. l. 1341 1342 l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not think it possible at the present moment, so many Members being absent, to come to an understanding of that nature. He for one, should be very happy if it were the disposition of the Committee to conclude the debate to-morrow night. There were, he understood, many hon. Members absent who wished to express their opinions. He thought, therefore, that the matter must be left to their discretion; but he concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in expressing the hope that the discussion might he brought to an end to-morrow.
 MR. A. MILLS  said, he wished to express the strong feelings which he knew his constituents entertained respecting the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the house tax. He had heard it said, that taxes might safely be imposed at the commencement of a Parliament which it would be impracticable or impolitic to impose on the eve of a dissolution. But he thought it mattered very little whether hon. Gentlemen were to meet their constituents to-morrow or five years hence—the chief consideration for them was whether they were dealing out substantial justice to their constituents or not. He had the misfortune to differ on this subject with many of those with whom he ordinarily agreed. In his opinion the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer was acting unwisely in accompanying the reduction of one tax with the extension, in a double shape, of another. Indeed, he did not see the necessity for a reduction of the malt tax, which was not called for, or agitated for even by the agricultural classes. He was not prepared, in order to the remission of that tax, to support an aggravation of taxation which he believed the necessities of the country did not warrant, and which aggravation was alike unnecessary, impolitic, and unjust. If any amendment were to be moved, negativing the increase of the house tax, but affirming the extension of its area, he would be prepared in no hostile spirit to the Government to support it. He knew that middle courses.
 1361 1362
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he was sure that his right hon. Friend who had just sat down would not impute to him that he rose with any feeling of "self-constituted superiority" to criticise the Budget which was the subject of that evening's debate. His right hon. Friend would do him injustice, also, if he supposed him to envy the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or to be jealous of the credit to be derived by him from the course which he had thought it his duty to pursue. He (Mr. Goulburn) rose to oppose the Budget, not from any factious or hostile feeling, which had been imputed on the other side of the House to those who took a different view on this subject from themselves, but in rigid adherence to a principle on which
 1403 1404 l. 1405 l. l. l. l. 1406 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1407 l. 1408 1409 "Why, in old times we should have had some one coming forward and proposing the abolition of some paltry tax which, while it would be no great blow to the revenue, would, individually, give scarcely any relief. Is this the means by which to regenerate imperilled agriculture? Certainly not. What I propose is, that a real sinking fund shall be maintained, which will, in less than ten months, raise Consols above par, and thus enable landlords and tenants to borrow money to apply to their land at 3 per cent interest instead of four or five." "This is your real remedy—equal taxation and cheap capital. If my recommendations be adopted, the public credit will be maintained; it will give the farmer independence; it will recover from their present state of depression the landlords of the country; they will then obtain capital for the improvement of their estates at a low rate of interest, and if you do not gain that relief which the country has a right to give you, we must consider what we are next to do." 1410 l. l 1411 1412 1413 1414 l. l. l. l
 MR. RICH  said, that if the hon. Baronet would calculate as he did, not 7 d. d.
 MR. RICH  said, he could assure the Committee that he would not have persevered in attempting to address them had it not been a matter of somewhat a personal nature on which he wished to make a few observations. He had been informed that the other evening the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis), had during his (Mr. Rich's) absence from the House, been induced, no doubt unintentionally, to indulge in some remarks relative to himself, which he regarded as very unprovoked and somewhat unjust. He (Mr. Rich) had made some observations upon the manner in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had proposed to deal with the exemption of certain of the clergy from the income tax; and he had understood that the hon. Baronet had said that he (Mr. Rich) had made such mistakes, that if subjected to an examination before such a committee of examiners as the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) had proposed for  attachés, "But I think it right to say that in that estimate I have taken into consideration the position of the clergyman who has not more than 100 l. l. l. l. Hansard, l. 1344 l. l. l. l. d. l. l. l l. l. l. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1345 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1346 ad valorem l, l. 1347 l. l. l. l. l. 1348 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. BASS  said, that, after the eloquent and able speech of the hon. and learned Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe), so severely censuring as it did the class of tradesmen to which he belonged, the Committee would not perhaps be surprised if he wished to make a few remarks on what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman. He would attempt to unravel some—he could not hope perhaps to unravel all — of the mysteries with which the hon. and learned Gentleman enveloped the question of the malt tax. The hon. and learned Gentleman talked of the monopoly of the brewers. Now, he (Mr. Bass) always thought that
 1363 l. l. 1364 l. 1365 l. 1366 Laughter. s. s. s. s. 1367 1368 s. s. d., s., s.
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, if the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down had offered one word of argument in reply to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax (Sir Charles Wood) on Friday evening, I should have felt it my duty to have recurred to the topics he then urged; but as the hon. Gentleman has not ventured to grapple with that speech, the statements contained in it remain unanswered, and that relieves me from the necessity of touching on the principal parts of the Budget of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I wish, however, to refer to one part of the speech of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, He represents the city of Belfast; and on a question which touches the taxation of the people of England, I think he would have exercised a sounder discretion if he had remained silent. By the obtrusive activity of the hon. Gentleman, attention is directed to that on which I should not have observed if he had been silent—that the question does not touch his constituents. The hon. Gentleman is an illustration of the evil of what is called an United Kingdom which is subjected to different modes of taxation in its different portions. We are now discussing the question of the house tax, and the hon. Gentleman cordially concurs in the proposition which has been made. Now, it is a house tax for England and Scotland, and the city of Belfast has no interest whatever in the matter. We are going to deal with England—the hon. Gentleman has only himself to thank for any remarks I may make —and the hon. Gentleman is about to give his support to an income tax which is to be levied upon the trades and professions in England, and on my constituents in Yorkshire, and upon the manufacturers of linen yarn at Leeds, and Barnsley. I take this to be an illustration of the evils and absurdities of the system. There are in Belfast, as every one knows, establishments for the manufacture of linen yarn and linen cloth, which enter into competition with establishments for a similar manufacture possessed by my constituents in Leeds and in Barnsley. In Belfast labour is cheaper, the raw material is cheaper,
 1318 1319 "The farmers of the Lothians of Scotland, essentially a wheat district, never were, as a body, in a more flourishing condition; and the demand for land, in consequence, is beyond all parallel for the last 30 years. Every farm that is to let brings an advanced rent of from 10 to 30 per cent. I have four years of my lease to run, but have made a new arrangement at an increased rent of 15 per cent, which I begin to pay immediately, and I have always one-fourth of my land in wheat. Two farms have been let in this parish within the last six months at a similar advance to my own, and an adjoining farm, belonging to the Marquess of Dalhousie, is at present to let, the factor being in London with the offers in his pocket to show to his Lordship's commissioners; and I know for a fact that first-rate tenants, men of capital and skill, have offered 30 per cent increase on the rent which the farm was let 19 years ago, when it was advertised for six months and then let to the highest bidder. My brother took a farm last week adjoining the one on which he resides of 225 acres imperial, and for which he pays 20 per cent increase of rent. Sheep farms have brought higher additional rents; but I have said enough to show you that any talk of agricultural distress is sheer nonsense, and for myself I have done, and am doing, as well as I could possibly desire. One of the principal reasons for this is, that where land is properly drained, by a liberal use of guano and other artificial manures, the crops have been increased one-half at least, and every acre is made to carry as much corn as can stand. It costs me upwards of 700 l. 1320 1321 l. l. l. 1322 l. l. l. 1323 d 1324 "An opinion, handed down from rude and ignorant times, and imbibed by Englishmen in their youth, has become very general—that the habitual use of some portion of alcoholic drink, as of wine, beer, or spirits, is beneficial to health, and even necessary to those subjected to habitual labour. Anatomy, physiology, and experience of all ages and countries, when properly examined, must satisfy every mind, well informed in medical science, that the above opinion is altogether erroneous. Man, in ordinary health, like other animals, requires not any such stimulants, and cannot be benefited by the habitual employment of any quantity of them, large or small; nor will their use, during his lifetime, increase the aggregate amount of his labour. In whatever quantity they are employed, they will rather tend to diminish it." 1325 1326 l. l. l. 1327 1328 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1329 l, l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1330 1331 1332 in formâ pauperis 1333 l. 1334 l. s. d. s. 1335 1336 l. l.
 MR. DAVISON  said, he must claim the kind indulgence of the Committee, as this was the first time of his addressing them, and he would promise not to trespass at any length. He had endeavoured to view the Budget as a whole. He had endeavoured to come to a conclusion upon its own merits. He had not pinned his faith to any one section of its details, but viewing it as a whole, he asked himself— Is it founded upon principles of justice? Is its tendency to promote the general welfare? Is it in harmony with the principle of unrestricted competition which had been affirmed by this House? Does it unloosen any of those fetters which bind that great arm of our national prosperity—the shipping interest; and is its tendency to remove any restriction which fettered the legitimate enterprise of the merchant? He was rejoiced to be able to answer all those questions in the affirmative; and on behalf of the large constituency of Belfast, as well as his own, he begged leave to tender to the right hon. Gentleman who introduced the measure the expression of their warmest acknowledgments. He listened to the development of its details with that undeviating attention which became so important a subject, and he came to the conclusion, at its termination, as he had heard elsewhere, that a man of genius could also be a man of figures. Although the representative of a large commercial constituency, he and his learned Colleague were returned in opposition to able and talented men, by a majority of several hundreds,
 1316 Laughter. 1317
 MR. LOWE  said, that when he considered the great prosperity of the country at the present moment, and the very flourishing condition of two out of the three great interests which contributed to the revenue; and when he considered that, on the showing of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer they would have a surplus of 1,350,000 l. 1349 1350 1351 1352 d. d. 1353 s.; d. 1354 1355 post obits l. l. 1356 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1357 l. 1358 1359 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1360
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, we have certainly had some important admissions during the course of this debate. Remember, we are discussing the present question, according to the suggestion of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, as a whole—as a whole we are considering the financial statement of my right hon. Friend and, bearing that in mind, I think it will be seen that some very important admissions have been made by hon. Gentlemen opposite. We have had an admission from the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, in conformity with the opinion expressed by other hon. Members, that the remission of the tea duty is a wise and beneficial measure. We have the admission of the right hon. Gentleman the late Chancellor of the Exchequer (Sir Charles Wood), that the way in which we have dealt with the shipping interest, so as to give relief to it from certain restrictions to which it is exposed, is wise and beneficial. We have to-night the admission of the hon. Member for the West Hiding (Mr. Cobden), answering one-half the objections and arguments that have come from the other side of the House, with reference to almost the most important point in the Budget—we have his admission, I say, that our proposition in regard
 1380 1381 1382 1383 s. l. s. l. s., l. s. d. "Owing to malt liquor having early become the favourite beverage of the people of England, the manufacture of malt has been carried on amongst us for a long period on a very large scale. Instead, however, of increasing with the population of the country, it has been nearly stationary for the last 100 years. In proof of this we may mention that the quantity of malt that paid duty in England and Wales, at an average of 12 years, ending 1720, was 24 millions and a fraction bushels a year; whereas the annual average quantity that paid duty during the 12 years ending 1816, was only 23 millions and a fraction bushels per year. This apparently anomalous result is probably in some measure to be accounted for by the increased consumption of tea and coffee, which are now almost in universal use; but there cannot be a question that it is mainly owing to the exorbitant duties with which malt, and the ale or beer manufactured from it have been loaded, and the oppressive regulations imposed on the manufacture of malt and the sale of beer." Commercial Dictionary, 1384 d. s. d., s. d., s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 1385 1386 Ironical cheers. 1387 s. ad valorem. s. ad valorem. 1388 l. l l. 1389 "Would the landed interest be willing, if the malt tax was taken off, to release the country from the tax of the corn laws? for of this he was sure, that all those who were now injured by the existence of the monopoly, which he might term the community at large, would be ready, nay, he anxious to get rid of it by acceding to those terms. The produce of the malt tax would be lost to the revenue, no doubt; but he was perfectly satisfied that the public credit would not he endangered, but strengthened, by the fetters on the industry and commerce of the country, being removed. Four millions and a half was a small sum indeed, compared with what might be raised through the medium of taxation, if the energy of the country were allowed its full and natural play."—[3  Hansard, l l. 1390 "It enhanced the price of beer; this enhanced price of beer diminished the demand for it; the diminished demand caused a smaller quantity of barley to be cultivated; and the lessened price of barley was,  pro tanto, Hansard, l. 1391 l. l. l. 1392 l. l. l. 1393 l. l. l. l. 1394 l. l. minimum minimum minimum, l. l. minimum minimum l. l. minima 1395 l. l. l. l. l. 1396 l. l. l. 1397 Vict., c. c, d. —"shall extend to all public annuities whatever payable in Great Britain out. of any public revenue in Great Britain or elsewhere, and to all annuities payable in Ireland out of the revenue of the United Kingdom, to or for the use or benefit of any person not resident in Ireland." 1398 l. l. l. 1399 l. l. l. l. l. d. 1400 1401 1402 "Certare ingenio; contendere nobilitate; Noeteis atque dies niti præstante labore Ad gummas emergere opes, rerúmque potiri?"
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  hoped the Committee would remember the time of the year, and the day of the month. He trusted they would come to an agreement to conclude the debate to-morrow. It would, he was sure, he satisfactory to all present, if there were a general understanding to that effect.
 MR.FREDERICK PEEL  said, when the hon. Member for the West Riding observed that hon. Gentlemen opposite appeared to think there was some inconsistency in opposing the Budget on his (Mr. F. Peel's) side of the House, he perceived from the reception they gave to the observation how much importance they attached to that position. The noble Lord who had just sat down, as well as some of those who preceded him on the same side, had plausibly argued that the essence of this Budget was the remission of indirect and the substitution of direct taxation, in conformity with the policy which had been inaugurated in 1842, and continued by subsequent Governments, and that all that the present Government proposed to do was to take up that policy where the late Ministers had left it, and to extend it over a greater range of subjects. Now, he admitted that since 1842 direct taxation had formed a much more important source of the public revenue than it did in times previous; but he did not know that direct taxation had been substituted for indirect taxation from any abstract preference
 1372 1373 1374 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. s. 1375 l. s. s. 1376 l. l. 1377 l. 1378 l. l. l. l. l. 1379
 SIR B. H. INGLIS  said, if the hon. Member who had just sat down had made an equally elaborate speech on the former occasion, he certainly should never have accused him of being unacquainted with figures. But his remarks were founded on the observations made by the hon. Member on Monday last, of which, in order to insure greater accuracy, to use the words of the highest authority in that House, "he had obtained a copy" through the ordinary means of intelligence. On that occasion the hon. Gentleman said, "Now, as 30,000 l. l. l. d. d. l. d. l. l.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, the right hon. Gentleman had some time ago, in answer to a question from the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord J. Russell), promised to lay the papers on the table in reference to the Constitution at the Cape, and he wished now to know when they would be ready, for he observed they had been read in the Assembly at the Cape, and it was hard they had not obtained them here.
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, that he should like to hear the hon. and gallant Member who had just sat down state to the House the sources from which he thought the taxation of the country ought to be raised, and how the national credit
 1458 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1459 l. s. d. s. d. l. s. d. Thetis 1460 Thetis l. l. l. l. l. l. Rosalie, Locust, Locust 1461 Locust distringas l. s. d. s. 1462 Geo. vice versâ, l. 1463 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1464 l. l.
 MR. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, he had understood the right hon. Gentleman to have stated that he thought a removal of the timber duties would have been more beneficial to the shipping interest.
 MR. MILES  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not be driven from his object. The country would fully understand the meaning of the opposition to it. The question really was, were not the principles laid down in the Budget acceptable, just, and useful to the country? He would not even pledge himself to every single detail of the Budget, therefore he thought every Member of that House had every right, when he voted for the principle, to say he did not pledge himself to all the details of the Budget. Therefore he hoped that the House and the country would clearly understand how this vote would be taken— that was, whether the principle of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was right or wrong. He himself thought that those who voted for it would not be expected to agree to all its details.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, before the debate was adjourned, he wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which he thought to be of the utmost improtance to enable the Committee to arrive at a conclusion of the debate. He wished to know what was really the proposition upon which the Government wished to take a division of the Committee. He thought the Committee was at least entitled to know what the proposition was to be. He had certainly had supposed that the proposal of the Government was, that the existing house tax should be doubled, and be extended to houses of the value of 10 l. "That from and after the 6th day of April, 1853, the Duties granted and made payable by the Act 14 & 15  Vict., 1523 l. l. l l. l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he was entirely satisfied with the declarations of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Whether or not it would be more convenient to take the division on the preamble, or, as had been suggested, to postpone the preamble, and take the division on the substantive part of the Resolution, was a matter which he thought well deserved consideration; but as to the explanation of the intentions of Government he was entirely satisfied. He supposed the adjournment would be to Thursday, and he hoped the House might be able to come to some understanding that the debate should close on Thursday evening.
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  moved that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies whether he could inform the House of the contents of the despatches received per the  Queen of the South,
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, if the statements which had appeared in the Cape newspapers were true— namely, that Kafirs taken in the clearing of the Waterkloof were immediately hung; and if so, whether this was justified by the laws of war?
 MR. HINDLEY : Would the right hon. Gentleman make inquiry into the truth of the statement?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he felt that the observations of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer were worthy of the very deepest consideration. He would support the views of the Government, which he believed to have been most frankly expressed, reserving to himself the right of hereafter giving his opinion upon their various propositions in detail. He was entirely opposed to the attempt which was being made to overthrow Her Majesty's Ministers by hon. Gentlemen opposite, who were so ready to take their places—an ebullition of party feeling which would meet with no sympathy from him. He would give no countenance to the endeavours of hon. Gentlemen, who had no principles of their own, to climb into the places of the right hon. Gentlemen below him—an effort, let him tell them, in which they would not succeed.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the part of the Resolution put by the Chairman simply repealed the existing house tax, for the purpose of substituting other duties. That was stated in the former part of the Resolution, and was the first substantire enactment, and stated that 1 s. d. 1525 l. Cries of l. l.
 SIR C. WOOD  said, the hon. Gentleman was in error in supposing that he disapproved of the proposal of the Government as regarded the relief of the shipping interests. He must refer the hon. Gentleman to the speech of the Secretary of State for the Home Department, who, the previous night, said he was glad to find he entirely approved of it.
 MR. BRIGHT hoped he might be allowed to explain that he quoted a gentleman—he thought it was Mr. Chowler—who said the farmers had more horses than any other class, and knew how to ride them; and another gentleman—he believed it was Mr. Ball, he hoped it was not the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire—said they
 1517
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that so far from having any wish to review the financial scheme of the Government in a captious spirit, he was willing to give credit to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer for two main points in his Budget. He felt that he was entitled to credit, in the first place, for the relief he had afforded to the shipping interest. He lamented, indeed, that he had not gone further, and taken off the duty on timber; but at any rate he thanked the right hon. Gentleman for what he had done in that line. He thought likewise that the right hon. Gentleman had taken a sagacious and statesmanlike view with respect to the Tea Duties. He was not disposed to quarrel and split straws with him because the reduction was to effected in six years instead of a less time, as proposed by the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. MacGregor), but would at once say that he thought the right hon. Gentleman deserved credit for those two propositions. He was even disposed to go further, and say that the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, in bringing forward the Budget, was as clear a statement as had ever been put before that House. He (Mr. B. Osborne) knew no man in that House who combined the two antagonistic qualities of lucidity and obscurity so much as the right hon. Gentleman; hut he was bound to admit that in placing his financial statement before the House he had done so without any reserve or mystification, and that there could be no mistake on either side of the House as to what they were about to vote for in the present Budget. Having made these admissions, he trusted he might be allowed to look at the Budget as a whole; and if it was true, as the hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. Mills) stated on the previous night, that there was universal disappointment throughout the country at the contents of the Budget, he would take the liberty of
 1444 Times "One of the soundest means, among others (to diminish the cost of production), is a revision of our taxation; juster notions of taxation are more prevalent than heretofore; the possibility of greatly relieving the burdens of the community by both adjustment and reduction seems to loom in the future." l. l. l. 1445 Cries of l. l. l. 1446 l. l. l. Cries of" 1447 "It is quite clear, by your system of local taxation, land is subject to 2,500,000 l. "do justice to the agricultural interest, they must submit to a revision of the taxation of the country, and they may depend upon it the redress which their own sense of justice will ultimately prompt them to accord to the agricultural interest will be obtained in a manner far more coarsely, and by means much more expensive."…"The policy of Her Majesty's Ministers is to do justice to the land; to bring in measures of redress for all those great producing interests which are now suffering injustice; if the country will not have recourse to these remedial measures we bow to their decision; but, though we may not be Ministers, still, as Members of Parliament, we will labour for other measures of redress; we will, though in opposition"—[in which situation he (Mr. B. Osborne) hoped soon to see them]—"exert ourselves to obtain those countervailing and compensatory regulations which justice demands." "It is in reviewing the system of taxation, in the readjustment of that system, that the cultivators of the soil will find that compensation which they have a right to expect from the abrogation of the corn laws." Laughter. 1448 Stamford Mercury, "The Government have presented a financial scheme, which, although there is only a surplus revenue of 1,300,000 l. l. l. l. l. Cries of" 1449 l. l. 1450 1451 "No man had voted more steadily than him self for the total repeal of the malt tax; but its partial remission would neither diminish the expense of its collection nor remove the restrictions which it imposed upon agriculture or on brewing at home; in short, it would afford none of those indirect advantages which the agricultural community valued…ֵHe should much rather support the partial reduction of a Customs duty than of an Excise duty, because a reduction in the former case would lead to a diminution in the staff for collecting the Customs, while no such advantage could be obtained by the partial repeal of an excise tax."—[3  Hansard, l. l. 1452 1453 1454 England and the English. "I have little faith in the virtue of any com-
 1455 "An immense national debt renders direct taxation a dangerous experiment." "I firmly believe that if the national debtor be ever in danger, the fatal attack will come less from the Radicals than the country gentlemen, who are jealous of the fundholder or crippled with mortgages. The day after the repeal of half the malt tax (leaving a large deficit in the revenue) was carried, I asked one of its principal supporters, a popular and independent country gentleman"— "how he proposed to repair the deficit? 'By a tax of 2 per cent,'quoth he, 'upon Master Fundholder.' 'If that does not suffice,' asked I. 'Why, then we must tax him 4 per cent,' was the honest rejoinder!" 1456 1457 ingenium velox, audacia perdita, sermo promptus. Lucretius, "When he had done, some followers of mine own, At lower end o' the hall, hurl'd up their caps, And some ten voices cried 'God save King Richard" And thus I took the 'vantage of those few— 'Thanks, gentle citizens, and friends,' quoth I; 'This general applause and cheerful shout Argues your wisdom and your love to Richard.'" l.
 MR. LOWE  said that what he had stated was that he would employ the surplus in reducing these taxes.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, that every English Member had been patiently listened to, but the moment he got up he was not heard, because he was an Irish Member. Ireland was considerably interested in this Budget; but, with one exception, none of the Irish representatives had had an opportunity of expressing their opinions upon it. Before the debate concluded, he trusted that opportunity would be given.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was certainly of the utmost importance that some such understanding should be arrived at.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought he had frankly answered the question of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), and it appeared to him that the noble Lord was perfectly satisfied. He said that he thought it was perfectly understood they should take the division on the first Resolution, and that he should consider the opinion of the Committee on that proposition conclusive with respect to the general principles of the Budget. He had no hesitation now in saying, that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government not only to extend the area of taxation, but to propose an increase of the house tax. After the whole debate had been taken on the Budget, and after
 1526
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished the vote to be taken on the first Resolution, and he should consider the result of that vote of the Committee to be conclusive on the whole Budget—on the whole of the propositions he had submitted to the Committee.
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, nothing could be more clear and intelligible than what had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman, but he apprehended it did not correspond with what was stated in the Resolution. The right hon. Gentleman wished the vote to be taken upon the whole Budget, but he apprehended that the Chairman of the Committee, no doubt in conformity with the rules and customs of the Committees of that House, had not put the question upon the first Resolution, but merely upon the preamble of the Resolution— namely-—
 "That from and after the 5th day of April, 1858, the Duties granted and made payable by the Act 14 & 15  Vic. 1524 sub silentio,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Well, then, continue the debate on the whole Budget.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The case stands thus—the hon. and gallant Member, without any communication with me in the House, made a complaint—which had been made before— that sufficient notice had not been given to the country of the measures of Government, and that sufficient time was not given to the House to consider them. Various representations were made to me from Gentlemen sitting opposite, as well as some from friends of our own, to the same effect. The hon. and gallant Member stated that in consequence of the Government not having given sufficient time, also of its being supposed that an intention was entertained on our side to close the debate prematurely, his view was that it would be a proper thing to adjourn the debate. When these representations were made to' me, I certainly did say I thought the House should take into consideration the position in which the Government was placed — seeing that we were forced to bring forward our measures at a period of the year most inconvenient—at the same time, that there was not the slightest wish on our part not to give the country the amplest opportunity of considering the measures, nor any wish to restrict the debate upon them, whilst still we thought that, under all the circumstances, it was important that the House should as speedily as possible come to a decision upon them. I said privately, as I said publicly tonight, in answer to the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster, that, as far as I was concerned, I had no objection to narrow as much as possible the issue, and to allow. the vote to be taken, provided we could so agree, on the Resolution before us. The right hon. Member for Carlisle says we are seeking to change the issue: but if he. will look to the terms of the Resolution, he will see that it contains nothing with respect to any change in the amount of rating of the houses, but it does contain a most important principle—namely, with respect to the area over which the tax
 1488
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am sure, Sir, there is no Member in this House who is less inclined to throw any difficulties in the way of Gentlemen expressing their opinions than myself, and I am sure I have never exhibited any desire to restrict our debates. I am perfectly aware that when measures of this
 1436
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, it was not his intention to follow his hon. Friend who had just sat down, through all the topics upon which he had touched. The real question for the consideration of the Committee now, was the first proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to double the house tax; and until that evening, he had certainly expected that that was the point which was to be decided in the first instance. It seemed, however, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not feel inclined to take issue on that question, and that he now wished the House to limit that issue to a very narrow compass, namely, that the area of taxation shall be extended. That was not the question. The question was, should the house tax be doubled, for the purpose of repealing the malt duty? The right hon. Gentleman, with his usual versatility of purpose, tried to evade his first propositions as to the house tax, and was desirous of confining the issue, and taking the question as to whether the area should be extended. But that was too limited a ques-
 1465 1466 d. d. 1467 l. l. l. 1468 No. 54: of this Session, printed on the 6th instant], l. l. l.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, a desire had been expressed on the previous night that the discussion should, if possible, be concluded that evening. It had, however, only lasted as yet two nights, and it must be remembered that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with all his skill as an orator, had been compelled to occupy nearly the whole of one night in the development of his plan. He (Sir De L. Evans) thought, then, it was rather too much to expect that the whole of the representatives of the country should be called upon to decide in two evenings upon this important subject. Again, only one metropolitan Member had yet had an opportunity of addressing the Committee upon it. Another reason was, that time ought to be given for the opinion of the country to be expressed with regard to it; and on all these grounds he hoped the Committee would not be pressed to a decision to-night.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he also wished to ask a question. The territory called British Kafraria had been hitherto treated as British territory, and he now wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman would give them, along with the correspondence that had been promised, the instructions he had sent out as to the character which the territory in question would bear at the conclusion of the war?
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, that being the representative of a large and important agricultural constituency, he was unwilling to give a silent vote on the question before the House. He was not about to canvas the abstract merits of direct and indirect taxation, but would confine himself to the consideration of the effect of the measures proposed in the Budget upon the various interests of the country. He believed the first portion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's financial statement relating to the relief of the shipping and the West Indian interests, as well as that relating to the reduction of the tea duty, had been received with general satisfaction throughout the country; and, for himself, he fully participated in the general feeling, But there was another question of infinitely greater importance, on which the country had expressed a no less unequivocal opinion, but
 1481 "He thought Mr. Pitt was perfectly justified in making no such distinction, because at the same time the nation was engaged in a struggle for its very existence. There were many to whom, under the circumstances, he acknowledged that the tax ought not to apply; but as the nation was then engaged in a most arduous and perilous struggle, he said that wherever he found income he took the tax."—[ 3  Hansard, "They had the means of modifying the income tax, so as to make it press with less injustice and severity on those whose precarious incomes brought them within its scope." "If it was desirable to impose a tax on property, why not attempt to arrive at some equitable and reasonable mode of assessing it? He was opposed to the inequality and injustice of the present system of assessment." "Was it a just or equal tax? Was it fair that those who were in occupation of property should pay in the same proportion as those who obtained their annual incomes by their own exertions? His own opinion was that no tax could be devised which would operate more unequally, more unjustly, and more oppressively." 1482 l. 1483 l. 1484 l. Vict, 1485
 MR. CROSSLEY  said, he could assure the Committee that he would not detain them on that the first time he had had the honour of addressing them, further than to express his opinion in accordance with the statements he made on the hustings before he was elected representative for his native borough of Halifax. He would not oppose the Budget because it was brought forward by any particular Chancellor of the Exchequer, but because he did not approve of the principle of it. Show him a good case and he would vote for the imposition of any one of the taxes that was proposed; but he maintained that the proposition now before them was not fair and just to the people. For instance, if a person in business chose to leave his friend 100,000 l. l. d.; 1522
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : In proceeding to address you, Sir, I shall endeavour to follow the example of the hon. Baronet the Member for Kent (Sir Edward Dering), both as to the tone and manner in which he addressed you. I am extremely obliged to you, Sir, for calling upon me. I never am able to address this House with that perspicuity and self-possession which I desire, yet, having attended most assiduously to this protracted discussion, I am bound to say that the more I have listened to it the more I have become bewildered with the confusion which has attended the debate. I listened to my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose with great attention, and, I am sorry to avow, I cannot understand the view which he is disposed to take on this occasion. He says he is a great friend to direct taxation; and yet he says that he altogether objects to the house tax; and, again, objecting to the house tax, he says that he is very willing to diminish the exemptions from the tax, and to bring the limit down from 20 l. l. 1486 l. l. 1487 l. l.
 SIR JAMBS GRAHAM : As I understand what has just fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it is his wish that we should not to-night discuss the whole of the Budget, but that we should discuss the narrow question of whether the area of taxation under the house tax shall be extended or not. Now, Sir, up to the present moment I, in common I believe with the whole House, understood that we were debating the whole question; nay, more, that we had been challenged to discuss the whole question.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Yes, yes; but I am not talking about the continuance of the debate, but about the issue of the debate. I challenge the Government to that issue. Her Majesty's Government have said distinctly that they would stand or fall by the judgment of the House as to their Budget on the principle embodied in this Resolution. But if the House will bear with me, I think I shall show them it is impossible to narrow the issue to the question of the area of taxation only, inasmuch as, looking to the Budget of the Government, if they are not prepared to encounter an absolute deficit, at the end of the second year, they cannot be content merely with an alteration of the house tax. I want to deal with that point in the first instance. If I mistake not, the house tax as now levied yields 700,000 l. l l l l l l, l l. 1489 l. 450,0001. 1490 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1491 1492 l. l. l. 1493 d. l l. 1494 1495 1496 1497 d. d. 1498 s. d. 1499 Laughter. l. 1500 l. 1501 l. 1502 l. l. 1503 l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. s. s. s. 1504 d. d. l. d. l. d. l. d. l. l. d., l. d. d. d., d. 1505 l. d. l. d. 1506 "If I understand the common meaning of' free-trade, it is this—that you will not impose taxes for the purpose of protecting individual or local interests, but that you will impose them for the purpose of revenue, and of revenue only; and that in the imposition of these taxes you will have especial regard to lightening the burdens which may be imposed on those articles which mainly enter into the consumption of the great mass of the community."—[p. 53.] "Now, in that system I see much of advantage; I do not deny that I see much of difficulty and future embarrassment. I see great present advantage. I am not sure—God forbid! but I should be wrong—that that system may not lead to future embarrassment by unnecessary changes in our financial system." "I am quite aware that there are limits to direct taxation; and I do not agree with those who would substitute direct for indirect taxation. I do not think that you could, except for a special and temporary purpose, wisely carry direct taxation to a much greater extent than you have already carried it…ֵNo doubt hon. Gentlemen say, 'Oh, as to public credit, there can be no question; but let the system of taxation be revised; let the burden be more equally adjusted.' The feeling is, of course, unanimous as to public credit. Well, Sir, but I would rather have the income tax in reserve before I come to consider this amended system of taxation. Suppose this new system to be proposed on the 1st of February next, with the certainty that the income tax must expire on the 8th of April. Now, notwithstanding all the professions of your determination in the abstract to support public credit, I have so much dread of the failure of the new method of taxation, that I should wish to have the income tax to fall back upon in the contingency— the possible contingency—of your new system not being relished, or working successfully."— [ 3  Hansard, 1507 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1508
 SIR JOHN DUCKWORTH  said, he wished to accept the invitation of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to consider the whole Budget as a financial scheme of taxation, and, in that view of it, he gave his cordial consent to the principles which appeared to him to be involved in the propositions of the right hon. Gentleman. The reductions proposed in favour of the shipping interest, with which he was connected through his constituents, were universally admitted to be reasonable and just. With regard to the question before them, he thought the course adopted by the Chancellor of the Exchequer was more proper than if he had made any attempt to reverse the commercial policy which had been adopted by the country. For he was now convinced that, under the altered circumstances of the country, the question of free trade had changed in its bearing; and, there fore, although a certain amount of pressure had
 1473 1474 1475 l. 1476 1477 l. l. l. 1478 l. l. l. l. 1479 l. l. l. l l, l. l. 1480 l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I feel that I rise under the double disadvantage of discussing a subject which has now been
 1509 "That from and after the 5th day of April, 1853, the Duties granted and made payable by the Act 14 & 15  Vict., Laughter, and cries of 1510 1511 1512 1513 1514 1515 1516
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I took down the hon. and learned Gentleman's words, and certainly he stated in the first part of his speech that there was no occasion to make these alterations, but that we should leave things as they are. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Halifax had used very much the same language. I confess I was not surprised, for the right hon. Baronet seemed to think that we had better leave the finances as we found them, which from him was very natural; hut I was surprised to find such views expressed apparently by the hon. and learned Member for Kidderminster. The hon. Member for the West Riding and the hon. Member for Marylebone accused us of setting class against class, and creating differences between town and country. This is a most unfounded charge. It is impossible to deprecate too strongly that unhappy difference between classes which has been one evil of the controversy which has prevailed for some years past. My opinion is, that this Budget, instead of creating difference between town and country, will have exactly the opposite effect. One of the great evils of the controversy lately closed was a sense of injury on the part of one portion of the community; and I was sorry to observe on the part of Gentlemen opposite, what I cannot help thinking a reluctance to allow this controversy to close. I cannot help thinking that now the Government have conceded their views, and met them in a fair spirit, they seem to feel their "occupation gone." Sir, on a former evening I heard, with very great regret and surprise, some expressions used by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), who alluded to some county where he said the farmers were more disposed to march against Manchester than they would be to march against Paris.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The explanation does not make the slightest difference in my argument. It is immaterial to me whether the words fell from the lips of the hon. Member for Manchester, or from those of some other person. I refer to them because the hon. Member for Manchester treats them in a jocular way; but what I say is, come from where they may, if such a feeling exist in any part of England, I can scarcely conceive a greater evil. I know the English farmers well, and so do many around me, mixing with them as neighbours and friends, and acquainted with their good qualities; and if in any county in England the farmers could be so exasperated as even partially to entertain this feeling, it could only be taken as a proof that there was a quick sense of injury, and a feeling which, instead of encouraging, we ought to do everything in our power to allay. If such a feeling exists in any class of the community, we should do well to direct our legislation in the hope of putting an end to it; and, therefore, I was sorry to hear objections thrown out against anything which, even while it was mainly a benefit to the consumer, could be held out as a boon to the agricultural class, and a measure which might tend to put an end to such a feeling. I deny that there is any ground for any such charge against this Budget. With respect to the house tax, hon. Gentlemen seem to suppose that it is to be imposed on towns and not on the country. But the house of the tenant-farmer and the house of the country gentleman will be as much liable to this house duty as the houses in towns. Then, take the remissions proposed; will the benefit of the repeal of the malt duty be confined to the country? Will not the consumer in the town be benefited along with the consumer in the country? What can be fairer in principle than to relieve from taxation an article consumed by town and country alike? Take the tea duties again—that part of the Budget has met with general approbation. The right hon. Member for Halifax (Sir C. Wood) says he had himself intended to deal with them; only, as some member of the daily press said—only he didn't, and like many other just measures, which no doubt the Whig Government intended to bring forward—[ Laughter 1518 1519 l. l. d. d. 1520 1521
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the correspondence on the subject of the future course of the Government with respect to the boundary of British Kafraria, at the conclusion of the war, was not one of the papers moved for by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London. The subject involved in that question was very extensive, and by no means of an easy nature, for it referred not only to the eastern boundary, but also to the northern boundary of the Colony. He was, however, in correspondence with General Cathcart on the subject of the eastern boundary—he had sent a despatch by the last mail, but till he had received an answer he could not give a reply to the question of the hon. and gallant Member.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the papers moved for by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, on the subject of the Constitution of the Cape, had not been withheld by any fault of the Colonial Office. They had been only asked for a few days since—they were now nearly
 1434
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he should have added that he had seen the general orders issued by General Cathcart to the troops prior to the expedition across the Kei, and that one of the most distinct orders among them was to avoid any unnecessary loss of life. He (Sir J. Pakington) had, however, no objection to make inquiry into the statement; but he should also observe at the same time that he had the fullest confidence in the humanity and discretion of General Cathcart, as well as in the bravery and gallantry of the troops.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had no official knowledge of the fact alluded to in the first part of the question. No mention was made in any of the despatches he had received of executions. As regarded the second part of the question—with respect to the rules of war—he apprehended that the rule of war was, that when an enemy showed no quarter, to meet him in a similar spirit; hut, on the other hand, he had no hesitation in saying to execute a prisoner was not consistent with the laws of war. It should, however, be always borne in mind that a great portion of the Kafirs and Hottentots engaged in this war were British subjects, and as such were guilty of high treason. He certainly had seen in a newspaper, and he had also heard it through a private channel, that in clearing the Waterkloof some persons were hung —under what circumstances he could not
 1435
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the hon. Gentleman had put a series of questions founded on the arrival of the  Queen of the South
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he regretted that he should stand for a moment in the way of hon. Gentlemen expressing their opinions, whose opinions were of far higher value than his; but at the same time he would be sorry to give a vote upon a question differing from those with whom he had
 1437 1438 1439 l. 1440 1441 l. 1442 1443
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he begged to draw the attention of the House to certain proceedings that had been taken in reference to this subject since the question was last before them. After the debate and division on the subject of adjournment on the previous occasion, when this measure was under discussion, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department acceded to a proposition that was originally made by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee), to have the Bill at present before the House, and the Bill commonly called Mr. Sharman Crawford's Bill, referred to a Select Committee. The right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland was present on the occasion, and expressed no dissent from that arrangement; and he (Mr. Fitzgerald) conceived that when one Member of the Government (the Secretary of State for the Home Department) made that arrangement, and when another Member of the Government (the Attorney General for Ireland) was present and did not object to it, the natural inference to draw was that the right hon. and learned Gentleman assented to it. Although some Members on his side of the House apprehended that the Bill introduced by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny would be strangled in the Select Committee, still they abided by the proposition that had been agreed to. Although he (Mr. Fitzgerald) dissented from the principles of the Tenants' Compensation Bill, he felt himself bound, after assenting to what had been done by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny not to oppose the second reading; but after that proceeding had taken place in that House, he heard with great surprise an account of what occurred when a noble Earl in another place proposed a question in reference to this subject to the noble
 1529 pro forma 1530 Dublin Evening Mail, "Whitehall Gardens, Saturday. "Sir—J see in your paper of yesterday an article headed 'Mr. Napier's compromise of Irish property.' The charge thus put forward is attempted to he sustained by assuming that I consented to allow Mr. Serjeant Shee's Bill to be read a second time, and to go to a Select Committee with the Bills of the Government. I beg to say that the charge is utterly unfounded, and the assumption is untrue. This is as plain language as I can use to express my meaning, and I hope it is not open to any cavil for haze or ambiguity.—Truly yours, "JOSEPH NAPIER." 1531 1532
 LORD NAAS  said, he should have been perfectly content to have left the subject in dispute on that occasion in the hands of the House, after the able and lucid statement of his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland. His right hon. and learned Friend had gone through the details of the Bills proposed by the Government, and of the Bill brought forward by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee), and had completely proved, as he (Lord Naas) thought that those two Bills were antagonistic and incompatible, and that they could not possibly both be passed at the same time into law. After what had occurred, it had become necessary that his right hon. and learned Friend should have stated positively and decidedly his opinions upon that point. His right hon. and learned Friend the Secretary for the Home Department had agreed the other evening that the two Bills should be referred to the same Select Committee; and he (Lord Naas) did not disapprove of that arrangement. He believed that the Bills, although antagonistic in principle, might be discussed with advantage by a Committee of that House impartially selected. He should feel confidence in such a Committee, and he should look forward to its inquiries without dread, because he believed that its decision must only tend to confirm the course which had already been taken on repeated occasions by the House with respect to the Bill which had been brought forward by Mr. Sharman Crawford. The present Government had felt it their duty to pursue that course in the last Session, when they had moved the rejection of the measure on the second reading. Their objections, not only to the extreme danger of the principle, but also to the details of that Bill, remained perfectly unchanged. He had in the last Session stated those objections as fully and as frankly as he had been able, and he, therefore, did not at that moment feel it necessary to repeat them. The hon. Gentleman the Member
 1561 Cries of 1562
 LORD NAAS : The hon. Gentleman admitted that there were some good landlords in Ireland. But he also declared that in general the landlords in that country were a clog to its industry. [Mr. LUCAS: Hear, hear!] The hon. Gentleman evidently adopted that statement. Now he (Lord Naas) was not afraid to meet the hon. Gentleman upon that point. To whom was owing the improvements which of late so much assisted the tenant-farmers? In point of fact, these improvements were all owing to the exertions of the landlords in their anxiety to teach the tenant the best means of improving himself. The improvement in Ireland was mainly attributable to the Agricultural Association, initiated by one of the best and purest patriots the country ever possessed, Mr. Peter Purcell. Who were the proprietors of the model farms? Who but the landlords of Ireland had expended within the last few years 2,500,000 l 1563 1564 1565 l
 LORD NAAS : Even upon that qualified statement of the hon. Gentleman he believed that he was borne out in what he had said, because the plain meaning of what the hon. Gentleman stated was, that the landlords owed their tenants 5,000,000 l l l 1566 bonâ fide
 MR. LUCAS  said, he must beg to correct the noble Lord, He (Mr. Lucas) had given the House his own estimate of the aggregate amount of the property created in Ireland by the improvements of tenants; but as to the equity of the matter between the landlords and the tenants He had not expressed an opinion.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he wished to explain. What he had said was, that the landlords generally in Ireland had acted as impediments to improvements. But he had not laid down the proposition to the unlimited extent which had been stated by the noble Lord. He was aware that there were some good landlords in Ireland, although they formed exceptions to the general character of their order.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he quite agreed in the spirit of the appeal which the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland had made to both sides of the House in his closing remarks; but he must say, that in making that appeal the right hon. and learned Gentleman bad not done justice to the remarks which the hon. and learned Member for Ennis (Mr. Fitzgerald) had made in introducing the subject that day to the notice of the House. He (Mr. Lucas) did not understand the remarks of that hon. and learned Gentleman as having been made in a spirit of angry recrimination at all; neither did he understand him as having made any charges against the right hon. and learned Gentleman; but what he understood the hon. and learned Gentleman to say was this—that Her Majesty's Government had placed this question in a peculiar position, which required a distinct and explicit explanation; and in a spirit of perfect fairness he called for that explanation, which he (Mr. Lucas) was sorry to say had not yet been given. The question which the hon. and learned Gentleman had asked was this: It had been agreed on the appeal of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee) to refer the four Bills which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had brought forward, and the Bill which came from that (the Opposition) side of the House, to a Select Committee. It had been understood that that Committee was to be a fair and impartial Committee; that it was to be perfectly free and unfettered as to the conclusions at which they should arrive; and that the Government were also to be unfettered as to their power of approving of those conclusions, if they should find them to be reasonable. But how did the matter stand now? It appeared that the noble Lord at the head of the Government,
 1546 bonâ fide 1547 l l Murmurs ofdissent. l l Progress of the 1548 Nation, s. d. s. s, 1549 British Husbandry Times 1550 l 1551 l l l l l l l l l l l 1552 "In these counties the rents reserved are generally so disproportional to the value as to afford no true measure of the income derivable out of the lands. "And, again," As to the rates of purchase generally, it is fallacious to estimate the number of years from the published rentals, which usually represent the rents of 1845 and previous years, and which in many instances were even then excessive, and far beyond any sums that could possibly be collected from the tenants." 1553 l s. d. l l s. 3d. s. d, l l 1554 l s. l l 1555 l s. 1556 1557
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had made a very important speech, and one filled with very interesting and instructive details. But he did not exactly know what was the immediate object which the hon. Gentleman wished to attain. As far as he could understand, it would appear that the hon. Gentleman wished for a Select Committee to inquire into the entire condition of the tenants in Ireland; but he (Mr. Drummond) had no hesitation in saying that if they were to take no step in that matter until after such a Committee should have concluded its labours, they could make no attempt, in the course of the present Session, to amend the laws which regulated the relations of landlord and tenant in Ireland. He believed, too, that such an arrangement would be wholly unnecessary. For his own part he was
 1558 1559
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought they had gained much useful information in the progress of the discussion. Amongst many other things he had learned that English gentlemen imported into Ireland knew much more of its wants than did the hon. Gentlemen he saw before him, and who were warmly and naturally attached to that country. After all the discussion that had taken place, he (Mr. Whiteside) could not help thinking that the Bills of his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland were good Bills. They specified the objects and pointed out the improvements for which compensation would be allowed. They were prospective and retrospective, and provided for two matters absolutely necessary—implements and fixtures. Therefore, he thought they were entitled to take credit for the preparation of these Bills, inasmuch as if they were compared with the Devon Commission they would be found not merely to contain the recommendations and suggestions of that Commission, but also to go beyond them. He objected altogether to the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee), as being impossible in theory, impracticable in execution, unwise in detail, and wrong in principle. He could not praise the fertility of fancy of that hon. and learned Gentleman, who, in quitting the dry details of Westminster Hall, did not display more of the inventive faculty than to adopt and introduce the Bill of Mr. Sharman Crawford; which Bill, by the way, had been twice previously rejected by that House. The hon. and learned Gentleman, to be sure, had given them a statement, commencing with the feudal ages, and embracing Lombardy and the entire Continent, as also the plantation of Ulster. But in the few practical observations which he made, he left the real question entirely untouched. Notwithstanding the censure that had been heaped upon the landlords of Meath and Ulster, it should be recollected that when an attempt was made to rescue the representation from them, the laborious and loyal tenantry ral-
 1568
 MR. WISE  begged to ask the President of the Poor Law Board whether there was any intention of altering the law of settlement, or of proposing any change in the mode of charging the rates for the relief of the poor? also, whether there was any information in the Poor Law Office as to the quantity of land which had been hired or purchased by Boards of Guardians for the purpose of cultivation by the inmates of union workhouses? and whether any statements had been transmitted to the Poor Law Board showing the result of the employment of the inmates of workhouses on the land so hired and purchased? and, if any such information and statements had been given, or existed, whether the President of the Poor Law Board would place a copy of the same on the table of the House? The object of the second question was to ascertain whether the Poor Law Board approved of the system of cultivating land by means of ablebodied paupers?
 MR. NAPIER  said, it was exactly on the principle last stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman, that from the year 1848 to the present time he (Mr. Napier), knowing the value to Ireland of a right settlement of this question, which he considered a matter of great imperial and national importance, had laboured diligently and incessantly with the purpose of completing an equitable adjustment. He, therefore, only asked the House to listen to the grounds on which he vindicated the course he had followed in proposing his own measure, and opposing that of the hon. Member for Kilkenny, on a subject which, like many others relating to Ireland, threatened to degenerate into a personal matter. In dealing with the subject he should treat it less as an officer of the Government than as a private Member, whose only wish was how best to secure the happiness of their common country: and he did expect and hope that, notwithstanding political differences, notwithstanding any differences which might exist in private life—coming to that House on a subject which affected the interests of all Ireland, without reference to creed or party—it might have been possible for a time to give up those differences, and cooperate for the purpose of framing a measure which should work beneficially for Ireland. The question before the House, like other questions connected with Ireland, divided itself into real and personal. He had found it stated, by the correspondent of an Irish newspaper, that, in consequence of some pressure, he (Mr. Napier) had consented to the second reading of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny's Bill, which was held to be illustrative of the advantage to the Irish party of holding together and managing their policy in that House on a certain principle. That statement, however, was not true. The hon. and learned Gentleman would bear him out when he stated that on one or two occasions he told the hon. and learned Gentleman that he did not find it convenient to take on himself the charge of perfecting arrangements which might not coincide with the arrangements of the House, which the Chancellor of the Exchequer was
 1533 1534 1535 1536 a from the Irish Members. 1537 fortiori 1538 1539 1540 1541 "If a principle affecting in so strong a manner the rights of property be brought before the Legislature, the favourable position will be lost. The contest will be recommenced on what I fear is an untenable position." "It will be for the advantage of each industrious tenant to feel assured that the idea of now forcing all owners or landlords to part with their lands for  maximum 1542 1543
 MR. NAPIER : Well, in fact fair. That was still a matter of opinion; but he had always been opposed to any interference as to the question of rent between landlord and tenant. In fact, he regarded rent as a matter of contract—a commercial
 1544 1545
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would suggest that after the discussion that had taken place, and considering the hour (it was near six o'clock), the Bill should be then read a Second Time, and committed.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman was entirely mistaken. The words "fair valuation" in the recital of the tenant-right custom of Ulster, meant a valuation which was, in point of fact, fair.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought it was important that Gentlemen connected with Ireland should know that the English Members were prepared to enter into the proposed inquiry with unprejudiced minds. They would recollect that there were two sides to the question; and while they would be anxious to give to tenants a fair compensation for their improvements, they would take care to do no injustice to landlords. It appeared to him that that discussion was in a' great measure an unnecessary one, as Her Majesty's Government had in a spirit of the utmost fairness agreed to refer to the same Select Committee the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee) and the Bills of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland. With regard to the question of compensation, it would no doubt be necessary to take into consideration the time which the tenant might have had for obtaining compensation for himself. In his own case, he had found that he had usually repaid himself in four or five years
 1560
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that during the time he had held office he had given his best attention and consideration to the very important subject which the hon. Gentleman had brought before the House. So much consideration and care were required in the preparation of any measure on the subject, that he was not in a condition at present to lay a Bill before Parliament; but, feeling that it was a subject which could not be decided on without the concurrence of Her Majesty's Government at large, he had laid before them all the papers he had thereupon at the Poor Law Board, and for some time past they had been giving their anxious attention to the matter. In reply to the second question, he begged to say that the Poor Law Board could furnish the hon. Gentleman? with the information he desired in regard to the quantity of land either purchased or hired by hoards of guardians for cultivation; but the boards of guardians were hot in the habit of furnishing detailed reports, either of a financial nature or with respect to moral effects. The Poor Law Board were acquainted with these only as
 1528
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, he agreed that the time had come for legislation on this subject; and although he admitted that the Bill of the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland was a decided advance, yet, looking at the great progress hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial benches had recently made on other subjects, he thought that they might have proceeded a few steps further with regard to the relations of landlord and tenant in Ireland. The only true and just principle, in dealing with this question, was to give a light of property to the tenant for any additional value which by his industry or his capital he conferred upon the land. The fault of the Bill of the Government was, that it admitted this principle in respect to buildings and machinery, but not as to all other improvements. Extend the same principle to ail improvements, and he for one should be satisfied. The Irish Timber Acts (5  Geo. 1567
 The CHAIRMAN  said, he had no difficulty in answering the question of the noble Lord, who had stated very correctly the custom of the House. He (the Chairman) thought it was advisable that he should state the exact circumstances under which the Resolution came before them. The Resolution was put as a whole; but there stood upon the notice-paper an Amendment of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) who proposed that, instead of considering the House Duties, the Committee should proceed to consider the Duties upon Legacies. It was necessary that that Amendment should he taken at the point at which it was proposed, because, if that had not been done, they would have precluded other Members from proposing any amendments. After that Amendment had been discussed for some time, the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), he believed, suggested to the hon. Member for Lambeth that he should withdraw it, that the Committee might say "Ay" or "No" upon the main question. That suggestion received the general assent of the Committee, and he (the Chairman) then put the question "Ay" or "No," and from that period to the present moment the matter had been discussed upon the
 1572
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to state what part he had taken in the matter. When the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) moved his Amendment, the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) told him that if he persevered he could not take the opinion of the Committee upon the whole Resolution. He (Mr. Hume), therefore, begged the hon. Member for Lambeth to withdraw his Amendment, in order that the question might be put upon the whole Resolution; and he suggested to him that he might propose the Amendment when a Bill was brought in. When the Amendment was withdrawn, he (Mr. Hume) apprehended that the discussion went on upon the whole Resolution, as if no Amendment had been proposed.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, he would observe that there were other Amendments on the paper besides that of the hon. Member for for Lambeth. It was therefore necessary, in his opinion, that they should keep to the question before them, "Ay" or "No."
 LORD STANLEY  replied that the hon. Gentleman had correctly stated the facts. The Government had received several communications from Sir Henry Bulwer on the subject of the Madiais, and he thought from the general tone of these communications there was a reasonable hope of their speedy release, but he was not in a position to give any certain or positive information on the matter.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, the noble Member for the City of London had stated most correctly what was the usual practice— that the Chairman of the Committee should read through the Resolution until he was stopped by an Amendment. He (the Chairman) was stopped by an Amendment, which was subsequently withdrawn, and he then understood that it was the general wish of the Committee to take the decision upon the words before them. [  Cries of
 The CHAIRMAN  said, the hon. Member was out of order, for there was no such question before the Committee.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, it appeared to him that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax had stated the practice of the House most correctly to be, that the Chairman ought to read on with the Resolutions till he was stopped by an Amendment. He must repeat, however, what he had already said—namely, that he was stopped by an Amendment of the hon. Member for Lambeth, and that Amendment was withdrawn on the suggestion of the hon. Member for Manchester, who expressed a wish that the question should be taken, ay or no. He believed he acted in accordance with the general wish of the Committee.
 LORD JOHNRUSSELL  said, he thought it necessary, in consequence of what had been said, to observe that he had expressed himself entirely satisfied with the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer on Tuesday night; as far as he was concerned, in the second speech he made, he thought the right hon. Gentleman took a perfectly fair course in declaring that both the extension and increased amount were involved in the preliminary words. But the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) suggested a different course, thinking that, whatever might be the value of the declaration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Committee ought to proceed according to the
 1581
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  begged, before entering on the general question to
 1622 l 1623 1624 l l l 1625 l l l l l l l 1626 l l l l l l 1627 1628 d. d. d. l d.; l d.; d., l d. 1629
 COLONEL BLAIR  said, he should not have risen but for the speech of the noble Lord the Member for Dumfries (Viscount Drumlanrig); but he begged to state that, as far as respected the county he had the honour
 1614 1615
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, relating to the case of the two Madiais, now under sentence of imprisonment by the Tuscan Government; and whether any reasonable hopes might be entertained as to their speedy release? He wished to know what communications had taken place between Sir Henry Bulwer and the Tuscan Government? He had been informed that an amnesty to prisoners would be extended, in the event of the favourable accouchement of the Duchess. That favourable event had occurred, and the amnesty had in due course been extended to persons in prison for crime and riot, but not to the unfortunate Madiais. The question he wished to put to the Government was, whether the communications received from Sir Henry Bulwer were such as to induce a reasonable hope that the Madiais would he speedily released?
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that the observations of the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. K. Macaulay) were a protest, not against the Amendment, but against the whole forms of the House. If it was true that the hon. and learned Gentleman was not in a state to give his decision on the details of the question, and did not feel himself competent to pronounce an opinion on one amount or the other, he ought to have voted with the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) against Mr. Speaker's leaving the Chair, and to have had a discussion on the whole subject. But as the question stood now, the Committee were compelled to limit the discussion, and to vote on the details. The question they had to vote upon was this: what extension of the house tax might be voted for the future? The Committee could not escape from that question, difficult though it might be for them to make up their minds upon it. Therefore it was that he said that the protest of the hon. and learned Gentleman was a protest again the forms of the House, and that the vote of the Committee must be given in accordance with those forms.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he wished to ask the opinion of the Chairman with respect to a point of order which appeared to him to be of great importance. He noticed the other night that there was considerable difficulty in assertaining what was the precise meaning of the question
 1571
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN  said, he thought there was not a single Member in the House who did not deplore the proceedings which had been going on for the last hour and a half, and every one must feel that the scene they had just witnessed was discreditable to the character of their discussions. They were now resuming a debate which had occupied their attention during three long nights, and it was very difficult to determine the question they were discussing, and upon which they were required to decide. And whence did that difficulty arise, which had interrupted the progress of business? It arose from one cause—the shifting and vacillating policy pursued by Her Majesty's Government. It was now almost a fortnight since the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had laid before the House the financial scheme of the Government. In a speech, commensurate with the importance and gravity of the occasion, he brought before the House the great features of his financial scheme, which he showed consisted mainly of two parts. In the first place, he proposed to remit taxes which he considered impolitic or unjust; and in the second he proposed, inasmuch as the financial surplus which he had at his disposal was not sufficient to make up the deficiency occasioned by such remission of taxes, to supply the deficiency by the imposition of new taxes, partly by increasing the area of taxation in reference to the income tax and house tax; and as those two sources were not themselves sufficient for the purpose, he proposed further to increase, not only the area of taxation, but the amount which persons should be called on to pay. Nothing could be more clear and explicit than the statement of the right hon. Gentleman.
 1589 1590 l 1591 1592 l s. d.; s. .s. d. s.; s., 1593 l l per se, 1594 l 1595 1596 l 1597 1598 "Sic ubi fata vocant, udir abjectus in herbis. Ad vada Mæandri, concinit albus olor." 1599 l l l 1600 s. l l l
 SIR ALEXANDER COCKBURN : It was exceedingly possible that he did not remember the hon. Gentleman from whom the observation came, but fallen from some hon. Gentleman on that (the Government) side of the House it certainly had, and he recollected perfectly well turning round to his hon. Friend the Member for Bristol (Mr. H. Berkeley) to attract his attention to it. Nevertheless, if a great proportion of the constituency of the country were prevented from exercising the franchise already, why further limit and diminish their number, by cutting off the 10 l 1601 1602
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he would withdraw that Motion.
 MR. HINDLEY  said, for his own part, he was quite willing to pass the Preamble; for he held, as a free-trader, that direct taxation was one of the necessary and inevitable consequences of free trade. He was certain that the good of the country would be promoted by it. But if the whole of the Resolution was to be put, he was not going to double the house tax.
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he would move, then, "that the Chairman report progress." He apprehended he should now be in order.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was only anxious to proceed in what appeared to him to be the regular course. On the last evening the Budget was debated, in answer to a question put late at night, as to what the Government comprehended as the question before the Committee, the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer stated, for the first time, that he under-Stood the Resolution to mean an increase as well as an extension of the house tax. The right hon. Gentleman had that evening repeated that statement; but there was a question whether it was possible, according to the forms of a Committee of Ways and Means, to take the Preamble alone. The fact was, the Resolution was drawn in rather an unusual form. Instead of positively repealing certain duties, it should have been shaped to the effect, that in lieu of duties now payable certain other duties should be payable, and that would obviously prevent the Preamble from being treated as a simple sentence. The effect of the Preamble, if passed, would be to repeal the existing duty and substitute no-
 1580
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he would not object to the Amendment, but he must protest against the course proposed as unusual.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he thought there could not be the slightest doubt that anybody might move the reduction, though not an increase of the sum granted by the Resolution of a Committee of Ways and Means; but he really would put to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the mischief of altering the ordinary form of granting the taxes, unless some clear advantage was derived from it. He thought that by this concession, though nothing was gained, something might be lost. Unless some better reason were assigned for the change than that suggested on the part of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would adhere to the usual form.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he understood now that the matter of form was settled, and that the Chairman would put the whole Resolution. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had expressed a great desire not to mislead any Gentleman; but though, in point of form, he had accommodated himself to the wishes of the Committee, he (Mr. Denison) was afraid, in point of substance, some mystification might be left. For it seemed that when in Committee of Ways and Means, Gentle- men were asked to vote 1s. to Her Majesty, every one was to be at liberty to interpret that "shilling" to mean 6 d., d., d.,
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he was surprised to hear the statement of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, that communications made to him privately from that side of the House, and from the other, should he taken without any public discussion as to the general wish of the Committee. He thought those communications and explanations showed that there had been a departure from what must be the intention and general understanding of all parties in that House. The right hon. Gentleman said some communications wore made to him, giving him the impression that it would suit the convenience of certain individuals, if the vote were taken in a particular manner, and that he assented, through his friends, to that proposition. Surely that conveyed to the Committee, that a departure was proposed and assented to from the under-standing which up to that time generally prevailed in the House. Now, the understanding of the Committee was surely this —that they were going to vote on that which appeared on the paper; and his impression of what had been stated by the Chairman was entirely different to that
 1574
 MR. G. H. MOORE  begged to suggest to hon. Gentlemen sitting on the Ministerial side of the House, that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had relieved them from all difficulty whatever on this question, for he had told them that they could first vote for the whole of the Resolutions as they stood, and that there was nothing to prevent them from voting afterwards precisely to the contrary. Now, that suggestion appeared to him (Mr. Moore) to be entirely consistent with the course which Her Majesty's Government had hitherto pursued; and he, therefore, ventured humbly to recommend hon. Gentlemen opposite at once to adopt it.
 MR. G H. MOORE  said, that the hon. and learned Solicitor General for Ireland, in the elaborate argument which he had addressed to the Committee, had, although he quoted various Acts of Parliament, failed to convey to his mind the slightest idea as to whether he approved of the extension of the income tax to Ireland, or whether he conceived that the present Budget contained that liberal and generous policy towards that country which was promised in the Speech from the Throne. He had heard, with more curiosity than edification, the elaborate mystifications which had been introduced into this debate, and which tended both to embarrass and discredit their proceedings. He wished now, however, to call their attention to another "misapprehension." "Misapprehension" was, indeed, the palladium of Her Majesty's Government; their whole existence depended on it; in time it extended over two Parliaments, and in area over the whole Empire. If everybody had not always and everywhere misapprehended everything they said, where—and above all, what—would the present Ministers and their supporters have been? If the people of England had not misunderstood the issue on which they went before God and their country, what would have become of many of those hon. Gentlemen whom personally he was very glad to see on the benches opposite? If the Irish landlords had not misapprehended the promises that were made to them before the elections, and the policy which was to be contained in the Budget, where would have been the exclusive support which the Government had received from that united and disinterested body? But he would ask those hon. Gentlemen—above all, he would ask an eloquent countryman of his—where now was that "liberal and generous" cooperation which, but a very short time ago, in the innocence of his heart, the exuberance of his fancy, and, as he (Mr. Moore) believed, in the sincerity of his convictions, who had taunted hon. Members on his (Mr. Moore's) side of the House, with delaying them; he would ask the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General for Ireland, was that "liberal and generous" spirit to be found in the present extension of the income tax to Ireland, which
 1616 1617
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, that he must disclaim the idea that he was committed by the vote he should give on the present occasion to the details of the Budget, which he reserved to himself the fullest right of canvassing when they were sub-
 1618 l impromptus, l 1619 l 1620 l l
 MR. PEACOCKE : That was the same thing. [ Laughter. l l
 MR. GOULBURN : I obtained the in-
 1621
 MR. GOULBURN  said, that he had no J objection to the Amendment of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner); but the effect of it would be this, that the house tax, which was intended to supply a deficiency which would be occasioned by the reduction of other duties might, in fact, be made under this Amendment to yield even less than it did at present, As his objection to the Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was founded upon the fact that it would run a great risk of occasioning a large deficiency in the revenue, that objection would, of course, be necessarily doubled by the Amendment of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he entirely agreed with the Chairman and other hon. Members who had spoken as to the practice of the House. He thought it was evident that they could not vote upon a principle in Committee of Ways and Means, but only upon the details of the particular measure submitted to them. This Preamble, in fact, would form no vote whatever. The House was in Committee of Ways and Means to grant a supply to Her Majesty, and this Preamble merely stated "that there be granted the following duties upon inhabited houses, that is to say." It was clear that "towards raising the supply granted to Her Majesty" that proposition was nugatory. It might involve a general principle; but if it did, a Committee of Ways and Means was not the proper place to raise it.
 MR. GOULBURN  laid on the table the Report of the Committee of the Derby Election. The report was then read by the Clerk at the table, and is as follows:—
 "Your Committee appointed to take into consideration the matter of the petition of certain inhabitant householders of the borough of Derby, and to report thereupon to the House, have examined witnesses, and heard counsel as well in support of the petition as in behalf of the right hon. William Beresford, Secretary-at-War, a Member of the House, and have agreed to the following Report:—Your Committee have to report, with respect to the special allegations contained in the Petition before them, that the evidence which they have taken has satisfied them that a plan for an organised system of bribery had existed in the borough of Derby at the last election, and that the right hon. William Bores-ford wrote a letter to one John Frail, of Shrews-burs, in the following terms:—' A good and safe man, with judgment and quickness, is wanted immediately at Derby. I suppose that you cannot leave your own place. If not, send some one whom you can trust in your place. Let him go to Derby on receiving this, and find the County Tavern, in the centre of the town. Let him send his card to Cox Brothers and Co.'s lead works, as coming from Chester. That will be enough. Yours, W. B.—Monday.' That in consequence of such letter one Thomas Morgan, of Shrewsbury, was sent to Derby by the said John Frail, and, acting on instructions there received, was subsequently detected and apprehended whilst carrying out the aforesaid plan of an organised system of bribery, proved before your Committee to have existed. Your Committee, however, do not find sufficient evidence to satisfy their minds, that the arrangements, scheme, and objects, as referred to in the petition, wore known to and concurred in by the right hon. William Beresford, Secretary-at-War, and Member of the House; but your Committee are of opinion, that the equivocal expressions of this letter ought at least to have suggested to him the idea that an improper use might be, and in fact was, made of the letter; and they find a reckless indifference to consequences which they cannot too highly censure." 1570
 MR. LABOUCHERE  begged to ask Her Majesty's Ministers whether it was not possible that there might be some practical difficulty, in consequence of the unusual course proposed to be taken in framing the Bill on which these Resolutions would be founded.
 MR. WHITESIDE  begged permission to remark, in return for the admonition addressed to the hon. Member for Belfast (Mr. Davison) by the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) on a former occasion—that the best course for a representative from that part of the kingdom to pursue on a subject of national interest was to maintain silence—that on every question of Imperial policy the representatives of Ireland had as full a right to form and to express an opinion as their Scotch or English brethren. No question could be raised affecting England which did not affect every good Scotchman and every good Irishman also. The hon. Member for the West Riding had shown, by that admonition, that in the multifarious occupations of his busy life he had not been able to study the principles of Parliamentary representation. He suspected, however, if the hon. Member for Belfast had sat on the other side of the House and condemned the Budget, the hon. Member for the West Riding would have approved the spirit of his observations. The question the House had to deal with was partly of a fiscal, and partly, and perhaps more properly, of a constitutional character. One consideration raised by the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) had forcibly arrested his attention, and it was that in which he understood the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford to sustain him— namely, that the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to deal with incomes arising from Irish funded property was a gross breach of national faith, and a fraud on the public creditor. He admitted, that if that argument could be established,
 1603  Geo. Vict. 1604 l 1605 l 1606 ad misericordiam. l l l 1607 l l l l l l l l l l 1608 l 1609 1610 l l l l 1611 l l
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was afraid he would not be able to throw much light upon this knotty point. He did not hear the Resolution read, and he did not know, to this moment, whether the Chairman read the Preamble, the first paragraph, or the whole Resolution. He had taken the liberty of asking the hon. Member for Lambeth to withdraw his Amendment, that they might discuss the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The proposition he understood to be the policy of Government with regard to the question of the house tax. He (Mr. Bright) had, however, no knowledge whatever as to the precise words, and all he could say was that he had no idea of taking any part beyond suggesting the withdrawal of the Amendment. He did not feel himself competent to offer any opinion as to the mode of proceeding, but he thought they ought to pursue such a course as was in conformity with the forms of that House.
 MR. PHILLIMORE  said, he believed, that as the Amendment had been withdrawn, it was the right of any hon. Member to call upon the Chairman to read the
 1583
 MR. KENNETH MACAULAY  said, that if the question was, that the house tax of 1851 should be repealed, and a new tax imposed, he was inclined to say ay, I but until he had considered the details of the proposition of the Government, he! could not say that the duty ought to be 1 s. d. d.
 MR. MALINS  said, that as a new Member of the House, he had been much perplexed by what had been recently going on, but he rejoiced to find that they had at last arrived at something like a rational
 1584 d. s. d., s. d. 1585
 MR. SPOONER  moved, "That the words 'not exceeding,' should be inserted before the words 'eighteen pence.'"
 MR. SPOONER  consented to withdraw the words. He proposed them only in consequence of what had fallen from hon.
 1588
 Mr. WALPOLE : I do not know that I ever made such an observation.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that he did not think there would be any difficulty in the insertion of these words in the Resolution. The Resolution came before them in a Committee of Ways and Means, which was to fix the maximum of the duties granted, and that amount could not be exceeded when the Bill was brought in. When that was done, it would be in the option of any hon. Member to move to insert a different sum. The object, as he understood, of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire in moving the Amendment was, that it might be clear to the Committee, that the sum mentioned in the Resolution was the maximum to which the Government could go. He thought the words were superfluous, but they explained to the Committee what the effect of the Resolution was.
 MR. T. S. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to say a few words with regard to what had fallen from the Secretary of State for the Colonies. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that the Preamble contained the principle of an extension of the area, and an increase of the amount of the house duty. He could find no such words in the Preamble. There were, in fact, no such words in the Preamble. Really, the Government themselves did not know what they were about. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer must put up some one else besides the Secretary of State for the Colonies to explain more satisfactorily the meaning of the Government. Last Monday week the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) asked why the Government took the house duty and the tea duties first, instead of the income and property tax, seeing and believing as he did, and as the public did, that the income tax was the corner-stone of the whole Budget. The answer of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer was not very clear, but subsequently it had been explained by the noble Lord at the head of the Board of Works that they took the house and tea duties together, because in the first year the sum derived from doubling the house duty would make up for the deficiency of the tea duties. That showed that the principle of the Government proposition was to double the house duty; but now they were told this evening by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer that the amount of the house duty was no part of the question; he should leave the House to deal with that afterwards. That certainly was not leaving the Committee to pronounce an opinion on the measure as a whole. The fact was the whole issue had been changed — at whose suit he did not know. He did not know who these mysterious individuals were —he supposed his hon. Friend the Member for Ashton (Mr. Hindley) was one of them. It suited his convenience to vote for the Preamble, but it did not suit his convenience to vote for the double house duty. If the vote had been taken, as he (Mr. Duneombe) originally proposed, on the question that Mr. Speaker leave the Chair, the Committee would not have been in this confusion, in which, after three
 1579
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that no one, was more anxious than he was to go on with the debate, and take the decision of the Committee upon the Resolution. Certainly he did say, with a view to bring the debate to a close, finding that many Gentlemen wished to speak upon the house tax, that he did not think it would be necessary to take their opinion upon the subject, but of course he should bow to the order of business. Personally, however, he should consider no one, by voting for this Resolution, bound as to the amount contained in it. A Bill would have to be brought in, and any hon. Member who had not an opportunity of expressing his sentiments now, would have the opportunity then, notwithstanding his vote now, of proposing any Amendment he thought right. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) regretted extremely that he should have misled any Gentleman, through his own misunderstanding of the influence which he thought the noble Lord opposite exercised over his friends. He had thought the words of the noble Lord were words of authority. He regretted very much that he had misinterpreted what took place. He could only, after all, express his desire that the debate should proceed, and the opinion of the Committee be taken upon the Resolution.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir C. Wood) had found fault with the Resolution, and said it was not drawn in the usual form. It was copied  totidem verbis 1582
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Malton (Mr. E. Denison) entirely misconceived his wishes, if he supposed that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was at all desirous either of evading the discussion of his proposal, or the expression of an opinion upon it. Appeals had been made to him, not merely privately but publicly, and he had the other night stated to the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) that be was anxious to have the decision of the Committee upon the first proposal of the Government for increasing the tax, and upon their second proposal for extending it but, with regard to the amount of the rate, in consequence of what had occurred, he reserved to his friends the right of taking such a course as they thought proper. The noble Lord then said that he considered the explanation which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) gave was perfectly satisfactory. If the noble Lord had
 1575
 MR. GLADSTONE  said, that when the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) was understood to express his satisfaction at the answer given to his inquiries by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he (Mr. Gladstone) expressed his dissatisfaction at the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, he was met by the imputation that certain persons were disposed to be captious on the subject. Having been dissatisfied with the right hon. Gentleman's explanation, and being desirous that the Committee should come to a clear and unembarrassed decision, he (Mr. Gladstone) was anxious to see how this could be accomplished. He apprehended the usage was that the Chairman, unless he was interrupted, should read through either the whole Resolution submitted to the Committee, or a complete paragraph of the Resolution. Now, in his opinion, what the right hon. Gentleman called a paragraph was no paragraph at all. The Resolution was printed in a particular manner for the convenience of hon. Members, so as to catch the eye; but his belief was, and the Chairman would correct him if wrong, that if no Amendment was proposed, or if no negative was moved, it was not competent for the Chairman to stop, nor was it competent for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to make arrangements with any hon. Members until the Chairman came to the end of what might be called the first paragraph of the Resolution, which set forth the complete proposition that there should be charged for every 20 s. 1576
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought there was something more important than even technical propriety, and that was that they should conduct their proceedings with the utmost candour and fairness. He had been informed on the highest authority that it was necessary they should take the Resolution paragraph by paragraph. He himself was perfectly willing, and was, indeed, most anxious, that the Committee should come to a single vote, and that as soon as possible, which would be decisive as to the general policy recommended by the Government. Representations had been made to him by hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House—and more by hon. Gentlemen opposite than by those on his own side; and when he appealed to them to facilitate the decision of the Committee, assuming that the first paragraph of the Resolution sanctioned the increase of the house tax, and that the second paragraph sanctioned its extension, he certainly undertook that he would not call upon the
 1573
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had suggested none other than the course usually taken on such an occasion as this. The hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the Committee was altogether mistaken in the construction which he had put upon his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) suggestion. The sum mentioned in the Resolution meant—and the Chairman would correct him if he were wrong—any sum "not exceeding" the sum specified. In his opinion, there was no reason whatever that should prevent hon. Gentlemen from voting in favour of the figures in the Resolution before the Committee, although it might be their intention hereafter to vote in favour of less sums. The Resolutions before the Committee were only intended as the foundations of a Bill, and, of course, during the discussion on such Bill, it would be perfectly competent to any hon. Gentleman to vote for an amendment of it with the view of reducing the amount of the tax. All that the Committee would pledge itself to now by voting for this Resolution would be to this, that in the Bill embodying the whole of the Resolutions no sums ex-
 1586 s. d., "That, towards raising the Supply granted to Her Majesty, from and after the 5th day of April, 1853, the Duties granted and made payable by the Act 14 &15  Vic. "For every Inhabited Dwelling House which, with the household and other offices, yards and gardens therewith occupied and charged, is or shall be worth the rent of Ten Pounds or upwards by the year,— "Where any such Dwelling House shall be occupied by any person in trade who shall expose to sale and sell any goods, wares, or merchandize in any shop or warehouse, being part of the same Dwelling House, and in the front and on the ground or basement story thereof; "And also where any such Dwelling House shall be occupied by any person who shall be duly licensed by the Laws in force to sell therein by retail beer, ale, wine, or other liquors, although the room or rooms thereof in which any such liquors shall be exposed to sale, sold, drunk, or consumed, shall not be such shop or warehouse as aforesaid; "And also where any such Dwelling House shall be a Farm House occupied by a a tenant or farm servant, and  bona fide "There shall be charged for every Twenty Shillings of such annual value of any such Dwelling House, the sum of One Shilling. "And where any such Dwelling House shall not be occupied and used for any such purpose and in manner aforesaid, there shall be charged for every Twenty Shillings of such annual value thereof, the sum of One Shilling and Sixpence."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was quite ready to adhere to the ordinary form, but he would remark that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goul-burn), had observed that the Resolution would have no effect whatever, if the sum specified in it were liable to be reduced. That he entirely disputed, but as had been said before, the Resolution did nothing more than fix the maximum, and therefore he was ready to adopt it as it stood.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Well, enlarged; the right hon. Gentleman may have the benefit of the correction. Certainly, he talked of this fund circulating to the constant advantage of the landed interest, and he asked, "If that assistance is withdrawn, what are they to do?" "Why has he touched it," said the right hon. Gentleman with indignation, "not a single shilling has been lost—why has he touched it?" Now, Sir, of funds of this nature there is one general observation to make, which, before we enter, into the consideration of its particular man-
 1633 l 1634 l 1635 1636 l l l l l l l 1637 l l 1638 l l 1639 l l l l 1640 l l l l 1641 l l l 1642 l l l l l 1643 Geo. l l l l 1644 l l l l l 1645 l l l l l l l data l l 1646 1647 l 1648 l "By this report, and other events which are detailed in my despatch respecting British Caf-fraria, you will perceive that the war or rebellion may now be considered at an end; arid, as it has been attained not by any compromise' or treaty, but by force of arms, and a severe moral lesson,
 1649 1650 1651 1652 l l 1653 1654 1655 1656 l l l l l l l l l Hansard, 1657 l epea pteroenta l l l 1658 1659 l 1660 1661 1662 l 1663 l l 1664 1665 1666
 MR. GLADSTONE : I am reluctant, Mr. Patten, to trespass upon the attention of the Committee, but it appears to me that the speech we have just heard is a speech that ought to meet with a reply, and that, too, on the moment; and, Sir, I begin by telling the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer that I postpone for some minutes the inquiry whether he knows business or not, that there are some things which he, too, has yet to learn. There were other reasons, besides the reason of triviality and irrelevancy, why a discussion should have been avoided to-night by the right hon. Gentleman on the subject of emigration. And I tell the right hon. Gentleman more—that the licence of language he has used—the phrases he has applied to the characters of public men—[ Loudcries of" The remainder of the sentence was drowned in renewed cries from both sides of the House. Interruption Cheers and 1667 confusion, which drowned the remainder of the sentence. Renewed cheers again drowned the remaining words of the sentence. l 1668 d. 1669 l 1670 l l l 1671 l l l l l l 1672 l d? l s. d. s. d. s. 1673 l l 1674 l l l s. d. l s. d. l s., 1675 l 1676 d. d. d. d. d. d. l l 1677 l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : 400,000 l
 MR. GLADSTONE : If it is 400,000 l 1678
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Not the withdrawal.
 MR. GLADSTONE : I confess I cannot exactly make out the measure the right hon. Gentleman proposes, but it is at any rate a reduction or diminution of those credits. He proposes to withdraw 600,000 l 1679 1680 s. d. s. d. s. l l 1681 turning to the Ministerial benches 1682 1683 1684 d. l l bond fide 1685 d. d.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that whatever might have
 1686
 MR. GLADSTONE : If it were a mere hasty word, of course I should be the last person to take notice of it; but an allusion has been made by my right hon. Friend (Sir James Graham), in which I am part proprietor. I refer to the comparison which he drew between the position of a Bishop and a Judge. My right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonies denied the comparison, because he said a Judge could be removed from his office; and I now venture to say a Bishop may be deposed. If my right hon. Friend pursues the case a little further he will see that the two cases approximate as closely as possible. I refer him to an Act that passed in 1843, under which a Bishop who is incapable may have the spiritualities of his diocese transferred to another ecclesiastic. I have asked the Governor of the Bank of England, who agrees in principle with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, if he will accept his plan, and he said it was impossible; for what does the right hon. Gentleman do? The salient point of the whole case is on the public annuities, above all annuities for years expiring in 1860. They were in the one case always chosen by common consent, to make visible, as it was thought, the uncertainty and inequality of the present law. The right hon. Gentleman leaves this capital and crying grievance—so much a grievance, indeed, that it has always been made by common consent the standard-bearer to the rest, precisely where he found it. The annuitant is still included in Schedule C, and is still liable to 1 d. 1687 l l l d. l l 1688 l l l l 1689 l 1690 1691 1692 1693
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : With regard to the vote just come to by the Committee, it will perhaps be more convenient for the transaction of public business that the House at its rising should adjourn to Monday. I shall therefore at present move that you report progress and ask leave to sit again.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, after four nights of criticism, conducted by some of the most considerable reputations in this House, on the financial propositions that I have laid on the table of the Committee, I now rise to vindicate those propositions. If in the observations, which I will endeavour to condense as much as I can, I omit noticing any of the objections which have been urged against those propositions, I hope the Committee will ascribe that negligence to inadvertence, and not to design. Having listened with the respect and attention naturally due to such words from such lips, I can conscientiously say that I have heard nothing that, in my opinion, has successfully impugned the policy which, as the organ of the Government, I have recommended; and I am prepared to meet the objections which have been urged, and to show to the Committee that they are unfounded and illusory. 1630 l 1631 l l l 1632 l l l l
 SIR J. GRAHAM : I said "workhouses enlarged," not "built."
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he apprehended the object of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) in having raised this question was to facilitate the convenience of the Committee with regard to the particular subject upon which they were going to vote. The right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) had said, that only a portion of one paragraph
 1577 l s. s. d.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, it ought to be clearly known on what the Committee were about to decide. It was impossible to know what was before the Committee, except it was in the shape of a Resolution. He thought private arrangements ought not to take place in such cases. The question would be simplified if the terms of the Resolution were read to the Committee.
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  said, it appeared to him that he was asked at this stage of the proceedings to say how far he would go; and if he had made up his mind that under no circumstances could he agree to a tax of 1 s. d.
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  said, he. would remind the Committee that the Scotch agriculturists, at least, had not been in the habit of publicly asking for relief in consequence of legislative changes; and he weald appeal to hon. Members; whether Scotland deserved to be singled oat in order to he. victimised by this Budget, for the purpose of allowing the right hon. Gentleman to extend to some few and favoured localities the remission of the malt tax? In his opinion the farmers of Scotland had not once entered into the minds of Ministers in the course of the last ten months, for their exclusive attention had been given to the English farmer. But, though he did not wish invidiously to contrast the conduct of Scotch farmers, daring the last six years, with the conduct of the English agriculturist, he might at least be permitted to say, that in Scotland there had never been any suing in  forma pauperis 1612 1613 l l l
 MR. HUME  said, he had no apology to make to any one, but he had an act of duty to perform towards Her Majesty's late Government which he had great pleasure in discharging, and that was to tender them his thanks for the facilities they had always given him for obtaining information upon all subjects on which he had asked it. He had met with nothing but courtesy from all the different departments of Government, and for that he felt most grateful to them. With respect to the Motion for adjournment, he begged to say that to
 1714 1715
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, there had been a sale of the old Ordnance every quarter to the extent that people would buy them. He considered that it was inconvenient under present circumstances to give this Return.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he would rather leave the granting of the Return to the discretion of his successor, who probably might be the hon. and gallant Member.
 MR. HUME  said, he must express his surprise that any opposition was made to this Return. This pretension of secrecy was a perfect mockery. The French Go-
 1717
 SIR FREDERICK SMITH  said, he hoped the Return would be given. He hoped, also, it would not be imagined that because they had a vast number of guns of small calibre, they were not in want of guns of a more moderate construction and larger calibre.
 GENERAL ANSON  said, it would be quite proper that the Return should be given: he apprehended there was no wish for concealment, but, under the circumstances, notice had better be given for the next meeting of the House.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, it was remarked a few days ago that the Members of the Government were well received at Guildhall, and the next day the Sheriffs of London appeared at the table with a petition against the Government measures; and they had the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) praising Ministers a few minutes ago for their readiness to give information, and now blaming them for refusing information.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I rise, Sir, for the purpose, in the first place, of saying, I entirely concur in the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman, and in the next place to say that I feel quite certain that if, at any time in the course of our debates, those flying words which will occur at such times have carried a barb with them, it is to be attributed entirely to the circumstances in which the House has been placed. For my part I can only admire the ability and gallantry with which the right hon. Gentleman has conducted himself on the part of the Government, and in behalf of the cause which he has undertaken, in the struggle in which he has been for some time been engaged. It is, perhaps, impossible to hope that those halcyon days will ever arrive in which, in the course of debate, an unpremeditated remark will not occasionally occur which will give rise to some unpleasant feeling; but if ever it should occur in future, feelings of that kind must be done away, if the person in the situation of the right hon. Gentleman imitates his example, and
 1711
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : Sir, I have listened attentively to what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and also to what fell from the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) and the two right hon. Gentlemen on the opposite side in reply to his observations. Sir, I have heard that you may knock a man down and then step forward with courtesy to give him a plaster. I neither quite subscribe to the knocking down, nor have I any faith in the sincerity of those who offer the plaster. I have heard from the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer that the noble Lord at the head of the Government has resigned, and I have learned, subsequently to my coming into this House, that there has been a meeting on the subject in Downing-street. I was not there, but my absence arose from no disrespect, for I declare, upon my honour, that I did not know that any such meeting was taking place. Sir, I do not hold any place, and I never will. I have lost no-
 1713 "Naturam expellas furca, tamen usque recurrit." Laughter
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Some expressions, Sir, which fell from me the other night having been misunderstood, I should think myself wanting in that proper feeling which has marked the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman opposite if I did not say one word on this occasion. I can only say that, if I had been conscious of having used any expressions beyond the fair limits of debate, I should not have waited till now in order to retract or apolo-
 1712
 MR. CAYLEY  said, that in a great portion of the opinions which had just fallen from the hon. Member for Montrose he cordially agreed. He cordially agreed with him as to the manner in which the Members of the late Government had acted towards all those who had occasion to come in contact with them on matters of business. He thought the hon. Gentleman might have gone further, and said that in his recollection no set of men had ever administered the Government with more practical advantage to the country than the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer and his Colleagues, who were now vacating their seats on the Ministerial benches. And he might even have gone still further, as the great redresser of grievances, and said that no man who had filled the office of Chancellor of the Exche-
 1716
 MR. WALPOLE  had no doubt the hon. and gallant Member would get his Return if he would move for it another day. It was not of an immediately pressing nature.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Speaker, after the vote at which the House arrived on Thursday
 1710
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he was only asking for a continuation of a former Return, and he would divide the House if the Motion were resisted.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  moved for a Return of the unappropriated Iron Ordnance in store at Woolwich and the outports for the land and sea service; distinguishing the serviceable, unserviceable, and obsolete; and Return showing the number of Iron Ordnance condemned as unserviceable in each year since 1848, and how disposed of, and, if sold, the price paid for the same.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, it was convenient enough to come down to the House the other night for 8,000 l. l.,
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, with respect to the future I am altogether uninformed, hut with respect to the past, after what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I cannot refrain from saying one word. It would be impossible for me not to avow I was somewhat pained by an expression which fell from the right hon. Gentleman on Thursday night. If I had thought that the right hon. Gentleman, by premeditation, intended to wound me, my feelings would be far different, and it would be my duty to express them in a different manner. But I am not conscious that I have ever in the course of the debate said anything with the intentional purpose to wound the feelings of the right hon. Gentleman, and I could not believe that, without provocation, he gave expression to words intended to wound me. I was confident, therefore, that the expression that had pained me was without premeditation, and what the right hon. Gentleman has just said to-night has confirmed that impression. There is no Member of this House so deeply attached to freedom of debate as I am. In the course of debates here, I have certainly, myself, used unguarded expressions to others, and should, consequently, be the last person to feel resentment after receiving an explanation. At the same time I cordially join in what has fallen from my noble Friend the Member for the City of London. I have never failed to admire the talents of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and I also must say, under great difficulties, he has conducted the cause of the Government in the last ten months in this House with signal ability. I shall not for one moment recollect the expression to which I have thought it my duty to refer, and I hope my conduct in this House will at all times insure some portion of its respect.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  apprehended that the numbers present would not enable the hon. and gallant Member to gain his object by a division.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that by the appointment in question no rule had been infringed, nor had the usual practice been violated. The gentleman whose death occasioned the vacancy was the first President of the Money Order Department in Dublin; obviously, therefore, there was no practice or precedent as regarded that office in the Dublin Post Office. But a similar office existed in the London Post 'Office, and it appeared that in 1841 the! Earl of Lichfield appointed a gentleman! not previously in the Post Office, nor, he believed, in any public service; and on the same office again becoming vacant, in 1851, the Marquess of Clanricarde appointed a gentleman of high respectability and intelligence, not previously connected with the Post Office, or with any other department of the public service. With re-
 1719
 MR. J. BALL  said, he wished to put a question to the hon. Secretary for the Treasury. He had been informed that upon a vacancy arising lately in the office of President of the Money Order Department in Dublin, a gentleman already in the service was highly recommended by the local authorities as a proper person to fill it, and that there were thirty-four other gentlemen who might, in the ordinary I course of promotion, have aspired to fill the office; but that the appointment had nevertheless been given to another gentleman who had not previously been in the public service at all, and who, he believed, was chiefly known to the public in Ireland for the extreme violence of his denunciations of the Poor Law Board. He wished to know, therefore, whether in filling up the vacant office of President of the Money Order Department in the Post Office in Dublin the usual practice of that department had been violated by the appointment to the vacancy of a person not previously engaged in the public service?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he begged to put a question to the right hon. Secretary of State for the Colonies. It would be in his recollection that a deputation waited upon him before the dissolution of Parliament, with regard to a certain occurrence at Gibraltar. In the month of March a meeting of the merchants and traders of that own was called with the view to passing a memorial to the Colonial Secretary with regard to certain grievances which they complained of. The Governor of Gibraltar issued a notice that the meeting should not be held. The meeting, therefore, was not held, and the merchants and traders were shut out from making known their grievances in the ordinary way to the Colonial Office. The right hon. Gentlemen gave the deputation to understand he would apply to the Governor of Gibraltar for his statement, and inform them of the result. He wished now to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he had made the application; if any return had been made by the Governor of Gibraltar; and if any statement or answer had been returned, whether he would be kind enough to lay it oh the table of the House?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he remembered the circumstance of the deputation to which the hon. Member had alluded, and in consequence of the information he then received he addressed a letter of inquiry to the Governor of Gibraltar; but he had not yet received any explanation in answer.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he wished to trespass upon the House for two or three minutes. He was sure there could be but one feeling, that no degree of blame attached either to the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, or to any Member of the Government, for these constant adjournments; but it was lamentable that the country should be left in its present state of suspense, occasioning an interruption to all the public business of the country. He, and, no doubt, many other hon. Members, were anxious to move for returns, but they were quite at a loss to know to whom to apply for them. He was bound to say, that he had always received the greatest attention and courtesy from every department of the Government, and he was confident others would say the same thing; but he repeated that it was lamentable the country should be kept in its present suspense, owing to the in competency of those who had dared to wrest the Government of this country from the only hands competent to perform the duties of office in a manner satisfactory to the public at large. But a fair and honourable trial had not been afforded them, and they were now about to be displaced by men who knew nothing of their business, who had run away from their posts, and who had put him more in mind of Sir John Falstaff's ragged corps than any other body of men he could think of. When was this to end? It reflected no credit on the party opposite, who were attempting to come in, and he trusted that the country would express its deep sense of their misconduct. He firmly believed that if they did get in they would not retain their offices for any long period. They were black sheep, and would show themselves in their colours before many weeks were over. He had thought it his duty, on the part of the country—[ A laugh
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I believe it will be convenient
 1720
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he wished for one moment to call the attention of the House to a subject which he was sure was equally interesting to both sides—he meant the late Arctic Expedition. Her Majesty's present Government
 1721
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that in the case of an election petition complaining of an undue return, or of the return of a Member in consequence of bribery, but not claiming the seat for another person, it was competent for the House to issue a now writ; but in the case of a petition complaining of the undue return of a Member, and claiming the seat for another person, it was not competent for the House to issue a new writ pending the petition, inasmuch
 1743
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, that as the petition against Sir Alexander Cockburn merely prayed that the election should be declared a void election, it did not appear to him that any injury could be done to the petitioners by the issuing of a new writ; because the opposing candidate had only to serve a notice that the hon. and learned Gentleman was disqualified for sitting in that House in consequence of having been guilty of bribery, and then, if he should afterwards be found guilty of this charge by the Committee who had been appointed to try the petition, he would consequently be disqualified, and the person opposing him would be declared the sitting Member.
 COLONEL FORESTER  said, he should like to have the opinion of Mr. Speaker whether a new writ could be issued for Southampton pending the petition against the former return of Sir Alexander Cockburn on the ground of bribery?
 MR. HAYTER  moved, that a new writ be issued for the borough of Southampton, in the room of Sir Alexander Cockburn, who since his election had accepted the office of Her Majesty's Attorney General.
 MR. HAYTER  said, he had been re-requested by Sir Alexander Cockburn to say that he would not have consented to
 1744
