 LORD JOHN RUSSELL , having laid on the table a Convention relative to the succession to the Throne of Greece, said: In moving that these papers lie on the table, I think it may be convenient to the House if I state the course which Her Majesty's Government think it fit to pursue with respect to the measures which it is their intention to bring forward in the early part of the Session. In the first place, I beg to say at once that it is not my intention, nor is it at all necessary for me, to make any statement with regard to the general principles and views of Her Majesty's Government. A statement of
 18 19 20 21 22 23
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that a Commission had been appointed which had had under its consideration the subject of the Ecclesiastical Courts. It was desirable, before proceeding in the matter, to consider the report of that Commission, but the Government did intend to make a proposal on the subject.
 MR. BRIGHT  begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs whether Her Majesty's Government intended to introduce any measures for the reform—or, what would be infinitely better, the abolition—of the Ecclesiastical Courts.
 MR. HAYTER  said, that it might be convenient if he were to state the days upon which some of the Government measures would be brought forward. He therefore, begged to state that to-morrow the Chancellor of the Exchequer would move for leave to bring in a Bill to authorise advances from the Consolidated Fund to discharge money borrowed for Metropolitan Improvements. On Monday, the 14th, the Lord Advocate would move for leave to bring in a Bill to facilitate the procedure in the Sheriffs' Courts in Scotland. On Tuesday, the 15th, the Under Secretary for the Colonies would move for leave to bring in a Bill to enable the Legislature of Canada to make provision concerning the clergy reserves. On Friday, the 18th, the First Lord of the Admiralty would
 24
 SIR JAMES DUKE  asked if Her Majesty's Government intended to introduce any measure on the subject of betting houses?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  replied, that the question to which his hon. Friend alluded was one that required great attention, and he feared that there was a good deal of foundation for the opinion that much evil had been produced by betting houses. At the same time, the subject was involved in very great difficulties, and he confessed that he had not yet satisfied his own mind as to any practicable measure that would accomplish the purpose in view, without going beyond the object which was sought to be attained. But it was a subject to which he was still giving his attention.
 MR. KINNAIRD  wished to know whether the attention of the Government had been drawn to a statement made by Mr. Everett, expressive of the sympathy of the United States with the Madiai, and also stating that a vessel should be provided to convey them to that country. If the noble Lord was in possession of such a document, he wished to know whether it would be laid on the table, together with any papers or extracts of correspondence relating to the case of the Madiai.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  wished to call the attention of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department (Viscount Palmerston) to the disgraceful state of the graveyards in the metropolis—a state which was most shameful, and most injurious to the public health, and which rendered the largest thoroughfares dangerous. He wished now to refer more particularly to that of St. Clement Danes, in the Strand. Great complaints had been made of the state of that churchyard, and many persons had been attacked by serious diseases in consequence of passing along that part of the Strand. One gentleman, who happened to be passing at the time of a funeral, was struck with a most virulent disease, which assumed an appearance very like the plague, swellings having arisen under each arm, and he remained for a considerable time in a state of great danger. Many medical men of eminence considered it dangerous for persons to pass along the streets, and were of opin-
 38
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs (Lord John Russell) whether, in the present state of Turkey, he intended any longer to leave this country unrepresented at Constantinople, or whether he intended to send out Lord Stratford, or some other individual?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  replied that he had seen Lord Stratford de Redcliffe that day on the subject, that he had had several previous communications with the noble Lord on the affairs in Turkey, and that it was now arranged that he should go out almost immediately to resume his functions as British Ambassador at the Porte.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that on reading the report in the newspapers, he did not consider it necessary to ask Mr. Sadleir for any explanation, thinking that a statement so obviously incorrect could not have been made by that Gentleman. However, Mr. Sadleir had yesterday voluntarily informed him that the report was entirely inaccurate, and that certain words had been attributed to him by the Tory journals which he had never used. Mr. Sadleir went on to state that what he did say was in effect that the composition of the Government gave the Irish people a guarantee that the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill would not be made use of to infringe the religious liberties of the Roman Catholic people—that the acceptance of office by Lord John Russell, in conjunction with those who had opposed the principle of the Ecclesiastical Titles Act, ought to be regarded as a refutation of a false charge that he would use the Act to the injury of the Catholics of the United Kingdom. This was the statement of what Mr. Sadleir did say, and it was a statement of which he (Lord John Russell) had no reason to complain. He ought, however, to say that it was never intended, nor would it have been permitted, while Lord Clarendon was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and Sir George Grey was Home Secretary, and he and his Colleagues in the Cabinet held office, that the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill should have been used against the religious liberties of the Roman Catholics. The hon. Gentleman went on to ask whether he still thought that the aggression of the Pope, which induced him to bring forward the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, was "insolent and insidious," and fully justified the introduction of that measure? He certainly thought the hon. Gentleman had taken a very considerable latitude in his inquiries, when he proposed a question with respect to his thoughts. But as the hon. Gentleman was so curious on the sub-
 40
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  was unable to answer the first question without referring to the documents in the Foreign Office; but had no objection to lay on the table the extracts of correspondence referred to by the hon. Member.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that, with respect to the question of his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford, he had to state that it was certainly quite true that by the 25th article of the law to which he had referred, it was declared that no foreigner could profess in Spain any other religion than the "Catholic Apostolic Roman" religion. The noble Lord who preceded him at the Foreign Office had asked for an explanation of that decree; and he held in his hand the answer which Lord Howden had given to the despatch in which that explanation had been demanded. Lord Howden, after stating that he understood the question to be, whether it was intended by the decree to deprive foreigners, whether domiciliated or travelling in Spain, of any right or privilege, in regard to matters of religion, which they had previously been permitted to enjoy, said that he had put that question verbally to the Spanish Minister of Foreign Affairs, and that the answer he had received was, that "the contents of the said article did not in the slightest degree change the practice hitherto observed, nor could any alteration be introduced thereby in what had previously obtained with regard to the point to which the said article had referred." There were one or two more despatches relating to the subject, but that was the information given upon the point to which his hon. Friend had specially referred. If his hon. Friend wished that the despatches upon the subject should be laid before the House, he (Lord J. Russell) could have no objection to comply with that wish. With regard to the question which had been put by his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract relative to a Protestant burial-ground at Madrid, he had to state that some correspondence had lately taken place upon that subject. A spot of ground had been offered for a Protestant cemetery by the Spanish Government, but there were some objections made to that particular spot. There had, however, been no question, he believed, lately with reference to the performance of religious ceremonies at the interments of Protestants. He had not been aware that a question
 36
 MR. ADDERLEY  wished to know whether the obstacles which had arisen with regard to the completion of the constitution of the Cape of Good Hope—those relating to the franchise and the separation of the two Provinces—had been removed, and whether there was any prospect of the speedy completion of that constitution according to the letters patent of 1850? Also, whether the Government had any intention of forming a convict settlement in any part of South Africa? And whether the movement of the troops upon the territory of the Basuter was likely to lead to a prolongation of hostilities, or promised a speedy and permanent establishment of the British authority over the Orange River Sovereignty?
 MR. M. MILNES  said, that, before his noble Friend answered that question, he wished to ask another question which had an incidental relation to this subject. It had been stated not long ago by our Foreign Minister at the time, that, after sundry negociations with the Spanish Government, permission had been given at last to open a Protestant burial-ground near the city of Madrid. But he (Mr. M. Milnes) had reason to believe that that permission had been limited by a provision to the effect that no religious ceremony whatever should be performed over the grave of the person interred in such ground. Now, it appeared to him that this condition was
 35
 MR. SPOONER  wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs (Lord John Russell) a question of which he had given notice. In a printed paper, purporting to be a report of a speech delivered by Mr. Sadleir, one of the Lords of the Treasury, at the recent election for Carlow, it was stated that "the noble Lord had proffered a political refutation of the course which he had taken with respect to the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, which that distinguished nobleman had had the manliness to proffer." He wished to ask whether the noble Lord had proffered such a refutation of the principles of the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill? On the same authority, Mr. Sadleir was likewise reported to
 39
 MR. HILDYARD  wished to put a question with reference to the very distressing mortality which, according to the accounts recently received, had taken place on board four vessels chartered by the Emigration Commissioners to convey emigrants from Liverpool to Melbourne. In one of those vessels, which made an unusually favourable passage in point of time, the voyage having occupied only sixty-four days, no less than 104 persons perished, and the remainder on reaching Melbourne were in a state of great prostration from sickness. The question which he wished to ask was, whether the Government had caused inquiry to be made into the mortality which, according to the recent accounts from Australia, took place on board four vessels chartered by the Emigration Commissioners to convey emigrants between ports of Liverpool and Melbourne?
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the Government had received an account of the great mortality which had occurred on board the vessels to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had alluded. He believed that upwards of 104 deaths had occurred on board one vessel, and that on her arrival in the harbour at Melbourne no less than 300 persons were labouring under sickness arising from one cause or another. No doubt a great mortality had occurred on board all the four vessels. They were vessels of unusual size, and carried more than the ordinary number of passengers, having two decks prepared for their accommodation. Up to that time it had never been the practice of the Emigration Board to put passengers on board vessels with more than a single deck; but the state of the shipping interest at the period the vessels were taken up rendered the engagement entered into unavoidable. He understood when the vessels were engaged
 37
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL , with reference to the first question, said that the nature of the franchise, and all the other details to be decided upon before the introduction of a new form of legislature, were at present under the consideration of the Government, and he had reason to believe that the matter was now in such a state of forwardness that it would admit of the constitutional ordinance being sent out to the colony by the mail of next month. It answer to the second question, he had to state that the Government had no intention of establishing a convict settlement in any part of South Africa. With regard to the third question, General Cathcart had advanced with a body of 2,000 troops to the
 41
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  thanked the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs for his promise to produce the papers for which he had asked, and trusted that they would be laid on the table at as early a period as possible.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he would take that opportunity of putting to his noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs (Lord John Russell) the question of which he had given notice, with respect to a decree which had been issued by the Spanish Government on the 17th of November last, by which it was provided that foreigners, either domiciliated in Spain, or travelling through that country, should profess no other religion there except the "Catholic Apostolic and Roman," or, in other words, except the religion of the Church of Rome. If that decree had re-
 33 Gazette 34
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the particular case to which the noble Lord had alluded, was brought under his notice a few days ago, by a deputation from the parish to which that graveyard belonged; and the result was, that a meeting of the vestry was held, and an application was made to him for an Order in Council to shut up that graveyard, and that Order would as soon as possible be passed. He considered the state of the graveyards in this metropolis, generally speaking, a disgrace to a civilised community, and he trusted that the authorities of the parishes with whom it rested to take steps to correct so dreadful an evil, would not be deterred by any consideration of local expense from taking those precautions which would have the effect of removing from the metropolis a source of pestilence which might be attended with the most disastrous results, should it be the will of Providence that any outbreak of the cholera, which was raging in some parts of the Continent, should occur in the metropolis. He could assure the House that the attention of the Government would be anxiously directed to the subject to which the noble Lord had drawn their attention.
 MR. HUME  said, he would also submit it to the Government whether, as a change must take place in the mode of assessing the income tax, a change should not also be made in the mode of appointing the persons who were to carry the Act into effect. These Commissioners were appointed, not by the authority of the responsible advisers of the Crown, but by cliques throughout every part of the country. He had known this carried to an extent that would hardly be credited. In the case of Mr. Fielden, these Commissioners assessed that gentleman to a large
 89
 MR. HUME  said, that at the present moment the assessed taxes were levied by the Land Tax Commissioners appointed under this Act. The power of appointing the officers to collect the income tax, therefore, did not rest with the Government; and what he required was, that the powers given by the Act called the Land Tax Act should be abrogated, and that nobody should be appointed to collect the income tax except under the authority of the Chan-
 90
 MR. HUME  said, he trusted that the effect of the Bill would not be to bring any additional charge upon the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, that having presented a petition that day from his constituents (Newcastle-on-Tyne) on the subject of this Bill, he might say that he was satisfied that the petitioners would be ready to acquiesce in this Bill, provided he received an assurance from the right hon. Gentleman that it would not add a penny more of charge to the London Bridge Approaches Fund.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought part of the learned Lord's statement would be received with great satisfaction—he meant that part which promised the removal of abuses, than which nothing could be more absurd; but he doubted much whether the people of Scotland would be content with a half measure like this, when they saw how much room there was for more important changes. He doubted very much whether the learned Lord was right in making the distinction he proposed to establish between 12 l. l. 96
 MR. CRAWFURD  said, he thought the amount of the sum in dispute offered no ground at all for establishing any distinction in respect of the mode of trial. He should wish to see the whole system of the Courts in question reduced to a simple method of oral examination, and also the appellate system abolished. It was his intention, had not the present Bill been introduced, to have proposed the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the subject, and he should still reserve to himself the right of bringing in a Bill if he were not satisfied with this.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he begged to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the further regulation of the office of Examiner in the Court of Chancery. The House would recollect that in the last Session of the last Parliament a large portion of that reform so much needed by the Court of Chancery was embodied in a statute. He said a large portion, because much yet remained to be done, and, for his part, he would never be content until that should be effected, without which all law reform would prove ineffectual—namely, the consolidation of jurisdiction, and the administration of equity and common law from the same bench. By the statute passed in the last Session, the examiners were required to take evidence orally instead of by deposition. It was found, how-
 97
 MR. HUME  said, he wished that the words of the Motion should run "into the nature and operation" of the Acts, which would give greater scope to its inquiries.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the hon. Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley), having given notice of a particular Motion, it evidently should not now be altered. He thought the word "operation" alone gave ample sufficient latitude, and that all points of real utility would be included under the Motion as it now stood. On the part of the Corporation of the City of London,
 98
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : My right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Control is unable to attend from indisposition; but as the right hon. Gentleman has given notice of his intention of putting the question to-day, I think he had better proceed with it at present.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman, in alluding to this subject the other night, stated that my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Control had taken occasion, in a speech delivered by him at Halifax, to advert to our foreign relations, and to say that, on speaking of France, my right hon. Friend said so and so—reading the words which he has repeated this evening. Now, in the first place, I think it necessary to state that what my right hon. Friend said was not in a speech upon the subject of our foreign relations, to which he was not adverting at the time, but he took occasion in the course of his speech to the electors at Halifax to argue the question of universal suffrage and parliamentary reform generally, and used such illustration as he thought appropriate to that subject. There is a very great difference between using an argument upon the subject, and going over our foreign relations and speaking of France in the manner which the right hon. Gentleman suggests. But I thought it necessary, after what the right hon. Gentleman had said to this House, to call upon my right hon. Friend, and I have since received a letter from him on the subject, which with the leave of the House I will read, as it contains a far better explanation than I can pretend to give of my right hon. Friend's own impression on the subject. He says—
 "I am sorry to hear that any expressions reported to have been used by me in addressing a meeting of my constituents at Halifax should have been understood as offensive to the Emperor
 85
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, with respect to the question with which my hon. Friend has concluded, I have to state, that although it is true that the French Government have thought right both to increase and to improve their naval means, yet that increase and that improvement have been going on gradually; and, considering that France is a great maritime country, I think it is not at all such as to justify or require the Government of this country either to remonstrate or make it any question with the Government of France. I will just say that the relations between the two countries are of the most friendly nature: and I may say, speaking generally of European affairs, that the best understanding prevails between the two Governments. With regard to the information in the letter of the noble Lord, to which my hon. Friend has alluded, I certainly must profess my ignorance. I believe this Government has tolerably good information, and I believe that there is no concealment on the part of the Government of France with regard to the improvement and increase which they are making in their ships. But with respect to such information as that communicated by the noble Lord, I certainly have none whatever. All I know is, that in that letter the noble Lord has made some awkward mistakes, for he speaks of the withdrawal of an ambassador in consequence of the Pritchard dispute, on which occasion no ambassador was withdrawn by this country; and I should say, on the evidence of that letter, and of a former
 87 Times
 MR. DISRAELI : Of course I cannot have the slightest objection to do so. I do not know whether it is necessary for me to call the attention of the House to the paragraph alleged to have been contained in a speech recently delivered at Halifax by the right hon. Gentleman the President
 84 "Take our nearest neighbours. Such a despotism never prevailed in France, even in the time of Napoleon the First. The press gagged—liberty suppressed—no man allowed to speak his opinion—the neighbouring country of Belgium forced to gag her press—no press in Europe free but ours, which, thank God! he cannot gag. And hence his hatred of our press, that it alone dares to speak the truth."
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, with reference to the question of which I gave notice on Friday, relating to a speech delivered by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, who, I am sorry to hear, is unable to attend to-day, I would, if it were more convenient to the Government, and would be considered more fair to them, mention generally the subject of our relations between Her Majesty's Government and the French Government before going into Committee of Supply on a future day, and thus give them an opportunity for more explanations than the present occasion would probably allow. But it is according to what may be the wish of the Government that I shall shape my course.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, the explanation of the Lord Advocate had given him great satisfaction. He was quite of opinion that the useful and honourable office of sheriff principal should be maintained. The sheriffs substitutes were a very useful set of judges, and had been of great service to the country, but the confidence felt in their decisions would be impaired if the power of appeal should be withdrawn; and therefore he was pleased to find that the right hon. and learned Gentleman intended to retain it.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that the law had never been altered since the Reform Bill passed; so that whilst the old Parliamentary boroughs still retained their former power of appointing their own Land Tax Commissioners, it devolved upon the county Members to appoint Commissioners for the new boroughs.
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he approved of the general outline of the measure, and was happy to find that the Lord Advocate was disposed to adopt any suggestions proceeding from Scotch Members which were calculated to improve the Bill.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill to facilitate procedure in the Sheriffs' Courts of Scotland. His predecessor in office had intended to introduce a measure for the same object, but was prevented from doing so by the resignation of the late Government. He had, however, placed at his (the Lord Advocate's) disposal all the materials which he had collected on the subject—an advantage of which he had to a considerable extent availed himself in the preparation of the present Bill. He wished as briefly as possible to state to the House the object and scope of the measure. It would be a great mistake to suppose that the Sheriffs' Courts in Scotland were analogous in any material degree to the County Courts in England. Scotland was not, like England, now trying an experiment for the first time, for the administration of cheap and expeditious justice,
 93 viva voce l. l. l. l. 94 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 95
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that it was proposed to postpone the Bill till the 11th of April, by which time he hoped to be able to answer the remarks that the hon. Member for Lambeth had just made. If the hon. Member had communicated with him before the Bill came under discussion, he (Mr. Wilson) would have taken care to inform himself of the particulars of the grievance alluded to. He would, however, investigate the matter before the subject again came before the House, and would inquire if there was a practical mode of remedying the evil complained of.
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I wish to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs; and, to show its necessity, I will preface it by reading some extracts from a letter which appeared in the  Times "Peculiar circumstances have enabled me to obtain information, which cannot be doubted, upon important points bearing upon these questions; but before referring to it, I would state that I lived in France, have been on terms of intimacy with many Frenchmen, and have lost no opportunity of making myself acquainted with the state of public feeling. I never met the man who, if pressed, did not admit that no conviction as to what their interest might be could prevent the longing desire to have their revenge for the events of the last war. I would defy even any Frenchman to assert that the force which they were known to possess last year was not amply sufficient for any purpose which France could require, excepting for that of an invasion of our possessions." "I therefore contend that every additional ship to that great force—they have now more sailors in their pay than we have, without our vast colonial empire—is an additional proof that they do contemplate a descent on our shores. I have received positive information, which cannot be doubted, that they are now striving to the very utmost to increase their naval force in every
 86 "I repeat that the information I have received, of preparations which can only be made for aggression, may be relied on."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that his anxiety was to let the House know that there would be no additional charge placed on the London Bridge Approaches Fund whatever; but now there was another alarm raised on the part of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume) with regard to the Consolidated Fund. Now, no new charge would be created upon the
 92
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he understood his hon, Friend the Member for Montrose to state the great hardship which arose to individuals from the circumstance that the Government had no power to interpose in cases where the assessment was too high, and to propose that the Government should take power in order to enable them to meet such cases. But he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would like to know if his hon. Friend proposed to accompany that proposition with power for the Government also to interpose in eases where the assessment was too low; because, although there might be grievances in certain spots and quarters from the assessment being too high, yet the real evil which they had to deal with was the great inequality of the assessment; and therefore he should like to know from his hon. Friend, who had great experience, whether he proposed that the Government should be invested with the power he had described?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Resolution which he had to put into the Chairman's hands explained the nature of the Bill which he proposed to ask leave to introduce. The Resolution was to this effect:—
 "That the several sums of money which have been borrowed in pursuance of various Acts of Parliament on the security of the Land Revenues of the Crown, and certain other moneys charged on the London Bridge Approaches Fund, for the purpose of Metropolitan Improvements, shall, with the interest thereon, be charged upon and made payable out of the Consolidated Fund of Great Britain and Ireland." 91
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he proposed to exonerate the Land Revenue entirely from any portion of this charge for the future. The operation would take time, because a portion would be liquidated at once, and a portion would require a short notice. The hon. Baronet had asked what would be the precise amount. In answer to that, he said that the precise amount borrowed from the various parties was 895,000 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that a question of vast magnitude was involved in the proposition. He understood the Committee would have to go into the consideration of the whole of the Acts of Parliament under which the dues in question were levied. Inasmuch as this was a closed question, and the dues were mortgaged for the payment of moneys advanced on the credit of the various funds, he did not think it all expedient that the Committee should be appointed to consider the original prudence of engagements which were now to be dealt with, not according to their original prudence, but according to the public interests involved in them.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected to the power given to the county Members to name the Commissioners of Laud Tax. He considered that he had as good a right as the Members for the county of Surrey to name these Commissioners. He had some names to propose, and though he had no doubt they would be put on if he mentioned them to the Members for the county, he objected on principle to take such a course. His constituency was more than twice that which returned the four Members for the county. Why, therefore, should he ask them as a favour to put these names on? Some years ago, when a similar Bill was brought in, he divided the House on the insertion of the names so often, that the Secretary of the Treasury gave way, and he obtained his point. He would take the same course again, if necessary. But he hoped the Government would not sanction an absurd custom, and put him to the trouble of dividing the House, which would occupy an inconvenient length of time.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  hoped the grievance complained of by the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) would be remedied in the present Bill. It was not a proper state of things that large cities and boroughs should be obliged to submit their lists of additional Land Tax Commissioners through the medium of the county Members.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL , having presented a petition from Brighton, praying that that town might not be included in the Bill, said he begged to express his pleasure at seeing the right hon. Baronet below him (Sir W. Molesworth) a member of the Government, because he was sure that he would speedily make himself master of the entire subject to which the measure before the House related. During the last ten months the Board of Health had been legislating by provisional orders, which it was quite impossible for those who had to supervise them to comprehend; and he (Sir G. Pechell) felt certain that there were not ten Members of the last Parliament, nor one of the new Parliament, who understood the merits of the question. A provisional order was at present to be obtained from the Board of Health by an application from any town signed by one-tenth of the ratepayers, and when the order was obtained it required months and years to comprehend it. He hoped that the House would prevent the Board of Health from issuing such orders for the future, especially as the powers conferred by them were so extensive. He had confidence in the right hon. Baronet, and hoped that he would take care that some change should soon be made in the present unsatisfactory manner of conducting business by the Board of Health. In fact, the system required to be totally altered. He should not at that stage oppose the introduction of the town of Brighton into the Bill, but he trusted that the inhabitants would be allowed sufficient time to express their opinions on the subject.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would ask whether any portion of this charge would fall upon the Land Revenues of the Crown; and also what would be the precise amount required to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund to effect the proposed object?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he begged to move that a Select Commitee be appointed to inquire into the operation of the Laws under which Dues or Taxes are levied on the introduction of Coals into the Metropolis and the neighbourhood, the mode of collection, and the expenditure of such Dues or Taxes. He believed there was no opposition to his proposal on the part of Her Majesty's Government.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he would not enter upon a defence of the present constitution of the Board of Health, which would terminate at the end of the
 88
 MR. HUME  said, that having been alluded to, he presumed, as one of the ignorant Radicals in that House, he could not allow the question to pass without thanking Her Majesty's Government for what they proposed to do. They were about to complete that system of self-government that would alone ensure peace in that important colony, because, as the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had observed, from the hour responsible government was established, there prosperity had commenced. Having many years ago advised the adoption of the course which was now proposed to be taken, it was delightful to him to see the advance of sound principles, and he begged to thank the hon. Gentleman who introduced the subject for the candour with which he had brought forward his Motion. He had done so with great ability; he had omitted nothing that was necessary to elucidate the nature of the object they had in view—to show the evils they desired to remove, and the good that might be expected to arise from the proposed change. He was sure that the sentiments expressed by the hon. Gentleman would be received in Canada in the way they should be received, as embodying the principles that alone could render the colony prosperous. He hoped that this was the commencement of a system which would be also extended to every colony that was entitled to enjoy the advantages and benefits resulting from self-government. He hoped his hon. Friend
 153
 MR. HUME  said, the noble Lord the Foreign Secretary had the other night given some explanations respecting the business of the Session; but a difference of opinion existed as to what were his real intentions with regard to the income tax. The reports in the papers on the point rather differed, and he wished now to ask the noble Lord what were the real intentions of the Government—whether they meant to continue the tax in its present state for another year, or whether they intended to make any, and what, alterations?
 MR. HUME : In that case, then, he trusted the Government would have no objection to a renewal of the Committee on the Income Tax, for the purpose of completing the information, which was alleged to be defective. He would put a question on that subject on Friday.
 MR. HEADLAM , in seconding the Motion, said that the hon. Member for West Surrey deserved the thanks of the House and the public for his unwearied perseverance in endeavouring to improve the law concerning real estate by facilitating the sale and transfer of land, and providing a
 131 132
 MR. HUME  said, that as the Bill was only permissive, it would not be of that use which otherwise it might be. The present system entailed a great loss on landed proprietors. He believed that there was a difference of two years and a half purchase in the sale of an estate in Scotland, and an estate of equal value in England. With this fact before it, it was extraordinary that a nation which boasted of its good sense had so long tolerated so vicious a system. He was present on an occasion when an estate in Belgium was conveyed in five minutes. Any plan that would introduce similar facilities in the sale and transfer of land in England, would confer the greatest benefit on the public, and on the owners of real property.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, it appeared to him that the right hon. Baronet who had just resumed his seat, had completely avoided giving any opinion upon the great question involved in this Bill, whether the Parliament of Great Britain should allow the colony of Canada to legislate for itself, or should legislate for it. He seemed to have felt himself hampered by the declaration he had made in one of his despatches with respect to the feelings of the majority of the people of Canada, and he endeavoured to set the opinion of the people of Canada, as collected from petitions and letters sent to him from the bishops of the colony, against the declarations of the Assembly. When, however, we had once established a Legislative Assembly, he (Mr. Smith) thought we must adopt their declarations as the opinion of the people of Canada. But the right hon. Baronet had broached a still more singular doctrine, for he had told the House that although there was a division against the reserves, yet that the Members for the large constituencies wore in the minority. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would reserve that argument for a future time, and that when other reforms were mooted, he would be preferring the opinion of the larger constituencies to that of Droitwich. It was true the Imperial Parliament had agreed to the Act of 1840, which had been brought forward by his noble Friend (Lord John Russell); but it could not be so irreversible that the Imperial Parliament could not now alter it. That would be to settle upon his noble Friend a new finality. The Bill of 1840 had given the colony ten years of tranquillity, so that it had not wholly failed of its effect. The right hon. Baronet had concluded by telling them that he did not imagine that the terms of the capitulation of Lower Canada were more binding on the country than the provisions of an Act of Parliament. But he thought it could hardly be contended that Parliament had no power to repeal an Act passed no longer since than 1840. As to the statement of his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Colonies, that if the question was left to the Legislature of Canada, they might deal with it as it was dealt with at present, he must confess that his own opinion in 1840, when the existing Act was passed, was that the public opinion of Canada was in favour of the secularisation of the reserves; he did not know how it might have been modified since. This, however, was not a question with
 148
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I am very glad, Sir, to have the opportunity of stating what I really did say on the occasion to which my hon. Friend has alluded. It has been supposed that I stated that it was the intention of the Government to propose a renewal of the tax without al-
 125
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down differs certainly a good deal from the right hon. Gentleman the late Secretary for the Colonies (Sir J. Pakington). The former states that these grants from the Crown are so irrevocable, that having been once made it is beyond the competence of Parliament to interfere with them; but if that is the case, the final settlement in 1840, argued upon by the right hon. Member for Droitwich, was a most unjustifiable interference with the previous settlement made by Parliament in 1791. But the difference does not even stop here, because the right hon. Gentlemen the Member for Droitwich, who argues that the final settlement of 1840 should be adhered to at
 150 151 152
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that certainly was his intention. He conceived that a Bill intended to create a combination of interests between two new companies was included within the words; but if there was any doubt on the subject, he should be happy to introduce words to make the Resolution more explicit.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the question had been very fully discussed by the Committee, and they considered that they would be wanting in their duty if they permitted a second reading affirming a principle of any combination to be once passed, before the House was in full possession of the proceedings instituted by the Committee. He thought the addition which he had already made calculated to meet every reasonable wish on the part of the promoters of Bills.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he rose on the part of the Committee appointed by the House to consider the amalgamation of railways, to move the Motion of which he had given notice. It was the object of the Committee, who were about to examine on the next day the first witness upon the subject referred to them, to insure to the House the greatest possible benefit from their inquiry, and not to compromise the perfect freedom of the House in dealing with the subject, and at the same time to inflict upon those whoso Bills would be delayed a short time in consequence of the pendency of the inquiry as little inconvenience as possible; and upon the result of that examination the Committee came to the conclusion, that if they permitted parties to read their Bills a second time before Easter, so long before Easter that the time required by the Standing Orders for the presenting of petitions against such Bills would have expired before the Easter recess, and that the parties promoting the Bills would, therefore, be able to go into Committee on those Bills immediately after the Easter recess, the amount of inconvenience would, in his opinion, be the smallest possible. With regard to the proceedings of the House, the Committee came to the conclusion that the inconvenience would be next to nothing. There was, however, one inconvenience to which the promoters of Bills would be subject, namely, that parties desirous of opposing Bills would obtain a little longer time to make up their minds to petition. The Committee were desirous of obviating that objection if they could; but upon the examination of the gentlemen before them, and a full consideration of the case, they
 123 "That no Railway or Canal Bill containing any powers of Amalgamation, Lease, Working Arrangement, or other combination of interest between different Companies, be read a second time before the 14th day of March next, unless the parties interested in promoting such Bill shall elect to proceed with the same on the terms of striking out in Committee all such powers aforesaid."
 COLONEL FORESTER  begged to inquire if the right hon. Gentleman would consent to add to his Motion the words "if required so to do?"
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  said, he rose to ask for leave to introduce a Bill to facilitate the sale and purchase of land; no person doubted the necessity of such alteration, and the only question related to the means by which it could be best effected. If they all put their shoulders to the wheel, something might be done; yet, by the conduct of proprietors and lawyers, difficulties were thrown in the way of the sale of land; for, so long as landed proprietors would burden their lands in the absurd manner in which they were accustomed to burden those lands, so long would it be utterly impossible to place them on the same footing with persons who held land unencumbered—so long would it be impossible to put them on a level with those who had well conducted the management of their property. Gentlemen must remember what was the origin of their tenure. It was derived from the times when the possession of land carried with it military service, and the consequence was, that we found many instances in which, where the land fell into the hands of women, they were not allowed to marry any person except by consent of the Crown. But landed proprietors then acted as landed proprietors did now, and tried to escape from the restrictions imposed on them. Securities were sought for on all sides,
 126 127 128 129 Mirror of Magistrates, 130 "what many persons desired was this—not simply to reduce the transfer of land by the easiest of all plans, but they wanted to stop all dispositions of land for the purpose of family enjoyment, and of supporting the dignities their Lordships possessed." bonâ fide "This question produced most important social and constitutional considerations. It was ridiculous to speak of it as the transfer of land; it involved every question upon which the happiness and prosperity of this country depended; and this he would venture to say, that no man could prove to their Lordships that a general registration would in any way shorten by a single line the conveyance of land."
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  said, he believed that the greatest benefit would result to the railway interest from the inquiry now placed in the hands of the Committee. The railway interest was now so extensive and complicated, that nothing short of Imperial legislation could put it to rights, or do justice to the body of railway proprietors. He fully concurred in the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said, he wished to know whether that notice would apply to Bills brought in during the present Session forming new companies, which
 124
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : Sir, I rise to ask for leave to introduce a Bill which shall empower the Legislature of Canada to exercise a control over the provisions at present regulating the appropriation of the clergy reserves in that province; and I trust that the House will bear in mind how important this question is, and how deep an interest the people in that province take in it, if, in doing my best to put the House in possession of the precise nature and object of this Bill, I trespass for some little time on its attention. The clergy reserves constitute a fund of no inconsiderable magnitude. They take their origin from a period as far back as the year 1791. At that time the province of Canada was divided into two parts, and in the place of the single Council of Government which then legislated for the whole province, there were substituted two representative legislatures, one for each division of the province. In the Act known as the Constitutional Act, which made that alteration in the constitution of Canada, it was provided that whenever the Crown disposed of its waste lands, one-seventh in value of the lands which were disposed of should he reserved for the benefit of the Protestant clergy. That proportion of the value of the waste lands disposed of continued to be reserved for a period of fifty years; but in the year 1840 an Act was passed which put an end to any further reservations of land for that purpose. In the course of those fifty years I need not say that a very great quantity of land had been reserved. A large portion of it, however, had been sold, and at the present time the clergy reserves consist in part of land and in part of money, of investments in the funds of this country and of Canada, which have been created by the sale and disposition of lands which originally were reserved. The manner in which this fund is appropriated is this. Its revenue is applied to the payment of stipends to ministers of the different religious denominations. It is not the case that these denominations participate in that fund in proportion to their relative numbers, or to the strength of each, because it will be found that, notwithstanding the change which took place in the year 1840, the Established Churches of England and of Scotland derive by far the greatest advantage from the existence of this fund. I will read an extract from a despatch of Lord Elgin, accompanying what is known
 134 l l l l l 135 "The chief practical question is, whether His Majesty should be advised to recommend to Parliament the assumption to itself of the office of deciding on the future appropriation of these lands. There are two distinct reasons, both of which appear to me conclusively to forbid that course of proceeding. First, Parliamentary legislation on any subject of exclusively internal concern in any British Colony possessing a representative assembly is, as a general rule, unconstitutional." "I cannot admit that there exist in this country greater facilities than in Upper Canada for the adjustment of this controversy; on the contrary, the provincial Legislature will bring to the decision of it an extent of accurate information as to the wants and general opinion of society in that country on which Parliament is unavoidably deficient." 136 "We are all of opinion that the effect of the 41st section of the Act of 1791 is prospective, and that the powers thereby vested in the Legislative Council and the House of Assembly of either of the provinces cannot be extended to affect lands which have been already appropriated." 137 138 "those in communion 'with the churches peculiarly benefited by this fund, instead of trying to influence the public mind of the colony, are continually looking to the opinion of the mother country, and content to take shelter under the shadow of an Act of Parliament, while, if left to themselves, there may be very good ground to anticipate that they will be able to make their opinions shared in by others." 139 l 140 141 "I have in the first place taken into consideration the circumstance that since any opinion on this difficult subject was expressed by the Legislature of Canada, a general election has taken place in the province, and it is as yet uncertain what the views of the new House of Assembly as to the disposal of the clergy reserves may be." "That the divisions which carried the resolutions do not express fairly the opinion of the country, because you must bear in mind that this is not a Canadian question—that the great bulk of this property is in Upper Canada, and that the divisions, which show a majority of thirty or forty on the question, include the Roman Catholic members of Lower Canada; and it seems but fair, in a question which solely and exclusively concerns the upper province, that they should refrain from taking part in those divisions." 142 "For the more perfect security and ease of the minds of the inhabitants of this province, it is hereby declared that His Majesty's subjects professing the religion of the Church of Rome of and in the said province of Quebec, may have, hold, and enjoy the free exercise of the religion of the Church of Rome, subject to the King's supremacy; and that the clergy of the said Church may hold, receive, and enjoy their accustomed dues and rights, with respect to such persons only as shall profess the said religion." Geo. "Be it enacted, that the said declaration and provision contained in the said above-mentioned Act, and also the said provision so made by His Majesty in consequence thereof, by his instruction above recited, shall remain and continue to be of full force and effect in each of the said two pro-
 143 144
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that it was not his intention to oppose the Motion for leave to introduce this Bill, and he would not therefore detain the House by following the hon. Gentleman at any length through the speech which he had just delivered, or by entering into any detail into the various considerations connected with this most important subject. He had listened to the speech of the hon. Gentleman, and the declarations of the intentions of the Government, with regret, but without surprise. He had heard the speech in which the noble Lord, now the leader of the House, had stated, the other evening, the measures which the Government were about to introduce, but had wisely abstained from referring to the principles of the Administration. He had heard in that speech with sorrow, but with no feelings of surprise, that the first of these measures was to be the present Bill. While reserving his final opinion upon the Bill until he had seen it, he must say that he feared it would simply be a measure to commit a grave breach of national faith, and to deprive our Protestant fellow-subjects and brother Christians in Canada of an endowment guaranteed to them as solemnly as any endowment could be guaranteed by the Legislature. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies was a little too candid in some parts of his speech, for, referring to a despatch which he (Sir J. Pakington) sent to Canada in April last, conveying the decision of the then Government upon the prayer of the Canadian Legislature, the hon. Gentleman read a passage noticing the contingency of the then approaching elections. And he then with great frankness told the House that the result of those elections in Upper Canada, which was the province mainly affected by
 145 146 "Whereas it is expedient to provide for the final disposition of the lands called clergy reserves in Canada, and for the appropriation of the income arising therefrom for the maintenance of religion and the advancement of Christian knowledge in the said provinces," &c.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that he felt disappointed that his right hon. Friend the late Secretary of the Colonies should have waived his opposition to this measure until a future stage; for were not its principles as patent in the speech of the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies, nay in the very title of the Bill, and in the history of the whole transaction, as they could ever be made by any Bill, however carefully prepared and worded? This was a measure to enable the Legislature of Canada to deal, not with religious principles, but with property; and the question was not whether the inhabitants of Upper or Lower Canada should have one creed more or less in their Prayer-book, or be obliged to support the professors of one or more creed, but whether the property which had been attached to a particular body of men should or should not be taken from them. What was meant by the word "clergy?" It would not be denied by any lawyer—nay, hardly by the most ignorant Radical in the House—that the word "clergy" had as definite and well-understood a meaning in law as any other legal phrase. And when it was said that property was given to the "Protestant clergy," he apprehended that in the dominions of the Queen of England that would mean the clergy of our own peculiar Church; and he appealed to the hon. and learned Solicitor General as to the correctness of his statement. At all events, he would defy any man to say that it could mean anything else than the clergy of the Church of England in Canada at the time that these reserves were established (whatever extension it had since received to another Protestant Church), and the House had now to deal with the application of that word to Canada. Now, there was no denial of the right of the Crown to make this grant, or of the right of Parliament in 1791 and 1840 to deal with this property as they had done, or of the right and duty of the local Legislature to acquiesce as they had done in the Act of the Imperial Parliament, which was passed only thirteen years ago, as a final settlement of the question; and if, therefore, this was not allowed to stand as a final settlement, what security would there be
 149
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had not the honour of being a county Member, but he felt strongly for those persons whom this Bill must affect. He considered the measure to be a democratic, radical, and dangerous one, that would disfranchise a number of persons, and interfere to prevent those who had property in various counties from exercising their right of voting. He had no hope, however, of its being rejected by that House; but he would rely on another place, where due consideration was given to the liberty—the right, not the radical liberty—of the subject, where he hoped that there would be a proper sense of what was due to the aristocracy of the country, and that this Bill would consequently be thrown out. He had himself given proof of his regard for all classes, but he had no hesitation in saying that if this measure were passed it would endanger the Church and the aristocracy of the country, and even the Throne itself, which they all wished to preserve. He begged to move that this Bill be read a third time that day six months.
 MR. SPOONER  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. DEEDES  said, that as the House had already expressed itself decidedly in favour of the Bill, he could not think it advisable that his hon. and gallant Friend should take a division upon that occasion. He had to add, however, that he himself still continued to disapprove of the measure; and he would put it to the noble Lord the Member for Middlesex (Lord R. Grosvenor) whether it was not desirable that he should postpone its further progress. The noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs had stated the other day that he felt most anxious that some step should be taken for preventing the recurrence of those scenes of bribery and corruption which had recently disgraced so many of the returns to that House; and in that anxiety he (Mr. Deedes) entirely participated. He believed that the attention of those who would in a future Session have to bring the great subject of parliamentary reform before the House, should be earnestly directed to the best means of putting an end to that great evil. It appeared to him that an important step might be taken towards the accomplishment of that object by altering the manner in which votes were taken at county elections. One of the alleged causes of bribery at those elections was, that the candidates considered it necessary to provide refreshments and modes of conveyance for electors who came to the polling places from considerable distances. Now, that source of corruption could be removed by bringing polling places close to every man's doors. He believed that that point should form part of any measure of reform which the Government might hereafter introduce, and until that great question could be submitted to Parliament in all its details, he would submit to the noble Lord whether it was not unadvisable that they should proceed with it piecemeal, as they would be doing by adopting the measure now under the consideration of the House.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he regretted that he could not accede to the proposition of his hon. Friend. Although he had not the least doubt that the Government would bring in a Bill for Parliamentary reform, still this small measure, as it had been termed, having received the approbation of the majority of that House, he did not feel justified in withdrawing it.
 155
 MR. SPOONER  said, if his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Lincoln divided the House, he should certainly divide with him, because he believed that the Bill would not effect the object which the noble Lord sought to accomplish. So far from its causing a saving of expense, his experience, confirmed by all the inquiries he had been able to make, led him to believe that the expense would be considerably increased. Many more polling-places must be provided. The hon. Member for East Kent (Mr. Deedes) had stated that one reason for not now legislating on the subject was, that the Government would early next Session, in all probability, bring in a Bill to prevent bribery and corruption. Now, there was another object equally deserving the attention of the Government—namely, the prevention of intimidation. By enacting that the election should take place in one day, and that the poll should be kept open till 5 o'clock, great facilities would be afforded for using intimidation towards the voters. In the summer time such an arrangement might work very well, but in the short days of winter great opportunities would be given for riots and disturbance.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he was surprised to hear the objections which had been urged by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) as to the practicability of polling all the votes of a county election in one day. In the West Biding of Yorkshire there were 37,000 voters, and in South Lancashire there were 20,000 voters; he had made inquiries in all directions, and it was the universal opinion that the elections for those places could be completed in one day with the utmost possible facility, and that it would be the means of saving expense and loss of time to a vast extent.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he did not like to offer any opposition to the clause; at the same time he had some hesitation about it, because of the words "nor upon the premises thereof." At the last election for Middlesex a great hall was used as a polling place, and which hall was connected with a large hotel, and if he adopted this clause he would be prohibiting the use of that hall for election purposes. As another Bill was about to be brought in by the hon. and learned Member for Weymouth (Mr. G. M. Butt) on this subject, he would suggest to the hon. and gallant Gentleman to attach his clause to that Bill.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he must decline acceding to the suggestion of the noble Lord.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, that for himself he had no objection to the principle of the clause, but he did not understand what interpretation was to be put upon the words, "nor upon the premises thereof." It would be most convenient, on bringing up a clause to any Bill, that it should be expressed in such clear and definite words as to admit of their afterwards arriving at a satisfactory opinion upon it. Looking at the words he had quoted, they did not appear to him to carry the clause further than what the previous words expressed—namely,"any licensed public-house or beerhouse," and the addition of those words to the clause would only have the effect of introducing ambiguity, and of rendering it exceedingly difficult to construe the clause. He would therefore submit to the hon. and gallant Member that he should at least re-
 158
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, he concurred in the opinion just expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Weymouth. It did happen that in the county of Berks the town-hall at Maidenhead, which was used for election purposes, had a public-house beneath it; it would be impossible, if this clause was agreed to, to use that hall for any such purpose in future if the words "nor upon the premises thereof" were adopted. He thought it desirable that those words at least should be left out of the clause.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he did not object to the principle contained in the clause, but thought it doubtful whether it was desirable that a Bill, having a perfectly different object, should have such a clause inserted in it.
 MR. FREWEN  thought the clause did not strictly come within the title of the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that unless the clause was drawn with great care, it would raise endless questions as to the legality of elections. He would recommend to the hon. and gallant Member to withdraw his proposition for the present.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL : I withdraw the clause, with the view of introducing it into the forthcoming Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. G. Butt).
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  then proposed an alteration in the Bill, with the view of providing that the declaration of the result of the poll should be made on the day after the polling, instead of on the day but one after, as at present.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he must object to the noble Lord's patchwork.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought the interval of a quiet day between the close of the poll and the declaration had a salutary effect in allowing party spirit, which often ran high at elections, to subside. Besides, it would be impossible, in the case of many counties, for the returns from the different polling places to be all brought from a distance to a common centre, and there to be
 159
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he would withdraw the proposition.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that with respect to the consolidation of the law regarding elections, the House was already aware, from the statement made by the Lord Chancellor, that the whole subject was under the consideration of the Government, and it was hoped that some steps would be taken immediately in consequence. He should offer no objection to the first reading of the Bill; but, without expressing any opinion upon the mode in which the hon. and learned Member proposed to carry out the objects which he had in view, it would be for the hon. and learned Member to consider, whenever the second reading of the Bill came before the House, how far it might be for the convenience of public business and the economy of the public time, to entertain during the present Session a measure of this kind, after his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) had announced the attention of the Government to bring in a Bill for amending the representation of the people in Parliament. In the meanwhile the Government would be glad to see the mode in which the hon. and learned Member proposed to deal with the questions to which his Bill related.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he begged permission to move for leave to bring in a Bill to limit the time between the proclamation and day of election in counties, and between the receipt of the writ and the election in boroughs; to limit the polling at elections for the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge; and otherwise to regulate the proceedings of elections for Members of Parliament in England and Wales. The House was aware that, so far as related to counties, the law stood now as it stood in 1785, for by an Act of 25  Geo. Vict., 163
 MR. PHINN  seconded the Motion. He did not mean to discuss the question on the present occasion, but he wished that a clause could be engrafted on the proposed Bill, abolishing the present circuitous mode of sending the writ to the returning officer of a borough. It was, in the first instance, sent to the sheriff of the county, and by him transmitted to the borough officer, and this roundabout, process gave rise in some instances to objectionable proceedings, and was made a ground for extorting a fee from the unfortunate candidate. He quite concurred in what had been said by the hon. and learned Gentleman who introduced the measure respecting the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and he hoped that before another election took
 164
 MR. DEEDES , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, and in explaining the object and the provisions of the measure, said, that in the year 1839 an Act was passed called the Rural Police Act, which was afterwards amended in 1840. It was a permissive Act, enabling counties having an insufficiency of police to place the whole or part of their territory under its provisions; and the number of counties in England and Wales which were now under the operation of this Act was twenty-three. There were exactly another twenty-three counties which had not yet adopted its provisions, and six counties in which they had been only partially introduced. These figures showed a sufficiently large interest concerned to justify him in attempting by the present Bill to supply the deficiencies which existed. He had been told that his measure was perhaps hostile to the intentions of the Rural Police Act; but he had no desire to give it that effect. His Bill was not designed to affect any of the counties which had adopted the provisions of the Rural Police Act; and it provided that any county which should hereafter partially or wholly adopt the provisions of that Act, should be exempted from the operation of his present measure. In 1842, two years after the Rural Police Act had been passed, there was introduced into this House, by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham), a measure, which might be said to have passed  sub silentio. 160 161 162
 The SERJEANT-AT-ARMS  informed the House that he had taken Frederick Dundas, Esq. into his custody.
 MR. ROBERT- PALMER  said, he thought he was justified, by the circumstances of the case, in moving that the hon. Member should be discharged out of custody without paying the fees. As illness had been the cause of the hon. Gentleman's absence, he did not anticipate that any objection would be made to this Motion.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLES WORTH  said, he must admit that the system of lighting the House was not effective, and that the lights from the ceiling were somewhat unseemly. He had consulted the Members of the Lighting Committee, and likewise Mr. Gurney, whose system of lighting the late House gave great satisfaction. The present mode of lighting might be improved without much difficulty or expense, and therefore he should take means to accomplish that object by the Easter recess.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLBSWORTH , in reply, said, that the ventilation' and the lighting were under one control; that control was Mr. Meeson's, and he acted under the authooity of the Commissioners of Works.
 COLONEL HARCOURT  said, he believed that the repeal of the duty would be most injurious to the growers of hops, and, therefore, should oppose it. The plan of his hon. Friend (Mr. Frewen) might serve one county, but it would injure all the other hopgrowing counties in England. Besides, although he had not any great confidence in the present Government, seeing the discordant materials of which it was composed, he could not, until they had produced their Budget, ask them to disturb the fiscal arrangements of the country.
 MR. HUME  said, he hoped the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr. Frewen) would pay no heed to the rebuke which the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had administered to him; for neither the hon. Member nor anybody else would ever do any good if they followed the advice of a Chancellor of the Exchequer. He (Mr. Hume) candidly confessed that he had expected very different things from the right hon. Gentleman—a disciple of the late Sir Robert Peel—than the enunciation of such a principle as he had laid down that night. The hop duty was a bad tax in every one of its aspects; and when one county was found fighting one way, and another another way with respect to it, the right hon. Gentleman ought to perceive that there was a combination against the consumer.
 194
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that as a Roman Catholic Member of that House, he had not the slightest hesitation in expressing his unequivoeal disapprobation of the most cruel sentence that had been carried out upon the Madiais. It might be expected that he should go further, and express his opinion upon the cause of that punishment. Now, he did not know that on the face of the correspondence he was enabled to form an accurate judgment as to whether the law had been well applied or misapplied; but, if he was to understand that any person fairly using the Scriptures, or endeavouring, by peaceable means, to propagate his opinions, was to be treated as guilty of a crime, he could never yield his assent to such a doctrine. Such a sentiment would come badly from him, as a member of the Roman Catholic Church, which had a society for propagation of the faith, a society of which he was proud—which sent out its missionaries into every country with the object of proselytising. He adopted the sentiments expressed by the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Foreign Department; but he must say that he could not understand why the hon. Member for Perth (Mr. Kinnaird), in introducing the Motion, had referred to the conduct of the Roman Catholic clergy. From what he (Mr. Fitzgerald) had heard
 236
 LORD STANLEY  said, that cordially agreeing, as he did, with the hon. Member who had introduced that debate, in regard to the general policy of Tuscany, and particularly in the case of the Madiais, he only wished to state upon that occasion, in a very few words, what he believed to be the principle of action which had guided the conduct of the late Government in that matter. He did not think that there had been entertained, or that there could be entertained, on the part of any Government of this country, the slightest doubt
 237 238
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would be the last person unnecessarily to take up the time of the House on any subject, but that he did so on the present occasion because a cruel and atrocious sentence had been passed on two individuals, Francesco and Rosa Madiai, humble in position, it was true, but of unimpeachable character, on account of their religion. When tidings of the sentence which they were now undergoing reached this country, feelings of sorrow and indignation prevailed; and they were not confined to this country, but shared in by the Protestants on the Continent. Across the Atlantic, too, the American people had expressed, in unmistakeable language, their sympathy in the cause of the Madiais; and the President of the United States and the Minister for Foreign Affairs had, he was informed, addressed despatches to the Grand Duke of Tuscany, asking for their release, offering to send a vessel to conduct them to the United States, and assuring them of support there. He wished the Government of this country had taken the same noble course. He desired to show that this was not an isolated case, but he thought he should be able to prove that it was part of a system of ecclesiastical reaction, and a symptom of a determination on the part of the hierarchy of the Church of Rome to put down Protestantism, whenever the civil power would enable them to do so. It was on this ground, then, that he called upon the Government of this country to invite the other Protestant Powers of Europe, as the Kings of Prussia and Holland, with the United States of America, to join in a
 197 198 199 "Whosoever, with an impious intent, shall dare to profane the divine mysteries, by disturbing the sacred functions with violence, or shall otherwise commit any public impiety, and who shall teach publicly maxims contrary to our holy Catholic religion, towards which we have always nourished, and will perpetually nourish, our constant love and zeal, we will that he, as a distuber of the order by which society itself is ruled and maintained in tranquillity, and an enemy of society itself, shall be punished with the greatest and most exemplary rigour, never with less punishment than public labour, for a time or for life, according to the circumstances of the case." Lata Review, "Moreover, upon the question of publicity, the existence of Protestantism as a sect was public and notorious; public and notorious also that it is hostile to Catholicism; public and notorious that the Madiai appertained to it; public and notorious the active part they took in spreading it and disseminating heterodox books, &c. Thus, publicity, in the sense and requirement of the law, was not wanting." 200 "The acts of goodness, natural probity, and benevolence that Madame Madiai wished to urge in arrest of judgment, may cause one to grieve more over her separation from Catholicism, but cannot free her from the present crime and accusation." Gli assassini, gli assassini! 201 "Nous nous sommes determiné à ordonner et ordonnons ce qui suit:—1. La peine de mort applicable de la manière prescrite par la loi du 27 Aout, 1817, est rétablie jusqu' à nouvel ordre dans tout le tevritoire du Grand Duché pour les attentats de violence publique contre le Gouvernement et contre la religion." 202 203
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that after the speech of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, he would follow his suggestion, and ask leave to withdraw the Motion.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that if the hon. Member for Orkney was ill, of course it was impossible that he should be able to attend; but he must say he thought it was the duty of that hon. Member, knowing that he was on the panel of service, and that he was unable to attend, to send notice of his illness, and that he was in consequence unable to be present. The inconvenience thus imposed on Members was very great; and not only so, but very great expense and inconvenience were entailed upon the parties. Of course, if the hon. Member's illness was such that he was unable to attend, and he was detained at Paris in consequence, not only could the Committee not be sworn, but they might be discharged; all the proceedings might have to be taken over again, and the witnesses kept in town from Bridgnorth at a considerable expense. He quite agreed to this Motion; but in similar cases, in future, he should take care to be one to oppose the discharge of Members without paying the fees.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  also begged the hon. Member not to oppose the nomination, for the public mind was excited on the subject, and it was desirable the earliest investigation should take place into it. On the present occasion there was no difficuly in obtaining the Committee, for the City was anxious for the fullest inquiry, and he undertook that every information would be given by the officers of the corporation. As to the accusation against the corporation that they had extended the sphere of taxation by the insertion of the words to which the hon. Baronet alluded, it was utterly groundless. In the first Act it was provided the tax should be levied on all coals coming "within" twenty miles of London; and as the Judges had several times decided that this meant in a direct line, when the second Bill was introduced the corporation thought it only fair to insert the words "in a direct" line, to explain the construction placed by the Judges upon the former Act. He might add, that he was present at a consultation with Sir William Page Wood, at which not the slightest doubt existed but that the two Acts were the same in respect to the extent of their operation.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, that Sir James Duke was closely connected with the coal trade, and he would be on the Committee.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART , in seconding the Motion, said, that he was much obliged to his hon. Friend for bringing it forward, and the people of this country ought to recognise a debt of gratitude to him for doing so. No occurrence on the Continent had of late attracted so much attention as the case of the Madiais; and the people of this country had expressed their sympathy with their Protestant brethren all over the world, and they had seen their feelings reflected in the acts of the British Government. As to interference with the other countries of Europe, it was well known that Oliver Cromwell had interfered on behalf of the Protestants of France; and treaties had been entered into for the protection of the Waldenses and the Vaudois; and the representatives of this country had been instructed to remonstrate when those treaties were broken. It was not till 1815, when the holy alliance made a new settlement of Europe, that the unfortunate Vaudois were handed over to the tender mercies of the King of Piedmont, who in four days after he reached his palace at Turin subjected the Vaudois to religious disabilities; nor did they again enjoy religious liberty till the constitution was established the other day in Sardinia. There was no reason why there should not be treaties for the protection of Protestants in Piedmont and Tuscany, just as there were treaties guaranteeing the exercise of religion other than that of the country in which people lived, as in Turkey, where Christians were permitted to exercise a religion which was not that of the State. There were also treaties to put down the sin of slavetrading in other countries; and why should there not be treaties with States, by which they would be debarred from interfering with their subjects in the exercise of their religion according to their conscience? He felt sentiments of regret, pain, and indignation, when he saw any one perse-
 204 "Christians have burnt each other, quite persuaded That all the Apostles would have done as they did." 205 206 207 208
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  wished to inquire under whose control the ventilation of the House was now placed, and whether the right hon. Baronet would not
 181
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, in following the able speech of the hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House, I own I should have been better pleased with that speech if that hon. Gentleman had indicated somewhat more decidedly than he has done whether or not he approves of the punishment and persecution of persons for the sake of religious conversion, or for endeavouring, by peaceable means, to convert others to their religion. In following that speech, in listening to all the statements of the hon. Gentleman, I own I am totally at a loss to know whether he approves or not of religious persecution. I wish to refer as little as possible—though one cannot altogether avoid—reference to the question between Protestants and Roman Catholics; and I shall state at once that my conviction is, that if Protestant States, Protestant laws, or Protestant judges condemn persons because they have become Roman Catholics, or because they teach others to become Roman Catholics, they do that which I consider to be morally wrong. I care little what particular profession of faith they hold. It may be that they hold exactly the doctrines and articles of the Church of England;
 222 flagrante delicto 223 224 225 226 227
 MR. FULLER  seconded the Motion.
 MR. FREWEN , after presenting a petition from hop-planters in the county of Sussex and Weald of Kent, and others interested in the cultivation of hops, praying for a total repeal of the Excise duty on hops, said he should move, in pursuance of the notice he had given, the following Resolution:—"That the Excise duty on hops is impolitic and unjust, and ought to be repealed." He wished briefly to explain the circumstances which had induced him to submit his Motion to the House at this period of the Session. It would be in the recollection of some hon. Members that early last Session he gave notice of a Motion on this subject; but before he had returned from Ireland a large deputation interested in the question waited upon the Earl of Derby and the right hon. Gentle-
 183 l l l l l l l l l l s l l l 184 l l l d. l l 185 l l l l 186
 MR. FREWEN , in reply, said, that if the House decided in favour of the Motion, he had no doubt the Chancellor of the Exchequer would find the Ways and Means to meet the deficiency it would occasion in the revenue, as had been done in the case of the window duty.
 MR. E. BALL  said, he thought the very facts admitted by the Chancellor of the Exchequer were good reasons for the Motion. The right hon. Gentleman had admitted that it was more difficult for the farmers of Sussex to pay the tax than for growers in other places, and therefore he ought to remedy the injustice. He differed from the right hon. Gentleman when he said the House should wait till they saw the character of the Budget before they objected to a tax; because, if the House and the country objected to any tax, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would soon find means of making a Budget without it. They had adopted free trade, and it was surely now their duty to give the British grower such a measure of fair play as would enable him to meet the competition to which he had been exposed, As a Sussex man, he felt the peculiar grievance of this tax; but he would not be satisfied by its repeal, nor rest content till all taxes which pressed on the farmer were abolished.
 MR. CARDWELL  replied, that he had made inquiry on the subject, and found that no official communication to the effect stated had been received.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he could not withhold the expression of his thanks to the hon. Member who brought the present Motion forward for the opportunity of fair discussion which it afforded, and he was also inclined to thank the hon. Member for the manner in which he had submitted the question to the House, which was the least calculated to provoke an angry or unnecessarily warm discussion on matters interesting very deeply the feelings of Members of that House. He could not concur in the Resolution which had been proposed, mainly for the reason that he did not believe it stated the facts of the case accurately. In the Resolution, and also, it was a very remarkable fact, in almost all the statements made  ad captandum, 209 "In consequence of the persecution now actively begun in Tuscany of those who secretly or openly profess principles held by Her Majesty in common with the majority of Her Majesty's subjects in this United Kingdom." 210 211 212 rationale, "It appears to Her Majesty's Government that the objection which the Diet makes to the continuance of the Jesuits in Switzerland, is not destitute of good and reasonable foundation. The Society of Jesuits must be looked at both in a religious and in a political point of a view. In its religious character it is a society avowedly established to make war upon the Protestant re-
 213 214 "He had five or six men, with ropes in their hands, sent to the house in which the missionaries (MM. Caret and Laval) resided, with orders to break open the doors, bind them, and turn them out of the island by force. That was actually done. They were seized by the head and feet, carried by main force to a canoe, put on board an English vessel, and shipped back to the Gambier Islands." "The Roman Catholic missionaries are obstinately bent on coming to reside at Tahiti, saying
 215 "Let Tahiti, and all the islands of the Kingdom of Pomare, Vahine I., stand unique under the Gospel which the missionaries from Britain have propagated ever since the year 1797, that is, these forty years past. "When foreigners come from other countries to this, on their landing let this law he put into their hands, that they may know, if such persons persist in teaching tenets which arc inconsistent with that true gospel which has been of old propagated in Tahiti—if they build houses for worship, if they congregate followers in uncultivated places, that they might teach them all kinds of strange doctrines—if they trouble the usual modes of worship, and propagate strange customs for the sake of amusing, that do not comport with the written word of the God of Truth"— "Such person has become guilty of breaking this law, and will be judged and awarded. This shall be his award: he will be sent to his own land, and shall not reside in Tahiti." "If any Tahitian shall propagate doctrines inconsistent with the gospel of truth, such as are called Mamoia, because they are doctrines inconsistent with those which have been taught by the missionaries from Britain"— "And with what is found in the written word of God, that person has violated the law; if he
 216 "He will be sent to his native land to accomplish the sentence of the law in; if it be public road, fifty fathoms; if any other work, such as is found written in the laws. If he persist in refusing to do it, he will be judged, and new work imposed on him." "In reply, I have to desire that you will express Her Majesty's deep concern at the difficulties under which Queen Pomare appears to labour; but you will, at the same time, say that, considering the great extent of the present dominions of the British Crown in the Southern Ocean, and the difficulty of adequately providing for the defence of persons living in allegiance to Her Majesty in a quarter of the globe so distant from Great Britain, Her Majesty feels that it would be impossible for Her to fulfil with proper punctuality any defensive obligations which Her Majesty might contract towards the Government and inhabitants of Tahiti, and therefore, however strong the interest may be which Her Majesty takes in the prosperity of the Society Islands, and in the happiness and welfare of Queen Pomare, Her Majesty is bound in good faith to decline to enter into any specific engagement of the kind which has been suggested; but you will assure Queen Pomare that Her Majesty will at all times be ready to attend to any representations that Queen Pomare may wish to make, and will always be glad to give the protection of Her good offices to Queen Pomare in any differences which may arise between Queen Pomare and any other Power." 217 218 "1. That professors of any foreign religion who shall wish to settle in the kingdom may under no condition be appointed to any office or employ in the State, high or low. 2. That nowhere throughout the kingdom may they establish any public school-house or other seminary for the spread of their faith. 3. That for this purpose they may neither send nor receive any missionaries within or without the country. 4. That no monastery shall be established, nor any monk allowed or permitted, of any sect or religion whatsoever." "5. That Jews may have synagogues only in Stockholm, and, at the most, in two or three other large towns, where, under a proper police, they may be duly watched. 6. That the processions and ceremonies usual among foreign religions shall be forbidden, for the avoidance of all probability of error or scandal among the simpler sort. 7. That the enactments of the criminal law, chap. 1, sec. 3, as to those who fall away from our right evangelical doctrine, shall be strictly carried into effect. 8. That no one professing a foreign faith may enjoy any right at any Diet." 219 "In June, 1848, a man was convicted of having read aloud a chapter of the Bible, and said aloud a Pater Noster before a few. persons assembled in his house. For this offence he has been condemned to a fine of 40 rix dollars banco (about 3 l s. "On Saturday (8th of July, 1848) a Lutheran minister of Stockholm 'caused an unhappy woman, mother of a family, to he waited upon by four police-officers to ascertain whether the facts
 220 "A brief interval has been granted to her for reflection, after which the Minister was to denounce her (it is most likely done before this) to the King's Court, which, apparently, has no alternative but to condemn her to exile. "About 1845, two gentlemen of the name of Nilson, one of whom was a painter, took it into their heads to become Catholics, and in obedience to the law were straightway ruined and driven out of the kingdom. What became of the other brother I cannot tell, but the painter wont to Copenhagen, where the total ruin that had fallen upon him, joined to the anxiety and torture of a long and rigorous prosecution, fastened upon his health and brought him speedily to the grave. He died in the spring of 1847, in the public hospital, and left behind him a family of beggars." "This very year a Catholic lady who went to Stockholm—from Germany, I think—Mademoiselle' de Bagen—to take charge of a school established by the Catholic pastor of the city, M. Bernnard, was, with M. Bernhard, arrested for the crime of making proselytes…Mademoiselle de Bagen had converted several Swedish ladies, whereupon a cry was raised against her, the police were set upon her and the priest, the press denounced them, and the accused were put upon their trial. They were defended (as eloquently as the Madiais) on technical grounds of law, but I have not heard, or have forgotten, how the matter ended." 221
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just resumed his seat endeavoured to make the House believe that the imprisonment of the Madiais was the consequence of a righteous
 233 gravamen 234 partiprêtre, ad libitum. 235
 MR. BRIGHT  said, if those persons upon whom the hop duties fell agreed in thinking that nothing could be so injurious to them as the repeal of those duties, it was tolerably clear that the tax must be a very unjust one as regarded the public generally. He protested against the theory of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject of this Motion. He understood him to say that the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr. Frewen) had set but an indifferent example to the House in bringing forward a Resolution for
 192 l l l 193 l vice versâ,
 SIR JOHN YOUNG , in reply, said, that he was perfectly aware of the anxiety existing on the question to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded. The question had been under the consideration of the Government, and there was a measure in a state of forwardness which the Government hoped to present, if not before Easter, immediately after. It required a great deal of consideration to frame a measure which the House would be likely to pass; and he hoped the hon. Gentleman would be satisfied with the assurance that a measure would be introduced in the early part of the Session, and as soon as possible.
 MR. INGHAM  said, he could not agree that the Committee was quite fairly constituted. In all his experience he had never seen a Committee in which the in-
 244
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he wished the nomination of the Committee to be postponed for a week, in order that an opportunity might be afforded of ascertaining that all the interests concerned in the inquiry were fully represented. These coal duties operated with peculiar injustice on many of his constituents in Surrey. Take the case of Croydon, for instance; the inhabitants of which were called upon to pay some 3.000 l l
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he should support the Motion; but he thought there was one point in regard to hops which might be well followed in reference to all other articles of agricultural produce—that was, that there was an annual statistical return of the quantity produced.
 MR. BOOKER  stated, that a day or two ago he read with great satisfaction an announcement made in one of the leading journals, that in consequence of representations from the Baltic ports of the injury sustained by the shipping interests from the high duty on iron plates (equal to 9 l. 182 "In consideration of the numerous and continued complaints that the building of iron vessels in the Baltic ports has been rendered exceedingly difficult, owing to the duty levied on plates imported from abroad, and, further, in the expectation that, somewhat later, it will be possible to obviate permanently, by other means, the hindrances which duties on iron place in the way of inland shipbuilding, the arrangement has been made that iron plates for the building of iron vessels be admitted during the whole of this present year into the Baltic ports duty free, under the necessary control of the Customs. The provincial directors of Customs in Stettin, Dantsic, and Konigsberg, have already received the instructions from the Government to this effect, and the elders of the corporation of Stettin are herewith informed, without delay, of the arrangement."
 MR. KENNEDY  said, he believed the Grand Duke of Tuscany, when the remonstrance had been addressed to him upon that subject, might have fairly retorted on the British Government by pointing out the religious inequalities which unquestionably prevailed in these countries, and the adoption by the Imperial Parliament of such a measure as the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would venture to express a hope that the House would not be disposed, at the present time, to enter upon a
 187 188 l 189 l l 190
 MR. DEEDES  would beg to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to the ventilation of the library. With respect to the first room of the library, that day it was so bad that it was utterly impossible to remain in it.
 MR. DEEDES  said, this was not the first time he had felt himself bound to oppose the steps which the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr. Frewen) had taken upon this question, and, as he (Mr. Deedes) had successfully resisted his attempts before, so he was inclined to think he should again successfully resist them to-night. Adopting an expression borrowed from a; noble and manly sport common to this
 191
 MR. FAGAN  said, he wished to inquire whether it was the intention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland to bring in a Bill for the abolition of Ministers' Money before the Easter recess, and, if so, whether he would do so before the Irish assizes commenced, in order that Members representing Ireland should have the opportunity of being in attendance? He could assure the right hon. Baronet that considerable anxiety prevailed in Ireland on the subject, and especially in Cork and Dublin.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not persevere in his objection. Great difficulty had been experienced in constituting this Committee in a manner satisfactory to the Government and the City, and if the arrangement were now departed from, the whole subject might be
 243
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  replied, that the clause had had the effect of taking in a larger area than had been liable to the duty under previous Acts.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he begged to inquire of the right hon. Baronet the First Commissioner of Works whether any steps were taking to amend the present defective method of lighting the House of Commons, and to remove the present unseemly lights from the coiling?
 MR. BOWYER  would not follow the noble Lord through all the arguments he had used; but when the noble Lord said that the friendly interference of the Foreign Office would be extended to any persons who were persecuted on account of their religion in a foreign country, though he might not belong to the State religion, it would have much strengthened the noble Lord's argument if he could have shown any instance in which such friendly offices had been exerted. He hoped, however, that in future the same kind protection which had been afforded to the Madiai would be extended to Roman Catholics in cases where they were persecuted on account of their religion. He was not prepared to admit, except to a limited extent, the position taken by the noble Lord, that as this was a Protestant country it was reasonable that its Government should interfere rather on behalf of Protestants than of Roman Catholics. As the majority of the people in England and Ireland were Protestant, and as the established Church was Protestant, this country might perhaps be called Protestant; but since the passing of the Catholic Emancipation Act he had hoped that the distinction between Protestant and Roman Catholic would have been forgotten. It should not be forgotten that one part of the United Kingdom was a Catholic country, and though circumstances had lately affected the statistics of the population, he might estimate the Catholics of Ireland at 6,000,000, while the Protestants were not 1,000,000. [ Dissent. 228 229 Jur. Criminalis Elem., "'I do not know,' says Cicero,' whether the integrity and the society of the human race can remain, if piety towards the Gods be destroyed.' Therefore," [continues Carmignani] "it is of the utmost importance to the State that proper reverence for, and belief in the Divine Nature be maintained, and that the external acts in which public religious worship consists, be confirmed. And if any one dares to contemn the received opinions regarding God—(propagating contrary ones among the people)—and the religious worship established by public authority, he is to be punished as a violator of the civil laws. As crimes are not to be politically imputed because of their own wickedness, but because they are hostile to society, it is evident that crime against public religion is to be imputed (or hold punishable) as injurious to the commonwealth. Therefore those things which make the specific crime contrary to society, are essential to constitute the legal offence." "1. An external act contrary to religion; 2. Intention to subvert religion; 3. Publicity of the act, so that a public scandal shall have arisen. "Other things, which, without hurting public religion, are injurious to God, and induce rather a violation of the internal law of God, are not subjected to public penalties, but are left to Divine justice. "(p. 27.) Impious dogmata against the public religion are punished as sacrilege, if they are by word or writing published to the people, with an intent to subvert public religion, or to disturb the public sacred things." Blackstone's Commentaries, "First, then, of such crimes and misdemeanors as more immediately offend Almighty God, by openly transgressing the precepts of religion, either natural or revealed; and mediately, by their bad example and consequence, the law of society also; which constitutes that guilt in the action which human tribunals are to censure." "Apostacy; Heresy; Reviling the ordinances of the Church; Nonconformity." 230 propagandism 231 232
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he begged to state that the hon. Member had been detained by illness at Paris; but as soon as he heard that he was wanted to serve on the Bridgnorth Election Committee, he lost no time in hastening here.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would now beg to nominate the Members of the Select Committee on Coal Duties.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he would ask the indulgence of the House for a few moments while he adverted to a single point which had been raised in the course of that discussion. The hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas) had claimed the sympathy of the House and of England for all eases of persecution to which his coreligionists, or, indeed, persons of any faith, might be exposed. Now he (Sir R. Inglis) could not accede to that proposition; and he believed that his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) had acted most consistently with his own high position and principles, and with his duty as the representative of the Protestant Queen of a Protestant country, when he had employed his influence on behalf of persecuted Protestants. It did not follow, that whenever human beings suffered, the people of this country ought to go to war to redress their wrongs, although they might be ready to aid to the utmost of their power persons who sympathised with them in the highest and the most important of all interests, when those persons were doomed to persecution for fidelity to their religious principles. In such a case it would be the duty of the British Government, as in the days of Elizabeth, of Oliver Cromwell, and of William III.—["Hear, hear!"]—names which might not be well received on the other side of St. George's Channel, but which, in connexion with the cause of Protestantism, he trusted would be ever gratefully remembered in this country—in such a case it would be the duty of the British Government to use all the weight of the political and moral influence of this Protes-
 239
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, it would be an unusual and an unprecedented course to oppose such a Motion. But, at all events, he would call the attention of the House to the fact that all Members were bound, whether in Paris, in Orkney, or in London, to take notice of their obligations to that House. Illness was a ground of absence which no Member would hesitate to entertain; but it was fitting that every Member should know that his
 180
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I had no intention to take part in this discussion, but I do not wish that the debate should close before I make one or two observations on the pointed allusions which the hon. Member for Meath has addressed to me in the course of his speech. The hon. Gentleman is desirous that I should stand forward as the defender of the Grand Duke of Tuscany. That wish was not unnaturally expressed by him; for I must say it appears to me that if he were the only defender the Grand Duke could boast of, the Grand Duke is, indeed, in much need of some abler champion. But I decline the task. I will defend myself, but not the Grand Duke. The hon. Member for Meath, unable to say one single word in defence of the conduct of the Grand Duke, proceeded to impute to me conduct similar in principle to that which my hon. Friend who introduced this Motion, and the House, have so justly condemned in the Grand Duke; and he supported this charge by reference to certain transactions with regard to Switzerland, and to events which passed in the island of Tahiti. Now, with regard to the Swiss question, the hon. Member read such parts of the papers as suited his purpose. But he could not have read enough to inform him of the real nature of the transaction to which
 240 241 242
 MR. HUME  said, he thought they were not only proceeding contrary to rule, hut contrary to common sense. They were about to vote between 6,000,000 l l 309 l l "Now, the opinion which I venture respectfully to state to the House is, that such is by no means a regular, an advantageous, or, I would almost venture to say, a constitutional, order of proceeding. And, without pressing the right hon. Gentleman for any declaration of opinion at the present moment, I am desirous to state to the House, and to him especially, the grounds on which I venture to found that statement. They are partly of a general and partly of a special nature. We are going to make provision for the financial year that commences on the 5th of April, 1853. Now, when we are considering the provision for that year, the first thing which necessarily strikes the mind of every man is, that on the 5th of April the income tax, from which we derive more than one-tenth of our gross revenue, will have ceased, legally, to exist; and I put it strongly to the House and to the Government that the first duty of this House, in reference to the provision for that year
 310 Hansard "I think, however, that there is great force in what the right hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gladstone) said as to the necessity of taking both the income tax and the house tax before we are asked to concur in any Resolution with respect to the relief of taxes."—[3  Hansard "He thought the most convenient course would be to go into Committee of Ways and Means, when a Resolution might be proposed for the maintenance of the income tax, or the increase of the house tax."—[3  Hansard 311
 MR. HUME  said, he was perfectly aware of the anomalous situation in which the Government were placed, but the House had been told by the Government that the income tax was to be renewed, and that it could not be altered. He thought, therefore, that he was justified in moving that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. HUME  said, he objected to going into Committee now, and would therefore divide the House.
 MR. HUME  said, he was gratified to see the right hon. Baronet at the head of a department which had received its greatest improvements through his agency, 1,200,000 l l 322 l 323
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that not now being intrusted with the Navy Estimates, he thought be should be best discharging his duty by assisting the right hon. Gentleman opposite; and he must say that it had been the opinion of the late Board of Admiralty that it would be desirable to make a considerable reduction in the hydrographical department. They had felt that, by the exercise of greater vigour in the survey, a smaller sum might prove as efficient as the larger sum under the present management.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought the hon. and gallant Officer had misunderstood his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), who, he was sure, was far from wishing to disparage the services of such men as the gallant Admiral, but who had expressed his objection to the promotion of young officers, who had not the experience which resulted from such services as those of the hon. and gallant Officer.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to call the attention of the Government to the subject of the measures to be taken for the protection of our trade in the Mediterranean from piracy; and to the discreditable contrast which existed, as compared to the French Government, in our relations with the Morocco pirates. Last year an English ship called the  Violet
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, this Bill had been introduced simply to remedy an inadvertent omission in a previous Act, and there was not the least ground for the suspicion that any sort of job was contemplated.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he was decidedly of opinion that England ought always to be placed in the best position for repelling any act of possible aggression that might be committed against her. He believed that that was the attitude best calculated to insure a durable and honourable peace, as well as to promote the extension of our commerce and the stability of our institutions. On the efficiency of the fleet mainly depended the security of the country; and the system of impressment having been altogether abolished, the country could not look entirely to raw levies for its defence. The present system was eminently vicious, and he hoped they would soon provide some remedy for it. There was at present a Committee of experienced officers sitting on the subject of the best mode of manning the fleet, whoso Report was looked for by the profession with intense anxiety; and until that Report was laid on the table, it would, of course, be premature to enter into any discussion of the matter. He would take the liberty, however, of calling the attention of the First Lord of the
 327
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he felt indebted to the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) for having occasioned this debate, as it had produced from both sides of the House the most earnest declaration of a desire to keep on good terms with the Government and nation of France; and that he considered to be of the utmost possible importance to the welfare of Europe and of the world. The right hon. Gentleman had made observations upon expressions that had fallen from Members of the present Government, and had stated opinions on the conduct of the press censuring the ruler of Prance. He (Lord D. Stuart) thought the press would not have executed its high functions if it had omitted to comment upon what was passing in the neighbouring country, and he did not at the time regard with any degree of disapprobation the complaints of the press or its observations. He thought it was no wonder, when they saw a man obtain supreme power by belying all his professions which he had made up to the last moment, that the press should censure conduct like that. At the same time he fully admitted that this country had nothing to do with the internal affairs of France.
 308
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : If I can bring it on before eleven o'clock, I will do so. If the discussion on the previous Motion should last longer, I will postpone it to a future day; but it is very difficult to find a day.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, if the right hon. Gentleman wished to obtain an explanation from Government with respect to the state of its foreign policy, he might have confined his observations to a very small portion of that which he has addressed to the House; for the statement I made the other night, that we were on terms of intimate friendship with France, and that we were acting in concert with France, with the view of maintaining the peace of Europe, might almost have sufficed for a Member of this House who was anxious to obtain some assurance on that important question. The right hon. Gentleman, when he sat on this side of the House, observed, with respect to a change which was proposed to be made in some administrative department, with respect to economy as regards the conduct of public business in a public office, that if that question was introduced into the House, he was afraid it would unfortunately be made a party question. Well, Sir, that would have been a misfortune, and, there is no doubt, if such were the case, and if questions with respect to how many clerks were to be in one office, and as to whether there should be two or three clerks in another office, had been made party questions, it would have said very little for the patriotism of the House; but, at least, the evil, though somewhat scandalous, would not have been very calamitous. But, Sir, when the right hon. Gentleman tries to make a party question of our foreign policy—when he tries to throw suspicion on the intentions of Government towards our nearest neighbour—when he tries to sow dissension between two of the most powerful countries of Europe—then, indeed, he makes a party question a calamity, and in bringing forward such a question in the spirit manifested in his speech, takes a part which becomes a mind deeply imbued with faction. 282 283 284 285 "It has been marked by a respect due to all independent States, a desire to abstain as much as possible from the internal affairs of other countries, an assertion of our own honour and interests, and, above all an earnest desire to secure the general peace of Europe by all such means as were practicable, and at our disposal. I do not say that differences may not have existed, or that sympathies may not have been excited, on behalf of certain States in their endeavours to promote constitutional reforms and to obtain constitutional government; but the principle of our policy had always been to respect the independence, the entire independence, of other States, great or small, and not to interfere in their internal concerns. That will continue to he the case, and I trust that we shall still retain the friendship and good will of all foreign countries, whatever the nature of their government or constitution."—[3  Hansard 286 s s 287 288
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish, before the House goes into Committee of Supply, to make some inquiries of Her Majesty's Government with respect to our relations with France. It is the most important subject of modern politics. We have now, Sir, for nearly forty years, had the blessing of peace between Great Britain and France. During that interval the social relations of the two countries have become various and multiplied. Our commercial transactions during that interval have gradually, progressively, and considerably increased; and at the right opportunity, and under favourable circumstances, no doubt, with enlightened legislation, those commercial transactions are susceptible of considerable and perhaps indefinite development. There are no two countries which may be esteemed first-class Powers between whom all questions of high policy are so identical. It is somewhat strange, when we have so many guarantees for a permanent good understanding between the two countries, so many securities for that peace which we desire—when the past, by the long interval of tranquillity that has occurred, proves that practically these are sources of security which are valid and efficient—it is extremely strange and startling that, under such circumstances, an idea should seem to have entered into almost every man's brain, and an expression into every man's mouth, that we are on the eve of a rupture with that country. I don't think it unreasonable, therefore, that, on going into Committee of Supply, when we are about to vote large sums to sustain the armaments of the country, I should make some inquiries of Her Majesty's Government on a subject of such absorbing interest, and offer a few remarks to the House with respect to it before they go into Committee. All must feel that on such a topic it is of the highest importance that no false opinion should take possession of the public mind; because in a free country opinion is one of the securities of peace, as it is also sometimes one of the causes of war; and it is by discussion, which is the life and soul of a society like ours, that we arrive at the truth on subjects which often, to the danger and peril of the community, become perplexed and obscure. 247 248 249 250 251 252 253 254 255 256 257 Loud cheers Hansard 258 "I am bound to say, that the President of France, with the largo means of information which he possesses, has no doubt taken that course from a consideration of the state of the country, and that the course which he has taken is that best fitted to secure the welfare of the country over which he rules. Let me restate what I have said upon this subject." "I staled I could not give my approbation to the conduct of the President; but I have no reason to doubt, and everything which I have heard confirms that opinion, that in the opinion of the President of France the three things which I have mentioned—namely, putting an end to the French constitution, preventing the elections of 1852, and the abolition of the Parliamentary constitution, were ail measures conducive, and perhaps essential to the welfare of France. But I have something to state further, because I confess that I have seen with very great regret the language which has been used by some portion of the press of this country with respect to the President of France and the affairs of that country. I remember something as a boy, and I have read more, of that which occurred during the peace of Amiens, which rendered that peace of so short a duration, and which involved these two great nations in the most bloody hostilities which ever mangled the face of Europe. I believe that temperate discussion, temperate negotiation between the two countries, might have averted the calamity of war with England, but that the language of the press at that time was such as greatly to embitter all negotiation, and to prevent the continuance of that peace. Sir, I should deeply regret if the press of this country at the present time were to take a similar course. We have indeed the great advantage over the time to which I refer, which is, that the first Consul of france, great as were his abilities, was totally ignorant of the means and of the constitution of this country; the present President of france has that advantage over his uncle, that he is perfectly aware how much liberty—nay, how much licence of discussion prevails in this country, and that the fiercest and most unmeasured invectives of the press do not imply any feeling of hostility cither on the part of the Government or on the part of the nation. I am. convinced of this, that there never was a time in which it was more essential that these two great countries should preserve relations of peace and amity with each other. There never was a time when the peace of Europe would more contribute to the cause of civilisation and happiness. I am convinced also, from every assurance that I have had, that the ruler of France, the present President of that country, is desirous of keeping upon those terms of amity with this country; and it shall never he any fault of ours, while, connected
 259 Hansard 260 "I have the pleasure of being able to express my unqualified concurrence in, I believe, every word which the noble Earl who preceded me (the Earl of Derby) uttered. I entirely agree with him as to its being the duty of this country, as a country and a nation, and the duty of each individual in his individual capacity, to abstain from any interference in the internal politics of that great and powerful nation which lies so near to us. I, like the noble Lord, observe with the deepest concern, and, I may say, with the indignation which the noble Earl has expressed, the tone which has been taken by a large portion of the newspaper press of this country. I think that the denunciation of the person at the head of the Government of France, coupled with those more than exaggerated—I will say, untrue—representations of the defenceless condition of this country, do not only savour of imprudence, but of something worse than imprudence; and I rejoice that the noble Earl, in the position which he occupies, has come forward to assert, in the emphatic manner in which it has been done, his utter repudiation of language such as I have described. And I do trust that when, with the full assurance that I have the concurrence of my Colleagues, I join in that repudiation, and when I am convinced every one of your Lordships will echo the same sentiment, I do believe and hope that the mischief, the incalculable evil, which might otherwise have resulted from language thus held by a great part of the newspaper press of this country, will to a great extent be neutralised, and that it will be understood in foreign countries that, however those newspapers may express the opinions and the feeling's of those who write in them, they do not express the opinions or the feelings of any great and powerful party in this country, or in the Houses of Parliament."—[3  Hansard 261 262 tanzimat tanzimat 263 tanzimat 264 265 Loud cheers 266 267 268 269 270 271 272 273 274 275 Cheers 276 277 278 279 the benches below the gangway on the Ministerial side 280 281
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member could not move the adjournment of the debate; he must move that the Committee of Supply be postponed.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he must dispute the statement which had been made, that steam had made us more vulnerable than before. If war should come, we should find that the defence of England was as much served by science and by steam, as the facility of the approach of an enemy was increased. With the Channel fleet now proposed, we should soon see that. We should find the rapidity with which it could be moved long before an enemy could land troops, and, much more, materials. But as the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) had talked of a Channel fleet of fifteen or sixteen sail of the line, with frigates and smaller vessels, he (Captain Scobell) would warn the authorities that it would be most unwise to have more ships than they wanted. If we bad fifteen
 325 l 326
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he would not follow the example of the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord John Russell), who attempted to divert the present discussion into one of free trade. They were met on the present occasion for the purpose of voting away the public money, and a fair opportunity arose for obtaining information on various points from the Government. If ever such a course could be found justifiable, it would be so on the present occasion, when they considered the peculiar circumstances under which the Administration had been formed—when they considered that it was composed of men who had differed all their lives on nearly all the great questions that had been discussed in Parliament—and when they considered that the House and the country had a right to full and ample information with respect to the views and intentions of the Government. The first question to which he should advert was that of Parliamentary reform, and what they had to expect, regarding it, from the present Ministers. They all knew what were the opinions of the noble Lord the Member for London, who last year brought forward a measure on this subject, and he had stated that evening that those opinions remained unchanged. They had also been informed what were the present opinions of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham) on the subject. In a speech which he had delivered to his constituents previously to the late general election, and which therefore might be presumed to be considered as
 305 306 "If any Pcelite in the House joined a Whig Administration he would be their unmitigated, untiring, indefatigable opponent. He would not support any party who would not make it the first of their political measures to repeal the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill—he would not join any party who would not go much further than that—he would have nothing to do with any party that would not consent to remove from all Catholics in that country the intolerable burden of sustaining a church establishment with which they were not in communion." 307
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that as a determined enemy of jobbing, he would move
 334
 MR. COBDEN : I thought I was not liable to be misunderstood. I said to stop the increase of this rivalry; and I need not do more than refer to my Motion three or four years ago, the words of which I do not wish to alter.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that with regard to the first object stated by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), the maintenance of friendly relations with France, that was a practical question, and one in which the country was deeply concerned. The right hon. Gentleman had laboured to show that he believed in the friendly feeling of France towards this country—but we could not shut our eyes to the fact that there was a very different feeling out of doors, and the tone of the press generally, and certainly the unanimous tone of the London press was characterised by great distrust of the present Government of France. The right hon. Gentleman said that he did not share in any apprehension of the Government of France; but when he was in power a few months ago he proposed a large increase of our armaments, and he now tried to show that that increase was not made with reference to the feeling of the country towards France, but in continuance of a system rendered necessary by changes which had taken place in steam navigation. But the right hon. Gentleman must permit him to recall to his recollection that he did not propose any increase in steam machinery, but an increase of men; whereas the advance of steam navigation did not imply the necessity for an increase of men, but directly the contrary; and therefore the right hon. Gentleman had certainly, though perhaps unconsciously, given an impulse to the feeling of the country of distrust against France. He (Mr. Cobden) must, therefore, say, that while the late Government preached peace towards France, their conduct was not con-
 289 290 "When burglars are about, we examine the scullery and cellar windows, we try the fastenings of our doors, hang up hells to warn us, get dogs and police to watch for us, and go to bed in confidence that we are so prepared against an attack that few are likely to attempt it." l 291 Wellington Napoleon Journal des Débats "While the English journals are every day citing, as a proof of the warlike disposition of our Government, the extraordinary armaments which they allege to be going on in our ports, and the pretended increase In the number of our screw
 292 Constitutionnel "When we see with what miserable gossip the terrors of the English people are excited, we are astonished that their good sense can be so easily imposed upon. Nothing is too absurd with some of their journals for increasing this ludicrous panic. The sight of an armed brig in the distance, or even the appearance of a foreign fishing-boat on the horizon, is instantly metamorphosed by the invasionist newspapers into another Armada; and the English people, resolute and energetic as they are, who with their own unaided strength could hold their island home against the united forces of the whole Continent, are credulous enough for the moment to be imposed upon by these hobgoblin stories." "We have received from an Edinburgh correspondent a letter, dated the 29th ult., in which it is stated that, during the last week, a French steamer has been cruising off Berwick, and every night the men are engaged in taking soundings of the Tweed, while during the day artists are employed in making sketches of the coast.—Our contemporary adds, that this steamer, having completed its mission at Berwick, has gone to Newcastle on a similar errand." 293 materiel 294 l l 295 l l l l l 296
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) has given notice that, on Thursday next, he will bring forward a Motion for the purpose of considering the Jewish Disabilities. A notice of Motion has also been given for the same day by my right hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington), which will take precedence of the noble Lord's Motion, and will probably occupy a considerable time. What I wish to ask of the noble Lord, in consequence of various requests made to me by several Members of this House, is, whether the noble Lord intends to bring forward his Motion on that day, supposing the discussion on the previous Motion shall last to a late hour, or
 335
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he quite concurred in the statement of the hon. and learned Solicitor General. When the Act of last Session was passed, it was considered advisable, in making the requisite reforms in the Court of Chancery, that if the duties of any officer should be altered, that officer should be at liberty to retire with a pension, to be regulated by the Lord Chancellor. The question was raised whether the examiners should not, like the other officers of the Court, be at liberty to retire; and he (Mr. Walpole) thought it reasonable that they should have that option. Perhaps, however, it might be desirable to read over the wording of this Bill more carefully in Committee.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he regretted the reply given by the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken to the proposal of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), to bring about, in conjunction with France, a reduction of armaments. The right hon. Gentleman, who was supposed to represent the policy of Sir Robert Peel, might read with benefit what Sir Robert Peel had said on this point in 1841. It was as follows:—
 "Is not the time come when the powerful countries of Europe should reduce those military armaments which they have so sedulously raised? Is not the time come when they should be prepared to declare that there is no use in such overgrown establishments? What is the advantage of one Power greatly increasing its Army and Navy? Does it not see that, if it possesses such increase for self-protection and defence, the other Powers will follow its example? The consequence of this state must be that no increase of relative strength will accrue to any one Power, but there must be universal consumption of the resources of every country in military preparations. They are in fact depriving peace of half its advantages, and anticipating the energies of war whenever they may be required. I do not mean to advocate any romantic notion of each nation trusting with security the professions of its neighbours; but if each country were to commune with itself and ask—What is at present the danger of foreign invasion, compared to the danger of producing dissatisfaction and discontent, and curtailing the comforts of the people by undue taxation? the answer must be this—That the danger of aggression is infinitely less than the danger of those sufferings to which the present exorbitant expenditure must give rise. The interest of Europe is not that any one country should exercise a peculiar influence; but the true interest of Europe is, to come to some one common accord, so as to enable every country to reduce those military armaments which belong-to a state of war rather than of peace. I do wish that the councils of every country (or that the public voice and mind, if the councils did not), would willingly propagate such a doctrine." 301 Morning Chronicle Morning Chronicle "That great excitement has been created in the Ministerial circles in France, by the announcement of the intention of our Government to strengthen our national defences, by increasing the Navy. He says that M. Ducos, the Imperial Minister of Marine, called together a number of the deputies representing Brest, Toulon, and other ports, and informed them that the military prepations which were taking place in England, imposed upon France the duty of greatly increasing the means of a powerful defensive attitude. The French Minister of Marine is reported to have said, in addressing the assembled deputies—'England had not only made a large increase to her navy and marines, and organised her militia, but she was, at the present moment, raising defences on her coast; and what showed that these operations were directed against France was, that she was fortifying the Channel Islands, which were within a few miles of the French coast, and rendering them much stronger than they ever had been before. Moreover, she was making a formidable and impregnable harbour for ships of war at Alderney, within a few miles of the French naval port of Cherbourg. It was impossible that France could accept this state of things. He therefore thought it necessary to inform them that the French Government thought it advisisable to put her seaports in a state of defence, in order that France might be prepared for whatever might occur. He declared that France would follow England step by step in whatever she might do. If England raised an additional naval force, France would do the same. It was absolutely necessary that France should follow the example of England in increasing her steam force. This increase of her steam navy was forced upon France by the conduct of England.'" 302 ruse 303 304
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must re-
 324 l l
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  said, he wished to know what regulations were in force respecting the office of paymaster? He wished, also, to know whether it was the intention of the Government to make such a disposition of the forces as to give that protection to the Bristol Channel of which it was at present entirely destitute?
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that the arrangements made by the late Board of Admiralty with respect to the allowances to paymasters would have full effect given to them. With respect to the second question, he had to state that a steamer of the first class had lately visited the Bristol Channel. She had now gone to the Mersey, and it was intended that the Mersey and the Bristol Channel should in future be visited by ships of war from time to time.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he would first answer the last question that had been put to him by the hon. Member for Leicester (Sir J. Walmsley), who, he was glad to see, was quite alive to the necessity of protection being provided with reference to that great emporium of commerce. The defence of Liverpool had not altogether been overlooked by Her Majesty's Government. At this very moment a steamer of war had been ordered to go there, and measures would be taken, if it should be thought necessary, in the course of the summer, to provide for the further defence of that port. Having now answered the question of the hon. Gentleman, there were several other questions to which he would take that opportunity of replying. But, first of all, he wished to make one general remark on what had transpired in the course of the debate, that notwithstanding all that had been said of reforms and of the love of economy in the abstract, the great pressure upon him that night had been not on account of the expenditure, but with respect to the saving which he had endeavoured to effect. He had now to defend these reductions. In the first place, he had attempted to make a reduction in the expense of the scientific department to the extent of 15,000 l 329 l l l l l l 330 l 331 332 "The multiplication of courts-martial, and all the consequences of an increase of disorder and crime, are among the least of the apparent and growing evils of the new system. The demoralisation of both men and officers is a yet more observable consequence. The absence or prohibition of the usual punishments known to seamen, has led to the invention of new penalties of the most revolting kind, in the application of which full scope has been given, and the strongest provocations administered to that exhibition of temper and passion which, however natural it may be to men of hasty and cxciteable natures, is seldom indulged without leading to cruelties that must disgrace those who practise them, and, what is more to be feared, raise a sentiment in the public mind hostile to the Navy itself. "The difficulties arising out of its abrogation, and the absence of any substitute for it, now constitute the most prominent obstacle to the ready supply of our squadrons with seamen. This department is familiar with complaints from the recruiting stations, of the difficulty of enlisting the better class of seamen. Of that large number of men who have heretofore constituted the pride of our Navy by their good seamanship and highly respectable personal deportment, composing, I rejoice to say, the great body of the mariners who have sustained the honour and the glory of our flag, in its most perilous as well as in its most useful career—of these men, it is a fact which invites the deepest concern of Congress, we are daily deprived by their refusal to enter again into the service, until, as they ask, they shall have some assurance that a better system of discipline may be restored. "Locking at the state of things in the Navy, I think the occasion propitious to the adoption of a new system for the organisation and government of the whole material constituting the crews of our ships; and I take advantage of the present time to submit to your consideration the outline of a plan which, I trust, will engage your attention, and receive the approbation of Congress."
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that, with regard to surveys and the publication of them, he only proposed to take a vote for six months for the Harbour department, in order that the department might be revised. With regard to savings banks in the Navy, he could only say, that the success which had attended the introduction of the system into the Army, had induced the Government to turn their attention to the subject with the view of establishing them in the Navy. He might also mention
 333 l
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Mr. Patten, in calling the attention of the Committee to the Navy Estimates for the year 1853–4, which are now on the table of the House, I am happy to say that I am able to ask the Committee to assent to a Vote which does not propose to increase the naval force either in the number of seamen or of marines. The Vote which I am now about to propose is founded exactly upon the ground on which the supplemental Vote was proposed in November last. The principles then stated by Her Majesty's late advisers, when proposing that Estimate, are the precise grounds upon which I recommend for the ensuing year the maintenance of the exact force then proposed. It is not recommended by me to the Committee upon any ground approaching that of a hostile or distrustful character towards any foreign Power whatever. But
 312 "That the establishments of this country should be regulated, not with reference to the unusual circumstances of the late war, or to the probability of being again called upon to make a similar exertion, but rather with reference to the policy of depending mainly on our Navy for protection against foreign invasion and for the means of attacking our enemies." "This policy will be admitted to be most congenial to the habits and feelings of our countrymen, who have for a length of time been accustomed to look upon our naval power as the right arm of our strength and the main support of our national greatness." 313 l l l l l l l l l 314 l l l l 315 l l l 316 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 317 l l 318 319 "In connexion with this subject I would call the attention of Congress to the necessity of authorising the establishment of one or more factories for the construction of all the machinery necessary to the complete equipment of the largest class of steamers. The great importance of such establishments to the Government is felt by this department, in the daily conviction that only by the command of such a resource may the Navy be promptly and surely supplied with the best machinery for the public vessels. The inspection and control of the work while in its progress, the assurance of the best material, and the punctual compliance with the demands of the service, are advantages that may only be efficiently secured by having the workshops under the command of the Government. The experience of the past will also fully demonstrate that this mode of supplying the machinery of our public vessels must be, in its general result, more economical than any other, and will certainly secure much the most reliable kind of work. The plans would be more uniform, failure of machinery less frequent, and the improvement of the models of construction more certain." 320 l 321 "That 45,500 Men be employed for the Sea Service for the year ending the 31st day of March, 1854, including 12,500 Royal Marines and 2,000 Boys."
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Not having had an opportunity of referring to the words of the hon. Gentleman's Motion, I will take the correction as he suggests, and say if the Government is not to enjoy his confidence—I don't say unless we call upon the other Powers to disarm, but unless we make a proposal to them to disarm—the condition which he imposes is all but hopeless. If such a proposal is to be made, I am quite sure that my hon. Friend will write an excellent note setting forth that request; yet my opinion is deeply seated that whatever might be the excellence of such a note, it would not be attended with the success which he anticipates. At all events, when we recollect the slight occasions which may give rise to unexpected hostilities, and the effects of such outbreaks if we are not armed, I cannot neglect the opportunity of making every preparation which the state of our relations with foreign Powers, in my humble judgment, may require. Having said thus much, I will add that there is
 297 298 Morning Herald 299 300
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I am extremely sorry to hear the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding say he would disapprove of the policy of the Government, unless they address a distinct demand to France, and probably to the rest of Europe, and to America, that they should disarm—
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he wished to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty whether it was the intention of the Government to take any means for placing the port of Liverpool in a better state of defence? He need scarcely say that there
 328
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  said, he was as sincere a friend of wise economy as the hon. Gentleman who had preceded him; but he believed that the best measure of wise economy was to be sought for in the efficiency of the service. He should extremely regret if, for so small a sum as 15,000 l l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion to a division. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had already stated that the time must shortly come when he must make his financial statement, and then it would be his duty to state what were the intentions of the Government with respect to the income tax.
 MR. MOORE  said, he rose in pursuance of notice to put a question to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London as to the opinions and intentions of Her Majesty's Ministers on that much-vexed subject—but by none more vexed than by the noble Lord himself—the Irish Church Establishment. He trusted the answer would be frank, ample, and explicit—not only free from evasion and official reserve, but containing a full and comprehensive exposition of the views and intentions of the Ministry with respect to this most important subject; and as, under ordinary circumstances, it might be considered that he expected more than he had a right to claim in calling for so complete and comprehensive an avowal, he would venture to show that the circumstances of the case warranted him in demanding such an explanation, and that the noble Lord's position, under those circumstances, called on him to afford it. He thought he would accomplish, his task if he was able to prove—first, that the answer would affect not only the political tranquillity but the social peace and happiness of a large portion of Her Majesty's subjects; and, secondly, what the noble Lord himself might not regard as a secondary consideration, that it would also materially, if not vitally, affect the Government itself. No one could express the strength of his convictions on the question of the Irish Church half as forcibly or as well as the noble Lord had done on a former occasion. The noble Lord had said that he had lost confidence in the people of Ireland. He could assure the noble Lord that
 353 "I am come before you to-day to represent to you what I consider 'a just cause of complaint' by the people of Ireland, and to induce you, if I can, to take a step to obtain a 'well-considered measure of improvement.' My complaint is, that nothing of that sort has yet been done or attempted, and I have referred to this discussion, not only on account of its strict connexion with my Motion, but because I think it ought to refute any answer to it founded upon some supposed danger, some distant apprehension, that what we may do to remove a just cause of complaint,' and to adopt a well-considered measure of improvement' with regard to Ireland, may have an injurious effect at some distant and indefinite time on one of the institutions of the country. I say you are not at liberty, after having agreed to this address, to put in that answer, and thus to bar a remedy. One of two things must be admitted—either you are prepared to do justice to Ireland—to consider her grievances, and redress her wrongs—or you are not. But if you tell us that your position is such that any measure of that kind would be injurious to England, and dangerous to her Church Establishment, which prevents the remedy of the abuses of the Church of Ireland, you surely, then, have no right to say that it is fit to enforce the legislative union." 354 "The history of the Appropriation Clause is well known, and can easily be referred to in the annals of Parliament. I was a party to a Coercion Act in the year 1833—a measure of severe repression—and I did think that in the following year it was the duty of the Government to prepare a measure by which a part of the revenues of the Irish Protestant Church, not needed, in my opinion, by that Church, should be made useful to other communities, such as the Roman Catholics and the Presbyterians." 355
 MR. FITZROY  begged to say, in the absence of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department, that the Government did not intend to proceed with the prosecutions referred to.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty had been kind enough to give him advice as to the mode in which he should act, and it was not the first time that they had on that side received advice from the opposite side of the House. It was rather singular, however, that the right hon. Baronet, who had so perfect a knowledge of the forms and usages of that House, more especially upon the subject of election petitions, had not stopped the hon. and gallant Admiral (Sir G. Pechell) on his first introduction of the Chatham Election Committee. But no; while the accusation proceeded, the right hon. Baronet remained silent, and when it had been made, the right hon. Gentleman got up and declared that the proper time for making it had not arrived. It certainly struck him (Mr. Stafford), that if the proper time for making such a charge, or of entering into a defence against it, had not arrived, the right hon. Baronet would have more completely carried out his plan of going through the Estimates in a spirit of kindly forbearance, avoiding all extraneous matters, if he had not permitted such remarks as those of the hon. and gallant Admiral. He must say, that the gallant Officer was as premature in his eulogies upon the present Board, as he was in his censures upon the late Board. At all events, he would have acted much more in a spirit of fairness if he had waited to hear something more than the opening speech of counsel of the Chatham Election Committee, before he produced his allegations. Perhaps, however, he might be permitted to go beyond the advice which had been given by the right hon. Baronet, and to say, that unless the charges against the late Board should assume some palpable—lie ought rather say some less chaotic—form than they at present appeared in,
 369 Fisgard
 The CHAIRMAN  said, he thought the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Sir G. Pechell) was referring to the report of a Committee which had been laid on the table that day; but if he had been aware that he was referring to the proceedings of one which was still sitting, it would have been his duty to check what was clearly irregular.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, he begged to express his regret that he had misinterpreted the intentions of the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  begged to explain that it was not easy to obtain the services of an officer for a shore appointment, unless he was put on the books of some ship. Captain Warden, as well as he recollected, was actually in the command of a ship when he took this situation and abandoned that command.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that notwithstanding what he had heard, and with the highest idea of Captain Warden's merits as an officer, he must persist in his opinion that it was most desirable to alter the mode in which the Vote on account of his services was brought before the Committee.
 MR. HUME  said, that Commodore Lambert had just been appointed to a good-service pension; and he thought that before such a reward was conferred on him it should have been considered whether he had not by his conduct been the author of the Burmese war. He wished to know why this Vote was greater by 2,600 l. l. 371
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he felt it his duty to give distinctly and solemnly to the Committee a complete contradiction to the assertion of the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Scobell). He (Sir F. Baring) could assure the Committee most distinctly and solemnly that the promotions in the Navy were not made the means of political patronage, either of rewarding one side, or of gaining the other, during his tenure of office; nor were any promotions made from considerations of a political or family kind at all. SIR GEORGE PECHELL said, he believed that the right hon. Baronet who had just spoken had never used his patronage for purposes of political influence, and that a more honest man never presided at the Admiralty.
 MR. HUME  said, he did not pass an opinion on Commodore Lambert, but he thought Government ought to be cautious not to grant a good-service pension to any one with regard to whom there could be a doubt of his worthiness.
 MR. HUME  said, he would remind the Committee that when he was a Member of the Committee on Salaries, he laid on the table of the Committee a plan for forming the ungainly and unsightly buildings in Downing-street into a regular square, so as to comprise the offices of the whole of the public departments; and he now repeated his wish that his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham) would turn his attention again to some such proposition.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, it appeared strange to object to a reduction, but there was one in this Vote which he thought was not wise. In the Report on the Navy Expenditure in 1848, there was evidence that the survey of our coasts was in a most disgraceful state. Indeed, the hydrographers said, as regarded the coast of Scotland, they knew more of the coast of Otaheite. There was a diminution in this Vote by about 15,000 l. 375
 MR. HUME  thought it was a very discreditable circumstance that any of our coasts should still remain unsurveyed. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham) had alluded to a chart which had been made ton years ago, but which had not yet been published. Now, that chart had very probably cost 10,000 l. l.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he was of opinion that, considering the great importance to the commercial and maritime interests of the country, to have an increased supply of charts, additional assistance should be rendered to Admiral Beaufort, the present hydrographer, in order to enable that officer to examine and report upon additional charts. He thought that all questions connected with the harbour department should be taken from the hydrographer, and transferred to the Board of Admiralty.
 MR. HUME  said, he had drawn the attention of a former Board of Admiralty to the charge made for the  Nautical Almanack s. s. l. s. s. d.
 MR. HUME  said, he must admire the candour of the hon. and learned Gentleman, when he said he was an instance of the way in which the dockyard artificers exercised their right of franchise. Would the hon. and learned Gentleman tell the Committee what had been the expenses of his election? He (Mr. Hume) had never, during the whole of his political life, had the patronage of the appointment of a single dockyard carpenter, nor had he ever sat for a dockyard; hut he knew that the principle upon which such establishments should he conducted was that of supply and demand. He contended that the efficiency of the dockyards could only be restored by the franchise being taken away. As to the objections which had been made to building ships by contract, he feared the hon. and learned Member had not enjoyed many opportunities of seeing what was going on in the large private building yards. There he would not find ships cut in two, and made to undergo all sorts of metamorphoses, regardless of cost.
 SIR F. BARING  said, he was aware he was open to the objection that he sat for a dockyard; but he might be allowed to say what he thought to be the right principle in the case. The wages of public departments could not rise and fall like those paid in private concerns; hut, at the fame time, if there was a permanent rise, or a permanent fall, in the wages of private establishments, those of the public yards must follow. As to disfranchisement, if attempts were made to deprive the men employed in the dockyards of their electoral privileges, his right hon. Friend at the head of the Admiralty would find him (Sir F. Baring) joining the chorus of the Members for the dockyards. Disfranchisement, in his opinion, was perfectly unnecessary, because the taking away of the right of voting would not destroy the system of patronage.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he was one of the Board of Admiralty in 1850, when the hon. and gallant officer (Colonel Boldero) thought fit to bring before the House the case of the assistant-surgeons, and he thought upon mature consideration he would almost regret having done so. [Colonel BOLDERO: Not at all.] How would the hon. and gallant Member like, if he were colonel of a regiment, to have the discipline of that regiment regulated by a naval officer? The hon. and gallant Gentleman said the Board of Admiralty had evaded the question, and not carried the Resolution which the House had agreed to. But when that Resolution was affirmed, the right hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring), who was then First Lord of the Admiralty, said that in consequence of the majority being so small, and every naval officer voting with the minority, he should bow to the decision of the House only to this extent, that where cabins could be formed, not trenching on the comforts of the men, and not interfering with the efficiency of the ships, in such vessels a cabin should be built for the assistant-surgeons. Such was the direction which the right hon. Baronet
 385
 MR. HUME  said, he was not aware before that every naval officer in the House voted in the minority on a former occasion, and he regretted they should have shown so little consideration for the service. The question was, ought they, or not, to obtain as able and efficient medical men for the Navy as for other branches of the service? At present it was the last place they went to. They came to the Navy if they could find employment nowhere else. In the Army and in the Indian service they were treated as gentlemen; but in the Navy the steam-officers had cabins allotted to them, whilst it was denied to the assistant-surgeons, and the best men were thus driven from entering it. He appealed to the right hon Baronet the present First Lord of the Admiralty whether men brought up as gentlemen, and not admitted under twenty-two years of age, ought to be placed with young men very often much inferior in age, and, as the gallant Admiral said, addicted to the fiddle or flu flute, and having no place to retire to? He approved highly of what the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Col. Boldero) had said.
 386
 MR. HUME  wished to ask whether the dockyard battalions, the raising of which had cost 70,000 l.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that was quite a mistake. They had been trained to work great guns, and could manage them very well.
 MR. HUME  said, he must call attention to the waste which had been occasioned by entering into contracts for a greater quantity of stores than were wanted, particularly timber, and to abuses which prevailed in the measurement and delivery of coals.
 MR. HUME  said, he must again express a hope that steps would be taken to limit promotion. Nothing could be more farcical than the way in which we went on promoting admirals. We had in the Army men sent out as commanders-in-chief who were of no use; and in India, out of three commanders-in-chief, not one had gone to the seat of war.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIPFE  said, he begged to express his great gratification at the statement of the right hon. Baronet. A crying evil had existed, which he hoped would now be cured. It was also a matter
 390
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that with respect to the wording of the last clause, the right hon. Gentleman would be somewhat surprised when he told him that that clause had been literally copied from the Masters' Abolition Act of last Session. He hoped the House would consent to go into Committee, on the understanding that the amendments would be embodied in the bringing up of the Bill, and considered on the report.
 MR. J. WILSON  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not persevere in his Motion. The return bad been granted for a great number of years, but was dropped at the solicitations of a large number of newspaper editors and proprietors, who complained that this was not a revenue return, but a publication of the individual transactions of each newspaper proprietor. The Committee on Newspaper Stamps, sitting two years ago, called for a return of the stamps supplied to each newspaper; but he objected, on the part of the Government, to a continuation of the return.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he should support the Motion for the production of the Return. In no other form could such satisfactory information of the circulation of the newspaper press be furnished. The Return contained nothing but the plain truth, and advertisers had a sort of claim, before they paid the Government taxes on advertisements, to have an opportunity of judging where they could advertise with the best advantage.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he willingly admitted that this Return was read with great interest, but the House would, he hoped, pause before they called for a Return which had been deliberately abandoned by the House in the year 1837, and never since resumed. The publication of the Return by the Newspaper Stamp Committee took the proprietors of
 394
 MR. HUME  thought the public was entitled to know which papers were the best for them to advertise in.
 COLONEL BOLDERO  said, he must beg to explain, in reply to the charge of the hon and gallant Member for Gloucester (Adm. Berkeley), that nothing was further from his thoughts than to endeavour to create dissatisfaction in the Navy; he had taken up the question solely as a matter of public duty.
 COLONEL BOLDERO  said, he felt it his duty again to call the attention of the Committee to the case of the assistant-surgeons in the Royal Navy. In the year 1850 the House, upon his Motion, adopted a Resolution declaring that the accommodation provided for these valuable officers was insufficient to secure the full benefit of their services. This Resolution was carried in hostility to the views of the Board of Admiralty, whose feelings were displayed in the memorandum or order of the 17th July, 1850, which was issued in consequence of the Resolution of the House. On one or two occasions he had given notice of a Motion to bring the question again under the notice of the House; but he received from the light hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring), then at the head of the Admiralty, an assurance that he was disposed to carry out the Resolution of the House in a fair spirit. But he had since learned that the assistant-surgeons had been refused ac-
 383 êlite 384
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs with regard to Edward Murray. The House would no doubt recollect that Edward Murray, a British subject, after being confined for nearly three years in prison, was tried by a secret tribunal at Rome, the charge appearing to be that he had aided or connived at a murder; that he was condemned to suffer death, and would have been executed but for the energetic interposition of the British consul, Mr. Freeborn; that the late Government interceded for him, and that his sentence was commuted to imprisonment in the galleys for life, and that the Earl of Malmesbury directed Sir Henry Bulwer to endeavour to obtain for him a further extension of clemency. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether his attention had been directed to the case. Whether he had any hopes of obtaining any further extension of clemency to this unfortunate man? Whether he had received any information of a character to enable him to form an opinion as to the guilt or innocence of the prisoner in respect to the heinous
 350
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the Earl of Malmesbury had desired Sir Henry Bulwer to make representations to the Papal Government, with the view of obtaining a commutation of the sentence of Mr. Edward Murray; and he (Lord John Russell) had directed the representions so commenced by his predecessor to be continued, and they were continued while Sir Henry Bulwer was at Florence; but Sir Henry Bulwer had left that city, and he (Lord John Russell) was not exactly aware whether our representations were likely to prove successful. They would, however, be continued by our Minister at Florence. With regard to the guilt or innocence of Mr. Edward Murray, he could only say, that the Roman Government objected to its being asserted that if the case had been tried in an English Court of Justice the evidence that was adduced against him would have procured a different verdict. In fact, the Roman Government considered that the evidence was sufficient to establish the guilt of the accused.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that no evidence had been given to prove he was a British subject; but as he was the son of British parents, it was thought fit to make representations in his behalf, though he did not know if the circumstances would have justified the Government in considering him a British subject.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the favoured-nation clause, to which the hon. Gentleman referred, did not give us any absolute right to ask Holland to admit British goods upon the same footing as Belgian goods entering Holland. The clause would only enable us to do so upon condition that England made reciprocal concessions to Holland; and if we made concessions to Holland, we would be compelled to make similar concessions to other nations, which might be disadvantageous to this country. Therefore no representations such as the hon. Gentleman alluded to had been made to the Government of Holland.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not wish on the present occasion to enter into any discussion with the hon. Member with respect to the Established Church of Ireland; but the hon. Gentleman having asked him a question, to which he wished an explicit answer, namely, as to whether the Government were about to introduce any measure in order to establish perfect religious equality between the different sects in Ireland—he had to state explicitly, that the Government had no intention to introduce any measure having reference to the Established Church, with the exception of the Bill relating to Ministers' Money, with regard to which his hon. Friend near him the Secretary for Ireland (Sir J. Young) would be prepared to submit a proposition to the House. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Moore) had referred to certain secret assurances which he supposed had been given to Members who had joined the Government, both with regard to the Established Church and with regard to the question of landlord and tenant in Ireland. For his own part, he believed that no such assurances had been given, and that those hon. Members had taken office from their knowledge of the general principles and policy of the Government, and not upon the faith of any special assurances.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  brought up the Report of the Select Committee on the petition against the return for the borough of Tavistock. The Report stated that Samuel Carter, not being duly qualified according to the provisions of the Act of Parliament, was not duly elected, and that Robert J. Phillimore was duly elected.
 MR. O'FLAHERTY  said, he believed that Her Majesty's present Government had a very sincere disposition to legislate liberally for the tenant classes of Ireland, and to protect the interest of those classes. With reference to religious equality in that country, he could not yield either to the hon. Member for Mayo (Mr. Moore), or to any other Irish representative, in his sincere and anxious desire to see a just measure of religious equality established in his country. He did not agree, however, in thinking that this was the proper or convenient time for bringing forward that question; and his opinion was, that no more injudicious step than that now taken by the hon. Member for Mayo could have
 356
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs whether the Government had been informed by their representatives in Belgium and Holland that a Treaty of Commerce, dated the 5th day of February, 1852, had been concluded between those Goverments, by which Belgian manufactured goods are admitted into Holland at a much lower rate of duty than similar goods from Great Britain, and if the British Government are aware of the fact, whether any and what steps have been taken to induce Holland to place the British industry on a footing of fair competition with Belgium and other nations; also, whether the above is in con-
 351
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he wished to put the question of which he had given notice to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department, if the Government intended to proceed with the prosecutions which had been commenced against certain parties in Buckinghamshire for distributing placards animadverting on the Militia Bill? Similar placards had been distributed for the last ten years referring to the regular Army, and it was thought that they might be applied to the militia, without subjecting the parties circulating them to prosecution. The moment the Government stated them to be illegal, the Peace Society had ordered them to he withdrawn, and they were withdrawn accordingly. He hoped, therefore, that no further steps would be taken by the Government, as it would scarcely be fair at this time of day to make war upon the circulation of opinion.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member must give notice of his Motion.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that, in the Session of 1850, and again in that of 1851, Committees of that House had investigated the subject of the law of partnership, particularly with reference to the subject of limited liability. In 1851, the Committee represented that the Crown should issue a Commission for the purpose of inquiring into the subject of that law; and the right hon. Gentleman then at the head of the Board of Trade (Mr. Labouchere) had announced his intention of issuing such a Commission. He (Mr. Cardwell) had now to state that it was the intention of the Government that that Commission should issue.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the question put to him by his hon. Friend was divided into two parts: first, with regard to the power vested in the Board of Trade of recommending to the Crown whether a charter should or should not be granted. It was the intention of the Board of Trade to be guided on this question by principle, and, as far as they could, by precedent. What they believed to be the intention of the House when they intrusted the Board of Trade with the power they possessed was, that the charter should be granted in conformity with and in subordination to the general principles of the law. With regard to the proceedings of this House, he could do no more than give his opinion as a single Member of that House with regard to the measures that might have been brought before it from time to time; and in respect to that opinion he would only say, that it was in conformity with the opinion of his hon. Friend, and he did think that while the inquiry was pending on the subject, it would be desirable to be guarded, and not to give a limited liability where the object could be accomplished by private competition.
 MR. DIVETT  brought up the Report of the Select Committee on the petition relating to the election for the borough of Lancaster. The Report stated that Robert Baynes Armstrong was not duly elected; that the last election was a void election; and that the Committee had come to a resolution declaring that the said Robert Baynes Armstrong was by his agents guilty of bribery, and that certain electors had been proved to have received bribes. He would beg to move that the minutes of evidence should be laid on the table of the House. He thought it right the House should fully consider those minutes; and he would now give notice, that to-morrow he should move that no new writ should issue for the borough of Lancaster till ten days' previous notice had been given.
 MR. LUCAS  said, the hon. Member who had just sat clown, had asked his (Mr. Lucas') hon. Friend (Mr. Moore), whether he was prepared to sit on the same benches and act with the same party of which the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) was a Member. The first branch of the question was answered by the fact that his hon. Friends were constantly sitting on the same side of the House, and what they had begun to do he saw no reason why they should not continue. With respect to the second part of the question, be would only say that both he and his Friends about him were prepared to act in perfect independence of both the English parties in that House, until they could discover some party occupying the seats of office who would do that justice to Ireland which the hon. Gentleman had publicly declared that he was pledged as a man of honour to require. Until that purpose was realised they would act in accordance with the pledge they had given, whoever might be in the Government. The hon. Gentleman had declared that he was bound in honour to give his opposition to a Government which would not consent to act on the principle of religious equality with respect to Irish politics. They had heard the frank, candid, and explicit answer which the noble Lord the Member for London, the representa-
 357
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he was astonished how the Board of Admiralty had found it practicable to find cabins for so many assistant-surgeons as they had done. Cabins were impediments to clearing for action, and the more there were the greater would be the difficulty. There were other classes—such as the mates, who would be our future admirals—struggling upwards, who had claims for cabins as well as the assistant-surgeons, who were, no doubt, a very respectable class of men; but it must be considered that a ship was like that House—if all were to have seats, there would be no room for them.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that in time of peace like the present, under the existing system nine-tenths of the promotions in the naval department took place from Parliamentary or family interest. The Army was represented in that House by one officer only, the Secretary at War; and why should it not be the same with the Navy? So long as the First Lord (who had the disposal of the patronage) held his situation politically, it was impossible for him to act independently altogether of his political character.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he meant nothing personal to any particular Admiralty. He meant the expressions he used to apply to all Admiralties since he was born.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that 95 cadets had entered the service last year, instead of 75, the number prescribed by the Admiralty regulation. The number of cadets admitted into the service during the last eleven years had amounted to 1,433, while there had been only 595 mates promoted to lieutenancies; and the number of cadets admitted this year exceeded that of any former year, and amounted to more than 100. The consequence of this was that there were between 300 and 400 mates, who had passed their examination for lieutenancies waiting for promotion, whereas there had been only 52 vacant lieutenancies during the past year. He thought, therefore, that it would be absolutely necessary to reduce the number of cadets admitted into the Navy.
 MR. VERNON  begged to ask the First Lord of the Admiralty whether it was the intention of that department to make any further use of preserved meats at all for provisioning the Navy, and whether any contract had been taken for that purpose?
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he wished to know if it had been ascertained that Mr. Murray was a British subject?
 MR. KER SEYMER  brought up the Report of the Select Committee on the Canterbury borough election petition. The Report stated that Henry Plumptre Gipps and the Hon. Henry Butler Johnstone were not duly elected at the last election to serve as burgesses in the present Parliament for the borough of Canterbury; that the last election was a void election, and that the Committee had come to the resolution declaring that the said Henry Plumptre Gipps and Henry Butler Johnstone were, by their agents, guilty of bribery at the last election; that several electors had been proved to have received bribes varying from 4 l. s. 348
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, he would now give notice, as he had intended originally to do, that to-morrow he should move that the issuing of the writ for the borough of Canterbury be suspended.
 MR. TUFNELL  said, he wished to bring before the notice of the Committee and the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty the subject of the wages paid to the shipwrights in Her Majesty's dockyards. Previous to the year 1833 their wages were 5 s. l. l. 377 s.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer relating to the subject upon which the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Scholefield) had appealed to the hon. and learned Attorney General, and on which occasion reference was made to the right hon. Gentleman for an answer. The late Government promised to introduce a Bill to amend the Newspaper Stamp Act, and the matter was thought an urgent one, on account of the litigation that might arise upon the knotty point left in doubt by the existing law. He therefore wished to ask whether pending the consideration of the question, the legal proceedings against Mr. Dickens, in the case of the  Household Narrative
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought that the noble Lord the Home Secretary ought to have been present to answer this question, particularly because when his hon. Friend the Member for Ashton (Mr. Hindley) had asked the question before, the noble Lord was not particularly civil, but treated certain persons out of the House, who were quite as respectable as himself, as if they had been guilty of a grave offence. The charge against the persons held to bail was, that they had been guilty of something which went by the name of sedition in advising young men to avoid enlistment in the militia. Now, when they recollected the scandalous means that were used to induce unthinking young men to enlist, of which they had full testimony in the evidence of a distinguished military officer, he thought that in a free country like this, those persons who took a different view should have liberty to give a contrary advice. He would refer to some passages of the evidence of Adjutant General Brown given before the Army and Ordnance Committee of 1851, the purport of which was that the old pensioners residing in their native villages dared not attempt the recruiting service, so unpopular was enlistment with the peasantry, and that the best recruiting sergeants were those who, by being able to sing a good song and tell a merry story, could cajole the young countrymen. The evidence went generally to prove that military service was odious in the country, and that the recruiting sergeants used various means to induce young men to enlist. Now, they had heard a good deal of "gagging" the press, and that operation might apply to the newspaper or the bill-poster. They had it in evidence that irregular means were used to induce young men to enter, and that 5s. were offered to every simpleton; and surely it was open to those who believed that young men were doing badly in abandoning their parents, and leaving their families, to represent to those young men that which was true, and to take other means to induce them to remain at their industrial occupations. The offending placards consisted of a woodcut and an extract from a work called the  Autobiography of a Working Man 359 Punch Illustrated News Times Chronicle
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that this was a question in which parties were liable to very heavy penalties, and all that he meant to ask was, that, pending the inquiry into the matter by the Government, no legal proceedings should be taken against individuals, which might be ruinous to them.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, that this was the first time he had ever heard a First Lord of the Admiralty condemned because the Estimates were not sufficiently high. There were men in the public dockyards such as wore not to be found in other dockyards; but there was not one of the dockyards which did not require reorganisation. If any one were able to perforin that task it was the present First Lord of the Admiralty, with whom he had no political connexion, but of whom he said so from the high admiration he had of the right hon. Baronet's administrative powers. A great deal had been done by the right hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring) to put. a stop to mismanagement in the dockyards, and waste arising from want of skill. There were, however, workmen in the public dockyards who did not do more than two-thirds of the work done by the same class in private dockyards.
 MR. MURROUGH  said, he begged to express his concurrence in the views of his hon. Friend. When he considered the present state of the profession of which he was a member—when he considered that there were to be found in that profession men of education unsurpassed, of talents undeniable, of integrity unimpeachable, he thought they had a right to complain when they found that the tendency of modern legislation was to strip them of those resting-places which they had been accustomed to enjoy when they retired from active life. It appeared that nearly all those appointments for which solicitors had hitherto
 393
 MR. STAPLETON  said, that he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the subject of the infliction of corporal punishment in the Navy. When, on Friday last, the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) expressed a hope that the present Government would he able to take such steps for the preservation of discipline in the Navy as would enable them to dispense with the infliction of corporal punishment, the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty stated, as a reason for believing that this could not he done, that it appeared, from the report of the Secretary to the Admiralty of the United States, that the substitution of other punishments in the American navy had not been attended with good effects. Now, as he believed that those substituted punishments consisted of attaching a rope to a sailor, and dipping him in the water, tying his knees up against his chin, and making him drag about a cannon ball attached to his leg, he did not wonder that the United States sailors objected to their infliction, and that they were not successful in promoting good discipline. He thought that when the abolition of corporal punishment had been accompanied by the substitution of others so objectionable, the experience thus gained could not be considered conclusive against the abolition of
 363
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade with regard to the private legislation of the House. He wanted to know whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce any measure for the purpose of giving public companies powers with limited liability.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, he would now ask what was the intention with respect to those measures which were already before them? The usual course had been that, with some exceptions, limited liability should only be given in cases
 349
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he objected to the clause on the ground that it would establish an entirely new principle with regard to the appointment of the Examiners. He considered that persons who had heretofore been eligible for that office—namely, solicitors of good standing, were at least as competent to take the examinations to which the Bill referred, as barristers of seven years' standing. He would therefore move that the clause he omitted; the right of appointment would then be left to the Lord Chancellor, who might appoint barristers if he thought fit.
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he ventured to submit that there was some mistake with regard to the rate of remuneration paid to the shipwrights and working men in Her Majesty's dockyards, and the market price of labour given to parties in the situation of artisans in the dockyards of private individuals. There were three classes of persons for whom he spoke, namely, the shipwrights, the joiners, and the sawyers. He had ascertained that in the Government yards the shipwrights were nominally paid 26 s. s. s. 379 l. s. s. s. s. 380 s. s. s. d.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, no Board of Admiralty could be more disposed to promote the comfort of every rank in the service than the present Board. If his recollection was right, the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Boldero) carried his Resolution, in 1850, by surprise; the division was taken first, and the discussion afterwards; in a thin House, forty-eight voted for and forty against it; and that was at a time when the Navy Estimates were not so popular as they were now. He was sorry the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had taken a course now different to what he took on that occasion. The hon. Member said then it was a question of details which should be left to the consideration of the Admiralty. In fact, the whole question was a question for the Board of Admiralty. It was a question of space, with which naval men were alone competent to deal. Since 1809 he was confident there was no class of men whose comforts were more attended to than assistant-surgeons. He found that in 1840 a Commission sat and inquired into this very circumstance, and the Commissioners included men whose opinion, he was sure, would be received with deference by the hon and gallant Member (Col. Boldero)—the Duke of Wellington, the Duke of Richmond, Lord Melbourne, Lord Hill, Sir George Cockburn, Lord Hardinge, and Sir Hussey Vivian. They considered the possibility of removing the medical officers from the cock-pit to mess with the lieutenants, and they said in their report—
 "On full consideration we find practical difficulties in the way of making any arrangements to accomplish this in a satisfactory and uniform manner in all classes of ships. The accommodation afforded of late years to this class of officers is so improved as to render the removal less essential, and we are, therefore, not prepared to make any representation in this respect." 387
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that the subject was one which must be regulated by the ordinary rules of supply and demand, and he could assure the Committee that he was at present actually inundated with applications for situations.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that his hon. Friend was in error with regard to Commodore Lambert. He did not get his good-service pension for his conduct in the Burmese war, for he got it before that war took place.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that when the charge was made by the hon. and gallant Admiral behind him, his right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty had observed to him that it was perfectly irregular; but the experience of his hon. Friend opposite must show him that it was more the duty of the Chairman to check the hon. and gallant Admiral than of the First Lord of the Admiralty. So far as the Board of Admiralty was concerned, there was no charge made by them against the conduct of the previous Board.
 MR. COLLIER  said, he believed that a permanent increase in the rate of wages was now taking place throughout the country, and it was most desirable that the Royal dockyards should be supplied with skilled labour fully equal to that employed in private yards. He concurred in the opinion expressed by the right hon. Member who preceded him, that it was necessary to raise the rate of wages, in order to secure the necessary supply of skilled labour.
 MR. WALPOLE  would suggest that they should now merely go into Committee  pro formâ. 392
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he thought, after the Report which the House had heard, that no new writ ought to be issued for the borough of Canterbury pending the inquiry proposed to be instituted. He should, therefore, move that the writ be suspended.
 MR. PHINN  said, he wished to call the hon. and learned Solicitor General's attention to this Bill, and to the operation of the Bill of last Session. Before that period there were no means of obtaining oral evidence of any fact before the Court. The Act of last Session introduced a very remarkable change in that particular, and had afforded facilities as contrasted with the former state of things; but there were many questions which would spring out of this Act, and he trusted the hon. and learned Gentleman would, on some future measure, adopt such suggestions as the operation of that Act gave rise to. It was well known now that when parties came before the Examiner, there were no particular facts to which the attention of the Examiner was confined, and there were also no limits within which the examination was conducted. The Act of last Session also provided that the Examiner should have no power to decide upon what facts were material or irrelevant to the inquiry, and parties were thus involved in a very considerable expense, and a very great accumulation of evidence was the result. Again, it was necessary, under the present system, to bring witnesses from various parts of the country at considerable expense; and he maintained that there were functionaries in the country—for instance, the Commissioners of Bankruptcy, who at present enjoyed a life, of comparative idleness—upon whom this duty might devolve. The position of the Examiner at present was purely a Ministerial one; he had no opportunity of regu-
 391
 MR. PHINN  said, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty to the fact, that when persons were called from the dockyards to serve for an hour or two as jurymen, a proportionate sum was deducted from their pay.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if any regular representation were made to him on behalf of particular individuals, he should be happy to give it his best consideration; but from giving a hypothetical answer at the present moment upon circumstances not under consideration, he hoped that he would be excused.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , said, that it had not fallen to his lot to conduct the case against Mr. Dickens, and no notice whatever had been taken of this subject in his department, nor had it in any way been brought before him until within the last three or four days, and then it was not with reference to Mr. Dickens. The course that he had taken was to direct a case to be prepared and submitted to the Law Officers of the Crown, upon which they would advise the Government with regard to the state of the law. That was the only step that he had the power to take, and he believed it was the one most calculated for the solution of the question. With regard to any legal proceedings having been taken
 352
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not urge the right hon. Baronet to abolish this punishment immediately, but he wished that it should only be inflicted in the Navy, as was the case in the Army, upon the sentence of a court-martial. The right hon. Baronet said that successive Boards of Admiralty had laboured to reduce this punishment to a minimum; but had they ever taken an officer's command from him before the expiration of the usual period for which a ship remained in commission, on account of his having made an excessive use of it? He hoped that the right hon. Baronet would afford to the men serving in the Royal Navy every possible protection against the improper infliction of the lash.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the House of Commons was not the proper place to regulate the rate of wages; but, if it were, the Members for the dockyard? were certainly not the persons to regulate the scale. He did not believe that the system of jobbing would ever be put an
 382
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, that it was quite impossible that courts-martial, as suggested by the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), could be held in small vessels, where the number of officers were necessarily limited. The right hon. First Lord of the Admiralty might, he thought, safely be trusted to do all that was possible on this subject, when they recollected the steps he took, during his former administration of the naval affairs of the country, to abolish impressment, and to induce a superior class of men to volunteer in the service. He believed that although officers had not been deprived of their command for an excessive infliction of capital punishment, instances were not wanting during the last ten or twelve years in which this had been considered by the Admiralty a bar to reappointment. He congratulated the House in having the right hon. Gentleman once again at the Admiralty, where he had before conducted the business in so popular a manner; and he (Sir G. Pechell) should be ready to support him in all his reforms. He had often expressed a wish to see a naval officer at
 366 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  thought the right hon. Gentleman had wholly mistaken his observations. The two offices of Vice and Rear Admirals were sinecures, and what he complained of was that they should be given to Admirals of the Fleet. Let the officers of the fleet have any sum the country wished to give them—they were two distinguished officers at the head of the Navy; but those two officers to whom he referred belonged to the judicial department, and were, he believed, under the Judge of the Admiralty. With regard to the gallant officer referred to, he perfectly agreed in all that the right hon. Baronet had said respecting him. There was no occasion, however, to give to those gallant officers situations which should be distributed amongst those who were not so well off.
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  said, he must defend the "good-service" pension held by Commodore Lambert, than whom, he
 374
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that if they required Admiral Beaufort, the hydro-grapher, to authenticate a chart which he had not himself verified, he would resign his office. He (Sir J. Graham) had asked for the Vote for only six months, in order that he might have time to see whether any improvements could be introduced into the department.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, the latter part of the observations of the hon. Member justified him in the saving he had made. It was said that there was a large accumulation of surveys made some time ago, and not yet published. Now, what was the use of a survey unless it was tested, and if it was not tested they could not publish it, and if they did not publish it it was worthless. He had already explained that this very accumulation of surveys in the hydrographer's office was the reason why he considered that until this accumulation was cleared off, the surveying might be expediently diminished. Another source of saving in this department would be the reduction of allowances to the surveying officers, which had hitherto been much beyond the due claims of the service, He should certainly do his utmost to hasten the publication of charts and the practical completion of surveys. No question, there had been great delay in these important matters. As an illustration he might mention, that when he was in the Admiralty, now, unfortunately for him, twenty-two years ago, there was one particular officer engaged in the survey of the Thames; on his (Sir J. Graham's) return to the Admiralty, after this lapse of twenty-two years, he found the same officer still engaged upon survey within the Thames.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  could assure his right hon. Friend (Mr. Tufnell), and the hon. Member for Plymouth (Mr. Collier), that, in the performance of their duty, the Board of Admiralty had given the most favourable consideration to this question; and although he was willing to admit that it would not be right that the persons employed in the Government dockyards should be paid less than in private yards, yet, on the other hand, it must be remembered, on the part of the public, that not one farthing more should be given than the real market rate of remuneration for labour might require Now he did not believe that there was a single vacancy in any of Her Majesty's dockyards at this moment for ship-
 378 s. s.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he agreed with the hon. Member that the price of the  Nautical Almanack
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he had not been aware of the fact before. He would make inquiry as to the practice in private yards, and be guided accordingly.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that a limit had already been fixed to the number of admirals in active service, and that, whatever might be the case in the Army, an admiral could not help being at the seat of war when his ship was engaged with the enemy.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that the reduction of the stores had been made the
 388 l.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he entirely agreed with the hon. and gallant Officer that it was necessary to check the number of those admitted into the service; but the evil complained of had been, to a
 389
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that in framing the Votes he had endeavoured to leave an ample margin, so as fully to cover the expenses of the year. He wished to explain the cause of the increase in this Vote, which, strictly speaking, ought to have been included in the Army and Ordnance Estimates. One-fifth part of the British Army was on shipboard, at sea, every year, and it was right to consider what was due to the health and comfort of the soldiers under those circumstances. Hitherto there had been provision made of berths under hatches for only two-thirds of the entire number on board, while one-third were obliged to remain on deck at all times, without reference to climate or weather. That was an arrangement so unjust, and he might say so cruel to the soldier, that it commanded the attention of the Government. The question had been referred to a commission of officers, who decided that due provision should be made for the accommodation under hatches of every soldier on board, and hence arose some increase on this Vote for the present year. He (Sir J. Graham) greatly misunderstood the feeling of that House and of the country if any sum was ever voted with more satisfaction than the charge for this provision would be.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, it had been decided that the allowances of each sailor should be increased from ¾ to 1lb. of meat per day, and that a corresponding addition should be made to the rations of the soldier. The soldier, however, did not undergo the same amount of labour as the sailor, and it was therefore right that the latter should receive a larger allowance.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, as far as he was aware of the circumstances, the Vice and Rear Admirals of the United
 368
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, the services of the officer referred to were of the most valuable kind, and he did not think they could be obtained in a more effective manner than at present. As at present advised, he was not prepared to alter the arrangement with regard to Captain Warden.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he would request of the hon. Gentleman opposite the late Secretary of the Admiralty (Mr. Stafford) not to follow up the subject of the Chatham election, which had been referred to in a portion of the speech of his hon. and gallant Friend behind him, because, if he were not mistaken, the matter to which his hon. and gallant Friend referred was connected with a judicial investigation not yet concluded. The evidence was not yet closed or presented to the House—an inquiry was still pending affecting all concerned—and it would be most inexpedient to have any discussion
 367
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he would merely call the attention of the Committee to the Vote they were then discussing. He could assure the hon. Member who had just resumed his scat, that he was in favour of any mitigation in the punishments inflicted in the Navy that was possible, consistently with a due regard to the discipline of the service. He earnestly desired that every check that experience
 364 365
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, there was none of Goldner's preserved meats now in store. There was no fresh contract entered into for a further supply; and no preserved meat was now used in the Navy, except very small quantities as comforts for the sick. He might add that the necessary steps bad been taken to proceed against Goldner and his sureties for the penalty.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he must remind his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, that before the Committee on Salaries, he (Sir J. Graham) had stated, not only on his own experience, but from declarations, in which he entirely concurred, made to him by Earl Spencer, who was a most distinguished First Lord of the Admiralty, it was his opinion, considering the duty of that Board and its
 372 373
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, there was a strong feeling among the artisans in the dockyards that they were not overpaid, but underpaid; and he was sure that no more injudicious proposition could be made than to disfranchise them.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  (who had now returned to his seat) said: I have to apologise to my hon. Friend (Mr. Hindley) who asked this question, for having been absent from my place at the moment he put it; but I was called out to look at an Act of Parliament on another subject, and I thought, from the course of the discussion on the Irish Church question, that I
 360 "Militia—Peace Society. "To the Right Hon. Lord Palmerston. "36, Lime-street, Liverpool, Feb. 17, 1853. "My Lord—I observe by the newspapers that Mr. Hindley is to put a question about the antimilitia placards of the Peace Society. I have written by this post a letter to Mr. Hindley, of which I annex a copy. Should that gentleman not read or notice my letter, I trust your Lordship will do so, and set me right with the public. I am more interested in that offensive placard than any other person. I am a literary man, earning bread for self and family by my pen, and eating it only by favour of the public who buy my productions. As your Lordship will perceive, the Peace Society, by placarding me all over the kingdom, have placed me in a false and odious position.—I am, my Lord, your Lordship's obedient servant, "ALEXANDER SOMERVILLE, "('One who has Whistled at the Plough,') &c." "Sir—Seeing in the newspapers that you are to put a question to Lord Palmerston on the subject of the anti-militia placards posted throughout the kingdom by the Peace Society, I beg your attention to the following facts and I think you
 361 Autobiography of a Working Man 
 "1. Because my own opinion has been decidedly in favour of the volunteering of recruits to the militia, in preference to a compulsory ballot (or invasion of the domestic circle by a conscription); and because, if the battalions of the militia were not filled by volunteers, the conscription must have been resorted to. "2. Because I do not believe that militiamen were or are likely to be flogged, unless they commit crimes which they may easily avoid. "3. Because my book was intended to be, what every page of it proves, a warning to young men entering the Army, and to soldiers already there, not to connect themselves with politics and regimental politicians, as I unfortunately did; also to dissuade civilians from connecting themselves with physical force movements. "4. Because a quotation is prominently made from my book in the Peace Society's placard without their naming the hook, or explaining why I was flogged, but, on the contrary, leading any one not acquainted with me to infer that I was some malefactor, guilty, probably, of a vile moral crime (which soldiers usually are guilty of before receiving such a punishment). "5. Because my name was the only one used in the placard as a soldier who had suffered that punishment which was to deter men from volunteering into the militia. "6. Because I was not asked if I should allow my name to be used for such a purpose. "And, lastly, if I had, I should have emphatically said 'No.'—I am, &c, "ALEXANDER SOMEUVILLE. "Charles Hindley, Esq., M.P." 362
 MR. HUME  said, he would not call in
 400
 MR. CLAY  said, he could not regard the association but as a commercial speculation, and thought it would be very unwise to inflict serious damage on others by conferring exclusive privileges on persons with whom they were in competition. He would have perpetrated a job, if possible, in favour of Her Majesty's Theatre; but this Bill was too bold a violation of principle. The competition between the two Italian Opera Houses had led to this, that they
 401
 MR. HUME  thought the hon. Gentleman had himself shown why this Motion should not be agreed to. He had shown that in fifty or sixty years no occasion had arisen, or that, when it had arisen, the remedy the House had applied was sufficient, and that no difficulty had been experienced. He submitted, then, that there was no necessity for inquiry. If the necessity arose, the Chairman of Ways and Means could discharge the duty. When a similar proposition to that now brought forward was
 413
 MR. HUME  would submit that the phrase was objectionable. It was not the first time he had seen it used. He had taken it on himself to strike out such objectionable phrases from any petitions entrusted to him. He thought that the hon.
 414
 MR. HUME  said, that he, for one, would not give his sanction to the presentation of any petition that conveyed an insult to any religious body or sect, and would request his hon. Friend to withdraw the present one.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he should oppose both the Resolution and the Amendment. He thought that if the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this Motion had intended to excite religious animosity between different classes of Her Majesty's subjects, he could not have taken a course better calculated to effect his object. The College of Maynooth was established in 1795, in the reign of George III., and when Mr. Pitt was Prime Minister, by a Protestant Parliament, with the view of educating the clergy of the Roman Catholics of Ireland at home. In 1800, and subsequently, several Acts were passed with reference to the maintenance of the college, and in 1845 the late Sir Robert Peel brought in a Bill which placed the grant for the establishment on a permanent footing. Now, Parliament sanctioned grants for the instruction of Roman Catholics at Malta, Gibraltar, the Mauritius, and Canada; they paid Roman Catholic chaplains for attending the workhouses in Ireland; and he wished, therefore, to know on what ground any objection could be entertained to the grant for the College of Maynooth? It had been said that the grant had not answered its purpose; but if any persons had supposed that this grant would induce the Roman Catholics of Ireland to abandon their convictions, such persons entertained a very erroneous idea. The late Sir Robert Peel, in speaking on this question, had observed that he did not pretend to say that the measure of 1845 would; give permanent satisfaction to the Roman Catholics, or that it would induce the Roman Catholics to compromise a single principle. Sir Robert Peel further said, that while he did not guarantee that the grant to Maynooth would be a final and complete measure, he was satisfied that it would be regarded by the Roman Catholics as an honourable and liberal proceeding towards themselves. It was clear,
 448
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that this Bill professed to be a reforming Bill, and one for saving expense to suitors; but he believed, in its present state, it would most seriously increase expense, and create additional inconvenience by requiring witnesses to travel from great distances. He wished to propose several Amendments to this clause, for the purpose of restricting the retiring pension to the case of Examiners already appointed, and for allowing compensation only in case of removal to such Examiners as should be hereafter appointed.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he must resist the Amendments on the ground that they would go in a great measure to nullify the rest of the Bill. He himself had some verbal Amendments to propose in the clause. Some Members had supposed that this Bill specially referred to the gentleman who had acted as Examiner before the Bill of last Session passed; but any one who read the Bill must have seen that it was confined to the Examiners appointed subsequently to the passing of that Act.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, the Act of last Session limited the pension of the Examiner to 300 l
 MR. BAGGE  thought the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton) ought to adopt the Same course with regard to the present Government which he adopted when his (Mr. Bagge's) party were in power, namely, resist the proceeding with business after twelve o'clock. He should move that the Chairman report progress. He appealed to the hon. Member for Salford to be consistent, and not desert his duties on the accession of a new Government.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he had never relaxed his endeavours to secure early adjournments. He had been in the House now for twelve hours, whereas the hon.
 466
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he thought it must be quite evident that, however the hon. Member for Salford might have persevered in his efforts, under several different Administrations, he had not succeeded in his favourite object.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he had now to move that the blank in the portion of the clause fixing the number of years' service which should entitle the Examiners to claim pension, should be filled up with "twenty."
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  wished to point out that this was only an enabling clause, and that if the Amendment were carried, it would make the Examiners an exception to all the other officers of the Court of Chancery, in respect to the number of years' service required to give them a claim to a pension.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could see no reason why a gentleman who might be appointed when very young should be entitled to a pension after only twenty years' service.
 Mr. SPEAKER  reminded hon. Members that the rule was to receive all petitions unless such as contained language either disrespectful to the House, or libellous towards any individual or any party. Although petitions might be laid on the table of that House, they were afterwards liable to the inspection of the Committee on Public Petitions, with a view of preventing libel or any offensive matter contained therein being published. If the present petition were ordered to be printed, the Committee might, by order of the House, omit those parts which were considered offensive; but under the present circumstances he did not see how the petition complained of could be rejected.
 Mr. E. BALL  said, that one or two of the observations which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House, induced him to trespass on their indulgence for a very few minutes. He did not know whether he had been sufficiently fortunate to have correctly understood the meaning of the hon. Gentleman, who had promised that he would not mystify the House. He (Mr. Ball) was certainly one of those imbeciles in that House who had not been quite able to comprehend what the hon. Gentleman had, in the
 452
 MR. E. BALL : That was precisely what he understood the hon. Gentleman to have said. The hon. Gentleman had told them that he would prefer to endow error rather than truth; and hence it was that he (Mr. Ball) maintained that in order to be consistent, the hon. Gentleman should vote for the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire—because, if he were to support the endowment of the College of Maynooth, the natural inference was that he considered the religious system taught in that establishment to be an erroneous one. He would put it to the hon. Gentleman himself whether his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire had that evening thrown out any more severe imputation against the Roman Catholic system, than the inference to be drawn from the speech of the hon. Gentleman. The hon. Member had made another statement which he (Mr. Ball) confessed that he was not able perfectly to comprehend. He had told them that he considered the result of the debate that night would be such as the country would not be proud of. What did the hon. Gentleman mean by that statement? Did he mean that the feeling of the country being so generally Protestant, and the great mass of the people wishing that the grant should be withdrawn, that House, by voting for its continuance, would arrive at a decision of which the country would not be proud? He (Mr. Ball) could entertain no doubt that the country would feel very greatly displeased with such a result. The hon.
 453 454
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that he had felt naturally reluctant to intrude himself at an earlier part of this discussion, because moving the second reading of this Bill was, perhaps, an appeal against the decision of the Board of Trade, although not against an original decision of his. This subject came before the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), who so ably transacted the business of his department under the late Administration. It was proposed to the right hon. Gentleman that he should grant a charter of limited liability; that charter the right hon. Gentleman refused. He (Mr. Cardwell) had every reason to suppose the right hon. Gentleman had no doubt on his own mind as to the propriety of the course he pursued; and he considered he was governed both by principle and by the precedents of his department to refuse that application. The case had since been brought before him (Mr. Card-well), and he had felt it his duty to enter most fully into a review of it. Mr. Lumley had a long interview with him, and he paid every attention to the representations of that gentleman; but when he left him he had not the shadow of a doubt that the decision of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) was perfectly consistent with sound principle and all the precedents. But it was said that this was not a trading concern. He hoped that the creditors would find no reason to say hereafter that it was a trading concern. But there was no reason why limited liability was asked for? In the able speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Phinn), he avowed that unfortunately no individual could be found whose means were adequate to meet the demands that were made upon him; and the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. M. Milnes) had said that it was so clear a case that no two men could come to a different opinion upon it. All he (Mr. Cardwell) could say to that was, that the law had
 402 403
 MR. MIALL  wished to explain. What he had said was, that if he had to give State endowments to a religion, he would rather give them to an erroneous than to a truthful system; or, in other words, he would rather give external support to a bad cause, than kill the vitality of a good cause.
 MR. MIALL  said, he trusted the House would extend to him the indulgence which was usually accorded to new Members, while he explained the grounds upon which he intended to give his vote upon the question under their notice. He thought that they would all be pretty well agreed that the debate in which they had been engaged had been, up to that moment, anything but a profitable discussion; that the feelings which it tended to excite were not the most genial, and that whatever might be the result, the country would probably not be proud of their proceedings that evening. Such would naturally be the consequence of the interference of that House in matters of a religious character. And whatever might have been the impatience of hon. Members under the infliction of ft speech so lively as that of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, it should at the same time be admitted that there were some precedents furnished by the past proceedings of that House for bringing controversial topics, of the nature submitted by the hon. Gentlemen that evening, under its consideration—until they got rid of them once and for ever. He was glad that the subject had been brought before them in a shape that would admit of his giving his vote upon it distinctly upon either of two principles. He understood that if he were to go into the lobby with the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) he would be affirming—granting that the State had a right to bestow endowments
 449 and laughter. 450 451
 MR. LUCAS , as a point of order, asked whether such a petition as the last referred to could not be fairly objected to on the ground of the disrespectful language in which the Roman Catholics were named? The hon. Gentleman, either in reading the prayer of such petition, or in describing it, bad used the word "Romish" in speaking of the Roman Catholics. That was a nickname which, he submitted, should not be used by any persons when speaking of a large portion of Her Majesty's faithful subjects. He certainly objected to the use of any such name to designate the sect to which he belonged, and he should suggest that the petition, if the expression occurred in it, should not be received until amended by the alteration of the offensive epithet.
 MR. STANHOPE  would ask the attention of the House, at that hour, to only one point—whether the advantages that were held out to us in 1845 had since been realised? It was argued then that if there were evils at Maynooth, they proceeded from the system we had pursued; and he agreed very much that if we once allowed the principle of maintaining the College, it was bad economy to maintain it in a parsimonious way, so that those who were educated there should not have physical comforts, or obtain a sufficiently liberal education. We were told that, as we had given grudgingly, so they had received thanklessly, but that with a more liberal system they would change their policy towards us. But what had been our experience of the effect of Sir Robert Peel's measure from
 464 465
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  would ask leave of the House to be permitted to state on what ground he seconded the Motion. He was an independent Member, bound to no party, determined to speak his mind, and tender his vote on all questions which, in his humble judgment, tended to the good of the, country. With these views, he presumed to offer to the House his perfect conviction of the necessity of an inquiry into the statements which had been advanced by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. He believed there was a large and an influential body in the country, belonging to the middle class like himself, who took a deep interest in the question, and who were exceedingly dissatisfied with the state of
 437 438
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer arising out of a paragraph which had appeared in a morning journal of that day reflecting on the high character of a body with which he had the honour to be connected. The question he had to ask the right hon. Gentleman was, whether the Governor and Company of the Bank of England were aware of the intention of the Government to reduce the rate of interest on Exchequer Bills from 1¼ d. d.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he hoped that without offence to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, for whom be entertained the highest respect, he might be allowed to express the deep regret he felt that the hon. Gentleman should have brought forward the proposition before the House—a useless and irritating proposition, that could not be attended by any good consequences, and that could not fail to add to those feelings of alarm and discontent on religious subjects, and to those feelings of sectarian animosity which had already had such calamitous results in Ireland. He was not, however, surprised that the hon. Member should have introduced the question; for certainly a portion of the press in Ireland, and a number of gentlemen who took part in politics, had used language not calculated to smooth the asperities of the public mind in this country; but he was satisfied that these gentlemen represented a small minority of the property, loyalty, and independence of the Roman Ca-
 458 "I should think it a most unwise measure to suffer the education of the Roman Catholic clergy to return to its old course, from which so much mischief has flowed to the empire. On that event they must either go for their education to countries hostile to England, where in addition to their religious prejudices, they will imbibe those civil prejudices, and that spirit of hatred and resentment, of which France and Spain have uniformly availed themselves, ever since the period of the Reformation, to raise a party for themselves, and excite domestic disturbances in Ireland; or they will be left to pick up such an education as they can find at home, amid all the poverty, ignorance, and low and vicious habits of the class from Which they are generally taken." "I beg to recall your Lordships' recollection to the events of the last few years. You have seen, my Lords, disturbances in Ireland which created considerable danger and alarm; you have seen disturbances having for their object the obtainment, by tumult and threats, of the repeal of the union between this country and Ireland; you have seen the interest which these transactions excited in foreign countries; you have seen foreigners flocking to Ireland, in order that they might attend at those tumultuous assemblies; you have seen publications in foreign countries, and the interest felt in general in the transactions in Ireland relative to those supporting the question of a repeal of the union—can you, my Lords, then think, under these circumstances, that it is desirable that you should depend for the education
 459 Hansard, 460 "But, if they should still meet with disappointment, he should feel satisfied that they should regard the measure as a most useful one; and if agitation, after this and other measures, should still continue in a violent degree, he would suggest that wise maxim from a holy source—-' Be not overcome with evil, but overcome evil with good. Regard not railing, nor be turned from thy course by it. They might depend upon it that ultimately ingratitude and suspicion must be overcome by constant kindness."—[3  Hansard, 461 l l l 462 463 Hansard,
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he thought the answer to the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) was, that this was not the Bill of a trading company at all, and was not therefore open to any of the objections which were applicable to the principle of limited liability. Her Majesty's Theatre had brought bankruptcy upon many worthy men, whose capital was not sufficient to carry on that noble institution with success. If anybody could have carried it on singlehanded, it would have been Mr. Lumley, whose energy and enterprise had reflected the greatest credit upon him as a manager; but the question was, whether this magnificent building was to be entirely closed to the public, or whether a number of noblemen and gentlemen of the most unblemished character should be empowered to risk a certain portion of their fortunes for the public amusement, and the promotion of the fine arts. The question was a very simple one, and he could not see how there could be two opinions upon it. He could conceive only one kind of opposition to the Bill, and that must come from persons interested in another theatre, who did not wish to see Her Majesty's Theatre open. The best thing the House could do was to pass the Bill, and allow the two theatres to come into fair competition.
 MR. SPOONER  presented petitions from several places against any further Grant to Maynooth, and one from Manchester, in which the petitioners stated that they had always objected to the support given by the State to the Romish College of Maynooth.
 MR. SPOONER  then rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice:—
 "That this House do resolve itself into a Committee, to consider the Act 8 & 9  Vict., 415 l 416 from several Roman Catholic Members. "I do swear that I will bear faithful and true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, and Her will defend to the utmost of my power against all traitorous conspiracies, and all attempts whatsoever which shall be made, against Her person, crown, or dignity." A laugh. "I do swear that I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within this realm, as established by the laws. And I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment as settled by law within this realm. And I solemnly swear that I will never exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled, to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion and Government in the United Kingdom.
 417 418 Evening Mail "In the chapel of Lusk, the priest, addressing the people at mass, called every voter that was at the time in the chapel by name to the altar, and warned them of the strictly religious character of the struggle that was going on, in the face of the whole congregation. He cautioned them against voting under any influence or any circumstance against the Catholic candidate, and said he would be by no means surprised if those who despised his advice and the interests of their Church had their houses burned over their heads." 419 Kilkenny Moderator Saunders's News Letter, Saunders's News Letter 420 Water-ford Mail. Carlow Sentinel, Carlow Sentinel 421 Western Star Corpus Christi, 422 423 "MEMORIAL OF ROMAN CATHOLIC PRELATES, IRE-LAND, TO THE LORD LIEUTENANT OF IRELAND, JANUARY, 1794. "Under the laws which formerly existed, your memorialists were obliged to resort to foreign countries for education, particularly to the kingdom of France, where they had secured many valuable establishments. Four hundred persons were constantly maintained and educated therein for the Ministry of the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland. "In the anarchy which at present afflicts that kingdom these establishments have been necessarily destroyed. "Your memorialists, therefore, are apprehensive that it may be found difficult to supply the Ministry of the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland with proper clergymen, unless seminaries, &c, be instituted for educating the youth destined to receive holy orders according to the discipline of their own Church, and under ecclesiastical superiors of their own communion. "And they beg leave further to represent (with all due respect and deference to your Excellency's wisdom), that the said institution would prove of advantage to the nation at large, and be a matter of great indulgence to Her Majesty's subjects professing the Roman Catholic religion." 424 "As the affection of the Sacred Congregation towards the ancient Church of Ireland was always firm and constant, so that whatever afflictions befel it our sympathy was great—drawn from our very heart—so now, in more happy times, as the, partners of your joys, the Sacred Congregation rejoices not less for itself than for you, congratulating you upon the good news which was lately signified to us by your letters, namely, upon the excellent and munificent liberality of your most potent and gracious King and his august Senate, in granting you the licence and faculty for erecting and instituting a suitable seminary, in order to prepare young men for the Ministry. "Concerning this happy and prosperous event, whilst we are found in the first instance to render thanks to the great and good Dispenser of all benefits, yet at the same time it may be most anxiously expected of you (and which we doubt not you will be sedulous to perform), that, in the acceptance of this so great a benefit, you will prove yourselves worthy of the favour of all that dutifulness of the mind which is suitable to the occasion. "For, whilst it would be wrong to be wanting in this duty, even towards those who have afflicted us, how much more is it due from us towards those by whose goodness we are thus relieved, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all piety. Taking good heed that the youth learn to be sober, prudent, chaste, modest—not covetous, not given to wine, not disposed to wrangle and quarrel ( non litigiosi "And also you shall often and earnestly admonish them to be subject to princes and the higher powers, that their rulers may never repent of having conferred on Catholics such costly favours, but, on the contrary, may from time to time applaud themselves for having bestowed such benefits upon Catholics. "And so much the more it becomes them, that they have implanted in them that homage of inviolable fidelity towards the higher powers, so congenial to the Catholic profession, and which is, divinely prescribed by apostolic demand, and which ye well know has been so sacredly and anxiously commended to his children in every part of the world by the Sacred College." 425 "It shall be in our heart, by every suitable indication of the mind, to prove ourselves worthy of the distinguished favours received from the munificence and liberality of our Most Serene King and his august senate, and also for so prosperous an event to render immortal thanks to the great and good Author of all benefits." Secundœ Secundœ, "Whether a Sovereign, on account of apostacy from the faith, loses dominion over his subjects, so that they are not bound to obey him?" "But opposed to all these (negations of the proposition) is that which Pope Gregory VII. (Hildebrand) says:— "We, holding the statutes of our sacred predecessors, absolve, by apostolical authority, those Subjects (Popish) who are bound to excommunicated persons by fealty or by the sacrament of an oath. We absolve them from the sacrament of their oath, and by all means we prohibit them to observe faith towards thorn till they (the apostate sovereigns) make satisfaction.'" 426 "But apostates from the faith are excommunicated, as also heretics, as the decretal says elsewhere concerning heretics ( ad abolendam, pro con, "I answer by saying that, as is above stated, infidelity of itself is not repugnant to dominion, and that because dominion is established by the laws of nations, which laws are human laws. But according to the Divine law, there is this distinction between fidelity and infidelity, which does not take away or abolish human law. But yet any sovereign sinning by reason of infidelity may, sententially, lose the right of dominion, as well as on account of any other fault. To the Church, however, it docs not appertain to punish infidelity in those who never received the faith according to what the Apostle says, 'What have I to do to judge them who are without?' (outside). But the infidelity of those who have received the faith (which is done by baptism itself) may be sententially (or after sentence pronounced) punished, and most properly may such sovereigns be thus punished." In Cœna Domini, Pastoralis, in articulo mortis; 427 justissma et sanctissima. in Cœna. Secundœ Secundœ, "About heretics two things are to he considered; one on their part, and one on the part of the Church. On their parts is the sin (heresy), by
 428 Secundœ Secundœ "On the part of the Church there is pity for the conversion of such as are in error, and therefore she does not immediately condemn. But at last, if he is found pertinacious, the Church, no longer having hope of his conversion, provides for the safety of others, in cutting him off by a sentence of excommunication, and finally relinquishes him to the secular magistrate to be exterminated from this world by death." De Verbo Dei, "First, heretics may be justly excommunicated, as all acknowledge; and, therefore, may be put to death. The consequent is proved, because excommunication is a much greater punishment than death. Secondly, experience teaches us there is no other remedy, for the Church has advanced by degrees, and has tried every remedy. If you threaten them with pecuniary fines, they neither fear God nor regard man, well knowing that fools will not be wanting to believe them by whom they will be supported. If you throw them into prison or send them into exile, they corrupt their neighbours by their language, and those who are at a distance by their books; therefore the only remedy is to send them speedily to their proper place. "Fifthly. There are three causes which teach us that such men should be put to death. "The first is, that the bad may not injure the good.…. The third is, because it is
 429 "Now, all these reasons," concludes the Cardinal, "convince us that heretics are to he put to death; for, first, they injure those they come in contact with; in the next place, their punishment benefits a good number…—and we daily-see this effect in those places where the Inquisition flourishes; finally, it is an act of kindness to obstinate heretics, for the longer they live the more errors they invent, the more men do they pervert, and the greater damnation they acquire to themselves." "When, therefore, the Lord prohibits us to extirpate all the bad, he does not prohibit that this or that man should be slain; for that could not be done without great loss to the good. If, indeed, it can he done, they ought, indeed, undoubtedly, to be extirpated; but if they cannot, cither because they are not sufficiently known, or that the innocent should suffer for the guilty, or if they are stronger than we are, and there is danger if we attack them in war that more of us would fall than of them, then we arc to keep quiet." 430 Rambler, Quarterly Review Edinburgh Review "It is difficult to say in which of the two popular expressions—the rights of civil liberty,' or 'the rights of religious liberty,'—is embodied the greatest amount of nonsense and falsehood. "How could Lord John Russell with any decency persecute the Catholics, unless he protested that he did it in this sacred name? [Liberty of Conscience.] And how could he, and the rest of the wealthy men who sit on the Treasury and Opposition benches, continue to make laws for the special benefit of the rich and titled, except by solemnly asserting that it was all done for the furtherance of 'the blessings of civil liberty, which are the inalienable birthright of every Briton?' "Let this pass, then, in the case of Protestants and politicians. But how can it be justified in the case of Catholics, who are the children of a Church which has ever avowed the deepest hostility to the principle of 'religious liberty,' and which never has given the shadow of a sanction to the theory, that 'civil liberty,' as such, is necessarily a blessing at all? How intolerable it is to see this miserable device for deceiving the Protestant world still so widely popular amongst us; We say,' for deceiving the Protestant world; though we are far enough from implying that there is not many a Catholic who really imagines himself to be a votary of 'religious liberty,' and is confident that if the tables were turned, and the Catholics were uppermost in the land, he would in all circumstances grant others the same unlimited toleration he now demands for himself. Still, let our Catholic tolerationist he ever so sincere, he is only sincere because he does not take the trouble to look very closely into his own convictions. His great object is to silence Protestants, or to persuade them to let him alone; and as he certainly feels no personal malice against them, and laughs at their creed quite as cordially
 431 "They are deceived, we repeat, nevertheless. Believe us not, Protestants of England and Ireland, for an instant, when you see us pouring forth our liberalisms. When you hear a Catholic orator at some public assemblage declaring solemnly that this is the most humiliating day in his life, when he is called upon to defend once more the glorious principle of religious freedom'—(especially if he says anything about the Emancipation Act and the 'toleration' it conceded to Catholics)—be not too simple in your credulity. These are brave words, but they mean nothing; no, nothing more than the promises of a Parliamentary candidate to his constituents on the hustings. He is not talking Catholicism, but nonsense and Protestantism; and he will no more act on these notions in different circumstances, than you now act on them yourselves in your treatment of him. You ask, if he were lord in the land, and you were in a minority, if not in numbers yet in power, what would he do to you? That, we say, would entirely depend upon circumstances. If it would benefit the cause of Catholicism, he would tolerate you; if expedient, he would imprison you, banish you, fine you; possibly, he might even hang you. But be assured of one thing: he would never tolerate you for the sake of the 'glorious principles of civil and religious liberty.' If he tolerated you—and most likely, as a matter of fact, he would tolerate you—it would be solely out of regard to the interests of the Catholic Church, which he would think to be best served by letting you alone." 432 Rambler "But, more than this, notwithstanding their
 433 Hansard, justified rebels 434 435 436
 MR. SPOONER  said that the word "Romish" was in the petition as he had read it.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that he took a different view of the duty of a Member of Parliament to that of the hon. Member for Montrose. If he saw any objectionable phrases in a petition, he should certainly refuse to present it, but be would not take it on himself to alter a word of it. He did not see that this was at all an objectionable phrase, or that it would induce the House to object to the presentation of the petition. He thought that the word merely expressed the education of the Roman Catholics at Maynooth in a short way—"Romish College." He would certainly prefer to withdraw the petition rather than to alter one word of it.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, that a Committee of that House had sat for a considerable time for the purpose of considering the present constitution of the Board of Customs, and the system pursued by them, with a view of remedying the evils com plained of by the mercantile body. He believed the late Government had intimated their intention to introduce a measure on this subject, and he wished to ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's present advisers to introduce such a measure, and, if so, when?
 MR. PHINN , in reply, said, that this was not an appeal against the decision of the Board of Trade. A public department could only decide according to its own usage; but it was the province of Parliament to legislate according to the circumstances of the case.
 MR. PHINN , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, it was well known that there was great difficulty experienced at present in carrying on Her Majesty's Opera House, in consequence of the public not adequately supporting it, or because persons could not be found possessed individually of sufficient capital for undertaking such an enterprise. The object, therefore, of this Bill was to vest in a large number of noblemen and gentlemen, who took a deep interest in the promotion of the fine arts, the powers and privileges of a corporate body, to enable them to carry on Her Majesty's Opera House in a conjoint capacity. The necessity of such a course was obvious, for many who were anxious for the sake of art, and not for gain—who were willing to risk a certain sum, hut who were not disposed to peril their whole fortunes—-sought for protection in an ascertained amount of liability. He hoped, therefore, that if any hon. Member objected to the details of the Bill, he would at least allow it to be referred to a Select Committee. In the Address from the Throne at the opening of the Session, Her Majesty recommended Parliament to consider the means of advancing the cause of education and the cultivation of art; and it was in that spirit that he now craved the favourable attention of the House to the present Bill. In other countries the Government took a warm interest in enterprises of this nature -at Madrid, Paris, Naples, Vienna, Milan, and all the other great capitals of the Continent, the Government not only encouraged opera performances, but furnished the necessary
 398 l 399 Geo. "Whereas the existence of well-regulated theatres, substantially built, and capable of affording the best accommodation to be obtained for the public, with respect to the surrounding avenues, passages, and approaches, as well as to their fitness for scenic representation, has always been considered to be a matter worthy both of Royal attention and Legislative protection." Geo.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I trust that the House will excuse me; if I endeavour to give an answer to the question my hon. Friend has put to me, in the most distinct terms I am able to command, for it is a question which is not altogether of a common order, relating as it does to the character of an estab-
 404 405
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he could not at present undertake to say whether any measures to be taken by the Government for the improvement of the Customs department and its machinery would or would not require an Act of Parliament. The whole subject was under the consideration of the Treasury, the result of whose deliberations would, probably, be embodied in a minute: and, if so, he should have no difficulty in laying that minute on the table of the House at the proper time, which he hoped would not be far distant, together with a Report of the Board of Customs on that of the Committee of that House—a Report in which they had furnished the Government with very important matter for their consideration. In one important respect a change, which in point of fact must be the foundation of all other measures, was in progress at the Board of Customs. To have reduced the number of the Members of that Board, would, under ordinary circumstances, have been attended with consider able expense: but within the last two
 406
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  then rose to move the following Amendment:—
 439 "To leave out all the words after the word 'consider,' and to substitute the following words: All enactments now in force whereby the revenue of the State is charged in aid of any ecclesiastical or religious purposes whatsoever, With a view to the repeal of such enactments.'" 440 pro tanto, 441 Regium Donum. l l l l 442 "If this endowment be withdrawn, the Parliament which withdraws it must be prepared to enter on the whole subject of the reconstruction of the ecclesiastical arrangements in Ireland."—[3  Hansard, 443
 MR. DUFFY  said, that as knowing something of the Irish newspapers, upon the extracts from which the hon. Member had so plentifully garnished his speech, he was ready to join issue upon the only portion of the evidence which had not been answered repeatedly in that House. The hon. Member had spoken of the influence of the Irish priesthood exerted in the last election in Ireland, and had quoted speeches which he said had undergone a double test, that of never having been contradicted by the speakers, and that of having been selected indiscriminately from newspapers of all parties, Now, having a full knowledge of the papers quoted, he (Mr. Duffy) declared them all to he thorough partisans against the priests of Ireland. To Irish ears it would be enough only to name them— Saunders' News-Letter, Leinster Express, Carlow Sentinel, Western Star, Kilkenny Moderator. Head's Journey, 455 Rambler Protestant Rambler, Rambler. 456 entente cordiale s. 457
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he objected to the Bill, because he thought the House should stand by the opinions it had expressed in similar cases, and he called on the right hon. President of the Board of Trade to state his views respecting the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  rose to bring forward a Motion of which he had given notice—
 "For a Select Committee to consider the best means of providing for the execution of the office of Speaker in the event of Mr. Speaker's unavoidable absence by reason of illness or other cause." 407 "It is remarkable that notwithstanding the Inconveniency which must attend the public business, in the necessary absence of the Speaker from personal indisposition or from any other cause, no measure has yet been adopted for the appointment of a Speaker  pro tempore." ipso facto 408 pro re nata 409 Grey's Debates 410 411 412
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  seconded the Amendment. It was important that the House should clearly understand the character of the Motion of the hon. Member (Mr. Spooner). It should be perfectly understood that this was not a Motion for inquiry, as the hon. Gentleman who moved the Amendment seemed to suppose, but for the abrogation of the grant to Maynooth without inquiry. It was put into the form in which it stood on the paper, namely, that the House should resolve itself into Committee to consider the Act in question, because the rules of the House only permitted certain questions to be discussed in Committee; but a Committee of the whole House had no opportunity of inquiry—they only discussed the general principle, whether the grant should, or should not, be continued. It should also be understood—and he hoped it would be understood by the public as well as by the House—that the present Motion was different to that which the hon. Gentleman had brought forward on the same subject last year. The hon. Gentleman's Motion last year was, that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the system of education carried on in the College of Maynooth. He (Sir W. Clay) had listened attentively to the hon. Gentleman's speech to see whether he assigned sufficient reasons for having changed the character of his Motion; but so far from finding any reason for that change, he had heard only statements, which, taking them at their utmost value, only constituted ground for inquiry. The hon. Gentleman had brought forward charges of the most serious kind, supported by what at best was merely  primâ facie 444 445 446 447
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that in the county of Chester the magistrates had adopted a plan very much in consonance with that proposed in this Bill. At every petty sessions they elected one of their number to a financial board which had the sole control of the finances of the county, instead of the body at large.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he could state that there was nothing short of an unanimous feeling in the Boards of Guardians with which he was acquainted in favour of having that control over the expenditure of the county which justice demanded they should have. At present there existed in the minds of the ratepayers suspicions as to the magistrates, which interfered very much with the discharge of their magisterial duties. The ratepayers suspected that in the dispensation of patronage—in the case, for instance, of the rural police—the magistrates exercised that power more for the protection of their own property than for the general good, as well as with regard to the erection of bridges and other works. As a magistrate, he knew that those suspicions were quite unfounded, but at the same time magistracy would be raised in the estimation of the ratepayers by removing the possibility of attaching such an imputation to them. It was a constitutional principle that those who paid the rates should have a control in expending those rates; and he should therefore support the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought the Bill ought to have been brought forward by Her Majesty's Government. After the reforms of 1832 and 1833 were settled he pressed the Ministry of that day to put the counties in the same position as the Reform Act had placed the boroughs—that was, to put the control of the expenditure in the hands of the ratepayers. The Government appointed a Commission, who took evidence as to the propriety and
 486
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I can promise the House that I will not enter on any of those extraneous topics to which hon. Gentlemen who have preceded me have adverted, and into which we are generally drawn by a discussion on the subject of Maynooth. I think there exists, on both sides the House, a very general desire that this debate should be concluded to-
 508 509 l. l. l., l. 510 511 512 513
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  then attempted to address the House; but the cries for a division being great, the noble Lord moved that the House do adjourn.
 LORD LOVAINE : Sir, I am unwilling to give a silent vote on the present occasion, because I know the interest which this question excites in the public mind, and the more so, as I am sorry to say, that I am unable to vote for the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), which goes to the immediate abrogation of the grant to the College of Maynooth—a course which I cannot think consistent with the honour and good faith of the Legislature. I need not have occupied the attention of the House further if it had not been for certain expressions which fell from the right hon. the Secretary for Ireland, in which he seemed to assert that all the violence, the bloodshed, and the tumult which occurred during the late elections in Ireland were to be laid to the charge of those gentlemen who ventured into a contest, without what he chooses to think sufficient chances of success. It seems, Sir, that he considers that every candidate for an Irish borough or an Irish county must have the  exequator exequator, 505
 MR. A. MILLS  was not inclined to follow the course which the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down thought proper to pursue. He certainly was not in the counsels of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, and therefore he was unable to speak of the reasons which induced that hon. Gentleman to bring forward his Motion. This, however, he would say, that if they were those alleged by the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Fagan), that he should not have his (Mr. Mills') support; for he could conceive no more unworthy, no more unbecoming, motives than those which had their origin in religious rancour; and in order to show that he did not participate in any such feelings, and that he entirely disclaimed being influenced by them, he wished to address a few words to the House, while he gave his reasons for supporting the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. It was not only because he believed the doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church to be theologically false, though he did profoundly entertain that conviction, but because he was thoroughly convinced of the pernicious effects of the Roman Catholic system. He believed it to be a system practically mischievous—to be one which had tended to wither and degrade to a state of moral, social, and financial bankruptcy, every com-
 499 500 The State in its Relations to the Church. "The support of the College of Maynooth was originally undertaken by the Protestant Parliament of Ireland, in the anticipation, which has since proved miserably fallacious, that a more loyal class of priests would be produced by a home education than by a foreign one, and that a gradual mitigation in the features of Irish Romanism would be produced when her ministers were no longer familiarised with its condition in continental countries where it remains the religion of the State. Instead of which, it has been found that the facility of education at home has opened the priesthood to a lower and less cultivated class, and one more liable to the influence of secondary motives. It can hardly be denied that this is a well-merited disappointment. If the State gives anything of pecuniary support, it should, in consistency, give everything; unless it is bound in conscience to maintain the national church as God's appointed vehicle of religious truth, it should adopt as its rule the numbers and the needs of the several classes of religionists, and in either respect the claim of the Roman Catholics is infinitely the strongest. In amount this grant is niggardly and unworthy; in principle it is wholly vicious, and it will be a thorn in the side of the state of these countries so long as it is continued. When foreigners express their astonishment at finding that we support in Ireland the Church of a small minority, we may tell them that we support it on the high ground of conscientious necessity for its truth; but how should we blush at the same time to support an institution, whose avowed and legitimate purpose it is constantly to denounce that truth as falsehood? If, indeed, our faith be pledged to the college, by all means let us acquit ourselves of the obligation; but it is monstrous that we should be the voluntary feeders of an establishment which exhibits at once our jealous parsimony, our lax principles, and our erroneous calculations." 501 "The endowment of Maynooth is a peculiar favour granted to one religious sect, while it is denied to all others; and granted to that sect only which is regarded by all others with well-grounded apprehension. The churchman, if he desires to educate his son for the ministry, sends him to a university at his own cost. The Dissenter or Wesleyan, proposing to devote a son to the service of God, places him in a college maintained by private funds. The Romanist only has the; education of his son undertaken by the State—a preference which is not only unjust, but regarded by Protestants with alarm, when it is remembered that the body thus distinguished is the only sect which inculcates and practises direct idolatry."
 MR. PACKE  said, there were two offices created in this Bill which were now unknown, and he believed that so far from producing economy, this would be a mea-
 485 Vict.
 MR. FORTESCUE  said, he was glad to find that the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had not taken the same course as that of last year, by moving for inquiry, because to men holding such opinions as the hon. Member, such an inquiry as he had then sought for would be useless. It was far better that he and his Friends should propose at once the extinction of the grant. If they had an inquiry, he believed that the result of the investigation would merely show that the College had followed the same system of education since 1845, which it had acted upon for years before. Beyond that he believed the Committee would afford no new evidence upon which they could found a Motion for the abrogation of the grant. He was glad to find that the hon. Member had repented of his moderation and liberality of last year, and had founded his present Motion upon the old, antiquated, familiar ground of religious intolerance. They knew all those arguments well; but he must say he had never heard them put forward more broadly and unmistakeably than last night by the hon. Member. He could not help wishing, as he listened, for something like a statute of limitations applied to their discussions, which, after a certain lapse of years, might bar the arguments of Lord George Gordon and the No-Popery men of 1780. Yet he was not sorry that the hon. Member had exhibited his proposal in all its naked deformity, because he felt it would be so repulsive to the House as to ensure its rejection. He had no fear then for the result of the vote upon the present occasion. Yet he could not refrain from expressing his regret at the state in which the question now stood, and the attitude in which the friends of religious equality now found themselves placed. It appeared as if a great gulf separated them from the year 1845; for what was the state of things in Ireland in 1845, compared with former years? After many failures which this great cause had undergone for the last half century—after its break-down in 1801
 506 507
 MR. LUCAS  said, as there was a general wish among hon. Members at once to divide, he was unwilling to intrude himself on the notice of the House; but he was equally unwilling to allow this question to go to a division without expressing his views in reference to it. His opinion was decidedly against both the Amendment and the original Resolution. The original Resolution was one which no man entertaining the opinions which he entertained could for a moment support; and he considered the Amendment as one which was equally objectionable to every Gentleman who entertained opinions similar to his own on this subject. He regarded, indeed, the Amendment as the original Resolution under a different shape. He had nothing whatever to complain of in the speech of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Scholefield); it was extremely liberal, fair, and candid; but it was impossible for him (Mr. Lucas), or hon. Members who acted with him in that House, to conceal from themselves the fact that the Amendment moved by the hon. Member was one, a great part of the support of which would be dictated by the same feelings of religious bigotry and opposition to Catholicity as those which animated the supporters of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner). ["Oh, oh!"]
 514 Dod's Parliamentary Companion, l. 515 Regium Donum Regium Donum 516 ad misericordiam 517 bonâ fide primâ facie 518
 MR. LUCAS  said, that with respect to what had fallen from the hon. Baronet, all he could say was that it was not his intention to use one expression insulting to any hon. Gentleman on account of the religion or Church to which he belonged. He had spoken of the Establishment solely in its character as a political institution, not wishing to express any opinion on its character as a Church; and he should have deemed himself open to great reprobation if he had used any observations about the Church to which the hon. Baronet belonged such as those uttered the other night, without any remonstrance being made, by the Member for North Warwickshire against the Catholic Church and its sacraments.
 MR. DRUMMOND : I have no objection that we should go at once to a division, if that is the wish of the House; but, Sir, my constituents of every rank and degree have urged me to vote against the continuation of this grant. But I know I won't. [ Laughter. 519 Pontifex potest legem Dei mutari. propositiones damnatœ. Pontifex non sine justa causa. Liguori, 520 Liguori,
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, that by adopting the second reading they were adopting all that was objectionable in the principle of the Bill. The principle of the Bill was the establishing a financial county board. He considered such a board to be entirely unnecessary; and that, if established, it would be productive of the worst possible consequences. Why was such a board required? There was already a finance committee in each county, to examine the accounts, and to report upon them to the sessions. All those accounts were made public in the different parishes; and they clearly showed how little control the magistrates really had over the expenditure, and how much they were bound to provide by the power exercised by the Secretary of State under the authority of Parliament. The greater portion of the county expenditure was on account of the interest of money borrowed, and in repayment of the principal, for those essential improvements which the magistrates were bound to make in providing pauper lunatic asylums and county gaols. All their proceedings relating to the county rates must take place in public, and were open to inspection in every respect, so that every security against mismanagement was now afforded to the ratepayers; and by the 15 & 16  Vict., 476 l. l. 477 l., d. 478
 MR. J. BALL  said, the more he heard the more he was convinced that that House was not the proper place for theological or casuistical discussion. If there existed in any Member's mind a persuasion that the teaching at the College of Maynooth was such as to endanger the safety of the
 502 503 504
 MR. HENLEY  said, that none of those who had consented on a former occasion to the second reading of the Bill, had given their approbation to the measure. The Select Committee had decided to reserve the control of the gaols, lunatic asylums, bridges, and such matters, to the county magistracy, and he hoped the House would
 483
 MR. BUCK  said, there appeared to be a great desire to assimilate the management of the county expenditure to that of boroughs; but he should regard such a change as one of the most detrimental that could be effected. He was satisfied no greater injury could be inflicted on the counties in the west of England than to
 487
 MR. BAINES  said, he entirely concurred in the opinion which had been expressed by several hon. Members with respect to the great importance of retaining in the hands of the magistracy the powers they now possessed over the county gaols and lunatic asylums; and, if the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Henley) referred to the Bill of 1851, he would find it contained express provisions for that purpose. The object the Select Committee of last year had in view was to prevent the powers which were most wisely and beneficially vested in the magistracy from being transferred to the new financial boards. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) had made one mistake with respect to the operation of this Bill, when he said that only half of the board could be composed of magistrates. One half of the board must be magistrates—the other half might be magistrates, if the ratepayers pleased to elect them. It was also a misapprehension to suppose that the proceedings of those boards would be secret, for the 58th clause provided that all the business of the county board should be discussed publicly. He agreed to the second reading of the Bill on the grounds stated by his noble Friend the Home Secretary.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that on the understanding that he should have the support of the Government in doing so, he would agree to alter the Bill so that it should correspond with the Bill which came out of the Committee of 1851, with the exception of the mode in which the financial board should he elected. He would therefore, after the Bill had been read a second time, ask to be allowed to commit the Bill  pro formâ,
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in moving the Second Reading of the County Rates and Expenditure Bill, said, the subject possessed so little novelty that he thought he might stand excused if he did not press it on the attention of the House with any lengthened observations. It was a subject which had been before Parliament for the last twenty years. Immediately after the Reform Bill two Committees—one of the House of Lords, and the other of the House of Commons—sat to consider the
 467 468 "I will state generally, on the part of Government, that we have not the slightest objection to
 469 "By voting for the second reading he should admit—what he was prepared to admit—the principle that the representative system should, to a certain extent, be adopted in the administration of the county funds."—[3  Hansard, "His opinion was, that some check, founded on popular election, and consisting of ratepayers acting with the magistrates and on the magistrates, was now necessary, and ought to be established."—[3  Hansard, 470 471 mandamus, 472
 MR. BARROW  said, he was one who wished to preserve property and the rights which belonged to it, and he desired to have the details of the Bill honestly carried out. He objected to the extremes of the coincidence of taxation with representation, and he believed the Bill avoided them, while it sufficiently protected the rights of property by giving it, to a certain extent, a plurality of votes. He was surprised to hear the objection that the electoral privilege was not rightly vested in the Board of Guardians, and ought to be vested in the ratepayers, because the Boards of Guardians were ratepayers, with a strong interest to restrain county expenditure within proper limits, and were frequently presided over by noblemen and Members of that House. For the same reason he could not imagine there would be any improper selection of the financial boards. He was not willing to interfere with the unpaid magistracy; but as to the remark which had been made, that they had exercised those executive powers for many years, he believed that those powers had been conferred on them by driblets, as Act passed after Act, and in the absence of proper machinery to carry out their provisions, which was now supplied by this Bill. It was as well to remind the House also, that, under the system which had prevailed, the county rates had been doubled in the last twenty years. He was quite sure the measure would, if passed, increase the confidence of the county ratepayers as to the employment of their money. He did not believe there would be that extreme economy and absence of public improvement which some hon. Gentlemen seemed to apprehend; and in proof of this he knew that since the rates had been administered by the ratepayers in towns, the amount of money spent upon works of improvement in those towns had been most excessive. This was a very strong answer to those who said that a financial board elected by ratepayers was likely to be characterised by extreme economy.
 MR. FAGAN , as a Roman Catholic, and the representative of a large Catholic constituency in Ireland, was anxious last evening to take an early part in the debate, in reply to the statement of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, and to say why it was he could support neither the original Motion nor the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham (Mr. Scholefield). But as he had not the good
 488 489 490 491 492 493 l. l. l. 494 495 "We beg you will understand that the object of this question, and of any similar ones that may be put, is merely to suggest to your mind that M. Bailly has not rejected all the doctrines that it would be desirable that he had done in the construction of his work, and certainly not for the purpose of imputing to any living Roman Catholic anything objectionable that it contains." "As I was observing just now, although a work may contain many things which I should condemn, yet if it has any particular question better treated of than I can find it anywhere else, I should not reject it altogether because the work itself contains exceptionable passages; but I should make use of what is good in it, and reject what is exceptionable." "In every moral treatise I have seen, written
 496 Moral Theology. "Every duty springs from God, and as God cannot contradict himself by requiring incompatible duties, the Church only interprets the Divine will while it releases him from the obligation of his oath." Rambler Rambler 497 498
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  thought it due to himself to take some notice of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas). That hon. Member had said, that if the Amendment moved by the hon. Member for Birmingham had included all religious endowments, that of the Established Church in Ireland among the rest, he and those who acted with him—meaning, he (Mr. Serjeant Shee) presumed, all or many of the Catholic Members of the House—would have voted for it. Now,
 521
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he was rather surprised to hear his hon. Friend at this time of day utter the strong denunciations which he had done against the Bill before the House, because he (Sir B. Hall) had thought that all those old Tory denunciations in reference to the conduct of the magistrates of this country had been long since exploded. He was glad that his noble Friend (Visct. Palmerston) had sanctioned the principle of the Bill; and, although he concurred with his noble Friend in the opinion that it was not likely the measure would effect any very great reduction in the county expenditure, yet he believed it would introduce a principle which would give general satisfaction. The people would know that the great principle of local self-government had been adopted in the management of the county expenditure; and that if any extravagance should in future occur, they would themselves be alone to blame, and the odium would no longer be thrown on the magistrates, as now, whether justly or not. The hon. Gentleman had said that this was a question of Lancashire against all England. Now, considering his (Sir B. Hall's) connexion with the county of Middlesex, he might be supposed to know something of the feelings and wishes of the people of that county, and he could most truly say that the people of Middlesex wished to have a control over the expenditure of the county rates. His hon.
 479
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that after the obsesvations that had just fallen from his right hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, he could not refrain from rising to express his concurrence in all that had been stated by his noble Friend (Viscount Palmerston) with regard to the second reading of this Bill. He thought that it was desirable, and would be more satisfactory to the ratepayers throughout the country, that the representative principle should be applied to the constitution of bodies charged with the administration of financial affairs. When a Member of a former Government, he (Sir G. Grey) had assented to the second reading of the Bill of 1851 of the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson), although objecting to many of its provisions, in order that it might be referred to a Select Committee. The Bill was so referred, and the Committee, after much deliberation, effected important alterations in the measure, the principle of which alterations was, that whilst it was desirable that boards with the representative principle infused into them should have the control of the financial affairs of counties, not only their judicial duties, but also their executive powers with regard to the management and control of the constabulary, the gaols, and lunatic asylums, should be reserved to the magistracy. On the present occasion he understood that his noble Friend the Home Secretary intended to go back substantially to the alterations which the Committee made in the Bill of 1851; and therefore, agreeing to the general principle of the Bill, and understanding that his right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester was willing to give a fair consideration to the Amendments proposed by that Committee, he (Sir G. Grey) would support the second reading.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had listened with satisfaction to much that had fallen from the noble Viscount with respect to the Bill before the House; but he could not help asking him and
 480 animus 481 482
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY , amid loud cries for a division, emphatically denied that in voting for the Amendment he was influenced by religious bigotry.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he could not suffer the discussion to close without protesting in the strongest manner against the observations with respect to the Established Church used by the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas), who could not have taken his seat in that House unless under the solemn obligation of an oath to do nothing to weaken or destroy the settlement of the Church Establishment. Language more bitter, more insulting, or more unlike anything which the hon. Member himself would tolerate to be used in reference to his own Church, he (Sir R. H. Inglis) had never heard.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that he was anxious to say a few words on this subject on the part of the Government, and possibly the statement which he would have to make might save some of the time of the House. He admitted fully the importance of the matter to which his right hon. Friend's Bill related—it was indeed of much greater importance than it would appear at first sight to one who superficially examined the subject, because it involved not merely the question of local expenditure, but it involved also those very important national considerations, he might say, of the police of counties, and of the treatment of prisoners in general, and that more delicate and interesting subject—the custody of pauper lunatics. It involved, also, considerations connected with the personal feelings and the public position of that most valuable class of men—the unpaid magistracy of the country. With regard to the fundamental principle of the Bill, namely, that of the introduction of the representative system, for the purpose of controlling the county expenditure, he considered that principle to have been so completely admitted by what had passed in regard to this matter in former Parliaments, that he was ready to acquiesce in this Bill so far as that principle was concerned. Therefore it was not his intention to offer any opposition to the second reading, meaning thereby that he acquiesced in the representative principle of the measure. The House, however, must bear in mind that of all the great aggregate of county expenses there was a much smaller proportion than might at first be supposed which was capable of being made the subject of discussion on the part of the magistrates, because a very large portion of the annual expenses of counties arose out of matters regulated by Acts of Parliament, over which no person could exercise any
 473 474 475
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to inquire of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer what was the decision to which Her Majesty's Government had come respecting the admixture of chicory with coffee?
 MR. HASTIE  wished to know whether the same privileges were to be extended to persons who sold pepper?
 MR. HUME  said, he quite agreed in everything that had fallen from his hon. Friend as to the necessity of inquiry; but he begged to suggest, as the House had not seen the petition, and had only heard it read by the clerk, that they ought to postpone the consideration of the subject till to-morrow, and that the hon. Member for Finsbury should move that the petition be printed with the Votes, in order that the House might learn the facts of the case.
 MR. HUME  said, he cordially expressed his satisfaction at observing the concurrence on both sides of the House in the propositions and principles which the hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley) and others had attempted to impress on Her Majesty's Government Recollecting the early attempts he (Mr. Hume) made to impress on the Government the propriety of leaving the Colonies free from the trammels imposed by Downing-street, and recollecting that he had been called a rebel because he advocated reform in Canada, he had the greater satisfaction in perceiving how matters had come round, and would now say, "Let bygones be bygones." Sir William Denison made his statement on the 24th of July, 1847; but last year a sum was voted to take out convicts; and the thanks of the Colonial Assembly had been giver to him (Mr. Hume) for having pointed out what were their wishes to the people of England, ineffective as his opposition ad proved. No man in this
 590
 CAPTAIN JONES  begged leave to ask whether the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton would attend upon that Committee?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  answered in the affirmative.
 SIR ARTHUR BROOKE  said, that out of the names of Irish Members upon the list of the Committee, there appeared only six Conservatives. The system on which the tenant-right principle was carried out in the province of Ulster, had not a single representative in that Committee. There were on it no persons who had any practical experience of the working of that system in the north; and he, therefore, objected to the Committee  in toto.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, that the hon. Baronet who had just sat down had treated the selection of that Committee as partial and one-sided. He could only say, that in framing it he had no intention of making it one-sided; and he had no particular predilection in favour of the Tenant League. In fact, the principles on which he had stood at his recent election, were principles opposed to those advocated by the Tenant Leaguers, and he had been supported by the Members of the Liberal party on the ground that he was not a Tenant Leaguer. He was prepared to justify the selection he had made. He had consulted the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) as to certain Members, and the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee) as to others. He thought at first the Committee ought to consist of twenty-one Members, seven to be named by the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, seven by the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, and seven by the Government. But this difficulty occurred: The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), and the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond), had given great attention to the subject, and had served on several Irish Committees, and he thought it desirable to enlarge the Committee, and place thereon the names of these Gentlemen. The House of Commons had decided before Christmas that certain Bills should be referred to a Select Committee, and the Irish portion of the Government had been called upon, in discharge of their Ministerial duty, to name the persons to whom those Bills should be referred. He had so selected the Committee that its Members might represent the various opinions which prevailed upon that subject in the House. He looked upon the apprehensions which were entertained with regard to the constitution of the Committee
 627 Cries of
 SIR ARTHUR BROOKE  said, that the right hon. Baronet had quite misunderstood him, if he thought he was not aware that Cavan was a portion of the province of Ulster. Tenant Right, however, had not been practised to any considerable extent in Cavan. He (Sir A. Brooke) had especially referred to that portion of the province of Ulster in which the tenant-right had prevailed; and he repeated that there were on the Committee no Conservative proprietors of the province of Ulster acquainted with the working of that system. On the original Committee there had been seventeen borough Members, including the Members for the University of Dublin, while the property of Ulster had been left practically unrepresented as regarded that question.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, that in some of the counties individuals had been endeavouring to carry out the system of tenant-right on so extensive a scale as to turn the landlords into tenants and the tenants into landlords. One of the Bills which were about to be referred to the Committee was essentially the same as one for which Mr. Sharman Crawford had never been able to obtain a second reading in that House. The question of tenant-right had, he thought, been fairly dealt with in Ulster. On the original Committee, there were seventeen borough Members appointed to decide upon a question connected with land. He would suggest to the right hon. Baronet that he should enlarge that Committee; and that he should select seven Englishmen of knowledge, independence, and property. There would then, he believed, be some chance of their having the tenant-right question fairly considered. As the Committee was at present constituted, he did not think the question would get a fair hearing.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he must main-
 628
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  said, he would tell the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down why he and others objected to the constitution of the Committee. It was because, as proposed, it consisted in much too great a degree of Gentlemen who had either themselves individually declared for, or attended meetings where such declaration had been made—that they would oppose any Government until this measure of theirs was carried. Now he wished very much to know why Gentlemen from the province of Ulster should not have an opportunity of making their opinions felt on the Committee? He (Sir W. Verner) had property in not less than three counties in that province, and he must say, that until he came into that House, he never heard what the tenant-right of Ulster was. At any rate he could not recognise anything more in the tenant-right of Ulster than that there existed a better feeling between the landlords and tenants of that part of Ireland than elsewhere. However, he must say, that he believed it was greatly owing to the late Government—to their act in having permitted a Bill which had been previously scouted out of the House without attaining a second reading, to remain before them, that things had come to their present pass. Certainly, it had since been stated that that circumstance was entirely to be ascribed to accident, and he had even heard the fact coupled with individual responsibility. Now, with every respect and regard for his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin, he was forced to say that he could discern but very little difference between his Bill and that of Mr. Sharman Crawford. The whole thing originated in nothing else but a desire to attack the rights of property in Ireland.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he could not help feeling that a great many very extraneous topics had been introduced into the debate. Their great object at present was to try and constitute as fair a Committee as possible; for it certainly was most desirable that Parliament should come to a settle-
 629
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, if he was able correctly to interpret what fell from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland (Sir J. Young), there had been some two courses before him. One was, to appoint a Committee of twenty-one Members, and the other was, to constitute one of the very large number of thirty Members. Now, as far as his experience went, he must say the larger the Committee the more unfrequent and lax were the attendance of its members. In addition, however, he could not conceal the fact, that the names which appeared on the original list of his right hon. Friend were most objectionable, and that the Committee so constituted tended in the very strongest degree to awaken feelings of alarm and apprehension in the minds of all those connected with Irish property. It appeared to him better that the numbers to serve on the Committee should be curtailed; and likewise that its construction should be reconsidered. He would not detain the House further at that late hour; but, considering the immense importance of the subject before them—considering that the rights of property in Ireland were at stake—considering that new doctrines were broached with regard to Ireland which were more akin to those of Louis Blanc and Monsieur Proudhon, than to any which this country had been hitherto accustomed— [ Cries of and 630
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he begged to thank the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin for the promise of his most valuable assistance, and was ready to consent to the postponement of the nomination of the Committee.
 MR. DUFFY  said, he wished merely to observe, in reference to what fell from the hon. and gallant Colonel below him (Sir W. Verner), that if there was no one in the House who knew anything about tenant-right, or, in fact, if there was no such thing at all as tenant-right, why all this cry about there being no Gentleman from Ulster on the Committee? He considered that all classes, but more particularly the landlord class, were fully represented on the Committee. A reasonable objection to the Committee was, that the right hon. Secretary for Ireland had yielded too much by adding four Members representing the landed interest.
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  said, that he had objected to the appointment of those Members who had pledged themselves to oppose every measure on the subject except that of Mr. Sharman Crawford; but he had never said that there were not a sufficient number of Ulster Members on the proposed Committee.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  said, he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman the Clerk of the Ordnance whether a statement which had appeared in the public papers was true or not. It was stated that a suit of Greek armour was to be sold, and the price originally asked for it was 50 l. l. 546
 MR. LASCELLES  reported from the Select Committee appointed to try and determine the matter of the petitioner complaining of an undue election and return for the Borough of Newry, that William Kirk, Esq., the sitting Member, had been duly elected a Burgess to serve in the present Parliament for the Borough of Newry. He further wished to inform the House that the Committee had agreed to a Resolution, the effect of which was, that having examined the Agents on both sides, in order to ascertain the circumstances under
 554
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he hoped the hon. Baronet the Member for the Uni-
 591
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, the hon. Member for the University of Oxford having objected to take that course which was allowed to be taken more than twenty years ago, it is necessary that I should state the nature of the proposition I have to make before the House resolves itself into Committee. In so doing I shall state, in the first place, that it would have been more agreeable to me, acting according to the views which I explained to my constituents, if I could have brought forward at this time a proposal with regard to the mode in which we take the oaths in this House before we are entitled to take our seats. I stated to my constituents that I thought the oath we take ought to be but one, and that one simple in its character; that it ought to be for members of all religions, and ought not to be entangled with the various professions made by persons of different religious persuasions; and that it should not be necessary for a Protestant to aver one thing, for a Roman Catholic to aver another, and for both to affirm certain propositions with respect to a person calling himself the successor of James II.; as to whom we need trouble ourselves very little in the present day. But I am aware, and if I were not aware I should be convinced of the fact from the discussion of yesterday and of the previous day, that I could hardly propose to alter the law with respect to the Roman Catholics, without raising a discussion in regard to the Established Church of Ireland, and in regard to the intentions of Roman Catholic Members, and thus producing a great deal of heat and controversy on a question which is not the immediate question I propose at
 592 593 594 "It is a curious fact, only lately brought to light by the publication of a manuscript from the Bodleian Library at Oxford by Mr. Jardine, that one of the main proofs used by Lord Coke when he laid that case (the case of the Gunpowder Plot) before the jury was the production of a little book found in the chamber of Francis Tresham, one of the conspirators mentioned in the Act, called  A Treatise on Equivocation." "I do not, therefore, call this properly an oath intended as a test of Christianity, which it was not, nor as a mere test of obedience, but an oath intended as a test of allegiance, and framed so as to be a test against all equivocation also." 595 596 597 598 599 600 601
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman the late Secretary of State for the Colonies, who brought this subject forward, having, as I think, been justified in calling the attention of the House to the present state of circumstances relating to these colonies, and having stated what the preceding Government intended as to those colonies, I should have hardly thought it necessary to trouble the House at all, had not the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken, made, as I think, some extraordinary mistakes upon this question, which it would not be right to leave uncorrected. I have long thought that with respect to these questions, and several others to some extent connected with them, though we have had very frequent and long debates in this House, there has not been much difference as to principle, though there has been considerable difference as to the time and mode of carrying changes into effect. What must be recollected in treating this subject is, that the colony of New South Wales was not founded by emigrants and a free Government, but was founded in 1786 for the purpose of transporting criminals to that colony with the consent of the somewhat despotic Government of that day. This was the purpose for which it was destined from 1786 to 1837, when my right hon. Friend, now the Chief Commissioner of the Board of Works (Sir W. Molesworth), whose absence this evening I regret, pressed for a Committee of this House on this subject of transportation: a Committee was appointed, and all the evidence taken before that Committee; and the general opinion of that Committee did but confirm that wise opinion of Lord Bacon, that "it is an unblessed thing to plant with the scum of your population." The greatest evils and the most dreadful crimes were found to result from that system of transportation. Some three years later, being
 587 588 589
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he believed the best course for the House to take was that which had been recommended by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), namely, that the petition should be printed, that the House might have an opportunity of considering it, and then would be the time to consider whether the House ought to deal with the petition itself in the way which the hon. Gentleman proposed, or refer it to a Committee. But it was quite premature now to give any opinion on the question.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, in answer to the first question of the hon. Gentleman, I have to say that it is true that I have resigned the Seals of the Secretary of State for the Foreign Department, and that Her Majesty has been pleased to confide them to the Earl of Clarendon. In
 549
 MR. DISRAELI  wished just to state to the House that the late Government did not accede to any suspension of the Minute.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, it must be a matter of great pride and satisfaction to the members of the Colonial Reform Association, who combined together to recall the attention of the country to the proper principles of colonial government, to hear that almost every suggestion which they had made three years ago, the force of circumstances obliged successive Ministers to carry out. The Ex-Colonial Minister and his successors were vying with each other for the credit of adopting them. He had received a letter bearing upon this subject from Mr. Pox, the agent in this country for the Wellington colonists, who was now travelling in the United States. He contrasted the United States with this country, and says that the rapid growth of the new States in the west was simply attributable to the localisation of the functions of government in them. In reference to Canada, the writer said that since the management of its own affairs was entrusted to it, its progress was most astonishing, and that Western Canada for the first time surpassed the United States in the rapidity of its progress. Toronto had six times the population which it had in Sir Francis Head's time, and was one of the finest cities west of New York. The particular subjects interesting to the Australian colonies were the gift of the civil list, and of the control of the waste lands. He was happy to find that the first point was conceded by the
 581 582 583 584 585 586
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he thought it would be establishing a very inconvenient precedent if a Motion of this kind were to be brought on as a question of privilege, merely because an hon. Member thought it a question of privilege. From the petition, as it had been read, it appeared to him that Colonel Dickson complained that the party who acted as his agent had withdrawn, without his knowledge or consent, his peti-
 553
 MR. SPEAKER  would say, on the point of order, that if the petition of the parties, which had been read by the clerk at the table, contained all the facts of the case, a breach of the privileges of the House was not involved in its allegations, although, no doubt, it alleged that the agent had acted acted most improperly in withdrawing the original petition. If, however, the hon. Member for Finsbury had any further facts to adduce, of course he (Mr. Speaker) could not say whether they might not involve a breach of the privileges of the House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said; he was very happy that he was in a different position from the noble Lord the Member for Dumfriesshire (Viscount Drumlanrig), and he (Colonel Sibthorp) might well say of that noble Lord,  Tempora mutantur, nos et mutamur in illis.
 MR. CAYLEY : Sir, I wish to put two questions to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, of which, for obvious reasons, I have not given notice. My questions are—first, whether it is true, as reported, that the noble Lord no longer holds the Seals of the Foreign Office; secondly, whether his situation in the Government is at present unconnected with any office to which a salary is attached?
 MR. CAYLEY : Then, Sir, I give notice, that I shall move, on the first opportunity, and in the way most conformable to the importance of the subject, a Resolution to the effect that, considering the great in crease which has taken place of late years in the business of this House, and the corresponding increase in the amount of labour and responsibility which devolve upon the leader of this House, rendering it next to a physical impossibility that he should con duct the business of this House, and at the same time satisfactorily discharge the duties of one of the great departments of the State, it is desirable that a salary should be attached to the leadership of the House of Commons (an office second to none in the Government), commensurate with its duties and responsibilities, whenever it is held unconnected with any salaried office.
 MR. CAYLEY  asked whether the labels were to state the proportions of chicory and coffee?
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  rose to order. He wished to take Mr. Speaker's opinion whether this question really involved a breach of privilege.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, he entirely approved of the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose. He wished to defend himself from the imputation of the hon. Member (Mr. T. Duncombe), that he wished to swamp the petition. The very reverse was his object. It was in order that the petition might not be defeated by improper means, and that it should be introduced with the best chance of success, he had interfered. The best course would be to refer it to the Committee of the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond) on Corrupt Practices at Elections. The case was clearly not a breach of privilege. The hon. Member said he would state something beyond the contents of the petition; but he had not adduced a single fact in addition to those read by the clerk.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he would state, in as few words as possible, the reasons why he could not, on his Christian allegiance, give a vote in favour of this measure. He would suggest no personal motives to the noble Lord. When the point was whether Christianity should be an open question in the House of Commons, and whether the faith of 1800 years should again be put upon its trial, the subject should not be embarrassed by personal considerations. After giving to it the most intense consideration, he was compelled to resist the proposition. He put the question thus:—Would the noble Lord agree to admit a deist into that House? Would he consent to admit an atheist? He apprehended not;—his Bill, at least, was confined to Jews. [Lord JOHN RUSSELL: They have sat in this House.] But they had now to consider how the House was to be constituted, and not simply to take notice of the illegitimate intrusion, under a false profession, of those who had no right to be there. The noble Lord would not admit an atheist, he presumed, because he denied even the existence of God, on whose sovereign will depended the existence of every human being. Well, was not our Lord and Saviour God? Did not our whole Christianity depend upon the reality of His existence and sovereignty? Was it not for this very reason that the Members of that House were called upon to swear on the faith of a Christian as a true faith? Was not religion more than opinion? Did it not involve certain facts and a certain Christian faith? Could part of it be allowed to be denied, and the rest maintained? Was not the whole of the Scripture to be received as equally the revelation of the Almighty? Surely religious truth
 615 616
 MR. WIGRAM  considered that the measure now proposed to the House, if carried, would be regarded by a large mass of the people of this country as a great slight upon Christianity. It was pressed upon the House by the noble Lord as a claim of justice. If he could be satisfied that it was a claim of justice, he should no longer resist it. But he could not help thinking the noble Lord, in viewing this as a demand for justice, was considering only justice to one party. The noble Lord spoke of justice to the candidate. He wished to know whether justice was not to be shown to the constituencies. There were two questions to be considered. The first was whether it was right or not that some sort of qualification should be required of the representatives to be elected by the constituencies? The second question was, whether this particular qualification, the profession of the Christian religion, was a just qualification to be required? On the first question he thought there was no doubt. It must be remembered that representatives were, by the necessity of the case, elected by a majority of the constituents, and that that majority imposed on the minority, perhaps only by a few votes, a person to be their representative in Parliament who did not represent their opinions at all. That result could not be helped—it arose from the necessity of the case—but surely it was reasonable to say that the candidate whom the majority thus imposed upon the minority should be a man to whom no reasonable exception could be taken. Then came the question, was this requirement of the profession of
 618 619
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  begged simply to say, that he belonged to a faith which had been most maligned in that House and the country next to that whose members it was now proposed to admit to legislative privileges; and that, having himself suffered under religious disabilities, he felt that it
 622
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would suggest that the question before the House was not as to whether an act of fraud had been committed, but whether the Motion which the hon. Gentleman had now made could take precedence of the notices of Motion upon the paper. By the Act of Parliament every Parliamentary agent had the power of withdrawing a petition; and, although it might be the duty of the House to inquire into the case, that did not make it a question of privilege. A dangerous precedent would be established if this Motion were allowed to proceed now, and it was one which might cause great interference with the business of the House upon other occasions.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he would not press his Motion now, if the House thought. it inexpedient, but would content himself for the present with moving that the petition be printed with the Votes.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, the question was, had or had not a fraud been committed upon this House?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : I will prove them at the bar.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  continued: The petition did not contain all that he meant to bring before the House. He confessed that his attention had been drawn to this subject by an advertisement which appeared in the morning papers of Wednesday, which was as follows:—
 "TO THE CONSERVATIVE ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF NORWICH. "Gentlemen—It was with the utmost astonishment that I observed by the morning journals that your petitions against the sitting Members for the city of Norwich had been withdrawn. it
 551 "LOTHIAN S. DICKSON. "10, Stanhope Terrace, Hyde Park Gardens, Feb. 19." bonâ fide 552
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that he had moved that Colonel Dickson be called to the bar.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he also rose to order, because it was impossible to tell whether there had been a breach of privilege until he had made his statement. He (Mr. Duncombe) knew very well that an attempt would be made to strangle this Motion; and he hoped that the independent part of the House would prevent their Chairman of Ways and Means from using his ways and moans to swamp this petition, and to preclude him (Mr. Duncombe) from stating his case. He undertook to prove, by witnesses at the bar of the House, that not only a breach of its privileges but a gross fraud had been committed by a Parliamentary Agent—a person appointed by the House itself; and if he succeeded in proving that, if the House wished to retain one particle of public respect, the House must not only visit with its displeasure the guilty parties, but must grant redress to those who in the most constitutional manner—by petition—had laid their grievance before the House and claimed protection at its hands. He therefore appealed to the Chair to know whether he was to be allowed to proceed with his statement.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, before pro-ceding to call the attention of the House to the subject of which he had given notice, he had a petition to present from Colonel Dickson, a candidate for the representation of Norwich. He would move that it be read by the clerk.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he now rose; to call the attention of the House to a breach of its privileges by the unauthorised withdrawal of the petition presented against the return of the sitting Members for the city of Norwich. He considered that the subject of which he had given notice was one which demanded the serious attention of the House, not only because it involved a contempt and a breach of the privileges of that House, but because it also involved an infringement of what had been always considered the sacred right of the people to petition that House for the redress of their grievances. If the House agreed to the Motion with which he would conclude, and called Colonel Dickson, the petitioner, and certain other parties to the bar it would appear, he believed, that a
 550
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I must first understand what the hon. Gentleman means—whether be is anxious to mix chicory with pepper. But, if he asks whether it is intended to allow dealers in pepper to mix rice with it, I should say, certainly not. The plain distinction is this—that the mixture of rice with pepper is an adulteration and a deterioration of the article, but the mixture of chicory with coffee is no adulteration and no deterioration.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The proportions would not be stated on the label. It would be simply in these terms:—"Mixture of chicory and coffee." This would be distinctly and legibly placed on the package.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I did not state that the late Government gave any authority for suspending the Minute; all I said was, that three months were allowed to the tradesmen to get rid of their stock.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, when Her Majesty's Government acceded to office I found the question relating to the mixture of chicory with coffee in this condition:—A Minute was passed in July, 1852, prohibiting that mixture, and laying down certain regulations for the sale of the two articles. Three months were allowed to the traders to get rid of their stock of the mixed articles, and consequently the Minute did not take effect until the 3rd of November. Subsequently to the 3rd of November the parties affected by that Minute addressed representations to the Treasury, and they had certain interviews with the then First
 547 ab initio 548
 MR. DEEDES  appeared at the bar of the House, and brought up a Report from the Select Committee appointed to try and determine the matter of the election petition of Dr. W. Forest and others, complaining of an undue election return for the borough of Blackburn. The Committee had determined that William Eccles, Esq. was not duly elected to serve in the present Parliament for the Borough of Blackburn:—that the last election for the said Borough, so far as regarded the said William Eccles, Esq., was a void election. The Committee had also come to the following resolution:—That the said William Eccles, Esq. was, by his agents, guilty of bribery at the last election for the said Borough. The Report also set forth several instances in which persons were bribed; but the Committee reported that it was not proved that the said acts were committed with the knowledge or consent of the said William Eccles, Esq. It was also further proved that treating to some extent was practised at the last election by the agent of the said William Eccles, Esq., but it was not proved that the said William Eccles, Esq. was cognisant of the same.
 MR. MONSELL  begged to say, in reply to the hon. Member, that in many particulars the statement to which he had referred was incorrect. The suit of Greek armour was of great value and of great antiquity. It was the wish of the authorities at the Tower that it should be purchased for the public. It was originally valued at 300 l. l. l. l.
 MR. W. D. SEYMOUR  thought the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman who last spoke was characterised by the same weakness which had marked every speech that had been made against the Motion. The hon. Gentleman had asked them to consider the position in which they would be placed if they admitted Jews to that House if the question of what was to be done with the Established Church of Ireland should be brought before them. Why, he thought it was a sufficient answer to that objection to ask the hon. Member to look at the bench beneath him, which was occupied by the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas), and other hon. Gentlemen who entertained similar opinions. Every argument which had been used against admitting the Jews into Parliament, applied with equal force against the admission of the Roman Catholics. The hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier), for whose acquirements, abilities, and virtues he readily admitted he entertained the highest respect, had told them that they would unchristianise the Legislature of this country if they admitted the Jews into Parliament. Now, he (Mr. Seymour) differed from the hon. and learned Gentleman in that respect, for he submitted that the best way to Christianise the Jews would be to admit them into that House: they would then no longer regard Christianity as the religion of their persecutors, but be won towards it as a system full of political justice and practical benevolence. In the reign of George the Second, when the question was raised whether Jews should be naturalised or not, there were people who prophesied gloomy things for England if such a measure should be
 620 621
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that he entirely concurred in the opening observation of the right hon. Baronet opposite, that there was no necessity for his apologising to the House for drawing its attention to the situation of the Australian colonies. They constituted a group of our dependencies, of which that House had every reason to feel proud. They exhibited, in a remarkable degree, the capacity of the English race to take root in the soil of foreign countries, and there to plant communities, which in an incredibly short space of time appear almost to rival the ancient countries of Europe. The right hon. Baronet had not in any degree over-estimated the results of British industry and enterprise in these colonies. He (Mr. F. Peel) fully endorsed the tribute which he had paid to the fidelity of the troops which were stationed at Victoria, and could say quite as much for the regiment in New South Wales, from which the troops in Victoria had been detached. The right hon. Gentleman had made a speech to which he
 573 574 l. 575 Vic. 576 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 577 l 578 579 580
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was of opinion that the course for the hon. Gentleman (Mr. T. Duncombe) to take, in accordance with the suggestion which had fallen from Mr. Speaker, was to move that the petition be printed, and then to give notice of any Motion which he might wish to found upon that petition.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he hoped the House would not consider that he trespassed upon their time, or that any apology was necessary for calling their attention to the condition of the Australian Colonies, and the policy which it appeared to him should he adopted by the Imperial Government towards them under the extraordinary and unexpected circumstances in which they were placed. For some years past there had been a growing and increasing inclination evinced on the part of that House to give its attention to Colonial affairs; and certainly there were no parts of Her Majesty's Colonial dominions which at this moment excited greater interest, either in that House or the country, than those which were situated in Australasia. Those colonies had always been free from the difficulties connected with variety of races which had occurred in several of our dependencies that had been acquired by conquest; they had been peopled from the inhabitants of these islands; they had enjoyed very great prosperity, and were favourably circumstanced as to climate. They had consequently attracted much of the attention of that House. No longer ago than last Session the House devoted much of its consideration to the Colony of New Zealand; and in the year 1850, under the Government of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, Parliament discussed and adopted a constitution for the colonies of Australia, unconscious at that time of the important discoveries of gold which were then impending in those colonies. Towards the close of the year 1850 those extraordinary discoveries of gold took place, bringing about a new state of things in those regions, stimulating their prosperity to a marvellous extent, and giving a redoubled impetus to emigration from this country and other parts of the world; and whatever interest had formerly been taken by Parliament and the country in the Australian colonies had been very greatly increased by these startling events. He did not know that there were any statistics in this country which could enable him to state the exact quantity of the precious
 555 l. 556 l. l. l. l. 557 l. l. l. l. l. 558 l. l. l. l l. l. l. 559 560 561 "Solemnly protesting against these wrongs, and insisting upon these our undoubted rights, we leave the redress of the former and the assertion of the latter to the people whom we represent and the Legislature which we address." "Another scheme which has been proposed is that a certain description of laws adopted, by the colonial legislatures should require the assent of
 562 Hansard 563 l. "It is my duty not to withhold the expression of my decided dissent from the doctrine that the waste lands in New South Wales, or the revenue
 564 565 l. 566 567 568 569 "Addresses to a commercial association may not generally embrace subjects of a social and moral character, but the situation of our colony is peculiar, and I trust that it is not necessary to plead that the material interests of society are not paramount to virtue and happiness. I am the more encouraged to allude to the absorbing subject of transportation, because I feel that, not only in this society, but throughout the entire colony, there is but one sentiment on the subject. It is, indeed, an enormous evil that into the bosom of this rising society there should be thrust thousands of criminals yearly ejected from the bosom of a mighty Empire." 570 571 "I now come to the question as to the mode of governing our colonies. I think that, as a general rule, we cannot do better than refer to those maxims of policy by which our ancestors were guided upon this subject. It appears to me that in providing that wherever Englishmen went they should enjoy English freedom, and have English institutions, they acted justly and wisely. They adopted a course which was calculated to promote a harmonious feeling between the mother country and the colonies, and which enabled those who went out to these distant possessions to sow the seeds of communities of which England may always be proud."—[3  Hansard 572 "Copies of the Despatch from Sir John Pakington to the Governors of New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia, dated 15th December, 1852, and his Despatch to the Lieutenant Governor of Van Diemen's Land, dated 14th December, 1852."
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, before he endeavoured to reply to the speech of the noble Lord, he must be permitted to state why he objected to that speech being addressed to Mr. Wilson Patten. The noble Lord, from the tone of his very first observations, seemed to imply, as he (Sir R. H. Inglis) fully anticipated, that he regarded it as some advantage to have gained one step in the progress of the present measure. If it were a gain to him, it must be an injury to those who opposed him; and therefore he (Sir R. H. Inglis) felt that he at least would not be one who would pull off his hat and open the gate to enable the noble Lord to get into that which he (Sir R. H. Inglis) regarded as a sacred enclosure. Let the noble Lord break down the barrier if he could—God forbid that he should!—still it should not be any fault on his (Sir R. H. Inglis's) part if the course were made easier than it was. The noble Lord had asked, Why should that be refused now which was conceded to Mr. Robert Grant in 1830? Possibly they were wrong in having at that time conceded that step to Mr. Robert Grant; but if they had done wrong before, they were responsible only if they did wrong now. But the course which he (Sir R. H. Inglis) was prepared to take on the present occasion was the very course he took in 1847, when the noble Lord brought forward the same Motion at that time that he proposed to take now; for he felt it his duty, without meaning any disrespect, to refuse, so far as his own individual vote was concerned, the permission which he asked; and he stated that the course upon which the noble Lord was inviting the House to enter, was one hostile to the civil and religious interests of the country. He believed it to be hostile to the ordinary proceedings of that House. The noble Lord assumed through-
 602 petitio principii summum bonum 603 604 605 606 Cheers.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, he was strongly opposed to such a course, because he felt it to be a concession of the first step; and he was not prepared to allow the noble Lord to advance that step in a course which he believed detrimental alike to the religious interests and feelings of the people of the country, and to the civil rights of the House.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  explained that what he said was, that he thought he had given a feeble but fair representation of the feelings of the people of England.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that he had given a silent vote upon this question on the last occasion when it was before the House, and therefore he was anxious to avail him-
 607 608 Times 609 610 611 612
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  rose with very great reluctance to address the House upon a question which had been so thoroughly exhausted during the discussions of the last six years, and which was much more fitted for immediate decision than for protracted debate, but he felt bound to admit that he was now about to give a vote which was entirely inconsistent with the votes which he had honestly given on the same subject upon former occasions. ["Hear!"] He perfectly understood the meaning of that cheer; but he would only say, as the hon. Member for the University of Oxford had judiciously remarked, that we were not so much to be blamed for an error we might have unwittingly committed, as we should be open to blame if we persevered in that error, contrary to our conviction. It was the fact that he had, in 1847 and 1849, voted against the measure now proposed, and that he was now prepared to vote in its favour, and that it was which now induced him to trespass for a few moments upon the attention of the House. He wished to say, that since 1849, he had advisedly and purposely refrained from ever taking any part in the discussion on this question. He had never either voted or spoken on the subject. Even allowing for the sake of argument that his convictions had remained entirely the same as they were, he did not think, after the deliberate and repeated discussions which had taken place, and after the way in which the House had, by large majorities, affirmed the principle that Jews should not be excluded from that House, that he would be justified in any longer offering an opposition to this measure; he had already on two occasions placed his opinion on record, and he thought that if he were continually to renew his opposition to a measure in favour of which the House had repeatedly pronounced, such conduct might be open to the charge of factiousness. He was willing, however, to admit that he did not intend to shelter himself under that plea; for, after the discussions which had taken place in the House, and the consideration he had given to the subject, he felt convinced that the arguments and reasons which had formerly been adduced in favour of the purely theoretical assertion that by admitting Her Majesty's Jewish subjects to their just privileges, the
 617
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, had described the question as a personal one of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London. That remark was, no doubt, intended as a taunt, but it was in fact about the highest compliment that could have been paid to
 613 The Wandering Jew
 VISCOUNT MONCK : He must say that he did not think the people of England agreed with the hon. Member there; and as for himself, he had been sent there by a large constituency, partly, in accordance with his own convictions, to assist the noble Lord in his attempt to secure the removal of the civil disabilities of the Jews. He was not at all disposed to quarrel with one argument which had been used against this Bill—and that was the desirableness of establishing a complete identity of religious opinion between Church and State—but, admitting it to be sound in the abstract, he believed that, in the present state of the world, it was physically impracticable. It had been objected that Jews could not conscientiously exercise functions in a Christian Legislature; and it was to be presumed that the inference from such a statement was, that the Hebrew was to be excluded, out of regard for his soul. This reminded him of what he had read somewhere or other that in the days of Queen Elizabeth, when the colonists of Virginia applied to the Ministry of the day for educational institutions, basing their application on the fact that "they had souls to be saved," the rather un-courteous reply was, "D—n your souls, grow tobacco." In like manner, the language applied by many at the present time was,"D—n your souls—make money." The House had been told that the Jews felt no annoyance at being kept out of the privilege of sitting in Parliament; but, if so, it must be on the same principle as that on which eels were said to feel no annoyance on being skinned—they were used to it. This was not, however, the feeling on the subject of Jews with whom he was acquainted. No man in that House
 614
 MR. HUME  said, he agreed with the right hon. President of the Board of Control that the present was not the most convenient time for discussing the subject. The hon. Baronet opposite (Sir H. Willoughby) should know that the responsible Minister for India was the President of the Board of Control, and that everything that took place in reference to peace or war was by his authority. The people of this country erroneously supposed that the East India Company had the power of making war in India; but they had no more to do with it than he (Mr. Hume) had. At this moment the Court of Directors were not in possession of a single despatch to show the origin of the war, and were as ignorant of it as he (Mr. Hume) was himself. In like manner, with regard to the first Burmese war, the Indian Government had been obliged to pay 13,000,000 l. 663 l.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFPE  said, he now would beg, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the quality of the bread that was supplied to Her Majesty's forces in Great Britain, under the existing contracts. In the union workhouses, in the county gaols, and in their convict establishments, the most unexceptionable quality of bread was supplied, and when it was found that the bread supplied to the troops was not of a good quality, it was natural that it should excite discontent amongst them. Representations had been
 669
 MR. HUME  said, he heard the general statement of the right hon. Gentleman with great satisfaction. No man had ever manifested more anxiety than the right hon. Gentleman had that the character of our troops for discipline and good conduct should stand high, and he considered that the various improvements in the management of the Army stated by his right hon. Friend would eminently conduce to this great object. He was especially rejoiced to learn that there was such a marked diminution in the number of corporal punishments inflicted. He considered that Lord Panmure had introduced many excellent regulations into the force. The good-conduct pay was a great advantage. He hoped that, in addition to the barrack libraries, the officers of the various regiments would be instructed to provide the men with various rational recreations to occupy their leisure hours; and he conceived, further, that much good might be done by enabling the soldiers, as well as the rest of the community, to have readier and larger access to our various literary, scientific, and artistic establishments. He should be glad to hear from his right hon. Friend, in connexion with his gratifying statement as to the diminution of drunkenness in the Army, what had been the result, of the recent alteration in the canteen system; and also, whether steps were being taken to improve the present still very unsatisfactory condition of the barracks. At the
 682 l. l. 683 684
 MR. HUME  said, he begged to put a question to the right hon. Secretary at War, with regard to the recruiting service. A Committee had been appointed, which had given a report, but there was considerable difference of opinion on the subject. The expense, 90,000 l.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to know on what precedent the Commander-in-Chief was to receive the allowance of 3,458 l.
 MR. HUME  thought that when the Duke of Wellington was deceased, the Government would have attended to what had been recommended by the Committee upstairs, namely, that some change should take place with regard to the allowance in question, favourable to the finances of the country. He also wished to know why the soldiers were not withdrawn from Australia, now that that colony had obtained self-government?
 MR. HUME  said, there were no Estimates to which he should be more disposed to object than these. One half of those who entered these corps did so for the purpose of getting coats and uniforms to produce an effect in ball-rooms, and they ought to pay for the privilege of wearing them. He was for regular troops, and if they wanted an addition to the forces, why not raise a couple more regiments?
 MR. HUME  said, he did not think the noble Lord was happy in his explanation. We wanted the nation to be defended at as little expense as possible, and the noble Lord did not seem to be aware that the militia was costing the country 100,000 l. 689 l.
 MR. HUME  said, the answer of the noble Viscount was not very satisfactory. If the country ought to be prepared, as they had been told, why should not the voluntary service be general?
 MR. HUME  thought the noble Lord was blowing hot and cold; for he said before that in case of invasion business would be put a stop to, and every man would fly to arms.
 MR. HUME  said, the abolition of Kilmainham Hospital was recommended by the Committee on the Army and Navy Estimates, and he thought it had been carried out by the Government.
 MR. HUME  said, it was in evidence before the Committee that it was difficult to fill Chelsea Hospital, and that it would be advisable to transfer the pensioners from Kilmainham thither. A large establishment ought not to be kept up for a few inmates when there was plenty of room at Chelsea.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, the subject was carefully considered by the Committee, and their opinion was that Kilmainham Hospital ought to be done away with. He understood that it was now in course of being put an end to.
 MR. HUME  said, the recommendation of the Committee was in accordance with the wishes of Irish Members. If they allowed to the Irish soldiers in their own homes the same amount expended in Kilmainham Hospital, they would be much better off. He did not object to the vote for the purpose of saving the money.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he must ask for
 693 "Inasmuch as the whole of the said moneys so charged on the London Bridge Approaches Fund being directed, as aforesaid, to be paid to the account of the Consolidated Fund freed from the said moneys directed to be paid in respect of the Southwark improvements, the Commissioners of the Treasury shall, out of the Consolidated Fund, pay to the Commissioners of Works such a sum of money," &c
 LORD SEYMOUR , said, that formerly the offices of Works and Land Revenues were in one department, and the head of the department being pressed to make some public improvements, and money being wanted, the land revenues were mortgaged for the purpose. The money was borrowed from the coal fund. This circumstance led to the division of the departments of Works and Land Revenues, so that such confusion should not occur again. A sum of 800,000 l. 694
 SIR ROBERT FERGUSON  hoped that an explanation would be made of the security that was given for this money, as the Bill referred to other Acts, and the matter was utterly unintelligible to everybody.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIEFE  said, he thought the Bill ought to be postponed, and that an inquiry should be instituted into the nature of the coal tax. He understood that the security at present rested upon the coal tax and the land revenues of the Crown conjointly, and that the moment this Bill passed the whole liability would be borne by the coal tax alone.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, two proposals had been made—one to consolidate Kilmainham with Chelsea Hospital, and the other not to make any fresh appointments, and to let the institution die a natural death. At present no new appointments were made.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that by an arrangement entered into with the Australian colonies by the late Government, the colonies were to pay all the maintenance of the troops stationed there,
 688
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that allowance was in lieu of a larger sum which it had been usual to pay his predecessor.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, it was quite true that there was no professorship of military surgery either at Dublin or London, and that such an institution existed only at Edinburgh. He was not, however, aware by what funds that professorship was endowed, for it did not stand upon the Estimates at all. Recognising the importance of the proposition made, he was not prepared to state how far the proposal which the hon. and gallant Officer had made could be carried out with economy, and at the same time with due regard to efficiency. The removal of the Museum from Fort Pitt would certainly render it accessible to a larger number of persons, and he did not say that such a removal was impossible, but at present he could not state whether any place could be obtained in London for the purpose of that museum. With regard to the institution of professorships he would make inquiry, and until he had done so he should be unable to answer the question. With regard to barracks, as soon as the pressure of works now in progress was at an end, he hoped to be able to effect some improvements in the old barracks.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, there had been two Committees appointed since the one referred to by the hon. Gentleman. Lord Panmure had, after much consideration, decided against a suggestion made to one of the Committees, with regard to the employment of pensioners in the recruiting service. From the evidence he had received, he was inclined to be of the same opinion, because, if men belonged to no particular regiment, the recruits they enlisted would not be as efficient as they were when each regiment recruited for itself.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the subject of the mode of supplying the soldiers with bread came before a Committee on the Army and Ordnance department, which sat two or three years ago; and in consequence of the recommendations of that Committee, which were drawn up by Lord Hardinge, Sir Willoughby Gordon, and Sir Randolph Routh, it was decided that for the future the quality of the bread which was called "seconds" should be used among the soldiers. It was further decided, on the evidence given before that Committee, that, upon the whole, what was called the regimental system of contract appeared to give the most satisfaction to the troops. The system in Ireland was by means of the commissariat, in England by the ordnance contract system, and in the Guards the system of regimental con-
 670
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that in moving the Estimates for the Army for the ensuing year, he should perhaps best consult the convenience of the House by abstaining from going into any lengthened statement with respect to the number of men required for the service of the year. On the first night of the Session his noble I Friend (Lord John Russell) stated that it was the intention of the Government to take no vote for any increase of the num-ber of men in the Army, Navy, or Ordnance over the number proposed by the late Government; and, as that announce-ment appeared to be received with general acquiescence and satisfaction on the part of the House, he thought he should be uselessly taking up the time of the Commit-tee were he to enter into those reasons which induced the Government to maintain the number as it now stood. When he said there was no change in the number of
 671 l. l. l. l. 672 l. l. l. l. 673 l. l. l. l. l. l. 674 l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. 675 "There are now employed with different corps fifty-eight masters, and two on sick leave, and sixteen assistant-masters. They teach both the children and the non-commissioned officers and privates; and all the reports, as well from commanding officers as from the Inspector General, describe their labours as very beneficial. Indeed, wherever the commanding officer gives his countenance to the arrangement, the men attend school in such numbers as test the physical as well as the intellectual powers of the masters severely. In the 77th Regiment, for example, now quartered at Weedon, the school roll shows an attendance of not fewer than 538 adults. The 35th Regiment sends 371 to school, the 82nd
 676 l. l. 677 678 679 680 681
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he had listened to the statement of his hon. Friend in reference to the advantage which would result from a different system of organisation for the pensioners of the Army, and had heard also a similar proposal made by him last year in a very ingenious and elaborate argument, in which he endeavoured to show that his plan offered a preferable substitute for the militia. It appeared to him (Mr. S. Herbert), however, that the proposal of substituting an army of pensioners, whose services could not be secured until the expiry of a period of ten years from 1847, under the Limited Enlistment Act, would not give us a force at all commensurate for the purposes of defence with that which had been given by the militia. At the same time, he must acknowledge that, in consequence of the alteration as to the term of military service, very properly introduced by Lord Panmure, his predecessor in the office he held, it would become necessary to take some measures for replacing the organisation of discharged pensioners as soldiers available for any exigency. He did not himself believe that the effect of such a measure would be so great as the hon. Gentleman thought, because when the system of discharging men after short periods was first introduced by Lord Har-dinge, the expectations entertained as to the increased number of persons thus become habituated to the use of arms, by no means justified the result. When men who were formed into soldiers had the power of leaving the service when they chose, very likely the temptation to do so would be diminished by its being placed within their reach. The men of ten years service and upwards formed the real strength of the Army, from their length of service,
 658
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that considering the great talents of the present Government, he had to express his regret that this Bill had been brought forward in a manner so unsatisfactory. It appeared to be the intention of the Bill to terminate what had originally been a very improvident arrangement, by a method which, however desirable it might be in a merely financial respect, would yet result in diminishing the balances in the Exchequer. Now it was of very great importance that these balances should be maintained. He should like to know to what amount the balances in the Exchequer would be diminished by this arrangement. It was of great importance that the amount of those bal-
 695
 MR. DISRAELI  said, his question had not been answered. He wished to know the amount which was now in the Exchequer as balances, the amount which would be drawn from the Exchequer balances for the purpose of the Bill, and the time when that amount would be repaid?
 MR. SPEAKER : On the 71st Clause.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had listened to the observations with which the hon. Member for Montrose always favoured that House when any question was brought forward relating to the Army or Navy, although he should have hoped, from the assent which the hon. Member appeared to give to the Estimates of the Secretary at War, that the Committee would have been spared from his long and laborious dissertation, which had, after all, ended in smoke. The hon. Gentleman had called attention to the inconvenience of the present barracks, and the inadequacy of proper accommodation for soldiers. He (Co-
 685 686
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he must protest against the abolition of this hospital as an unnecessary insult and injury to the Irish soldiers.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he did not think that the House would he of opinion that this was a convenient opportunity for discussing the latter part of the hon. Gentleman's observations as to the responsibility on the question of peace and war in India. An opportunity would, without doubt, occur in the course of the Session for that discussion. With regard to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, he (Sir C. Wood) had intimated that he would lay on the table all the papers, completing the information contained in those which had been laid on the table at the close of the last Session. The war in Ava had reached an epoch by the annexation of Pegu; and he thought that the House should be put in possession of all the papers, and they were now in the hands of the printer. Should the hon. Member, after reading the papers, be desirous of reopening the subject, he (Sir C. Wood) would be prepared to meet him. At the same time, it was desirable to correct, on the present occasion, an error in the statement of the hon. Member. It was not strictly accurate to say that the war originated in the question of etiquette which had been referred to. It might have been the proximate cause of hostilities, for it was a realisation of the old proverb, that it is the last pound that breaks the horse's hack, and it was the last of a series of injuries and insults on the part of the Governor of Rangoon which led to consequences which were as much deprecated by the Governor General and the authorities at home as by any one. Every effort had been made to avert hostilities. It was said that in Ava much im-
 662
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he remembered very well the appeal which had been made by several Irish Members on behalf of the Kilmainham pensioners, who stated it to be hard that the Irish soldiers should be taken from that hospital to a place where their relations could never see them—and he thought it had been successful.
 MR. RICH  said, that previous to the House going into Committee of Supply on the Army Estimates he wished to bring
 653 s. 654 655 l. l. d. s. 656 657
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that the balances in the Exchequer were about 9,000,000 l. l. l. 696
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that under the Acts of Parliament on the subject, the coal tax was charged to the Government not only for the principal sum of the expenditure for metropolitan improvements, but also for the interest at the rate of 5 per cent; and he believed that there was now due to the Government under the Act a sum of about 900,000 l. l.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that the amount for which the Exchequer balances would be appropriated was 960,000 l. l. l.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he would briefly state what the object of the Bill was. Some years ago a Commission had been appointed for the purpose of executing certain improvements in the metropolis. Large sums of money had to be borrowed, and the Commissioners had applied to the Bank of England for a loan. The Bank of England had been unwilling to lend money on the security of the Commissioners, and it had been proposed to give to the Bank the security of the land revenues. Interest had then been paid for many years out of the proceeds of the land revenues, but subsequently it had been found that this was a very onerous and expensive way of raising money. The object of the present Bill was to enable the land revenues to be discharged from the obligation which they now laboured under, and that the sums borrowed should be paid out of the balances now in the Exchequer, which wore at present yielding no interest. He believed the obscurity in the language of the Bill arose from the complicated circumstances out of which they arose.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he was anxious to make some inquiry into the truth of the statements made by the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), and the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson), at a meeting in the Free Trade-hall of Manchester, on Jan. 28, because his vote on the Army Estimates might be influenced by the result. A few days ago a letter had been read in that House from a person named Somerville, who had been in the Army, and was flogged. The Peace Society attempted to raise a popular feeling against the militia
 650 "But we have also got one or two generals on our side, and one of them, General Evans, the Member for Westminster, made a similar calcution in reference to the French army and to their arrangements, and he proved to the House of Commons that the French had really not more than some 15,000 disposable soldiers; so that it appears to me that by making this sort of arbitrary calculation—by saying that you must keep an army afloat always—going backwards and forwards to the Colonies, or in the Colonies, or distributed about according to the caprice of the person who is making the speech for his own purpose, you may prove anything; and if we voted ten times the Estimates, and gave the Executive of the country a much larger force than they now possess, by this sort of arbitrary and capricious arrangement of the forces you might reduce the largest force to a very small one, in reference to the defence of the country in case of invasion." "Sir Henry Parnell—a high authority—declared that there is no effective mode of enforcing economy in the expenditure for our great establishments in the Government, except by refusing increased grants, and calling on them to do with less. I believe that that course within certain limits is the proper course to take in order to ensure economy, and that it is impossible for Members of Parliament to bring themselves into successful opposition to persons connected with dockyards and the military profession upon every point of detail; and if the country, in reference to the armaments of foreign States, and in reference to the general foreign relations in which we are placed, considers that the amount demanded is too large, then, I say, let. them take Sir Henry Parnell's advice, and without going into every minute matter in dockyards and in regiments, let them say, 'You have got your 15,000,000 l. l. 651 "We want to create such an effect on public opinion, and speedily, too, that we shall change altogether the tendency of the press, and the tendency of the legislation of Parliament. Why, I want, in the first place, to see twenty or thirty men in the House who are resolved that they will hold no terms, give no allegiance to a Government, that takes another step in the direction of increase of our armaments, unless some facts and evidence are shown as to the necessity for it. Now, I say for myself, I pledge myself—and I have not been wanting in my word in Parliament in what I have said in this hall—pledge myself that I will hold no terms with any Government that repeats what I have seen so often done—that while on their lips you hear expressions of the most perfect confidence and reliance on the good intentions of the Government of every other country, yet they are in the same breath proposing an Increase of our warlike establishments. I will hold no terms with that Government, call it what you will, Whig, Tory, or Peelite—I will do my best to turn out that Government; and when that Government is out, I will give notice to its successors that they shall have the same terms from me, if they pursue the same course." 652
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  hoped the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Molesworth) would not press the Second Reading; for the Bill was in such a state that no man could elicit any meaning whatever from either Clause I or Clause 12. The Bill presented a barbarity of expression which might safely challenge comparison with anything in the Statute-book.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he quite agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Phinn), who said that this Bill was so drawn that it was impossible for anybody to understand what it provided or what it meant.
 MR. INGHAM  said, there existed some misapprehensions in the north of England on the subject of the Bill, which he hoped might be removed on its passage through Committee.
 MR. WALPOLE  thought it would be remembered that the Chancellor of the Exchequer (who was not now in his place), when he introduced the Bill, explained that its details were complicated and difficult to understand; and therefore he (Mr. Wal-pole) would suggest to the right hon. Gentleman who now had the charge of the measure, that it would be better to postpone the second reading till Monday, in order that the House might receive an explanation respecting the Bill, for really nobody who read it could understand it as it stood.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Sir G. Pechell) had spoken of the militia as if that force were much less than might have been expected. It must be remembered, however, that the machinery for raising the militia had to be put in force during the month of August, and that before the end of September six counties had completed their quota, while by the end of December, when the return which had been printed on the subject was laid upon the table of the House, notwithstanding the apprehensions of those who opposed this measure, no fewer than, he believed, 35,000 men were raised, the most extraordinary instance of recruiting an effective military force, as he trusted the militia would become, which could be found in the annals of this country. He had been reproached for discouraging volunteer efforts; but he thought he had given sound reasons for the course which the late Government had pursued upon this subject. They were in effect the same as those which had been just given by the noble Viscount—that the object in raising the militia was to obtain, not a changeable
 691
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he must complain that Government was pressing forward a Bill with which no one seemed to be satisfied. He was satisfied they would be left in a minority if they went to a division.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, that the House having thought fit to take the matter out of his hands last night, he did not hold himself at all responsible for the matter. No doubt, the House had placed itself in a very peculiar position with regard to the public. Here was a charge made, and there appeared to be no means of inquiry. He had been advised to refer the petition to the Committee of the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond) which was  in nubibus.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he would beg to inquire upon what clause of the Act relating to contested elections the hon. Member rested his Motion?
 MR. PHINN  said, he must appeal to the Government to admit that the Bill was drawn in such a way as to be discreditable to the legislation of the House. He thought they had received a sort of guarantee at the commencement of the Session that Bills should be clearly drawn up; but the Bill before them was drawn in such a way that not a lawyer in Westminster Hall could tell what it meant. There could not be a more vicious or involved Act on the Statute-book. He thought Government should see Bills were intelligibly drawn, so that the House could understand them.
 MR. EVELYN  said, in the county that he had the honour to represent (Surrey), the gentry had met and proposed to form themselves into a rifle corps; and, if that proposition had been encouraged, the country would no doubt have had an efficient corps without its costing them one farthing of expense. He hoped the noble Viscount would take the subject into his consideration, and that the present Government would be disposed to allow the formation of this corps.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said, he wished to know from the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) what course he intended to pursue in the case of the Norwich Election Petition. He had understood that the hon. Gentleman was prepared with some proposition; hut on looking to the Votes of the day he saw no reference made to the subject. It was desirable that some course should he taken, as the name of an hon. Member was involved, and the sooner it was inquired into the better.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he considered it necessary to say a few words after the allusion that had been made to him by the hon. and gallant Gentleman. He could not charge his memory at this time with the exact words which he had used with regard to the French Army; but he was sure that it was a mistake to represent that he had ever said that there were only 15,000 men of the entire French Army who could be available for any attempted invasion of England. He could only recollect that he had argued that the large number of troops required for the numerous garrisons throughout France would diminish very considerably the amount of force which would be available for any such invasion.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he wished to draw attention to the expediency and economy of the institution of a lectureship or professorship of military surgery in the King's College, or in one of the medical schools in London; and a similar establishment in the University or at the College of Surgeons in Dublin; and to suggest the removal to the metropolis of the Museum of Preparations of Diseases of Foreign Climates now in Fort Pitt, Chatham, where it was comparatively useless and inaccessible to medical students for the Army and Navy. The expense attending the establishment of the lectureships to which he referred would be extremely small, and favourable opinions had been expressed by high authorities as to their probable effect. For the want of
 687
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he still thought the country would not understand why the establishment of this force should be discouraged.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that offers were made about a year ago to the late Government of the service of certain volunteer rifle corps, which appeared to be favourably received; at all events he had not been able to elicit from the late Home Secretary that there was any objection to the acceptance of such service. During the last war the principle of enrolling and employing volunteers, it would be remembered, was carried on to a considerable extent, and he believed they had been found a very useful aid in the defences of the country. He wished to ask the noble Lord who now held the office of Home Secretary whether the present Government proposed to avail themselves of the offers of voluntary services to which he had alluded?
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he had understood that of all the jobs the noble Lord had undertaken, the formation of the militia was that in which he had best succeeded, and that thousands of men more than sufficient were ready to be enrolled, and only anxious to get at the French. But on looking at a return laid on the table a short time ago, he found that in Kent and Sussex, those counties which they were told were most in danger, only about half the quota of militiamen had been raised. In his county (Sussex) he knew that the labouring classes were all well employed and by no means desirous of volunteering into the militia, nor were the inhabitants generally afraid of a French invasion. In Brighton, especially, they were far more afraid of the militia than of the French. He wished to know when an amended return would be presented, showing the number enrolled in those counties to the present date.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, in moving the Address of which he had given notice, he wished to direct the attention of the House to a few circumstances connected with the Burmese war, as they were made to appear in the documents now on the table of the House, which brought the accounts down to March, 1852. He should not have pressed the matter if he had not felt that the whole question of peace and war in India ought to be considered by Parliament. In other cases of wars, there was in Parliament a responsible Minister to go to, and an House of Commons to guard the public purse; but in India there was no check on the exercise of the practically unlimited powers lodged in the hands of the Governor General and his advisers. The war in which we had lately been involved with the Burmese
 659 l. l. 660 661
 SIR JAMES HOGG  said, he thought it would have been much better to have withheld this discussion till all the papers on the subject of Ava had been laid on the table, especially as his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Control had intimated to the hon. Gentleman who moved for the production of the papers that they would be produced at the earliest possible opportunity. Some reference had been made to the constitution of the Court of Directors; but at present the discussion seemed chiefly
 664 l. 665 666 667 l. l. l. l. l. l. 668
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that it was his duty to state to the House that he had received a communication informing him of the decease of the brother of one of the Members appointed to try this petition. Colonel Vernon Harcourt had addressed a letter to him stating that he (Col. Harcourt) had just heard of the death of one of his brothers, and that, although it was his duty to appear at the table of the House at Four o'clock, in order to be sworn, he trusted to the indulgence of his fellow-committee men and of the House for one week, if that indulgence could be granted to him. It was clear that, under those circumstances, the Committee were not in a condition to act, inasmuch as it was necessary that the Members should be sworn at the table. In support of the letter which had been addressed to him, he (Sir J. Trollope) held in his hand an affidavit made by Lord Hotham, who stated that he had received information of the death of the brother of Col. Harcourt. Under these circumstances he (Sir J. Trollope) had to move that the House would be pleased to dispense with the attendance of Col. Harcourt; that the present Committee be discharged; and that it be referred to the Committee of Selection to appoint another Committee. That, he thought, would be a bettor course than that the Committee already appointed should adjourn its sittings.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he hoped there would be no objection to read the Bill a Second Time, It would not in any way increase the charges upon the coal duty. The object was this: —A sum had been raised on the security of the coal duties for certain metropolitan improvements; there were balances in the Exchequer now, and the Government wished to employ part of them in paying off this debt, for which they were paying high interest. It was simply a financial trans action, to save interest, and not an additional farthing would be charged on the coal duties.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  begged to say that both the counties of Sussex and Kent would be very amply represented so far as the militia was concerned. The numbers were not completed yet, but he believed the enlistment was going on as favourably as could be anticipated.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he did not mean to undervalue the use of volun-
 690
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the persons who composed all volunteer forces were totally different from those who composed the bulk of the privates of the militia regiments. They were not, as he had before said, persons who were fitted for the hardships of military life, and could not be carried away from their private occupations and from their homes to do permanent service, without serious inconvenience. If they were expected to march out, and encamp, and serve in the field, what would become of the business of the country?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was better to do one thing at a time. They were now engaged in organising a militia, and he was desirous of postponing the consideration of volunteer corps or rifle companies until they had got the militia well and completely organised. He believed the utmost reliance might be placed upon the spirit of the people of this country whenever their volunteer services might be required; but as the corps alluded to, however much of a volunteer character they might have, were attended with a considerable degree of expense, it might be as well to postpone the consideration of the subject, at all events for the present year.
 MR. HUME  rose to order, because, if this question of the noble Lord's was to merge into a statement of the case, he should ask permission to be allowed to answer it. He had a strong opinion upon this subject, and he did not think it fair that a statement of this kind should be made without any opportunity of a reply being presented.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in answer to the question which the noble Lord bad done him the honour to put to him, he had only to say that he thought it was the duty of the Attorney General, as well as of other members of the profession to which he belonged, to take the law as it came from the Judges; and he hoped, therefore, the noble Lord would not think him inconsistent if he declined to pass any judgment upon the law as it fell from the learned Judge on the occasion referred to.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to one or two points respecting the administration of the Army, previous to Mr. Speaker leaving the Chair. In 1837 a Committee was appointed to consider the various Naval and Military sinecures, and the general pay to colonels of regiments, with a view, if possible, of putting an end to the outcries then being raised against colonels of regiments being tailors, and curtailing the vestments of the soldiers for their own profit. That Committee consisted of a great portion of the members of the present Government, and they recommended that the allowances to colonels of regiments of the line should not be less than 1,000 l. 742 l. l. "1. That the greater part of the authority, with reference to the Army, which at present belongs to the Secretaries of State, should, for the future, be vested in the Secretary at War. 2. An alteration should be made in the form of the appointment of the Secretary at War:—First, that he should in future be always a member of the Cabinet, Second, that he should be the Minister by whom the advice of the Cabinet, as to the amount of the military establishments, should be laid before the King. Third, that he should be the person to consider and act on all points with the Commander-in-Chief on behalf of the Administration, and to be immediately responsible to Parliament for all the measures of the Government with reference to the Army. Fourth, that he should assume all the merely formal duties relating to the subject now performed by the Secretaries of State, such as the preparing and countersigning of military commissions, and the issuing of orders for the delivery of arms to the troops." "3. The Secretary of State, to whom the civil administration of our numerous colonies, with all
 743 l 744
 MR. ELLICE  said, he wished to say, as his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had appealed to him, that when he accepted the office of Secretary at War, he had done so only on con-condition that a Committee should be appointed to inquire into all the emoluments of the Army. One of the reasons why he moved for that Committee was, that his
 745 l l. l. l. 746 employés
 MR. ELLICE  said, he only wished to observe, in reply, that he was the last person in the world to impugn the good intentions of Her Majesty's Ministers; and that if the observations of his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War had been as full and explanatory as those of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he should not have felt it necessary to have said anything.
 MR. HUME  said, that having already made some observations on the subject of the Ordnance on the Motion for going into Supply, and believing that there was no chance of doing anything to decrease these Estimates, he thought the best way would be to have the whole of these Votes read through by the Chairman, and agreed to at once. But he would only say, that if they went on spending money in this way, there could be no hope of any reduction of taxation. The amount of the present Estimates for the Ordnance was 3,053,567 l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  said, that this was the most objectionable part of the Ordnance. Why should there be three different contracts for the clothing of the Army and the Navy? The Ordnance supplied great coats to the Army, the rest of their clothing was supplied from another source, and the Navy was clothed by a third means of contract. Then, as to their fortifications, what was the use of all their Martello towers? They had built forts in those places which, if there was to be an invasion, would be avoided, and they left 500 places unprovided for. Amongst other things, he would refer to the absurd expenditure of 8,000,000 l.
 GENERAL ANSON  said, he had heard the hon. Member for Montrose suggest on a former occasion that it would be better to take the Estimates in a lump.
 MR. HUME : You never heard that before. Never—never since I have been in Parliament.
 GENERAL ANSON  imagined that he had heard his hon. Friend say something very like it. He had at least heard him say that the Estimates were such a mass of confusion it was impossible to separate one item from another. He (Gen. Anson) had then pointed out to the House that unless they took the trouble of analysing the Estimates, and looking through them, it would be very difficult to understand them. The first thing was to separate them; and if his hon. Friend would do that, he was
 757 l. l.
 MR. HUME  said, he agreed that the corps of Artillery was a most important arm of our military service; but he begged to remind the hon. and gallant Member (Admiral Walcott), that in the time of Pitt 4,846 men was the whole number of the Artillery establishment of Great Britain. And after the war, from 1815 to 1828, the number of men did not exceed 8,000. In his opinion the Artillery had been increased most immoderately since that period.
 MR. LOCKHART  said, in reference to the Ordnance survey of Scotland, he begged to express a hope that the question of the cost of survey for towns would be reconsidered. In a sanitary point of view he deemed it of much importance.
 MR. HUME  said, he did not consider the Government were entitled to derive a farthing from letting the canteens. The soldiers ought to be provided with reading and refreshment rooms similar to the coffee-shops, where they could have tea and coffee and read the newspapers, instead of being obliged to go to public-houses. Means of amusement, occupation, and instruction, should he afforded them.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that certain officers had been sent to report on the state of our defences some time ago, and to indicate those points which were vulnerable. They had made a Report, but the Committee which was sitting at the time, for reasons which were obvious, did not think it advisable the Report should be published.
 MR. HUME  said, that was the humbug of the day. It was expedient to keep from the House that which any one might come over from the coast of France and see if he wished. All he wanted to know was, whether these officers had reported
 764
 MR. HUME  said, he must regret that the right Hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) should intend putting a stop to the naval surveys, which were so necessary and important to this country. Vessels were coming from all parts of the world, and nothing but proper surveys, with the soundings of the coast, could give such ships a chance of safety. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty would reconsider the subject. The right hon. Gentleman said that he had a large number of surveys completed, and it was very desirable that they should be published forthwith. The evidence given before a Select Committee by a distinguished naval officer showed that the want of proper surveys of the west coast of Scotland, from Mull northwards, was most disgraceful.
 MR. HUME  said, he was very happy to hear that explanation; hut if 15,000 l.
 GENERAL ANSON  said, that the changes of opinion that had taken place on the subject of the Scotch surveys, made their proceedings look ridiculous. The Committee which sat upon the question was principally composed of Scotch Members, and they decided that the surveys should be made upon the one-inch scale, and that they should be completed in ten years, from an annual vote of 25,000 l.
 Mr. HUME  said, that before these Votes were disposed of, there was one point to which he should like to call attention, and that was the enormous amount of powder wasted in firing salutes.
 MR. VANE  said, that he should move the postponement of this Resolution unless he received the assurance that Kilmainham Hospital should remain open for the reception of pensioners in the same way as Chelsea Hospital was open. In giving this opinion he was only expressing the interest his constituents felt in the subject. One representation from North Dublin Union, to which he alluded, made reference to a guarantee given by the Act of Union, which imported that this institution should be maintained. Some of his constituents stated that they had expected indulgence from the right hon. Secretary at War, who had large property connected with the city of Dublin. The late Chancellor of the Exchequer had said he looked on this subject as of the same nature as the continuance of the office of Lord Lieutenant, adding that the question was whether they were to have a system of centralised Government, or whether Ireland should retain its local institutions. A new light had broken in upon this country, which now saw the necessity of supporting the institutions of Ireland, and more particularly those in the metropolis of that country, because they thereby thought to stifle the cry formerly raised for the repeal of the Union, and to give satisfaction to a people very easily appeased by just and reasonable methods. He should therefore move that the Resolution be postponed.
 MR. HUME  said, he could assure the hon. Member that he entirely mistook the views of the Committee, and he believed that the two hon. Members would themselves, had they been members of it, have concurred in its recommendation.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the retiring pension would not be given to such officers as held other appointments. In the ease of his right hon. Friend (Mr. C. Villiers), when he retired from the office of Examiner in Chancery, and accepted the office of Judge Advocate, he very honourably declined to accept the pension attaching to the position of a retired Chancery Examiner. The Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman would, if carried, interfere very much with the action of the Statute passed last Session, and would introduce the greatest possible confusion. The objects of the Act were entirely prospective, whereas the proposed Amendment attempted to annex to it the provisions of a former one, and thereby give it a retrospective character.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he begged to explain that the present Bill was confined to the cases of those Gentle men appointed to the office of Examiner since the passing of the Act of last Session, whereas the right hon. Member for Wolverhampton had been appointed twenty years ago.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he did not believe the matter was at all understood. Hon. Gentlemen opposite seemed to be under the impression that some benefit was to accrue to his right hon. Friend the Member for Wolverhampton under this Bill. Now, he would derive none whatever, for by the Bill of last Session the option was given to the right hon. Gentleman, as one of the Examiners of the Court
 774 ex post facto
 MR. HUME  said, that the proper time to have inserted a proviso with respect to the receipt of the pension was last year, when the Act was passed, and not now. On that occasion, however, the hon. and gallant Colonel voted for the Act as it at present stood. That Act abolished the office which the right hon. Member for Wolverhampton held, and the present Bill created a new one. Notwithstanding, too, that he was entitled to a pension, the right hon. Member for Wolverhampton had declared his intention not to receive it while he held his present office, so that the public would not suffer any loss from the absence of the proviso which hon. Gentlemen opposite desired to introduce into the Bill.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he trusted they would now pass to the real subject of discussion, which was simply this, whether with regard to the period for retirement the Bill should contain the words "twenty -five years" or "twenty years." The office they were dealing with was undoubtedly of a judicial character, and he knew nothing more injurious in practice than fixing the retiring pension of a judicial officer at a very late period of life, because the result most likely would be that they would have men in the office who would be incompetent, either from ago or infirmities, to discharge the duties properly. His hon. Friend (Mr. Mullings)
 781
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, that at this moment, in the fortresses of Gibraltar and Malta, where he believed they had not a greater number of guns than were necessary, not more than one artilleryman would be found to a gun, and he understood that the same was the case in many other of our colonies. He was perfectly convinced there was no military force in this country which ought to be kept in a more efficient state than the Artillery. The principal question with him was, how we could best prevent the occurrence of an invasion at all; and he thought that any sum of money which that House could vote that would effect that object, would be a cheap sacrifice in the end. Of the corps of Artillery he had been an admirer from his earliest years. Year after year he had watched its increasing efficiency with the deepest and intensest interest. He was satisfied it was a most important branch of our military defences; and there was no assistance which that House could grant still further to augment its value that he would not gladly concur in. Upon the whole he was disposed to give the present Government credit for a determination to lay out the money which might be voted for the promotion of the best interests of the country; and until he saw that they took any other
 760
 COLONEL BOLDERO  said, he had never heard a word of complaint against the new barracks. He believed that they afforded proper and efficient accommodation to the soldiers lodged in them. The barracks erected in this country within the last ten years had cost not less than at the rate of 100 l. l.
 COLONEL BLAIR  said, the people of Scotland felt very great interest in the completion of the Ordnance survey in that part of the Kingdom, and he had no doubt they would agree with him that that object was now likely to be effected. He cordially approved of the Vote for that purpose.
 MR. BOUVERIE , the Chairman of the Bridgenorth Election Committee, appeared at the bar and reported that the Committee had determined that Henry Whitmore, Esq., is duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Bridgenorth; that Sir Robert Pigot, Bart., is not duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Bridgenorth; that the last Election for the said Borough is a void Election, so far as regards the ret urn of the said Sir Robert Pigot; that Sir Robert Pigot was, by his agents, guilty of bribery at the last Election; that it was proved to the Committee that Joseph Mason was bribed with the payment of 10 l.
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, he wished to draw attention to the present system of lighting barracks, which he considered a most objectionable one. The practice was to allow two candlesticks to a room, and if more were required the men were obliged to use ginger-beer bottles. An attempt had been made to light the barracks with gas; he wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to adopt that mode of lighting? The existing mode of letting canteens, too, was not a good one. They were now let by tender, the highest bidder being usually accepted. The result was, that the canteen keepers screwed the soldiers to the greatest possible extent, and occasionally, as was the case not many days ago at Portsmouth, resorted to the use of false weights and measures. He thought a better system, and one more conducive to the comforts of the soldier, might be adopted; and he trusted the attention of the board would be directed to the subject.
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, he wished to inquire whether it was not the case that nearly half the new muskets served out to one regiment in the service had been returned to store, because the sights had not been put on properly? He was afraid the stores of another description served out sometimes were not very efficient, particularly the axes and billhooks. He knew an instance where two companies were set to clear a road through a wood, and the edges of all the axes and billhooks turned immediately.
 CAPTAIN LINDSAY  said, he willingly admitted that improvements had been carried to a great extent with respect to washing houses and baths, but still the soldiers had not sufficient accommodation.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he could not allow the argument used with reference to that part of his property which lay in the city of Dublin to influence his conduct. On this particular case he was not called on to pronounce a decision, because he found that a decision had been taken on the subject with the recorded approbation of the House. A proposition had been made to transfer pensioners to
 771
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, in some cases gas had been introduced, but in many instances the introduction of it would be so much more expensive, that they had been
 761
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, in reference to the observations which his hon. Friend made on the question of fusing the Ordnance and Army administrations into one department, he would recall to the hon. Member's recollection that though a Committee had made recommendations tending' to that result, and though during the several years that had elapsed Members of that Committee, whose opinions were favourable to it and carried great weight with the House, had filled various posts in the Government, and yet had not attempted to enforce the views recommended by that Committee, as also by the Commission appointed to inquire into the administration of the Army. He believed that, with the experience they had since acquired, their views had been modified in respect to the expediency of carrying out the recommendations thus made. Supposing that a separate Ministry for the War Department solely were constituted, as his hon. Friend wished, he asked how the Minister could decide what amount of military force would be requisite either for this country or the Colonies, without first of all consulting the two Secretaries of State for the Home and Colonial Departments? That seemed to be rather a question of form, therefore, than substance. His hon. Friend differed essentially from the recommendations of the Committee in one particular, because he thought that the military administration both of the Army and Ordnance should be placed in the same hands, whereas the recommendations of the Committee applied to the civil branch of the administration only. He could not give his hon. Friend any assurance under these circumstances that the Government intended to carry out the recommendations of the Committee as given in their report: for whenever the subject came to be dealt with, those recommendations would require careful revision, and the whole subject to be reconsidered.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE  then gave notice that on Friday, March 4, on the Motion that the House go into Committee of Supply, he would move—"First, that the exposition of the law as set forth by Judge Perrin, with regard to the duty of soldiers employed for the suppression of riots, or on emergencies, is in direct contradiction to the instructions contained in Her Majesty's regulations for the Army, and antagonistic to the principles laid down in the Mutiny Act; second, that in the opinion of this House the soldiers of the 31st Regiment were fully justified in their conduct on the occasion of the riot at Six-mile Bridge, and are entitled to commendation for the discipline and forbearance they showed on that occasion."
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE  said, that in accordance with the notice he had given, he begged to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General whether the exposition of the law with regard to the duty of soldiers in riots or on emergencies, as set forth by Judge Perrin in his charge to the grand jury of the county of Clare on the subject of the Six-mile Bridge affair, was really the law, and whether it was in accordance with the opinions of Her Majesty's legal advisers?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, in presenting a petition from Todmorden, complaining of the evasion of the provisions of the Factory Act by certain master manufacturers, he would avail himself of that opportunity to put to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department the question of which he had given notice. The House would remember that they had been told on the passing of the Compromise Act, as it was called, in 1850, that that Act would be received by the manufacturers as a final settlement of the question, and that its provisions would be loyally and cheerfully carried out by them. He regretted, however, to see from the last half-yearly Report of the Factory Inspectors that the evasion of the law in some parts of Lancashire and Yorkshire
 739 "I regret to say that the offence of working young persons and women for a greater number of hours daily than is legal, long complained of, still prevails to a considerable extent in some parts of my district. In my last two reports I have dwelt at some length on this subject—on the wilful commission of the fraud by persons of large property—on the mean contrivances to which they have recourse in order to elude detection—and the obstacles which the Inspectors meet with, from the imperfect provisions of the Act, in their endeavours to put down an evil so great as a systematic violation of the law—one so justly complained of by millowners who are strictly obeying the Act. All that I have stated in these Reports is equally applicable to the last half-year and to the present time."
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he was merely clearing the way so as to make the question intelligible. The extract he was about to read was this:—
 "This illegal working of young persons and women will never be effectually put down without an amending Act, which shall take away the facilities for evading detection and punishment now existing, which shall make the occupier of the factory alone responsible, and which shall, moreover, inflict, as the lowest penalty, such a sum as will at least considerably diminish the gain by fraudulent working; for the shame of a prosecution appears to be no restraint on such men."
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to ask a question of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies, of which he had not given notice, and therefore, if it was inconvenient to answer it now, he would postpone it till to-morrow. But his question was with reference to the intelligence brought by the  Indiana
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that as soon as it was stated that the right hon. Gentleman had declined to draw his retiring salary while he filled the office of Judge Advocate General, they all felt that such a course was highly honourable to him. He (Mr. Newdegate) never for one moment doubted that right hon. Gentleman's word; but the party with whom he (Mr. Newdegate) acted thought it was a very unsound principle to admit that a matter of so serious a character should be left simply to the discretion of any hon. or right hon. Gentleman who happened to be placed in the situation of the right hon. Member for Wolverhampton.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he must remind
 768
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he understood the noble Lord to be only reading an extract from a report.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that he was surprised to see the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), the hon. Member for Salford (Mr. Brotherton), and, he believed, one, if not both, the hon. Members for Manchester (Mr. Gibson and Mr. Bright), voting to night for pensions, although on former occasions they had supported Motions for refusing them to those who had a better claim to them than the right hon. Member for Wolverhampton. When, however, the pensions were in the hands of their friends, there was no more talk of economy. When those who sat and acted with them were concerned, it was, "I scratch you, and you scratch me." When he saw men professing to support economy, but taking such a course, he was bound to say that he had no faith in them. Take off the mantle which covered them, and let them go forth to the public in their proper shape. "Man-traps and spring-
 775
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bankes) must have rather had his own case, than his (Mr. Villiers') when he expressed such anxiety to have some general rule laid down in these matters, for his (Mr. Viliiers') case was one that was quite peculiar, and not likely to recur, while that of the right hon. Gentleman, holding two offices at the same time, as he had done, without the slightest intention of giving up either, if he could help it, was extremely likely to happen again As there seemed, however, to be some misconception with regard to the office which he had held, and some anxiety on the other side of the House to misconceive, he might be allowed to state very shortly the facts of the case. He had held the office of Examiner in the Court of Chancery for nineteen years and upwards. He was appointed to that office by Sir John Leach, the Master of the Rolls, in the latter end of 1833. There had just then been a change in the character of the office, and Sir John Leach was of opinion, as was also his predecessor, Sir Thomas Plumer, that the person who filled the office should have had a legal education—that he should have been called to the bar—which was not the case with those who had previously held the situation. There were, then, no great advantages to tempt any one to take the office, because the person who accepted it was precluded from taking other office. or even practising at the bar. It was an office that led to nothing, the duties of it were very irksome, and the salary was only 1,000 l. 778 Geo. 779 780
 MR. CAYLEY  said, he wished to call attention to the fact, that the measures referred to the Committee, though nominally they affected the tenure of land in Ireland, did, in reality, affect the tenure of property throughout the whole kingdom. The hon. Gentleman was proceeding, when
 MR. WARNER  said, he did not mean to oppose the Motion, but he wished to state, as one of the Members who had been petitioned against, that he had no acquaintance whatever with Mr. Brown, the Parliamentary agent, and was ignorant of the motives which had induced him to withdraw the petition; but he begged to state that no offer of a compromise was ever made to him, and that, had such an offer been made, it would have been most distinctly rejected.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH , in seconding the Motion, said that this was not the first time this subject had given rise to debates in the House of Commons. In 1834, the House came to the determination that the hospital should not be abolished; and the late Sir Hussey Vivian had declared that Kilmainham was not only beneficial to the country, but could not be dispensed with without positive injury.
 MR. LUCAS  said, be did not know whether the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland rightly understood the question of the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond); for it did not appear that he had given a very precise answer. The question which he (Mr. Lucas) wished to put was, whether the Government acceded to the principle of the Bills, or whether the Committee were to consider what the principle should ultimately be. The principle of the Bills of the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin, and of that of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, were precisely the same. There was a great deal of difference, he believed, between the practical arrangements of the two Bills, but the principle of each was identical. What the hon. Member for West Surrey wished to know was, whether the Committee were to determine whether the principle of those Bills was to be adopted, or how that principle should be carried out. Therefore, he (Mr. Lucas) thought the House should be informed of the intentions of the Government in this respect, whether the Committee were to commence  de novo
 MR. BANKES  said, that no one doubted the good faith of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wolverhampton; but the question then was, whether it was not right that the law should regulate that matter for the future, instead of leaving it to the discretion of any individual. He had no difficulty in answering the personal
 777
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he had presented petitions from Forfarshire for the completion of the surveys there on the six-inch scale, and he would urge the necessity of complying with those requests, for the one or the two-inch scale surveys would be of little or no service.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON , the Chairman of the Frome Election Committee, appeared at the bar and reported that the Committee had determined that Colonel the Hon. Robert Edward Boyle, having at the time of the last Election held an office of profit under the Crown, created since the 25th day of October, 1705, is not duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Frome; that the Election for the Borough of Frome is a void Election.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, no man was
 759 l. l. l. l. l. s.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that without offering any opinion one way or the other respecting the harbour of refuge, he would beg to remind hon. Members that if they built a breakwater it would be necessary to protect it by fortifications.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that before they agreed to this question, the Government ought to inform the House precisely what course they intended to pursue with regard to these Bills. The right hon. and learned Gentleman the late Attorney General for Ireland (Mr. Napier) introduced one Bill, not in his official capacity, but because he had long been engaged in preparing a measure, and he would not suffer his situation in the last Government to prevent him from bringing it in. Now, the right hon. and learned Gentleman's Bill and the other Bill had both been carried on the second reading, and the principle was admitted; yet it seemed to him (Mr. Drummond), whose name appeared on the list to be nominated, that there were the names of several Gentlemen proposed for the Committee who were entirely opposed to the principle; and the consequence would be, that the Committee would certainly be shut up for the rest of the summer; and he, for one, would not submit to what the late Sir Robert Peel called "intramural interment," and kicking against their coffins for months together. Now, if every Member of the Committee did not agree in the principle, what did the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland mean to do, and had his proposal the sanction of the Government?
 MR. RICH  said, he begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer what course he proposed to pursue with regard to loans issuable by the Exchequer Loan Commissioners Act, 57  Geo. l
 MR. MILNES GASKELL , the Chairman of the Clitheroe Election Cammittee, appeared at the bar and reported, that the Committee had unanimously determined that Matthew Wilson, Esq., was not duly elected a Burgess to serve in the present Parliament for the Borough of Clitheroe; that the last Election for the said Borough
 734
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would beg to ask the hon. and gallant Officer whether the report which was prevalent was true, namely, that the reason why the roll in Sussex for the militia force was not filled, was owing to what he must call, if the statement were correct, the extraordinary and improper conduct on the part of the large proprietors in that county, who held out the threat to young men anxious to serve in the militia, that if they did join that force they would never under such circumstances give them employment?
 COLONEL NORTH  wished to know if it was the intention of the Board of Ordnance to increase the quantity of practice ammunition, as it was, he understood, the intention of the authorities to hire ground for practice in small arms?
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he was prepared to answer the question of the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond). What had taken place with reference to these Bills would be perfectly in the recollection of the House. Before Christmas the hon. and learned Member for the county of Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee) offered a Bill for the consideration of the House; and the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier), then Attorney General for Ireland, brought in Bills which showed that a great amount of labour and ability had been bestowed on their preparation. The Bills were all read a second time, and ordered to he referred to a Select Committee. The duty which devolved on the present Government was to carry out the order of the House, that a Select Committee should be appointed to whom all these Bills might be referred. He (Sir J. Young) had not the smallest degree of responsibility for either the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, or for those of the late Attorney General for Ireland. Undoubtedly, the noble Viscount the Secretary of State for the Homo Department and he (Sir J. Young) had not acted without the sanction of Her Majesty's advisers with respect to the course they had taken; and when they went into Committee, he had no doubt the Secretary of State would be prepared to inform the Committee what was the course he was prepared to take. There were different opinions entertained by different parties in the House upon the subject. If they went into Committee, by earnestly and carefully discussing the question, he (Sir J. Young) believed they might do great benefit to Ireland, for it was admitted on all hands to be desirable that some settlement of the question should be arrived at, and that, if one were not arrived at, the statesmen of this country should be prepared to give the people of Ireland reasons why the question should not be dealt with. His intention in going into the Committee was to look to the views which might be laid before the Committee. He gave the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin all credit for the pains he had taken and the ability he had shown in preparing measures; and, not agreeing with the right hon. and learned Gentleman on all subjects, he should state his own
 769
 MR. HENLEY  said, we had laid out within the last ten years above 3,000,000 l. l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was not satisfied with the answer of the hon. Gentleman respecting the muskets returned as unfit for service. Why should the Government be obliged to apply to private gun-makers? It was rather hard upon the country to pay so high, and then not to have men who could tell whether the Government guns were fit for service or not, or in what department the mischief was done.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was very happy to hear from the hon. and learned Solicitor General that it had never been the intention of the right hon. Member for Wolverhampton to receive his pension and hold an office under Government at the same
 773
 MR. MULLINGS  would move, in page3, line 11, of Clause 2, to omit the first word "such." In moving this Amendment he wished to observe that the first Act passed to regulate pensions for retiring Examiners was the 5th  Geo. l. l.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he should now move that twenty-five" should be inserted instead of "twenty." The object of this Motion was to prevent any one holding this office from becoming entitled to a pension until he had served for twenty-five years instead of twenty, as provided by the Bill.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that he had not intended the slightest offence to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Villiers) in making the proposition. The fact was, that, having met the right hon. Gentleman in the lobby of the House, he asked him to say whether he was really entitled to a retiring pension? when the right hon. Gentleman, in reply, said, "Leave it to my own discretion." He then told him that he would not sanction with any Government, the principle of granting to any gentleman a retiring pension at the same time he was receiving a salary as Judge Advocate. He would not press his Amedment.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that in about seven hours and a half, that House had voted about 15,000,000 l. l.
 MR. MALINS  said, he could assure the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wolverhampton that nothing was more distant from his mind than to say anything disrespectful of him. He could assure the right hon. Gentleman that the idea of his receiving at the time two salaries had never entered his mind. He thought the House would do him the justice to recollect that the position he contended for was this, that he was under the impression that from the death of Mr. Plummer, and the appointment of the right hon. Gentleman as Judge Advocate, they had only one Examiner, namely, Mr. Kenyon Parker, who was appointed to succeed Mr. Plummer, and that the gentleman who had been appointed to succeed the right hon. Gentleman was hanging, as it were, between heaven and earth.
 MR. MALINS  said, he was quite at a loss to know why the hon. and learned Solicitor General opposed the insertion of the proposed words, as they would only have the effect of relieving the minds of hon. Members from an apprehension that it was possible for the right hon. Member for Wolverhampton to be in the receipt at the same time of the emoluments of an existing office and of his retiring pension besides.
 MR. MALINS  said, that the late Government having been nearly defeated on Mr. Villiers's Motion, it was natural to expect that he would not be overlooked by his party when they came into office. ["Oh, oh!"] He did not blame them for it. Instead of an obscure office in the Rolls-yard, which was by no means commensurate with his reputation, and which the greater portion of the Members of the House probably did not know he held, he had received the office of Judge Advocate General with a salary of 2,000 l. l. l. 776
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, in pursuance of notice he had given, he would now move for a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances under which the petitions against the return of the sitting Members
 741
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he must ask for an explanation of the extraordinary works going on at Alderney, for which a sum of 160,000 l. l.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, no man in his senses would ever think of taking refuge in Alderney in bad weather. No seaman would approach it, unless he sought destruction. It really appeared as if this expenditure was going on without due control or consideration, and he should like to know on whose advice it was taking place.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was afraid that some mistake might arise if he did not say a few words on what had fallen from his right hon. Friend. It seemed to him that the observations of his right hon. Friend the Secretary at War had not been altogether correctly apprehended by the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. His right hon. Friend had no intention whatever of saying that nothing whatever should be done with regard to the great question of consolidating the Army and Ordnance departments. All that his right hon. Friend said was, that it behoved the Government to observe a due and prudent reserve in any determination which they might adopt with reference to the subject. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ellice), however, had travelled into a much larger
 747 748
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was the conviction of Her Majesty's Government that if the Ordnance survey of Scotland was to go on, it ought to be pushed with rapidity and efficiency. At the same time, he was anxious that it should not be taken for granted that it would be carried out exactly on the same system as had heretofore prevailed. There were several counties in which the arrangements already made would be adhered to; but the Government thought it their duty to take a deliberate and comprehensive view of the whole subject, to make the best provisions in their power, and to press it forward with vigour, in order to place it on the best footing it was susceptible of, with reference to the interests of the Scottish counties, and indeed the country at large. They were considering, in fact, what improvements could be introduced in the manner in which the Ordnance survey had been hitherto carried on.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the question which had been put by the hon. Gentleman divided itself into two parts; the latter part of which, perhaps, he had better answer first. It was, "whether any portion of the 633,000 l. l. l. l. 736 l. 737
 Mr. BARROW  said, he thought that even law reform might be purchased too dearly if accompanied with arrangements such as this Bill contemplated. He protested against enabling a man of fifty years of age to retire on a pension amounting to three-fourths of his salary.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that efforts had been made to give the men as many comforts as possible in the new barracks; but he regretted to admit that, in the old barracks, there was still much to be done to make them fit for the proper accommodation of our troops.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the right hon. Gentleman must surely be aware that works were going on at Alderney for a harbour of refuge, and that, considering the events which might occur at any time, it was necessary to protect that harbour. It was the opinion of the most eminent engineers and officers that at an inconsiderable expense Alderney might be made as strong as Gibraltar.
 MR. MONSELL  observed that the complaints which had been made came from the old barracks, and not from the new. He could not say how many cubic inches of air were allowed to each man; but he knew that regulations had been issued providing for sufficient space, and that the Master General had taken care to give the men every possible comfort and convenience in the new barracks.
 MR. MONSELL  replied, it was a subject on which the Master General was extremely anxious, and that he had no doubt
 763
 MR. MONSELL  said, he was not aware of any complaint against the axes and bill hooks, but he would inquire into the matter. He was sorry to say, however, that the statement of the hon. and gallant Officer respecting the sights on some muskets lately issued was too true. One-half of the muskets issued to a regiment of the Guards had been returned because they were not properly sighted. The Ordnance Board had at once given directions to their officers to inspect the guns, and had called in the assistance of two of the first gun-makers in London; but, as yet, they had not received any reply which would enable the Board to ascertain the quarter in which such culpable negligence existed.
 MR. MONSELL  said, a very considerable decrease had been effected of late years in this item.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he was quite aware that there had been many representations made to the Government on this subject from Scotch counties, and the whole question was now undergoing consideration. He was desirous of rigidly and faithfully carrying out all the promises made to the Scotch counties on this subject, and the whole matter would be recon sidered and fixed upon a firm basis, so that the survey might he finished with the least possible delay.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the Windsor barracks were old barracks, the drainage of which had been conducted on the old system, and the alterations necessary were therefore extensive.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he begged to say in reply to the observations of the hon. and gallant Member for Bath (Captain Scobell), that the same sum was paid as bounty and travelling expenses for recruits in the Artillery as was paid in the case of recruits for the regiments of the line.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he could assure the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Lindsay) that the Government were disposed to do everything they could for the comfort of the soldiers. The use of gas in the barracks had been a subject of consideration; but there existed some difficulty as to that mode of lighting being adopted. He might also state, that he believed gas would be more expensive than candles. With regard to the letting of canteens, it was always the practice of the Government to inquire into the character of the person whose tender was accepted.
 MR. MONSELL  said, the question raised by the noble Lord was one of great difficulty, and could not be discussed incidentally in a Committee of Supply. Would the people of Portsmouth, if they complained of this exemption, consent to having all these great public establishments, which gave work to so many inhabitants, withdrawn, and the land left idle?
 MR. MONSELL  said, he trusted he should be able to satisfy the Committee that the expenditure to be provided for in the present Estimates, though in excess of the previous year, could not be reduced without detriment to the public service. He might
 749 l. l. l. l. 750 l. l. l. l. 751 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 752 l. l. l. l. 753 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l l. l. l. 754 l. l. l.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that it was not contractors that would be wanted, but that it would not be easy to get the work completed on a sudden emergency, and so the great coats were kept in store.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he would remind the right hon. Gentleman, who seemed to take an Imperial view of the question, that there was a strong national feeling in Ireland on this subject. Decisions of Committees were not always ratified by that House; and as far as the particular Committee to which this question was referred, he believed that only one Irish Member, (the late Member for Clare, he believed) served on it. He trusted that the feelings of the Irish people would be considered on the subject, and that one of the last vestiges of their nationality might be left to them.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL , in reply, said, that though the hon. Member had not given him any notice of his intention, yet, anticipating that he might ask some such question, he had taken the precaution of looking at General Cathcart's despatches received that morning. The hon. Member was aware that General Cathcart went into the Orange River territory for the purpose of compelling Moshesh to pay a fine which had been imposed on him in the early part of last year by the two Assistant Commissioners (Major Hogg and Mr. Owen), in consequence of robberies of cattle and horses committed by his people. General Cathcart proceeded into the territory,, and on the 13th of December called on Moshesh to pay a certain fine, which
 738 "The Orange River Territory is at peace, as well as the whole extent of the frontier, 400 miles of which I have traversed on my return." "These I have no doubt he will willingly subscribe to, and I think they will complete the final accomplishment of the task imposed on me when I assumed this command: that of the reduction of the rebellious Kafirs and Hottentots, their complete submission, and the restoration of permanent peace and security to the colonial frontiers."
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  hoped, that the Committee would take the advice of the hon. Member for Montrose, and vote the whole sum at once. Many of their fortifications were only objects of ridicule, particularly those in the neighbourhood of the Isle of Wight. If they wanted to have the country really defended, as it ought to be, it must be by the instrumentality of an efficient Navy, and not through brick and mortar. In 1849, when there was a demand for an increase in warlike stores, he asked for a return of the number of guns lying in the different arsenals of the country. After considerable delay and difficulty he procured that information, and he then discovered that they had 14.961 serviceable guns in the arsenals of Woolwich, Chatham, Portsmouth, Devonport, and Hull. In fact, they had in those four places 23,963 cannon, large and small. He observed an item of 8,000 l. l. 756 l.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, the hon. and gallant General had thought proper to
 758
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he could not answer for what took place in every part of a county nearly 100 miles long and 30 miles wide; but this he knew, that some landowners there had declared that 100,000 men were ready to march to Manchester or Birmingham. In his district everybody was employed and satisfied. The people no longer put any trust in Protectionist landlords, but relied on their own resources. They were not frightened by the threatened humbug of invasion, but would be ready to come forward when any foe dared to attack their hearths and firesides.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM , in answer to an hon. Member, said, there was already a breakwater at Alderney, where men of war and other vessels could take shelter. The question now entertained was as to whether that breakwater should be extended further or not, so as to include a larger area of water. That question had not yet been determined.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he was not about to rediscuss the question of the naval surveys. He had already endeavoured repeatedly to express his opinion on that matter to the Committee. He would just say that he had no intention whatever of putting a stop to the surveys, but he
 766
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he hoped the Government would turn their attention to the drainage of barracks. He noticed that the sum of 2,000 l.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that although hon. Gentlemen opposite were now showing a sudden sensitiveness to jobs, if he was not mistaken, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dorsetshire held the office of Cursitor Baron of the Exchequer and Judge Advocate at the same time, receiving the salaries of both offices. He was glad to find the right hon. Gentleman had come to the conclusion that this was not a proper course to pursue.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he would beg to ask upon what scale the Ordnance survey in Scotland was proceeding, and when it was likely to be completed? Several of the surveys done in large populous districts were now found to be much inferior to those at present going on, and he thought it would be an economical thing to correct them. In populous districts there would be likely to be such a demand for those corrected surveys that they might cost the country little or nothing.
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, he wished to inquire if any improvements had taken place in barrack accommodation for our troops? It was but too often the case that the way in which the men, and particularly the married soldiers, were provided for, was a disgrace to the country.
 VISCOUNT MONCK  thought the same argument would apply quite as well to any private manufactory, or to the land occupied by any great private establishment.
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, he had to call the attention of the Committee to the great grievance under which his constituents at Portsmouth laboured, owing to the exemption of Government property from the poor-rates, the effect of which was, that the rates were much heavier on the inhabitants. The property in
question was occupied by the Government for national purposes, and it was unfair to throw the burdens which it ought to bear on the locality. If the place was not occupied by the Government docks, no doubt it would he the scene of great private enterprise, which would contribute largely to local taxation. It had been proved by a return in 1840 that the poor-rate at Portsmouth amounted to 6 s. s d. 762
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the
 740
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, there were certain Bills brought into this House before the adjournment. The House then determined that they should be all referred to a Select Committee. There was a change of Government, and it became the duty of Her Majesty's Government to name a Committee on which the House had previously determined. If the hon. Member, or any one, asked on what conditions the Members of that Committee would go into Committee, the only answer was, that they went into it perfectly unfettered.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that there was
 799
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to state to the House, for their guidance, this fact—that the water companies in Marylebone were originally independent of each other, and it was understood that they were not to combine. But no sooner did those companies get their Bills than they did combine, and divided the metropolis into divisions, to which they afforded a limited supply of water. He originally paid 3 l. l.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  appeared at the bar with the Report of the Select Committee of Inquiry on the petition against the return for the Borough of Cambridge. The Report stated that the Committee have determined that Kenneth Macaulay and John Harvey Astell, Esqs., were not elected Burgesses to serve in the present Parliament for the Borough of Cambridge; that the last Election for the said Borough is a void Election; and that the Select Committee had come to the
 801
 MR. HUME  said, what he had asserted
 804
 MR. HUME  said, that they had had the authority of the Secretary at War of the day, who had concurred in the opinion he had expressed.
 MR. HUME  said, this was a most important question, and his hon. Friend (Mr. W. Williams) was quite right in bringing it forward. It had been his (Mr. Hume's) lot to hear many Chancellors of the Exchequer say that it was not convenient to bring forward such questions as this, in this shape. But he thought the time had come when it ought to be stated what was to be done with regard to these duties. The Government had taken time to consider what plan of taxation they should adopt; but, nevertheless, the present Motion was quite consistent with all practice, and his hon. Friend was quite justified in bringing it forward at the present time. His hon. Friend had very clearly shown the inequalities in those duties. There were one or two points on which he (Mr. Hume) differed from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. His hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth said, that this was a class question, and that the law relating to these duties was passed by the landlords to benefit themselves. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer denied that. What was the real state of the case? Mr. Pitt brought in a Bill enabling the levy of probate and legacy duty on all property, real and personal. The Bill was read a first and a second time, and when it came to Committee then came the pressure of the landed proprietors, who compelled Mr. Pitt to divide the Bill into two parts, one relating to real and the other to personal property. When the question was put as to the part relating to personal property, the Bill passed; but when it was put as to landed property, there was a division, and the numbers were 30 to 30, and there it ended. A personal friend of Mr. Pitt's had assured him (Mr. Hume) that Lord Sidmouth, who was then Speaker, had declared that the Bill ought to have gone to another division; but such was the pressure put by the country Gentlemen on Mr. Pitt, that he was told that if he attempted to move further in the Bill, he must take the consequences, and so it was never brought forward again. The Bill relating
 826 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 827 l. l. l, l. 828
 LORD STANLEY  said, the noble Lord had done what he was sure to do—he had made a very ingenious defence; but he had failed to convince him, and probably the House, that a great act of injustice had not been committed through a mistake of the British Government. The noble Lord had argued, that M. Bonacich's arrest took place, not at the instance of Government, but on a private debt. That might be true: but, if so, under what circumstances was the debt contracted? It was contracted in consequence of the utter ruin brought on M. Bonacich by the expenses of a suit instituted by Government, on grounds which ultimately proved to be unfounded. It was proved that he was unjustly proceeded against; and yet, by the expenses of that confessedly unfounded prosecution, he was ruined. That being the case, he (Lord Stanley) thought that Government, though it might not be primarily the cause of his arrest, was indirectly so, and was responsible for it. Then the noble Lord had rested on the ground of prescription: he had said that the case had been repeatedly looked into, that it was one of very old standing, and that it was now too late for redress. Certainly his (Lord Stanley's) feeling was, that where injustice had been done, the greater the delay that took place in obtaining reparation, the more effectual ought that reparation to be. Prescription was undoubtedly
 839 primâ facie primâ facie
 MR. HUME  said, that last night the House had come to the following Resolution:—
 "That the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury of the said United Kingdom be authorised to pay out of the said Consolidated Fund any costs, damages, and expenses attending seizures of ships, detained; but not condemned." Novello,
 MR. HUME  said, he thought that this discussion showed the danger of meddling with the Executive Department of the Government. The hon. Member near him (Mr. V. Scully) had talked of cheeseparings. Was it not the fact that for one vacancy in the Post Office service there were fifty applicants? Government were bound to obtain labour on the same principle on which private persons acted, He did not object to additional allowance where the duties justified it. He thought the assurance of the hon. Secretary for the Treasury satisfactory, and was glad his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury proposed to withdraw the Motion.
 MR. HUME , in seconding the Motion, said he agreed in every word of what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman, and hoped the Government would give their sanction to the appointment of a Committee from whoso inquiries nothing but good could result.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he was exceedingly happy that this subject had been introduced to the attention of the House, and he thought they must all agree that a more vivid and striking delineation of the evils attendant upon the ecclesiastical branch of our judicial system could never be presented to the House than that which had just been given by the hon. and learned Gentleman. He was sorry to say that in the whole of that representation he recognised nothing but confessed, acknowledged truths, which had been ascertained for a long period of time, and about which they need no longer inquire; but there still remained a subject, the difficulty of which could not be exaggerated, and that was, to ascertain the mode in which the remedy was to be applied, so that it might be effectual, and that it might be applied even further than the hon. and learned Member had suggested—so that it should extend not only to the evil and anomaly of the jurisdiction of which he complained, but to the evils and anomalies which existed in an almost equal degree by reason of the establishment in this country of so many discordant and antagonistic jurisdictions. Would it be believed that in a country so far advanced in science and civilisation as our own they should have endured for ages this striking and ridiculous anomaly—that you elaborated justice by the monstrous process of allowing one Court to proceed upon principles, and by a rule of procedure which was confessedly opposed to the established principles of the highest degree of justice, and that you sought to remedy the evil by setting another Court to catch and arrest it in its career of injustice? He could assure the House that the evils were not confined merely to Ecclesiastical Courts, but they extended to other jurisdictions; and before an effectual remedy could be devised, there must be a consolidation of these conflicting jurisdictions, in order that justice might no longer be divided, as it was now, into different degrees and different qualities, but that there might be one kind of justice, derived from one common fountain, administered in all the tribunals. The intention of applying a remedy to the existing evils, would, he trusted, be completely acted upon by the present Administration. But it was
 862 863
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  hoped the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth (Mr. Collier), would allow him to prefer an earnest request, that he would not press this Motion to a division. From the whole course of this discussion, he believed he might say that they were all agreed as to one thing, that the abuses of the Ecclesiastical Courts were intolerable, and could no longer be suffered to exist. The only question was as to the remedy. In such cases the great matter was to ascertain the existence of abuses, for when once these were universally admitted, the difficulty as to the application of a remedy was no longer felt. He agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth, that the knife should be applied, but they must apply it with discretion; and when it was said that they ought to transfer this jurisdiction to the Common Law Courts, he agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken, that this was a measure which should not be adopted without the greatest deliberation. He was satisfied that at the present moment the machinery of the Common Law Courts, and their system of procedure, would not
 871
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he felt bound to say that unless a measure were speedily introduced by Government for the improvement of the ecclesiastical jurisdiction in Ireland, he should think it his duty himself to introduce a Bill for that purpose. It was not merely the religious evil already alluded to of which they had to complain in Ireland, but the monstrous system of appeal which prevailed there, with all its manifold abuses. The facts of the case being all ascertained, and there being no necessity for further inquiry, he submitted that they were entitled to a statement of the intentions of Government on this head of the subject.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he could assure his hon. Friend that this branch of the subject had engaged their attention, and he was enabled to state that it was proposed to abolish the present practice of probate, and to establish in lieu of it one general system of registration.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that as a Member of the Committee his general impression from the evidence was, that though the abuses in the Irish Ecclesiastical Courts were not of the same specific character as those which existed in this country, yet there were great abuses as to costs and expenses which called loudly for a remedy. The hon. and learned Member for Tavistock (Mr. R. Phillimore) came, he believed, from Doctors' Commons, and it was well that they should have Gentlemen from that place, who professed a desire to reform the Ecclesiastical Courts, in the House of Commons. He (Mr. Bouverie) must say, however, that he somewhat mistrusted the warm professions made by that hon. and learned Gentleman of the earnest desire for reform which existed among the advocates in Doctors' Commons. There was one reform of the Ecclesiastical Courts which would no doubt be extremely palatable to the hon. and learned Member for Tavistock—the abolition of 340 Courts, which had before been attempted in Parliament. Some eight years ago the right hon. Member for Carlisle (Sir J. Graham) was seduced into making that proposal in Parliament, in order that Doctors' Commons might have the whole Ecclesiastical business of the country. The right hon. Gentleman found, however, that he could not carry his proposal through the House. The hon. and learned Member for Tavistock might be assured, if there was such a feeling then, that that feeling was ten times stronger now. Such a reform as the advocates of Doctors' Commons were anxious to accept, would not go down in that House or in the country. He hoped the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth (Mr. Collins) would not press for the Committee.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that last Session it was attempted to put the existing water companies under regulations for the benefit of the public. The House was now asked to break faith with those companies before there was any opportunity afforded to the companies to show what the result of that attempt would be. He should vote against the second reading.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, as Chairman of the Bridgenorth Election Committee, he thought it right to state that there was no evidence of such an extensive system of corruption in that borough as would justify the House in taking ulterior measures. If, however, the House thought it right to take the step now proposed, they would, in his opinion, be called on to adopt it as a general rule, and he would suggest, whether this might not lead to inconvenience. There could be no objection to the House seeing the evidence, but he did not see why five weeks should be asked for that purpose.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he apprehended there was no Member of the House who would not say the evidence upon which they were to decide as to any further inquiry into a particular borough, must be the printed evidence before the Committee, and not vague and general statements made in that House as to there being gross corruption; but if they were to decide upon such printed evidence, who were the best judges of it—the Committee who had heard it, who had seen the witnesses and observed their demeanour, or the House who had not had that advantage? Were they prepared to reintroduce into the House, upon the case of every borough, the question whether the writ should should go or not?—a question to be decided by a party vote, the majority of votes being given by Gentlemen who had not read the evidence. If
 882
 COLONEL LINDSAY  had a question to put to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary at War with reference to a statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) on the preceding evening, that no reduction had taken place in the emoluments attaching to the Colonelcies of the Grenadier Guards, in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee which sat upon military affairs in 1833. He wished to ask whether or not the recommendation of that Committee had been carried out?
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he was very glad that the hon. and gallant Colonel opposite had asked him this question, because it would give him the opportunity of making a short statement, which he hoped would be satisfactory to the House, and which, he thought, was owing to the character of his Royal Highness Prince Albert. It was quite true that in the report of the newspapers that morning giving an account of the observations made by his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, it did appear as if that hon. Gentleman had asserted that his Royal Highness was enjoying the same emoluments as had been received by the late Duke of Wellington, although the Committee of 1833 had recommended that upon any future appointment those emoluments should be reduced. So far, however, as his memory served him, this was an inaccuracy in the report. The hon. Member had not complained that the emoluments had not been reduced, but had said that the colonelcy of the Grenadier Guards, as the Committee recommended, should have been retained as the reward of veterans who had seen long service. So much as to what had last night fallen from the hon. Member for Montrose. But for the right understanding of the facts of the case, it was important to call the attention of the House to what really were the recommendations of the Committee. First of all, let him say that the recommendations of the Committee, so far as regarded
 802 l. l. l. "This Committee are of opinion that, taking into consideration the great and glorious services of the Duke of Wellington, an exemption should take place in his person from the operation of the rule, and that no change should he made in the emoluments of the Grenadier Guards so long as His Grace shall continue to hold the colonelcy." 803 l.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he had no doubt the hon. Member's recollection was correct; but the hon. Gentleman must remember that the intentions of the Committee were only to be judged of from their Report.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE  said, he concurred in the proposition to suspend the writs; but if an investigation were to take place, it must be general, and not one-sided. He thought that when proof was shown that bribery existed in a borough, time should be allowed for the inhabitants to consult together, in order that they might petition before the issue of the writ, if they were so minded, for a Commission of Inquiry. He should be happy to support the hon. Baronet if he would move that a fortnight should elapse between the printing of the evidence and the Motion for the writ.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he would now put the question of which he had given notice, and though the noble Lord the Member for London was not present, he trusted he should have an answer from some other member of the Government. It had been very currently rumoured that demands had been addressed by certain Foreign Powers to the Government of this country for the removal or expulsion of certain political refugees who had come here for an asylum. He would wish to ask of the Government whether there was
 805
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, the opposition got up against this Bill was on behalf of a monopoly by the metropolitan water companies. Having got their own Bills passed last Session on the most advantageous terms—terms which were very injurious to the ratepayers and inhabitants of the metropolis—they did their utmost to prevent any other company coming into the field.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  thought it would be unwise for the House to sanction the introduction of another competing water company into the metropolis. A Committee of that House took the whole question of the metropolitan water supply into the fullest consideration last year; and an engagement having been entered into with the existing companies, who had agreed to expend a large amount of capital, nearly 1,000,000 l.
 LORD NAAS  said, he felt that this subject was one of too much importance to be decided at that late hour of the night. The House must not be driven to a hasty conclusion upon so large a proposition as that which had developed itself, on a Motion which, as proposed, had only reference to two special cases. He should, therefore, support the Motion for adjournment, not with any view to oppose the proposition of the hon. Member for Westminster, but to give the House a full opportunity of deciding fairly and properly on this important question.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  thought that as there were other water companies besides this, the Government ought to inform them whether or not they had any  locus standi,
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had felt so strongly on this subject that he had twice ventured to represent to the late Postmaster General (the Earl of Hardwicke) the great hardship which the order prohibiting the Christmas gratuities had entailed upon the provincial letter-carriers—a hardship which was aggravated by the fact that the London letter-carriers were still permitted to receive them. In many instances the receipts of the provincial letter-carriers had been reduced 20 per cent by that order; and the consequence was that the men were now unable to pro vide anything to fall back upon in their old age. He could not understand what reason there could be for allowing the London letter-carriers to receive gratuities, and forbidding those of Birmingham, Liverpool, and Glasgow to receive them. This was an anomaly on the very face of it. He had no desire to urge anything which could be called extravagant on the Government; but he wished to impress upon them that the result of curtailing the emoluments of the provincial letter-carriers would be, that the people in the provinces were likely to be worse served than the inhabitants of the metropolis.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP , amid loud cries of "withdraw," said, he wished to state that he was obliged to the hon. Member for Finsbury for having brought the subject forward, and that he was glad to find the hon. Member for Westbury (Mr. J. Wilson) admitting that there existed a necessity for revision, and promising that such a revision was about to take place. The provincial letter-carriers claimed the attention of the Government, and were entitled to higher remuneration.
 MR. CAYLEY  hoped that the noble Lord opposite (Viscount Palmerston) would relent, since there seemed to be a very strong impression in favour of the Committee.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, the Government had themselves been the occasion of the lengthened time which had elapsed setween the seizure of the vessel and the claim for reimbursement.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he thought no case had been made out for departing from the ordinary practice of the House, and establishing what might be a dangerous precedent. The fate of a Ministry had been known to be dependent on one vote, and while these writs were suspended a vote might be come to by the House deciding who should be the Ministers.
 MR. DUNCAN  said, in Dundee, defalcations were taking place to a considerable extent, and he attributed it entirely to the small amount of remuneration received by the letter-carriers. As an instance, one of them walked twenty miles a day, and
 849 s.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to know whether the hon. and learned Solicitor General intended to bring in a temporary Bill, for making one probate sufficient for the whole of the United Kingdom?
 MR. MUNTZ  said, in answer to the statement of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), that for every vacancy there were fifty applications, he had within the last three weeks procured a situation in the Post Office of ten shillings a week for a poor man, and when he had been in a fortnight, he came to him and said he had to walk such a number of miles that he was obliged to resign it. There might he a great number of applications by persons who did not know what the employment was. He liked economy as much as any man, but to employ men at less than that for which they could afford to do their work well, was anything but economical.
 MR. MUNTZ , in reply, said, that the vessel, in consequence of having been detained so long, only fetched 1,000 l. l, l.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he begged to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the petition of M. Bonacich, relating to the improper seizure of the ship  Novello, 836
 MR. PEACOCKE  thought that an inquiry should be instituted, not only into cases where the petition had been compromised, but also into cases where the petitions had been defeated on mere points of form. As he considered that he was one of those against whom allegations had been made by the hon. Member for Manchester, he challenged investigation, and therefore moved an adjournment, in order that there should he time for a full inquiry.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  seconded the Motion. In 1806 M. Bonacich was young, strong, and independent; but if they could see him now, they would behold an old, decrepit, and almost heartbroken man. He trusted that the House would grant the Committee, and so prove to the world that there was no act of justice too minute for Englishmen to inquire into and to perform.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he suggested the adoption of a scale of remuneration according to seniority, so that a man who had been twenty years in the service might
 851
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he preferred suspending the writ for a fortnight to the original proposition to suspend it for a month.
 MR. M'CANN  said, that between Drogheda and Dundalk there were two trains passing each way daily, but a letter took two days in getting from one place to the other. He wrote a letter one Friday, and he received an answer on the Tuesday, and in the interim he had been to London and back again.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he hoped the hon. and learned Member for Ennis (Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald), would not bring in any Bill on the subject of the Irish Ecclesiastical jurisdiction until the entire subject now under consideration of the House should have been fully matured by the Government. He wished the House to understand exactly the state of the case as regarded Ireland. The Committee on which the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as well as the Solicitor General for Ireland, sat, and which investigated the subject of ecclesiastical jurisdiction and its abuses in Ireland, found no such abuses existing there as those which prevailed in this country. It was true that complaints were made that the proctors and advocates were of the Protestant religion; but there was no indisposition on the part of the Primate and the other authorities in 1837 to admit Roman Catholics to practise in those Courts, and there was no reason for not doing away with the exclusively Protestant character of those Courts. Again, one of the Judges of the Irish Courts was examined before the Committee, and asked whether Attorneys in the mass, should be
 873
 MR. J. WILSON  said, it was true that a later hour had been fixed on, instead of 8 o'clock, but it was also true, that for the performance of that additional duty, and for other duties, the Postmaster General had just applied for additional men. He was also desirous that no misunderstanding should go abroad on a subject like the present, and, therefore, wished to state, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Colonel, that he had not spoken of the general condition of the servants of the Post Office—[Col. SIBTHORP: Then you ought to do so]—but only as to the particular eases brought before the House by the hon. Member for Finsbury. He had
 850
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he was glad of the opportunity to explain that Resolution, and an Amendment which he proposed to introduce on bringing up the Report. The power of the Treasury was intended to be confined to granting such expenses merely as should be awarded by the Court before whom the case might be tried; and he intended to introduce an Amendment to make that clear.
 Mr. J. WILSON  said, that in a great deal of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) he entirely concurred. He admitted, that taking into consideration their number and situation in life, there was, perhaps, not a more respectable and praiseworthy set of men in the country than those upon whom devolved the responsible and important office of carrying and delivering the letters of the public; and that, considering the responsible position which they held, and the actual amount of work which they per formed, and considering, moreover, that the description of work which they had to perform was more nearly akin to common la-
 846 847 l. l. l. s. l. s. s. 848
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he rose merely for the take of stating one or two points which, it appeared to him, placed the probate and legacy duties on personal property in a particularly odious light with a large portion of the people of this country. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) said they could not go against the feelings of the people. Now, he believed if there was one thing more than another in which the large majority of the people were agreed, it was on this very point that the taxes they were discussing to-night were laid on in a most unjust and unequal manner. Now, he understood—for he was not in the House the whole of the time—that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had fully admitted that, in
 831 l. 832 833 l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, it was competent for the House, on reading the evidence, to come to the conclusion that there were indications of bribery existing in these boroughs; but he was happy to believe that in every corrupt borough in this country a part of the constituency was hostile to such practices, and anxious for a remedy. He would assume there were such persons at Bridgenorth—he was sure there were at Blackburn—and if those persons should think a thorough inquiry was necessary, they might petition the House for such inquiry, and the House might appoint a Special Committee for the purpose. But if there were no such petition, and the writ were suspended for a fortnight, the time would be well spent in the borough, for it would be held up to public observation and obloquy on that account; but if they issued the writ at once, another Member might probably be returned by the same means, and the country would have ground for believing that their zeal for election purity was a sham, and that they did not care about the matter. He was astonished that any person should hesitate to adopt any measure that would put an end to such a state of things. Many men who were innocent were brought under temporary disgrace, and there were many sitting in the House at that moment, who, having seen what took place before these Committees, were in a most uncomfortable position, not only, and probably not chiefly, because they were in danger of losing their seats—for to an honourable man that was a small thing, as he had an opportunity of redeeming it—but because he felt liable through the corruption of our representative system of having his name recorded in a blue book connected with dirty and corrupt practices.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he did not think the answer of the hon. Secretary of the Treasury satisfactory. In the south of Ireland there were many cases in which the duties of the letter-carriers had been greatly extended, while their pay remained inadequate. He knew an instance of two towns, distant from each other only seven miles, in which it took three days for the transmission of a letter from the one to the other.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he hoped the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth would not consent to withdraw his Motion unless an assurance were given that the measures of the Government would apply to the Irish as well as to the English Ecclesiastical Courts. If those Courts were odious here, they were doubly so in Ireland, where they were entirely under the control of those who differed from the great body of the people in religion. Every Catholic attorney and counsellor was excluded. Those were not mere "shadows of a former grievance," as they had been described; they were substantial and real grievances. A Bill proposed by the present Solicitor General for Ireland had been referred to a Select Committee, before which Mr. Hamilton, a member of a celebrated firm in Dublin, gave evidence far more striking in regard to the Irish Ecclesiastical Courts than that which had been cited with reference to the English. In
 865 v. l.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, he would not offer any opposition to the Motion, but he called the attention of the House to the nature of the proceeding now proposed. They had devolved upon a Committee an inquiry into what had taken place at a particular election, and that Committee, having considered all that had taken place, had resolved that they were not called on to report any special circumstances requiring the consideration of the House. This was the case both with the Bridgenorth and Blackburn Election Committees; and he put it to the House, whether they should not be very cautious as to the precedent which they were now going to establish. Was it intended that the evidence should be printed in every case
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that in some instances competition was beneficial, but in others it was injurious. He thought that in the present case competition would be injurious.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could not but think that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had omitted to state some of the elements which ought to be brought into consideration. He had no doubt that the right hon. Gentleman, in common with others who had filled his office, had a great sympathy with the public Exchequer, and looked with great disfavour on anything that would tend to empty it. He (Mr. Henley) believed that any alteration in the way proposed by the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), so far from benefiting the Exchequer, was calculated most certainly to empty it. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that with regard to personal property it had been the object to lay the tax on descent, and that on landed or real property it had been the object to lay the tax upon the transfer. He had no doubt that any one looking fairly at the subject would see that if the tax were laid on the descent of real property it would be unproductive, whereas the tax on the transfer of real property was very productive. The descent of real property passing as it did mainly under settlement, and not by will, could not be productive to the Exchequer, because they would get into the difficult question of reversions; and how were they to deal with them? With regard to personal property, the vast mass of it, not being under  bonâ fide 829 l. l. 830
 MR. COBDEN  said, the speech of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Trollope) revealed a most dismal state of things, and was calculated to produce considerable effect, not only in the House, but in the country. The right hon. Baronet had informed the House that fourteen Committees had been appointed to try boroughs for corrupt practices, and that about fifty more remained to be appointed, and he spoke of the difficulty there might be in finding Members enough in the House to constitute tribunals to judge the disputed elec-
 880 881
 MR. COLLIER  begged to express his thanks to the law officers of the Crown for the very explicit statements they had made on the subject. If such statements had been made before, he would not have thought it necessary to bring the matter before the House. He might, perhaps, be allowed to suggest that it was desirable the Commission now inquiring into the testamentary jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical Courts should have power to inquire into the whole of their jurisdiction. With the permission of the House he would withdraw his Motion, and leave the question in the hands of the Government, on the understanding that if it was not dealt with as he had every reason to hope and believe it would be, he should think it his duty to take up the subject again. It was impossible now to contend that the Ecclesiastical Courts ought not to be reformed, for the only possible way of maintaining them was by reforming them; but he did not desire to reform them, because he believed a reform of those Courts would be one of the greatest evils that could happen, as it would continue them for twenty years longer. These Courts had been tried; they had been found wanting; sentence had been passed upon them, and they ought to be executed. It had been said that some of the advocates of Doctors' Commons were exceedingly anxious for reform. If that were the case, they had been grievously disappointed, and he sympathised with them, for, somehow or other, no reform had taken place. It was said that the abolition of 340 Ecclesiastical Courts out of 372 had been proposed. That arrangement would have left 32 Courts remaining, which he considered would be 32 too many. He thought these Courts should be altogether abolished, and that some new and simple Courts should be established, under Judges appointed by the Crown, for the purpose of dealing merely with questions of Church discipline. The hon. and learned Member for Tavistock (Mr. R. Phillimore) had intimated that, as he (Mr. Collier) belonged to the Common Law Bar, he desired to transfer the jurisdiction from the Ecclesiastical Courts to the Courts of Common Law. Now, he (Mr. Collier) proposed transferring by far the greater portion of the jurisdiction to the County Courts, in which he did not practise; and, with regard to the jurisdiction in cases of divorce and other matters, he thought it would be far
 875
 MR. COLLIER  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee for the purpose of inquiring whether the Ecclesiastical Courts might not be advantageously abolished and their jurisdiction transferred to other existing tribunals. He had not given notice of the Motion till the intentions of the Government had been announced from the highest authority; and if that announcement had been as satisfactory with respect to the Ecclesiastical Courts as it had been in reference to the Law Courts and other subjects, he, would not have meddled with the question. But he understood the Government intended to wait till a Commission, appointed just before last Christmas by their predecessors, and which was only intended to inquire into the testamentary jurisdiction of those Courts—which had been inquired into over and over again, and uniformly condemned—had made its Report. The material point to consider was, what was to be done with the rest of the jurisdiction; and, inasmuch as the Commission could not settle that matter, it seemed far better that a Committee of that House should take the whole subject into their consideration. He might at the same time observe, without the slightest intention of disparagement to the Commission, that it might have been more satisfactory to the branch of the profession to which he belonged, and to the public in general, if the legal members of it had not consisted entirely of Chancery barristers and of civilians practising in the Ecclesiastical Courts, the latter of whom it was not too much to suppose somewhat in favour of the proceedings of the Courts in which
 852 853 in pios usus, 854 bona notabilia l. l. bona notabilia bona notabilia bona notabilia, l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. l. 855 l. s. l. s. l. s. d. vivâ voce, 856 l. l. bona notabilia, l. 857 l. desiderata l. à mensa at thoro, vinculo matrimonii. à mensa at thoro 858 a vinculo matrimonii; 859 860 cessante ratione cessat lex. vulnus immedicabile
 MR. SOTHERON  said, the House must either be content with the decision of the Committee, or begin  de novo. 883
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  thought it would be most unreasonable on his part to occupy the time of the House one moment longer after the satisfactory assurance given by the hon. Secretary of the Treasury, and with their permission would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he rose to bring under the consideration of the House the grievances of the letter-carriers of Great Britain and Ireland. He brought forward this subject in consequence of the numerous petitions which had been presented to the House from the letter-carriers of upwards of 400 towns and districts in England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales, complaining of the inadequacy of their pay, a grievance which had been greatly aggravated in consequence of their having been prohibited in July last by an order of the Postmaster-General from receiving Christmas-boxes, and of other hardships. He admitted that paying public servants by gratuities of that nature was a bad and vicious principle, and the letter-carriers agreed with him in that view; but that which had been sanctioned by time should not be suddenly taken from them without some increase being made to their miserably small incomes. The order of the Postmaster General, which, as he said, was issued in July last, applied of course to letter-carriers in all parts of the country; but a great deal of influence was brought to bear upon the Government in the case of the metropolitan letter-carriers, and the order was suspended with regard to them, though it was enforced upon the provincial letter-carriers. With regard to the London letter-carriers, there was a distinction maintained among them which he never could understand. The letter-carriers in the metropolis numbered about 900 district or blue-coated letter-carriers, and 300 general or red-coated carriers. Hitherto, as he had previously stated, the prohibition from receiving Christmas gratuities had not been enforced in the metropolis; but still there were inequalities and hardships which they suffered which ought not to be continued. If there were any difference to be between the two bodies, the blue-coated men ought to receive the highest pay, on account of the larger amount of work they had to perform. But the contrary was the case, for while the general postman's duties were generally over by 10 or 11 o'clock in the forenoon, and he received a salary of from 23 s. s. 842 "On the 10th of January, 1852, I was, while in the execution of my duty as a country letter-carrier, on my return to the post-office, Deal, knocked down by a horse and cart, the night being very dark, when two of my ribs were fractured, and I sustained other severe injuries, which prevented me from attending my duty for four months, during which time I received no allowance whatever from the Post-office; but as soon as I was able to write I petitioned the Postmaster General for relief, from whom I received the enclosed answer. I further beg to state that I perform a distance of 20 miles daily, commencing at 6 a.m. till 8 p.m., for which I receive 14s. per week, and no superannuation to look forward to in case of old age." "General Post Office, March 1, 1852. "Sir—The Postmaster General having had before him your memorial, praying to be granted pecuniary assistance during your absence in consequence of an accident received by you while performing your duty, I am directed by his Lordship to inform you that he has no power to afford you the relief for which you apply.—I am, your obedient servant, "J. TILLEY, Assistant Secretary." 843 Southern Times "One of our local letter-carriers—an old woman, who for 40 long years has been a servant of the public, and who is now in her 74th year—is, by a recent change in the postal arrangements for this district, about to be dismissed, and we fear without any kind of superannuation, after her long servitude. During the term of her official life the old dame must have walked a distance nearly equal to four times the circumference of the earth, a feat which surely entitles her to some little provision for the comfort of her few remaining years, and we sincerely trust that some earnest efforts will be made to secure this for her. At the present time her daily circuit is not less than eight miles, which distance she continues to get over with but little inconvenience." Dundee Advertiser "The office of deliverer of letters is one of considerable trust, and ought always to be held by intelligent and respectable men. If the Post Office authorities think that 13 s. 844
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had been concerned in pressing the claims of a good many persons both against the English and Foreign Governments; and he had always felt that an individual merchant, and more especially a foreigner, always laboured under very great difficulty in endeavouring to enforce claims of this kind against so strong a power as the Government of a country. He (Mr. M. Gibson) thought they ought to take a favourable view with regard to this case; and not require to be satisfied as to the amount of compensation due, as if they were a judicial court, but simply to look upon themselves as a jury, seeing whether there was a  primâfacie 840
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, he must claim the consideration of the Government for the letter-carriers of Ireland. He knew an instance of an old man who for the last twenty years had walked 7,300 miles a year, the salary for which was 10 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That is easier said than done. No man will be so grateful to the hon. Gentleman as I shall be, if he will produce a good and practical plan to amend it. The melancholy conclusion I am driven to is, that we must perforce make up our minds in many cases to put up with inequalities, and be satisfied that on the whole the ends of justice are attained if
 823 l. l. l. l. l. 824 825
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I always looked upon the case of railways, in respect to the rates they pay, as one worthy of consideration; and I agree with the hon. Gentleman entirely, that railways and the unfortunate holders of tithes are very unfairly treated, as com-
 822 l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am going through the deductions one by one. And this gentleman gave it as his opinion that this quantity of land was liable to be sold, and to pay the legacy duty. I have also had an opportunity of seeing Mr. Trevor, an intelligent witness who gave evidence before the Committee of the House of Lords, and I asked him the proportion he now forms of the legacy duty that is paid by real property under the provisions of the Act of 1805, and he computes it as seven-sixteenths of the whole amount. Your machinery does not enable you to state with perfect precision the actual amount paid by real property, but a good judge tells you that it amounts to seven-sixteenths of the whole. Though it is true that a great deal of real property escapes the legacy duty, yet this is also unquestionably true, that if you had the power to levy your legacy duty uniformly and equally over the whole property of the country, and if you succeeded in levying that legacy duty over the whole of that property, I doubt very much if you would get so good a proportion as seven-sixteenths out of the land as you do now under the present system. I think you might get more than nine-sixteenths out of personal property, and less than seven-sixteenths out of landed property. But another important deduction is to be made from the statement which the hon. Gentleman has made to the House. The hon. Gentleman has not adverted to one enormous deduction which he must make from the representations he has made to the House: he proceeds on the supposition
 820 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 821 s. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is the realty pays. Houses may be real property as well as land.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the office which I hold would naturally inspire me with every prejudice in favour of the Motion of the hon. Gentleman who has just resumed his seat. He does not propose, as is too often the case, to deprive the Exchequer of the funds which belong it, and for which it has ample employment, but he proposes to enlarge its funds, by imposing certain taxes not now universally applicable to the different kinds of property, upon a certain class to which they do not at present extend. Notwithstanding this, it is my duty to object to the Motion which the hon. Gentleman has made. And, first of all, with all respect to him, and frankly admitting the evident sincerity of his intention, and the perfect fairness of the manner in which he has stated the case, I cannot help pointing out to the House that there is much inconvenience and something like—I will not say evasion—but escaping from the rules of the House in discussions of this nature. The effect of a Resolution of the nature of that moved by the hon. Gentleman, is neither more nor less than to call on the House of Commons to depart from the work of legislation and practical business, and to content itself with the expression of abstract opinions. Supposing the House were to adopt the Resolution of the hon. Gentleman, the question of the probate and legacy duty would stand precisely where it did before. The hon. Gentleman knows that there are plenty of instances of Resolutions of this kind being adopted by the House, commonly with the same want of forethought; and which, notwithstanding that they related to measures of great importance, have taken no effect whatever. Now, these Resolutions are not merely of a neutral or negative character, but they do positive evil; because they tend to delude the country, and to make it suppose that we are doing the public business when we are in reality doing no such thing, but are merely expressing abstract opinions that do not affect that which should be done. 816 817
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Well, I will come to that part of the question presently. The present state of the law as amongst the different holders of real property is unfavourable to the great and eminently favourable to the small owners; because it is generally proved that the land of the country is under settlement, and in the process of putting it under settlement it has undergone considerable changes, and that portion of the land which is not under settlement, and which is a small proportion of the whole, is, with the exceptions usually to be found, the land which is held by small proprietors. The hon. Gentleman will say that this is a question between the landed class and the owners of personal property; but that would be very far from being an accurate representation, for this is indubitable, that where exemptions now existed, whether those exemptions be just or unjust, politic or impolitic, they are exemptions that it is in the power of every man holding personal property, to secure to himself just as much as it is in the power of the owner of real property to do so. I do not mean to prove that by any elaborate argument, but merely by a statement that lies upon the surface of the case, namely, this, that considering the mode in which land is usually dealt with, and the mode in which the great bulk of the land escapes the payment of legacy duty as under settlements, it is as much in the power of an owner of personal property to put his property under settlement as in the power of the landowner. And indeed, personal property in this country does go very extensively under settlement. I have been making inquiries to see the extent to which funded property is placed under settlement, and it is impossible to attain anything like perfect accuracy in the calculation; but I will venture to say that a considerable portion of the entire funded property of this country is under settlement at this moment. The difference
 818 bonâ fides
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I do not describe this practice to justify it, which is positive cruelty as far as regards the Exchequer, but for a most important purpose, namely, for the purpose of showing that this great, and momentous, and very difficult question is not a class question in the way it is supposed, because it does not give the landed property those advantages over personal property which are too commonly assigned to it. The bad state of the law I grant—the absurd state of the law I am willing to concede—each in due time will be remedied—but the law has not that most odious and aggravated feature about it, namely, that those laws are laws passed by the class of landed proprietors for the purpose of securing to themselves exclusive privileges, which the commercial classes and the holders of funds are not at liberty to enjoy. Having thus made material deductions from the statement of the hon. Gentleman, I shall now make a few remarks on his sanguine expectations with respect to the enormous amount of landed property that may be brought under the operation of the law by the change which
 819
 MR. BARROW  said, he should move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. Parliament had imposed duties on the existing companies which they ought, to be allowed time to fulfil; and no new water company ought to be sanctioned until the House had seen the effect of the present arrangement.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he would point out that one effect of the course now proposed to the House would be, that, in future, Election Committees having once got evidence enough on which to unseat a Member, would, so to speak, shut up shop, and whatever the further evidence within their attainment, give themselves no trouble about it, but leave the inquiry to be pursued by the House, if the House so pleased.
 MR. DEEDES  said, as Chairman of the Blackburn Election Committee, he had taken the opinion of that Committee as to the propriety of ulterior measures being taken, and they unanimously concurred in thinking that nothing had come before them to make any special Report necessary beyond the Resolution which he had read to the House—that there were no peculiarities in the case to warrant them to ask for ulterior proceedings. It was also the determination of the Committee that it would not be desirable to print the evidence. He thought the caution thrown out by the two Gentlemen who had last spoken was one well deserving the attention of the House.
 MR. EWART , in seconding the Motion, said he had received strong representations from his own constituents with respect to grievances affecting individual letter-carriers, and he hoped the present Motion would be the means of leading to the redress of those grievances. There was nothing more remarkable in this subject than the difference of letter-carriers' wages in different parts of the country. In Bath the wages were 15 s. s. s. s. s. 845
 MR. MICHELL  said, there were cases in the provinces much harder than those in London. At Bodmin, the letter-carrier, who gave his services seven days a week, and for many hours a day, received only 7 s. s. s.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he was afraid that at the time the tax was imposed there was an intention to favour landed property, as against personal property, because they knew that the Legislature of this country then consisted of landowners. He should vote for the Motion.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he must protest against the doctrine laid down, that because Parliament had placed the old companies under new obligations, it had no right to sanction any fresh scheme.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he considered the speech of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer required an answer. The right hon. Gentleman had displayed his vast fund of ingenuity, but he had failed to overthrow the case made out that it was unjust to impose a tax on one de-
 834
 MR. WILLIAMS : Railways are also charged.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : Houses are charged.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : It will be very easy to amend that.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : That was in a particular district in Yorkshire.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : That is part of my complaint.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS : No, no, the owners of real as against personal property.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, it would be in the recollection of the House, that
 806 "There was a great deal of force in the objection about not bringing forward the other Bill, with regard to the tax on landed property. He saw no good reason why they should be separated, but many why they should be kept together." 807 "The principle of the Bill having been already recognised in the personal property succession tax, and also on the duties formerly existing upon legacies, it never could be paid with reluctance, because persons would feel little or no hardship in paying a tax out of that property which they did not expect to enjoy." "That their Lordships might have an opportunity of preventing that injustice which must ensue if one sort of property was to be taxed, and land was not." 808 l. 809 The Progress of the Nation, l. l. l. l. l. 810 s. The Progress of the Nation "The probate and legacy duties are accompanied by the advantage which generally attends direct taxation, that a much larger part of their produce than taxes indirectly collected finds its way into the public treasury; they are also free from the evil effects commonly ascribed to direct taxation, that it engenders irritation, and is regarded as a greater burthen than the payment of duties to a greater amount on consumable commodities. The probate and legacy duties are, in truth, not felt as a tax; objections to them, as levied in this country, might be brought forward, namely, the partiality shown in excluding from their operation that description of property which, from its greater comparative value and security, is called real property. This partiality has always been felt as a grievance, and the sense of injustice which it is calculated to awaken is of mose moment than any temporary irritation that may accompany any demand for money taxes." 811 l. l. l. l. l. l. l l. l. l. l. l. 812 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 813 l. l. l. l, l. l. "We have not neglected carefully to examine the question of the stamp duties and the probate duties, and we think it not impossible to bring forward on the right occasion a duty on successions that will reconcile contending interests and terminate the system now so much complained of."—[3  Hansard, l. l, l. l. 814 l. l. l. l. 815
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he must, in the first place, thank his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Plymouth (Mr. Collier) for having relieved him from a duty he had intended to impose on himself. As he had taken a part in the reform of ecclesiastical abuses, and especially of the Ecclesiastical Courts, it was satisfactory to him to find that the course he had taken for some years was now about to be taken by a gentleman occupying the high office of one of the law advisers of the Crown. What had fallen from the hon. and learned Solicitor General gave the House the assurance that a full and ample measure of reform would be brought forward; and he entreated the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth not to take a division, but to be content with the assurance which had been given. With respect to inquiry he agreed with his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General that it was quite unnecessary. There was a book full of evidence and information on the Ecclesiastical Courts. The sum and substance was contained in
 864
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, the great opponent of this measure was the Grand Junction Canal Company; and why? Because a new company would destroy the monopoly which the Grand Junction Company at present enjoyed. The noble Lord (Lord Seymour) had spoken of sweeping away the present companies. Why, they ought to have been swept away long since. They had long enjoyed a most unjust monopoly.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he felt bound to say that he was somewhat surprised that the Blackburn Committee had not recommended ulterior measures when he heard their Report read at the bar. They reported—
 "That the last election, so far as William Eccles, Esq., was concerned, was a void election; that it was proved that George Clarke was bribed by an outlay of 5 l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that while satisfied with the assurances that had been given to the House by the hon. Secretary to the Treasury, he would wish to draw their attention to an order which had been issued within the last two or three days to the receivers of letters, that instead of closing the letter-box, as at present, at 8 o'clock in the evening, that hour would be discontinued, and 10 o'clock substituted in lieu of it. He was anxious that the interest of the receivers of letters should be attended to, and yet that there should be no disposition on the part of the Government to prolong the hours of the postmen.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he certainly considered that where a Committee had received evidence of bribery, by a Member or his agent, justifying them in unseating that Member, it was expedient that the evidence of such bribery should be printed, so that the constituency involved might be made acquainted with the facts elicited; and, if they thought fit, petition the House that further inquiry might be made into the conduct of the constituency. The House might then have a further inquiry specially into the conduct of that constituency, under the Act already on the table; or, if these cases should multiply, when the House came to consider all the cases in which inquiry was pending—seventy in number, he believed—then it would be a question, with a view to future legislation, of suspending the writs, and of instituting an inquiry into the conduct of all the constituent bodies in which such bribery had been proved to exist.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  thought nothing could be more unfortunate than to suppose that the House was disposed to
 878
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he rose to move that the evidence taken before the Election Committees for Bridgenorth and Blackburn be laid on the table; and that the writs for the said boroughs be suspended until Monday, the 4th day of April. The House was aware that the Committee which had sat to investigate the Bridgenorth Election Petition had reported that Sir Robert Pigot was, by his agents, guilty of bribery at the last election; and that the Blackburn Committee had also reported that Mr. Eccles was, by his agents, guilty of bribery; and that they further found that treating to some extent had been practised at the election by the agents and friends of Mr. Eccles. He (Sir J. Shelley) did not know whether his Motion was to be opposed; but it certainly appeared to him, particularly at the present time, when there were so many Election Petitions before the House, that they should show the country they were determined to sift these matters to the bottom, and that in every case where an Election Committee decided that a sitting Member had been guilty of bribery, by his agents or otherwise, the evidence should be placed in the hands of Members of the House before writs were issued for the boroughs. It had always struck him that the Committees of that House were placed in an awkward position with regard to these questions. It was clear that the petitioners in such cases would go no further than suited their purpose, which was to prove sufficient to unseat the sitting Member. It was not to be expected that, for the sake of the general purity of elections, the petitioners would go one inch further than
 876
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would adopt the suggestion for the postponement of these writs. He thought that, where bribery was proved, full opportunity should he given to consider the evidence, so that the House might judge for itself before the writ was moved.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he was quite willing to assent to an adjournment of the debate.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that he hoped this Bill would be allowed to go before a Committee.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE , as Chairman of the General Committee on Elections, wished to state, before the House came to a decision, that there were above one hundred election petitions, seventy-nine of which involved separate cases—and of those seventy-nine only fourteen had been withdrawn, so that the House would be required to provide no less than sixty-five Committees for election purposes. About thirteen or fourteen Committees had been already formed, and in all of those which had presented their Reports, excepting one case, cither one or both of the Members had been unseated. He would therefore leave the House to form an opinion how its general business was to be carried on if a much larger number of Members were declared to be unseated, and their seats not to be filled up for some five or six weeks, when there would be an im-
 879
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  wished to state that the supply of water under this Bill was to come from an entirely now source, in fact, from an artificial well; and
 800
 MR. ROBERT PHILLIMORE  said, he must bespeak the indulgent attention of the House under the circumstances which compelled him to address it; he was aware he was addressing an audience with minds, to a certain extent, averted beforehand, and with whom he could have very little hope of succeeding if he offered himself as one opposed to the reform of the Ecclesiastical Courts; but he was happy to be able to state, that the charge brought by the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Collier), that the profession had sedulously resisted all attempts at reform, was entirely unfounded. He could appeal to the right hon. Gentlemen the Members for Midhurst and Morpeth (Mr. Walpole and Sir G. Grey) whether there was not laid before them a measure of reform drawn by himself and another advocate of the Ecclesiastical Court, which went, in many respects, quite as far as the
 866 vivâ voce 867 868 Will. l. s.; l. s. d. l l l l. 869 c. s, l. l. Harrison v. Harrison, 2 Robertson's Reports, Venables E. I. Company, Exchequer, July l. l. Wintle and Dowding v. Slack and Others. Non meus hic sermo est. 870 oratio pro domo meâ
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  said, that the hon. Member for Kilmarnock was mistaken in supposing that the object of the proposal to which he had referred was to abolish certain Courts in order to transfer the business to Doctors' Commons. On the contrary, the measure went upon the
 874
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would take that opportunity of answering the appeal of the hon. and learned Gentle-
 872
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had only performed his duty in stating to the House the reasons why the Government thought the claim was not well founded, and therefore why he thought it would be an unnecessary occupation of the time of Members to appoint this Committee; but, as it seemed to be the general opinion of the House that an inquiry should be gone into, and as the noble Lord opposite (Lord
 841
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, in answer to the question of the noble Lord as to whether an application has been made by Foreign Powers to the Government of this country for the expulsion of foreign refugees now living in the United Kingdom, I have to state that no such application has been made. In reply to the other question of the noble Lord, as to what course would be pursued in the event of such an application being made, I can only repeat that which I think has been stated on former occasions in this House, that any such application would be met with a firm and decided refusal. It is, indeed, obvious that it must be so, because no such measure could be taken by the Government of this country without fresh powers by Act of Parliament; and I apprehend that no Government could, even if they were so inclined—and the present Government are not so inclined—apply for such a power with any chance of success, inasmuch as no Alien Bill, I believe, either in former periods or within the course of this century has been passed ever giving to the Government the power of expelling foreigners, except with reference to considerations connected with the internal safety of this country. The British Government has never undertaken to provide for the internal security of other countries; it is sufficient for them to have the power to provide for the internal security of their own. But I cannot confine my answer simply to that statement. I will ask to be allowed to add, that while, on the one hand, the British laws and the spirit of the British constitution give to foreigners, of all political opinions and of all categories, a secure and peaceful shelter within this country, I think that those foreigners who avail themselves of the hospitality of England are bound by every principle of honour, as well as by every regard, not only to international law, but to the law of this land—are bound to abstain from entering into any intrigues, or from pursuing any courses, intended for the purpose of giving umbrage to foreign Governments, and of disturbing the internal tranquillity of any foreign country.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, there was no man more ready than he to do justice to the fair claims of any foreigner who had received detriment from England or from English subjects. He had himself, in his former official capacity, been so fre-
 837 bonâ fide 838
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that, as a general rule, he thought the House was very shy of suspending the issue of writs, but that rule ought certainly to be liable to exceptions. Generally speaking, he believed, when an Election Committee found that evidence was adduced before them, showing that an organised and extensive system of bribery had prevailed in any borough, they reported the circumstances to the House. He did not know whether any such Report had been made in these cases, but he believed not. It was, however, perfectly true, as the hon. Baronet stated, that though the Committee might not have made such a Report, there might be in the evidence given before the Committee grounds which might lead the House to come to the conclusion that a system of bribery had existed. Therefore, and especially considering the impression which existed that bribery had prevailed to a great extent at the late elections—whether well or ill-founded—he
 877
 MR. HUME  differed from the hon. and learned Gentleman on one point, for he held that Church property was public property; and that the property of the Irish Church having been given by Act of Parliament for purposes of religious instruction, it was competent to Parliament to deal with it. He had great doubts whether that Establishment, which had been instituted by our forefathers to promote religion, did not run counter to that object; and those whose duty it was to uphold the Church as religious teachers and as trustees for the public, could not be said to have set a very good example in administering the patronage attached to that property. With regard to the question brought forward by the lion. Member for Birmingham, it was one of great importance—far too important to be dealt with incidentally in an Amendment to a Motion such as that of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Spooner). He had bad no hesitation in voting for the continuance of the Maynooth endowment, which he regarded as an endowment for educational purposes only; and which Sir Robert Peel had established on its present footing for the purpose of promoting good feeling and allaying religious animosity in Ireland. Whether the amount paid was larger than necessary, or not, he would not now express any opinion. He would urge upon his hon. Friend not to press his Motion to a division in its present shape as an Amendment, but to bring the question forward at a subsequent period as a substantive Motion, and then to take a more enlarged view of it. His hon. Friend must include in his Motion
 895
 MR, COGAN  concurred in the abstract principle asserted in the Motion before the
 922
 SIR JOHN FITZGERALD,  as the representative of a Roman Catholic county, protested against the language used by the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Whiteside), which was calculated to stir up the worst passions. He said that every step had been taken by the last Government to defeat liberal candidates; and if the Roman Catholic clergy had interfered at the last election in Ireland, they had done so for the
 924
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he thought the House ought to exercise great caution in their proceedings upon Motions of this kind, for it would be an extreme injustice, when an individual case of bribery only might arise, to deprive a borough of its representative. As it appeared to be the opinion of the Committee that it was de-
 929
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  concurred in opinion with his right hon. Friend; and he also doubted whether it was expedient to fix the same day for so many of these Motions with regard to writs.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought, that the Chairman of the Committee having made this proposition, it ought to receive the sanction of the House; but where no special Report was made, and only a single case of bribery arose, it would be almost unconstitutional to suspend the issuing of a writ.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that he had read the Bill of the hon. Member with some care, and it appeared to him that the first enacting clause was in direct contradiction to a Bill which the hon. Member himself bad brought in, and which was passed in 1850. Now, he (Mr. S. Herbert) must say that this kind of legislation on
 887 l. l. 888 Vict.,
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that in the confusion of the last division he had gone into the wrong lobby, though he hoped his sentiments would not be misunderstood on that account. He should have had no difficulty in voting against the grant to Maynooth, and he should for the same reasons vote for the Amendment. He should not do so on the ground of voluntaryism, although he should perhaps come to pretty nearly the same conclusion as those who did; for he held it to be a scandal to truth that a Go-
 892
 MR. FREWEN,  in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, that it was his most anxious wish, in bringing forward this measure, to promote moderate Church reform, and wherever abuses had been proved to exist, he considered that it was the duty of Parliament to remedy them. Having been the originator of an Act which was passed three years ago, to put an end to pluralities, he was resolved to pursue the same course of endeavouring to correct those abuses in the Church which must be obvious to every one, and that no opposition which he might receive should deter him from continuing his exertions in the cause. The first part of the Bill for which he now asked the House to consent to the second reading, was to remove an evil which had only existed for the last two or three years. A clause had been inserted in an Act, 13 & 14  Vict. l. l. l. 885 Vict. l., l., l. 886
 MR. FREWEN  said, he must complain that the right hon. Gentleman had misrepresented many of the points of his measure. If it were defective, its provisions could be amended in Committee.
 MR. FREWEN  said, he should take his hon. Friend's advice.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  expressed his regret that owing to indisposition he should not have been present at the division of last week. He was a firm supporter of the Established Church, and considered himself bound to forward its interests in every way. He would not subscribe to a proposition for the purpose of withdrawing all grants for religious purposes; but he must object to the continuance of the grant to Maynooth against which he had always protested.
 MR. SERJEANT MURPHY  regretted exceedingly, that after the question of Maynooth had been disposed of by the vote upon Mr. Spooner's Motion, last Wednesday, and after the conciliatory speech of the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Phinn), the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite should have introduced into the discus-
 916 917 Secundœ Secundœ. 918 919 "Betwixt the wind and his nobility," non numerantur sed ponderantur, 920 Regium Donum.
 MR. LUCAS  rose to explain: the hon. and learned Gentleman had attributed to him words that he never uttered. The language he had attributed to him never fell from his lips, and never was in his mind. He would not be in order, perhaps, if he were now to make an explanation as to the other point, and he regretted the hon. and learned Gentleman did not make his attack upon him when he was in a position to reply to him.
 Mr. LUCAS  was anxious to make a short explanation. No one was more unwilling than he was to deny the great claims which many hon. Gentlemen in that House had on the gratitude of the Roman Catholics, for the stand which they had made against the bigoted outcry which had been raised in this country against their religion. He must, however, say, that the observations which he had made on a previous occasion—though delivered, perhaps, in the hurry of the moment—were not altogether without some foundation. Now, since he had spoken, he had examined the division list, and what had he found? Why, there were no less than 36 Gentlemen, representing Liberal constituencies, found amongst those who voted with the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, though those very Gentlemen had before them the alternative of voting for the Motion of the hon. Member for Birmingham. Of these Gentlemen one third were pledged to support the voluntary principle, and to oppose all religious endowments; and they were, he thought, justly chargeable in choosing to vote with the religious principles of their constituents. He, therefore, was inclined to think that his censure the other evening upon those hon. Members—though he spoke under the pressure of calls for a division—was not altogether without some show of justification. He wished also to remark upon an observation which had fallen from the hon. Member for the
 904 905
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he entirely approved of the Amendment, with the understanding that at the proper time the whole principle of religious endowments should be considered, including the  Regium Donum, Regium Donum l. l. 890
 MR. MUNTZ  had opposed the endowment of Maynooth in 1845, both by his speech and his vote, because he believed that all grants for religious purposes were injurious to the State, and he did not value the religion that required support of that kind. He did not object to vote for the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Spooner) the other night; and for the same reason that he so voted then, namely, because he was opposed to all religious endowments, he should vote with his hon. Colleague (Mr. Scholefield) now. If the present vote was to be considered in the light of a  bonâ fide
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, after the discussion which had taken place, he wished to make a few observations upon the real question which they had to determine. Nothing was so unfortunate, and had led to such mistaken legislation, as the assertion which was sometimes made too confidently on one side, and not sufficiently refuted on the other, that the Established Church in Ireland was on the wane. That night the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) had asserted that the Church of England, in Ireland, was dying of inanition. Such a statement was in the highest degree erroneous. On the contrary, he maintained that the Church of the Reformation in Ireland was never at any period of its history stronger, purer, or firmer in the affections of the people than it was at that moment. Never was it so strong in numbers, in the north of Ireland particularly, as it was at present. Let them look around. With the single exception of the hon. Member for Newry, on the opposite benches, all the representatives for Ulster were members of the Established Church. The same observation applied to the Members for the capital of Ireland, the county of Dublin, and the University of Dublin. The return for Cork had yet to be tried, and the representation of Limerick was divided. It was unfair to represent the Protestants of Ireland as being a small and feeble minority. Ireland had suffered a diminution of population from causes which every one must deplore, but the affliction had not fallen on the Protestant districts of the country. It had recently been his painful lot to observe the desolation which pervaded the southern and western districts of Ireland, while he saw that Ulster was never more prosperous or populous. The hon Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas) had no doubt spoken ably and temperately on the present occasion; that hon. Gentleman had, however, spoken frequently in that House, and in Ireland, in a somewhat different spirit. The hon. Member was an Englishman, who had transferred his talents to Ireland. He (Mr. Whiteside) would have been glad if the speeches and writings of the hon. Gentleman had been generalty as temperate and as judicious as the speech he had favoured them with that
 908 "You arc only at the beginning of your perplexity. The Pope will speak more loudly than ever; and, what is more, he will be listened to. He will turn over your musty Acts of Parliament with finger and thumb, scrutinising them with a most irreverent audacity, examining those which concern him; and, when he has found these, rejecting some and tolerating others with as much freedom as you use when you handle oranges in a shop, selecting the soft and sweet, contemptuously rejecting the sour and rotten. And then, 0 dreadful thought! he will insist upon being obeyed. The very slates at Exeter Hall must erect themselves in thought of such a thing. What! the Bill read three times in each House of Parliament; it was twice passed, engrossed on parchment, garnished with a waxen appendage by way of seal, and had over it, pronounced by Royal lips, the mysterious words and creative fiat,  La Reine le veut. 909 910 911 "The law of God binds us to keep a promissory oath. Catholic Members of Parliament swear not to use any privilege vested in them to the injury of the Protestant Church as by law established in these realms. Does this mean that a Catholic Member of Parliament shall not exercise his power of voting in favour of any measure introduced for the purpose of diminishing or abolishing the temporalities of the Irish Establishment, or of curtailing the number of bishoprics or benefices of any kind? Or does it mean that he shall not use his privileges to accomplish such objects by violent, fraudulent, or other unlawful means? In favour of this latter interpretation a great deal may be urged. If the former meaning be that in-
 912 The Life of 0'Connell, 913 "He tells us that he is counsel for the College of Maynooth, and in that capacity he seems to arrogate to himself much theological and legal knowledge. I concede the law, hut I deny the divinity; neither can I admit the accuracy of the eulogium which he has pronounced on that institution, with its mongrel board of control, half Papist and half Protestant. I was, indeed, at a loss to account for the strange want of talent— for the silence of Irish genius—which has been remarked within the college. I now see it easily explained. The incubus of jealousy and rival intolerance sits upon its walls; and genius, and taste, and talent fly from the sad dormitory where sleeps the spirit of dulness. I have heard, indeed, of their Crawleys and their converts; but where or when will that college produce a Magee or a Sandes, a M'Donnell, or a Griffin? When will the warm heart of Irish genius exhibit in Maynooth such bright examples of worth and talent as those men disclose? It is true that the bigot may rule in Trinity College, or the highest station in it may be the reward of writing an extremely bigoted or more foolish pamphlet; but still there is no conflicting principle of hostile jealousy in its rulers, and therefore Irish genius does not slumber there, nor is it smothered as at Maynooth." The State in its Relations to the Church, "In principle the grant (to Maynooth) is vicious, and it will be a thorn in the side of the State as long as it continues. When foreigners express their astonishment at finding that we support, in Ireland, the Church of a small minority, we may tell them that we support it on the ground of conscientious necessity for its truth. But how should we blush at the same time to support an institution whose avowed and legitimate purpose it is constantly to denounce the truth as falsehood. It is monstrous that we should be the voluntary feeders of an establishment which exhibits at once our lax principles and our erroneous calculations." 914 915
 MR. J. BALL  said, he must protest against discussing on such an Amendment as the present the ecclesiastical arrangements of Ireland, though he could not help pointing out that not one of the various parties in that House professed to be contented with those arrangements as they at present stood; for while on the one side some hon. Gentlemen objected to the en-
 901 902 odium theologicum
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that if the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Scholefield) had been more comprehensive in its nature, it should have received his most unqualified support; as it stood, however, he would be guilty of injustice to the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland if he assented to the proposal. Perhaps it was because his temperament of mind was rather dull that he could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin, that the Protestant Church of Ireland was either a great boon or a great blessing to the people of that country. He had formed a very opposite opinion; and he could not believe that it was either a boon or a blessing in Mayo, Achill, or in Dingle. He rather thought that by the mode in which the principles of the Protestant Church were propagated, the greatest misery was inflicted upon the people. And he was able to state—not upon his own authority, but on that of a gentleman in the county of Kerry—that the attempts at proselytism in Dingle and Kenmare had only had the effect of causing the people to trade upon the credulity of persons there, as they in their turn traded upon the credulity of persons in England. And he had heard, in addition, that sheep stealing had very much increased in those districts since those efforts at proselytism had commenced. But the same right hon. Gentleman had made another bold assertion—namely, that in this year of 1853 there were no sinecures in the Established Church of Ireland, Now that opinion proceeded from one of the most enlightened of the Irish Members. Now he (Mr. Ma-goire) knew of one parish in the diocese of Cloyne where there was only one Protestant, but the revenue of the Protestant clergyman amounted to 173 l. d 898
 MR. STAPLETON  was unable to determine the principle upon which this Amendment was framed—for it certainly did not raise the question of the voluntary principle, neither did it touch the revenues of the Established Church in any part of the Empire. He had voted for the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, though not for the reasons assigned by that hon. Gentleman, but simply for the purpose of bringing about a state of perfect religious equality in Ireland. Now, his constituents being principally Dissenters, they did not care to maintain the Establishment in that country, nor certainly were they willing to give any assistance to the Church of Rome, from whose doctrines they most conscientiously differed. He had voted for the Motion, then, really believing that if he had done otherwise he should be committing a robbery. His difficulty in dealing with the Amendment was, that it went beyond endowments given to Dissenters, and included those given to the Established Church of Scotland, and to some extent those of England and Ireland also. He objected to that Amendment, because in effect it drew distinctions between different descriptions of Ecclesiastical revenue, which he did not admit to exist. And with regard to the grant to the Church in the West Indies, which it proposed to withdraw, though he believed the right principle was to leave the colonies to the voluntary system, he could not consent to a proposal that would affect one colony and one creed only. He denied the accuracy of the view taken by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier), that they were forcing the voluntary principle
 897
 MR. NAPIER  said, that he understood the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down to assert that the Irish Church was an obstruction in the cause of religious truth; but surely no one could assert that it had not done great service in the cause of truth. He (Mr. Napier) had a short time ago addressed a friend of his, opposed to religious endowments, and said, "Your Church has got free scope; it is not fettered with those inconveniences which you say surround the Established Church; what have you done? I am willing to test all Churches by their fruits, not by going back to former times, but taking the present period." And taken by that test, he (Mr. Napier) was prepared to affirm that the Established Church in Ireland was a great boon and blessing to the people of that country. An hon. Gentleman had stated that only one in ten of the inhabitants of Ireland belonged to the communion of the Irish Church. He was prepared to say, on the contrary, that to say there was one in every four would be nearer the truth. The late
 893 l. l. l. 894
 MR. P. O'BRIEN,  as an Irish Roman Catholic Member, tendered his thanks to the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Phinn) for his kind and conciliatory speech, and expressed regret that the tone adopted by that hon. Gentleman had not been imitated by the hon. and learned Member for Ennis-killen (Mr. Whiteside). The speech of the latter seemed to refer much more to the Motion for inquiry into Maynooth than to the abolition of the grant, which was the question raised by the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. The hon. and learned Member (Mr. Whiteside) had alluded to Maynooth as a "dull institution;" but immediately after doing so he read a quotation from a book published by a professor of theology in that college, and in which very book there was a review of a work by the hon. and learned Gentleman himself, in which, borrowing a phrase from Thomas Carlyle, the author
 923
 MR. SPOONER  said, his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) had gone so completely into the question of Maynooth, that he should not touch upon the question now, but content himself merely with answering the appeals which had been made to him on the subject. The hon. and learned Member for Cork (Mr. Serjeant Murphy) got up with a view to reply to his hon. and learned Friend; but feeling how great was his inability to do so, and that he could not deny the facts, or controvert the conclusions to which his hon. and learned Friend had arrived, with characteristic ingenuity he proceeded to divert the attention of the House from the subject, and delivered a long speech about the Canadian reserves. The hon. and learned Member said that he (Mr. Spooner) had put two different Motions on the books last year; and that when he found he could not carry the Motion for inquiry, he then tried to wipe off the endowment without inquiry. The hon. and learned Member added that at that time the Roman Catholic Members were all eager and anxious for inquiry. Now, he (Mr. Spooner) appealed to hon. Members who sat in that House during the last Parliament whether or not that was a fair statement of the facts? True, hon. Members professed a desire for inquiry; but whilst they did that, they took good care to meet him day after day with every obstacle which the forms of the House placed within their power. They acted, indeed, as if they were determined that an inquiry should not take place; and they used the forms of the House in such a manner that at length he felt himself obliged to rest altogether on the mere question of adjournment. He (Mr. Spooner) had been charged with having brought forward statements against the Roman Catholic clergy in regard to their conduct at the last elections in Ireland, which were totally unfounded; and it was said that the papers he had quoted from did not deserve the attention of the House. Now, at the time he quoted these papers he stated that he knew nothing about the parties they might chance to represent. He quoted extracts, not only from public papers circulated in Ireland, but from a number of English
 925 926
 MR. SPOONER  said, he really hoped
 889
 Mr. BELLEW  thought he ought to express to the House that, while he approved of the principle upon which this Amendment was brought forward, he had made up his mind to vote against it; because he thought the endowments which were apportioned to Roman Catholic purposes in Ireland, bore much too prominent a part in the proposition submitted to the House, and constituted, in fact, its very vitality. Had this Amendment included not only all Parliamentary grants, but all sums voted
 896 Regium Donum
 MR. PHINN  said, he thought that religious discussions in that House were at all times to be deprecated; and he trusted that that would be the last discussion they would have on so irritating a topic during the present Session. He wished to offer a few observations in favour of the vote he intended to give for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Birmingham, because it might be supposed to be difficult to reconcile that vote with the vote he had given against the proposition of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. He had voted against that Motion because he thought it was conceived in a spirit of hostility and unfairness against his Roman Catholic brethren, and because he thought the reasons he had offered in support of his proposition were not sufficient to sustain it. He thought that the time had come when they ought to consider the whole of the religious institutions of Ireland, with a view to adapting them more to the religious feelings of the population and the circumstances of the country. He could not attribute any other reason for the variance which existed in the present Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire and that which he made last year, except that there were some persons behind the scenes who knew that the hon. Gentleman's allegations could not be sustained. It was not because the Motion of the hon. Member for Birmingham fully answered his expectations and embodied his sentiments that he supported it; but he voted for it because be considered it to be a step in the right direction; and his difficulty in voting for it was increased by the language which had been used by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Sheffield. As far as Ireland was considered, he did not think that this matter had ever been placed on a fair footing; he felt that a thorough investigation into the whole question of the religious establishments was necessary, and that the wisdom of Parliament must ultimately be applied to the subject. It was not by coming down to Parliament and charging the Roman Catholic clergy with teaching immorality and disloyalty that the subject could be approached in a proper Way; but it was by bringing forward some vast comprehensive scheme, which would
 906 907
 MR. W. J. FOX  thought that the objections of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose must undergo a very considerable abatement if he would but advert to the fact that grants which were annually made must of themselves come under annual consideration; and that the Amendment of his hon. Friend (Mr. Scholefield) had reference solely to such grants as were made in accordance with Acts of Parliament. It did not occur to him that the Motion under discussion took cognisance either of the principle of an Established Church, or of the voluntary principle. It did not seek to establish the universal existence of an unendowed Church, neither on the other hand did it attack anything which might be called church property, and which had descended from generation to generation for the use of the ecclesiastical corporations to which it was attached. The question to which the Amendment solely related was, whether taxation drawn from persons of all religious denominations was to be applied for the benefit of particular classes, or a particular sect? And on such grounds, as these he thought they had a right to the support even of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), for he (Mr. Fox) believed that the present Motion was quite as hostile to the Maynooth grant as was that of the hon. Gentleman; and he could assure him that had he not felt it so he should have supported his Motion on Wednesday
 899 Regium Donum Regium Donum 900 l. l. l. l., l l. l.
 MR. KIRK,  believing that he was the only Irish Presbyterian in that House, and might, therefore, he said, in some degree, to represent no less than 700,000 of the inhabitants of Ireland, said he felt deeply the extraordinary sneers which had been thrown out against that sect for their acceptance of the  Regium Donum. Regium Donum 921 l. Regium Donum Regium Donum
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  was anxious to say a few words in explanation of the reasons why he had brought forward his Amendment, in order that his views might not be misrepresented. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) having brought forward a Resolution for the repeal of the Act endowing Maynooth, he felt it his duty to move an Amendment embracing all endowments of a similar character, no matter for what religious sect established, charged on the revenue of the State. If hon. Gentlemen desired to know what endowments were included in his Amendment, he begged to refer them to a return produced on the order of the House, which comprised a description of them at length. He had been asked why he had not included in this Amendment Ministers' Money,  Regium Donum, Regium Donum, 891
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that on a former occasion the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas) had said that those who were prepared to support the Amendment were guilty of the greatest bigotry, in proposing to abolish not only the grant to Maynooth, but to all other religious institutions. They were of opinion, on the contrary, that they were only proclaiming the principle of even-handed justice when they said that no man ought to be called upon to contribute to the maintenance of a religion from which he dissented; and he thought it most extraordinary that those who were prepared to enunciate, with respect to all these endowments, the broad principle that no man should be called upon to contribute to a religion with which he did not concur, should be accused of bigotry. The hon. Member had also objected to this Amendment because it said nothing about the  Regium Donum. Regium Donum 903
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HUME  said, he had given notice of a series of Resolutions on the subject of the Custom-house duties on various foreign manufactured articles, and also of foreign agricultural produce. Those who had attended to the progress of the free-trade principle must recollect what took place in 1840, when, in Committee of the House, he had an opportunity of bringing forward a mass of evidence, showing the manifest advantages to be derived from the removal of those monopolies which were then existing in the manufacture of many articles, by the abolition of the restrictions on the importation of similar articles from foreign countries. The result of his Motion on that occasion was the appointment of a Committee, and he considered it to have been as fair a Committee as could have been selected. The principle which had guided him on all occasions, when treating of the import duties, was to put an end to monopoly. He was as much opposed to commercial monopoly as he was to political monopoly. They were both founded on injustice, and were both equally mischievous to the general interest. It had been clearly proved, that when the duty on imports exceeded a certain amount, so far from the revenue deriving any advantage, the effect was to diminish importation, and thereby
 1006 
 
 No. Import duty. 
 1. Each article producing under 100 l. 129 articles producing the aggregate sum of £2,349 
 2. Under £500 of duty 37 articles producing the aggregate sum of 9,366 
 3. Under 1,000 of duty 17 articles producing the aggregate sum of 11,351 
 4. Under 5,000 of duty 30 articles producing the aggregate sum of 67,629 
 5. Under 100,000 of duty 20 articles producing the aggregate sum of 343,459 
 No. 233 and duty £434,154 l. 1007 l., 
 
 No. Import duty. 
 1. Each article producing under 100 1. 25 articles producing the aggregate sum of £382 
 2. Under £500 of duty 8 articles producing the aggregate sum of 1,729 
 3. Under 1,000 of duty 4 articles producing the aggregate sum of 2,911 
 4. Under 5,000 of duty 11 articles producing the aggregate sum of 30,140 
 5. Under 100,000 of duty 12 articles producing the aggregate sum of 533,733 
 6. Under 500,000 of duty 2 articles producing the aggregate sum of 347,540 
 No. 62 and duty £916,435 l., l. l. l. l. 1008 s. d. s. s. d. s. d.; d. s., ad valorem. l. s., l. l., l. l. 1009 l., l. l. s. d. s. l., s. s. l. l. l. s. d. d. l. l. s. d. l. l. d. d., d. l. l., l. l. 1010 "That whilst the agricultural produce of wheat, barley, oats, and other grain, and oxen, sheep, goats, and other animals are admitted, duty free, to compete with similar productions of the United Kingdom, it is both impolitic and unjust to the country, and to the agricultural interests especially, to continue duties of import on articles of foreign manufacture of the same kind and class with those manufactured in the United Kingdom, as by these protective duties on imports the fair competition of foreign manufactured articles with the articles of British manufacture is prevented." l. 1011
 MR. MILES  said, he would suggest that the hon. Member for Montrose should leave out the words "with the view of speedily repealing the same," and thereby leave the House full power to consider the subject. It should be recollected that certain articles of agriculture, as, for example, cheese and butter, were deemed to be manufactured articles, and if they were to repeal the duty upon manufactured articles, he saw no reason whatever why the duty upon those articles should not also be repealed. He must vote, if these words were maintained, against the Motion.
 MR. HUME  said, as the House was now full, which it had, unfortunately, not been when he introduced his Motion, it appeared right that he should state the position in winch that Motion now stood. He could not express too much satisfaction at the manner in which the principles he was aiming to support had been received. It seemed they were all unanimous. The only question seemed to be how they were best to carry those principles out. When he introduced the Motion, he said that, being aware that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was about to bring forward his financial scheme, he was only anxious to have the assurance that free trade would be carried out still further, and that we should not have those manacles on our free-trade system, perpetuated, and therefore, as it
 1040 and Cries of
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said he begged to move for copies of the Treasury Minute of 1842, relating to the appointment of Crown Solicitors in Ireland. Late in the month of December last, the late Government appointed to the office of Crown Solicitor (an office unknown in England) for the Leinster Circuit, a gentleman of the name of Kemmis, whose father and grandfather had held it before him. The resignation of the late Government occurred just at that time, and it was not till a fortnight after their resignation that it was known they had thus appointed Mr. Kemmis. That gentleman held an office which entailed upon him a great deal of responsibility—he was public prosecutor, and his office was one, in other respects of importance. The complaint was not merely that Mr. Kemmis had been thus appointed, but also that he, a barrister, should fill an office which according to the Treasury Minute ought to be filled by a solicitor, and that the outgoing Government, on the timely resignation of the late Crown Solicitor of this circuit, appointed his son, and increased the salary to be received by the latter to 1,900 l. 1043
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD , in reply, said, perhaps he had used too strong a term when he spoke of this being a job; but what he meant to convey was that this appointment bad not been made public for nearly a fortnight after the late Ministers had resigned office. Although he had listen-ed attentively to the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier), he (Mr. Fitzgerald) did not hear him state when this appointment was made. When the documents were produced, he believed he should be able to show that the appointment was made in the interval while the late Ministers were holding their seals of office previous to their successors being appointed.
 MR. HUME : Will the noble Lord allow me to ask a question on this subject? The Committee, I understand, have laid down eight heads for inquiry; but up to the close of last Session they had only finished one of these heads. I therefore wish to know whether, the Committee having laid down a plan for their investigations, it is the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill and pass it before the inquiry has been concluded?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he must be allowed to express his satisfaction
 999
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he rose in pursuance of notice to call the attention of the House to the affairs of Turkey, as affected by the contest now proceeding in Montenegro. He regretted that this subject had not been taken up by some much more able and influential Member of
 979 corps d'armée ultimatum, "Art. 1. There will be henceforth a perpetual and universal peace on land, sea, and rivers between the two Empires, their subjects and vassals—a true and sincere friendship—a close and perfect union—a suppression and a full and general amnesty of all hostilities, violence, and injuries committed during that war by the two Powers, or by the subjects and vassals of the one which have sided with the other, and especially the inhabitants, of any condition, of Montenegro, Bosnia, Servia, Wallachia, and Moldavia, who, in virtue of this amnesty, can repossess any ancient dwellings, possessions, and rights, and enjoy them peacefully without ever being disturbed, molested, or punished for having declared themselves against their own Sovereign, or for having taken an oath of allegiance to the Imperial and Royal Court." "We, Plenipotentiaries of His Majesty the King of Great Britain, of His Majesty the King of Prussia, and of the High Powers the General States of the United Provinces, having served as
 980 "Done at Sistow this 4th of August, 1791. "ROBERT MURRAY KEITH. "JEROME MARQUESS DE LUCCHESSINI. "R. DE HAEFTEN." nolo episcopari 981 982 ultimatum 983 984 985 986 Pro rege moriamur. 987 988 989 ultimatum
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that the object which he had in view was so plain and so simple as to require neither argument nor illustration to make it intelligible. The subject was one upon which he had always had a strong opinion, and he only regretted having been prevented, by particular circumstances, from bringing it under the consideration of the House in a previous Session. It might be in the recollection of those who were in Parliament in 1840 that it was decided, in the Session of that year, that the Judge of the Admiralty Court should no longer be capable of sitting or voting in the House of Commons. It was not without reluctance that he (Lord Hotham) made that Motion, the learned Judge himself being at the time one of the Members for the Tower Hamlets. He (Lord Hotham) felt, however, that he had no alternative; for a Bill to regulate the Admiralty Court being under discussion, it seemed to be his bounden duty then, if ever, to take the sense of the House on a matter so materially affecting the position of the Head of the Court to which the Bill in question referred. In like manner, he (Lord Hotham) had been unwilling to take the next obvious step in the same direction while the Master of the Rolls was sitting among them. But as he had no longer a seat in that House, he (Lord Hotham) felt relieved from those feelings of delicacy by which he had hitherto been restrained, and he hoped that he might now, without any appearance of personality, suggest to the House the propriety of acquiescing in such an extension of the existing exclusion of Judicial Officers as should embrace all those who could properly he considered Judges of Superior Courts. He begged, once for all, to repudiate the slightest wish to cast imputation or reflection on any of those learned Judges to whose offices his proposed Bill was intended to refer; and if, in consequence of his having mentioned the Master of the Rolls, anything that might fall from him (Lord Hotham) should be taken as evidence of a contrary feeling, he trusted that hon. Members would do him the justice to bear in mind that he made this voluntary admission, namely,
 1000 1001 1002 1003 1004 "I think it quite clear that the Master of the Rolls ought not to be a Member of the House of Commons. If active, he would act inconsistent with his judicial character; if inactive, he must neglect the interests of his constituents and of those who promoted him; but whether active or inactive, he might have to adjudicate upon affairs between his constituents and others. There is loss objection, upon public grounds, to the House of Lords. There is less to do, and less squabble and heat; but still, a Judge's office is enough to occupy the whole of any man's time." 1005
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, in answer to the question of the right hon. Baronet—although he has already once postponed it—at present I can only say that the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been directed to the subject to which he refers; that the Law Officers of the Crown have been asked their opinion as to the legal power of Convocation respecting the Committee which is to sit from the 16th of February to some day in August next; but at present, although the question occupies their attention, the Government have not yet received their formal opinion on the subject. I therefore wish the right hon. Baronet to defer asking his question till to-morrow.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : In answer to the question of my hon. Friend, I can only repeat what I have already said, that it is the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill for the government of India in the course of the present Session.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, perhaps the decision in one ease would be taken as a decision in the whole, but it was too late to go fully into the matter then. If, therefore, the debate was adjourned until Monday, he would use his influence to have it placed amongst the first Orders of the Day.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I trust that my noble Friend who has brought forward this Motion will not feel it necessary to press for the papers asked for, as the negotiations on the subject have not yet come to a termination. I will, however, follow my noble Friend in his remarks upon the subject to which he professes in his notice to call the attention of the House—namely, the affairs of Turkey as affected by the contest now proceeding in Montenegro. I
 992 993 de facto 994 995 de jure 996 quasi 997 998
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, in answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman, I have to state that it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce a Bill in the course of the present Session for the government of India—I do not say the permanent government, but for a period to be named in the Bill. I cannot at present state exactly the time when the Bill will be introduced; but due notice will be given, and due time will be afforded to the House to discuss a Bill of so important a nature before the end of the Session.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that as one of the class of manufacturers who had been benefited by the principles carried out by the late Sir Robert Peel, he wished to state to the House that the demand for flint, crown, and plate glass had increased beyond the anticipations of even the most sanguine free-traders. By means of patent machines the manufacture of crown glass had taken quite a new direction, and it had caused an enormous increase, which, as well as rough plate glass, had been used in new positions, and for novel purposes, never before contemplated, while the price had undergone a corresponding reduction. Justified, there-
 1028 Progress of the Nation, l.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, before the House comes to a vote upon this question, I wish to make some few observations. It is my opinion that the cultivators of the soil in this country are subjected to an undue weight of taxation. The late Government, impressed with that conviction, considered a system of taxation with a view to afford a remedy to injustice, or at least to what
 1033 1034 "That this House will, at an early period, take into its consideration the duties that are strictly protective in the existing Tariffs on articles of Import into this country, both of manufactures and agricultural produce, with the view of speedily repealing the same, as affecting unfairly every interest in the country." 1035 quasi l. 1036 l.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he regretted that he could not agree in the course proposed by the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire (Mr. E. Ball), with whom he had long been associated in the defence of native industry; he retained the opinions he had held throughout the struggle on behalf of protection. He felt this to be the more incumbent on him, as he represented a constituency among whom were a large body of manufacturers, who were still protected. Knowing well the sentiments of his constituents, he could not reconcile it to his conscience to betray his duty to them. For years he had denounced the system of free imports—a denunciation in which he had been fortified by the example of the Americans. He had described the application of what was called the system of free-trade to the commerce of this country as an exaggeration, and he believed the country would soon so understand it. It would ill become him, therefore, to urge the Chancellor of the Exchequer to repeal, for instance, the duties on the importation of silks. He did not think the House was in a position to understand the real meaning of this proposed reduction of duty. The hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had brought forward, under six heads of the return upon which this Motion was founded, certain articles of foreign manufacture and certain articles of agricultural produce, imported into this country. The amount of duty levied on articles of foreign manufacture appeared to be 434,000 l. l. l., 1024 s. d. l. s. d. "You will perceive that silk is brought up when dyed some time 40 oz. to the pound weight. Now, this is generally three-thread tram or weft, and when put into a hot liquid the threads open; and by thickening the liquor by shumac and other adulterations of a gelatine substance it gets between the fibres, and is there retained, of course making a piece of silk weigh heavier and feel thicker. It is, perhaps, needless to tell you that this deception does not add to the wearing of the cloth; it is done to deceive the eye and fingers, and not for utility. These are the low silks for which Manchester is famed, and with which they are able to compete with France; but in Spitalfields, Macclesfield, and Coventry, where they use and make light colours and better goods, such as pinks, sky blues, lilac, or more fanciful colours, the silk seldom comes up to more than 14 oz. to the pound, and in darker shades (not black) 16 to 18 oz., and wear the better for it; and upon this system the French goods are made. Now, the hon. free-traders of Manchester care nothing for their fellow-tradesmen in other towns, knowing that they may be able to put more rubbish in, if requisite for cheapness; but other towns making lighter colours could not do it without injury to the colour." 1025 1026 l. l. l., l. 1027
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, old birds were not to be caught with chaff. He had listened to the hon. Member for Montrose, but he was too old a soldier to trust an enemy in his camp—one too much given to setting spring guns and steel traps for the unfortunate fanners. The hon. Member for Montrose had said He was a freetrader. Now, he (Colonel Sibthorp) told that hon. Gentleman distinctly that he (Colonel Sibthorp) was no free-trader, He was against free trade. The hon. Member for Montrose now, for the first time since be (Colonel Sibthorp) had the honour of sitting in that House, talked about the injury which the Legislature had done to the farmers. Now, really that was too barefaced. When you had almost killed a man—when you had cut him up—it was too late to call in such a physician as the hon. Member for Montrose—who had come down to the House with a black draught which he (Colonel Sibthorp) was too wise to attempt to swallow. That draught was nothing more nor less than poison—and a most deadly poison too. Those import duties against which the hon. Member for Montrose had spoken, he (Colonel Sibthorp) firmly believed had been beneficial even to that class whose interest he had at heart. at least as much as had the hon. Member himself—he meant the labouring poor. He had always stood up in that House against the foreigner, and in favour of our own people, with respect to import duties. As long as duties were levied on the importation of foreign goods, this great country would be as it ought to be—not the slave of the foreigner. The hon. Member had no doubt, when at school, read of the fable of the sheep and the wolf. His (Mr. Hume's) proposition reminded him (Colonel Sibthorp) of that story. The hon. Member seemed to be desirous of acting the part of the wolf; but he would take good care not to be the lamb. We had a new Government, although he (Colonel Sibthorp) was not very partial to it, and we had also a new Chancellor of the Exchequer, of rather a free-trade cast; yet he believed the right hon. Gentleman's know ledge, judgment, and experience would prevent him from lulling into this snare. At all counts he (Colonel Sibthorp) would
 1014
 Mr. E. BALL  said, that, having always taken an active part in the subject of protection, he was now anxious to address a few words to the House. He had been one of the most active opponents of the system of free trade, and was so still, believing that it had produced much injury; and if he had the power to reverse, amend, or change that system, he would do so. But as it was not in his power to do so, and the position of the question was not such that the advocates of protection could come and ask for a revocation of free trade; it was better to try what could best be done with what he considered to be a very bad measure. After 268 Gentlemen had gone into the lobby of that House affirming the prosperity which free trade had brought to the country, and he (Mr. Ball) had gone out with only 53, he thought the time had not arrived successfully to attempt to reverse the system. Such being the case, it had occurred to him that the next best thing to do on behalf of that important class of the community which had sent him to Par-
 1020 1021 d. 1022 ad valorem
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, with an admirable dexterity which those who have admired the ability of the right hon. Gen-
 1037 l., 1038 Cries of 1039
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, as a personal friend of Mr. Thomas Kemmis, he wished to say that no one could question the efficiency, integrity, or honour of that gentleman, and he believed that by no one could the duties of the office in question be performed more efficiently.
 MR. HUDSON  said, he must deny that the manufacturers of glass sympathised with the expressions which had just fallen from the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Pellatt). They were glad to he relieved from the presence of the exciseman in their
 1029
 MR. VANSITTART  said, for his part he should be highly obliged to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer if he would take off the existing duties upon the articles mentioned by the hon. Member for Montrose; for considering the value which British agricultural produce had latterly began to assume in foreign markets, he thought that the agricultural interest had nothing to fear. However, if the right hon. Gentleman derived a large revenue from the duties imposed upon such articles, he would rather that he retained it, in order the better to enable him by-and-by to remove some of those restrictions which were really injurious to the agriculturists of the country.
 MR. BAILLIE : Sir, I wish to ask the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) the question of which I have given notice. The noble Lord is probably aware that the Committee now sitting on Indian Affairs will not be able to make a final report until a late period of the Session, The question that I wish to ask, therefore, is, whether it is the intention of the Government to legislate for India, permanently, during the present Session; and, if so, whether the noble Lord is able to state when the Bill for that purpose will be laid on the table of the House?
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he had no intention to prolong the present discussion, but he was anxious to reply to the inquiries of the hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. W. Brown) with regard to the Custom House Acts, the more especially as the answer of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, upon a former occasion, had been erroneously interpreted. He had to inform the House that there were already several Bills in preparation, and that those Bills were already in a very forward state, and only awaited the consideration and sanction of the Treasury, which must be given by a Treasury Minute, which Minute must precede any act upon the part of the Custom-house authorities.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to say a few words in explanation, after the extraordinary statement of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate). Perhaps some persons would think that was hardly necessary, since the hon. Gentleman was so much in the habit of making unfair and unfounded attacks on
 1031 1032
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman appeared to have two objects in view in making this Motion. One was to ascertain whether this appointment had been legally made, and the other the precise day on which it was made. On the first point he bad to inform the hon. and learned Gentleman that the memorial to which he had referred was now under the consideration of the Lord Lieutenant and the Law Officers of the Crown in Ireland. With regard to the second point, he was quite ready to produce all the papers which bore upon it; but be would prefer not giving the correspondence referred to, inasmuch as it was not exactly of the character of public documents.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he had no wish to oppose the production of any of these papers; on the contrary, his desire would be that every one of the documents in question should be laid on the table of the House. With regard to the correspondence between himself and the Treasury, he held no correspondence but what passed before the Government resigned, and while he held the office of Attorney General for Ireland. What were the facts of the case in regard to the office in question? They were these. The office of Crown Solicitor for Dublin and for the Leinster circuit had been held by the same party from the year 1801. Before that time a gentleman named Morrison, a barrister, and Mr. Thomas Kemmis, were Solicitors of all Ireland, and the appointment was made to them and the survivor of them. After that a change was made in 1801. It was then thought, advisable to have the whole of Ireland placed under one solicitor; and then there was a solicitor appointed for each circuit; but the Leinster circuit was connected with the Dublin district, and given to Mr. Thomas Kemmis and Mr. William Kemmis, and the survivor of them. They were appointed in 1801. Mr. William Kemmis in the middle of November, 1852, tendered his resignation of that branch which included the superintendence of the Leinster circuit. He had been fifty years on the Leinster circuit, and was now an old man. When the Earl of Eglintoun became Lord Lieutenant he laid it down as an inflexible rule never to receive any kind of communica-
 1044 l.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, that while he admitted that be could not fully adopt some of his noble Friend's observations, nevertheless, with much cordiality, he would second the Motion. He thought that the question relating to Montenegro had considerable importance attached to it. Here was a small mountain district, about sixty miles long, and between thirty and thirty-five broad, placed almost upon the frontier of the great Turkish dominions, and nominally conquered at as early a date as the year 1398, though it was rather surrounded by conquered territories than itself subdued. The district had derived much consideration, as well from its peculiar situation as from the character of its people. A portion of its territory abutted upon the Adriatic, thus affording to the Power possessing it excellent harbours. The circumstance, however, which invested this small district with most interest was the peculiar and indomitable character of the inhabitants, who had always succeeded in maintaining themselves in a state of  quasi de jure, de facto. 990 991
 MR. PARKER  said, he could not understand how, as an honest man, he could be called upon to abandon the principles which he had adopted. He should be surprised if those Members who had lately voted in favour of the Resolution declaring that free-trade principles should in future govern the policy of the country, should so soon recede from it; and if the hon. Member for Montrose divided the House upon this Resolution, he should vote with him. He was surprised, indeed, that the hon. Member should have brought forward such a Resolution, unless he doubted the sincerity of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in supporting the free-trade policy. As, however, he (Mr. Parker) did not understand political chicanery, he should vote honestly, according to the principles he had adopted, and which had lately been declared by a majority of that House to be those which should in future govern the country.
 MR. SOTHERON  said, on the adjournment he should persist in moving the following Amendment:—
 "That in all cases when the seat of any Member has been declared void by an Election Committee on the grounds of bribery or treating, no Motion for the issuing of a New Writ shall be made without previous notice being given in the Votes."
 MR. MITCHELL , in seconding the Motion, said, the duties mentioned by his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, were no other than protective duties, and so was another tax which had not been alluded to by his hon. Friend—the duty on wood. Such a tax as that now levied on corn, which only amounted to 1s. per quarter, did not require immediate attention; but there were other articles, the duties upon which pressed more severely, and one of the chief of these was the import duty upon tallow, upon which 8 or 9 per cent was levied upon the raw material, and which was then taxed on its manufacture into soap, thus paying a double duty to the revenue. Butter, cheese, and eggs, were articles which entered largely into the consumption of the lower classes, and the repeal of the duties upon those articles would conduce highly to the comforts and well-being of the people. With regard to one particular class of duties embodied in the Resolution of his hon. Friend, he concurred with him in thinking that the very first which this House ought to repeal were those upon manufactured articles imported into this country. It was a gross act of injustice to the agriculturalists to continue to impose duties, amounting to 434,000 l., ad valorem l., 1012 l. ad valorem ad valorem
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I feel greatly indebted to the hon. and gallant Member who has just sat down, for, if not the favourable, yet the not very unfavourable anticipations which he has formed respecting me. And I feel the more indebted to him because I remember that many years back he exercised his humour upon me with reference to the subject of free trade in a manner that was highly amusing. It was the year 1843, in which it was my lot as President of the Board of Trade to introduce a Bill to legalise the export of machinery, and with the most perfect good feeling I quote the reception which he gave to that Motion. The hon. and gallant Gentleman said, that—
 "The President of the Board of Trade—and I call him the President of the Board of Free Trade—has brought in a Bill to legalise the exportation of machinery. I object to any Bill to legalise the exportation of machinery, but I do not at all object to any Bill for the exportation of the President of the Board of Trade and his Colleagues." 1015 l. 1016 "That this House will, at an early period, take into its consideration the duties that are strictly protective in the existing tariff on articles of import into this country, both of manufactures and agricultural produce, with the view of speedily repealing the same, as affecting unfairly every interest in the country." 1017 l l., l. l. 1018 Vict., 1019 ad valorem ad valorem
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was sorry that, in answer to the hon. Gentleman, he had but little to say. There had been, some consider able time ago, communications between the two Governments, but no definite result had been attained. All he could say was, that the subject had not escaped, the attention of the present Government.
 MR. W. BROWN  said he wished to inquire of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was intended to bring forward any Bill in reference to the Customs regulations, so that the trade might not be dependent, as they were now, on Treasury Orders? He would suggest to the Government the great importance and utility of consolidating the Customs Acts, and embodying the regulations of our commercial code in a distinct and well-condensed form. A comprehensive Act, defining and stating its provisions, would confer the utmost benefit on those engaged in carrying on the trade of the country. With regard to the observations the right hon. Gentleman had offered on the question now before the
 1023
 MR. DEEDES  said, the question involved in the Motion was a very important one. It could not be disposed of at that late hour, and he should therefore move the adjournment of the debate until Monday.
 MR. EWART  said, that we ought not to take our stand upon what Sir Robert Peel had done, but should consider what he would have done had he been alive now. We should not fix the tariff where he left it, but improve it upon the principles he had bequeathed to us. He had listened with great satisfaction to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because so far as he wont his principles were sound; but still he thought that the right hon. Gentleman was rather hard upon those who brought forward such Motions as these, when he said that they were adventurers in commercial legislation, and that they should not let off their pilot balloons until the Chancellor of the Exchequer bad brought forward his Budget; for it was well known if they waited until then, they would be told that it was too late, for the financial arrangements for the year had been made; and thus they would have no opportunity for testing the opinion of the House. As a free-trader, he flung away the distinction between agriculturists and manufacturers; he was equally desirous that all duties that were onerous, either to manufacturers or to commerce, should be taken off. With regard to butter and cheese, the attention of the House should be called to the fact, that while the importation of these articles had lately greatly decreased, their exportation had considerably increased. He had a statement from Liverpool, from which it appeared that we were now actually exporting butter and cheese to the United States of America. Last year about 13,000 casks of butter were received at Liverpool from Canada; but this year the United States buyers had swept that market both of butter and cheese. As his correspondent observed, there was a great change taking place in the markets of the world, and a great tendency to equalisation in the price of food all over the world. This was a consummation much to be desired; and under these circumstances he thought it was most desirable that we should reconsider our tariff There were now a great number of articles in our tariff which yielded very small sums to the revenue, and the duties on which, he thought, should therefore be entirely abolished. For
 1030 l. l. l. d. l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I rise, Sir, to put the question, perhaps I should
 978
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would now move that the Minutes of the evidence taken before the Select Committee on the Blackburn Election Petition be laid before this House. He made this Motion at that late hour upon the understanding that the debate would be adjourned until Monday, when this Motion and the others of a similar character that stood in his name could he made an Order of the Day.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he should not oppose the noble Lord's Motion for bringing in the Bill, but would take the opportunity of expressing his opinion on the second reading.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he had heard hon. Members take the present measure as a precedent, and as an argument antagonistic of the Established Church in the mother country. He had heard it stated that equality ought to form part and parcel of our legislation; but the word equity had been carefully omitted in the present discussion. The hon. Member for Newark (Mr. Vernon) had characterised the Act of 1840 as an Act exhibiting little of wisdom or justice. He confessed that he should have felt that his opinion savoured of presumption if he made use of similar terms in reference to his political leader, for the measure thus condemned by the hon. Member was passed by the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), then Colonial Secretary. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) the Under Secretary for the Colonies had ably elucidated the question; but he made use of an argument not quite in unison with what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Chief Commissioner of Works. The hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies did not see any reason for supposing that if the measure passed, the reserves would be diverted from the purpose for which they were originally intended. Now some of the words in the Bill might not bear such a construction; but when he found the word "alienation" a prominent word in a Bill, he wanted to know what alienation meant if not a diversion from the original purpose? The right hon. Gentleman (Sir W. Molesworth) said there was no possible doubt about the intentions of the Canadian Legislature on the future application of the reserves. And, in his opinion, no one who read the despatches and debates
 1129 1130 "If the present unprincipled agitation succeed in secularising the clergy reserves, thus depriving religion in Upper Canada of its existing support, the same agitation, ere long, may be renewed, and disturb those endowments of the Roman Catholic Church which hitherto have been so instrumental in conferring a moral and religious education upon the members of that communion; and hence may arise in Canada a spirit of antagonism between the Protestants and Roman Catholics which, happily, has not hitherto existed." 1131
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  appeared at the bar of the House and reported that the Select Committee appointed to try and determine the merits of the petition complaining of an undue election for the County of Waterford had determined that John Esmonde, Esq. is duly elected to serve in the present Parliament for the County of Waterford, and that the said Committee had struck off the names of three persons from the poll as not being qualified to vote.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : * 1116 ex post facto 1117 1118 1119 "That there are in the said province of Canada many thousands of poor members of the United Church of England and Ireland, who, being scattered over that extensive province, could not without some assistance provide for themselves and their children the regular ministration of a resident clergy; that the number of such persons is every year increased by the arrival of emigrants from this country, most of whom are of the poorer class; and that such emigration has been encouraged by various Acts of Parliament and by Her Majesty's Government, and has gone forward of late years on a scale very much larger than it ever did before; that the society has, so far as lay in its power, and not without crippling its missionary efforts in the dependencies of the Empire, endeavoured to supply the deficiencies of the said endowment out of the funds entrusted to it by charitable persons in this country; but that, notwithstanding all its efforts, there are many districts, the inhabitants of which can seldom, if ever, be visited by any minister of religion; and that, on a census taken some time ago, many thousand persons actually returned themselves as not belonging to any religious communion at all." 1120 1121 Vict., 1122 Vict., "That whenever any Bill which has been passed by the Legislative Council and Assembly of the Province of Canada shall be presented for Her Majesty's assent to the Governor of the said Province, such Governor shall declare, according to his discretion, but subject, nevertheless, to the provisions contained in this Act, that he assents to such Bill in Her Majesty's name, or that he withholds Her Majesty's assent, or that be reserves such Bill for the signification of Her Majesty's pleasure thereon." Geo. "Respecting the accustomed dues and rights of the clergy of the Church of Rome, or to vary or repeal any provisions respecting the allotment and appropriation of lands for the support of the Protestant clergy within the province of Canada, or respecting the constituting, erecting, or endowing of parsonages or rectories within the province of Canada, &c, every such Bill shall, previously to any declaration of Her Majesty's assent thereto, be laid before both Houses of Parliament; and that it shall not be lawful for Her Majesty to signify her assent to any such Bill until thirty days after the same shall have been laid before the said Houses, or to assent to any such Bill in case either House of Parliament shall, within the said thirty days, address Her Majesty to withhold Her assent from any such Bill." 1123 veto veto 1124 1125
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said: In answering the question which was put to me yesterday by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington), I have to state that the Prorogation of Convocation is totally different in its nature and effects from a Prorogation of Parliament. It is the act of the Archbishop, and has the same effect as an adjournment. In fact, there is no such term, I believe, as "adjournment" known to Convocation, and the adjournment of that body has always taken the shape and form of a prorogation. Consequently, the prorogation did not prevent the appointment of a Committee; and the Law Officers of the Crown have found several, if not many, instances of Committees being appointed on the eve of a prorogation. Therefore there can be no doubt as to the legality of the course pursued by the upper house of Convocation. I need hardly add that it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to take any measures on the subject.
 MR. A. MILLS  said, that as knowing something of the feelings of the Canadian people, he was anxious to bear testimony to what public opinion in the Colony was on this subject. He entirely concurred in the principle laid down by the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of the Board of Works (Sir W. Molesworth), who had told the House that the great principle of self-government as regarded our Colonies, ought to be preserved; but the question in the present instance seemed to him to be, not whether the principle of local self-government should be recognised, but whether it was the affair of the mother country to decide how this property should be dealt with. He was prepared to con-tend that it came under this category, and that it was one of those local matters' about which the English Parliament had
 1137 l., "We find with regret, from the numerous petitions laid before the House, that the long-agitated question of the clergy reserves has again become a subject of discussion in this province. The excitement which so unhappily existed on this subject for many years, and which produced such disastrous consequences to the peace and prosperity of the province, was at length set at rest by the Imperial Statute, 3 & 4  Vict. 1138 "Mark my words, if the question be reopened, former fierce agitations will be resumed. So much do I dread the renewal of agitation, that I have in every instance, and  in toto,
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, be thought that the hon. Member who had just sat down, concluded by expressing a horror of radicalism, and a ruthless interference with the rights of property: if there was one object more than another contemplated by this Bill, it was that the rights of others should not he interfered with. The speech of the hon. Member was marked by that moderation, impartiality, and fairness which, if applied to the real question, would have led him to an opposite conclusion. It was assumed by him that the Act of 1791 endowed a Church, which was by no means the case. If the hon. Gentleman referred to the saying that what was morally wrong could not be politically right, he might be asked to consider the converse of that proposition also, that what was politically right could not be morally wrong. The Bill now before the House was not only politically right, but was called for by every principle of political justice. The remark had been made that if the Bill were carried, there was nothing to prevent the Maynooth grant from being swept away; but if Parliament came to be of opinion that the Maynooth grant should be repealed, it would be repealed, and Canada asked for the same Parliamentary right, and that with the appropriation of their own revenue. If hon. Gentlemen who opposed this Bill could only once see that the measure was one that was demanded by political justice towards Canada, every scruple with regard to it must soon be entirely removed from their minds. It
 1132 1133 1134 1135 1136
 MR. BUTLER  said, in pursuance of the notice he had given, he begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure for the appointment of local Commissioners of Sewers by the ratepayers of the Metropolis, and whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure for the
 1070
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had not stated the matter correctly. What he (Mr. Villiers) had indignantly repudiated was the motive which the hon. and learned Gentleman had imputed to him. He had insinuated that he (Mr. Villiers) had retained the office of Examiner, receiving the increased salary until he had ascertained the stability of the new Government; and having satisfied himself of that, he (Mr. Villiers) then surrendered it. It was that imputation, the House would remember, that he denied, and which would be found in the public journals to have passed. With respect to the dates mentioned by the hon and learned Gentleman, he was not prepared to deny them, as he had not exercised the same diligence as the hon. and learned Gentleman in going about to the
 1160
 MR. GRANVILLE E. VERNON  said, it was under a consciousness of no slight difficulty that he rose, for the first time, after the noble Lord the Member for Colchester, whose honest feelings no man could respect more than himself, to endeavour feebly to advocate a cause which had been already so ably advocated by an unquestionable champion in the person of the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works. It appeared to him that the sole issue they had to try was this: when they had given to Canada constitutional rights and a provincial Parliament, were they or were they not to respect those rights, and adhere to the spirit of their own engagements? He would not enter into a detailed history of the Act of 1791; but he concurred with the opinion, though not with the argument founded on it, of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis) that it was the intention of the Legislature to endow a Protestant clergy according to the faith and discipline of the Established Church. He believed, looking at the provision for rectories and for the episcopacy in the provinces, that it was the intention of the Legislature to erect and endow an Established Church in Canada. It was fortunate for the Colonies that the word Protestant was used, a term so vague that it was possible for the Law Officers of the day to enable the Scotch Established Church to share also in that endowment. He openly professed the opinion that a National Established Church was a national blessing; but he was not so little wise as to think that a National Church could be forced on such a people as the Canadians. Such an attempt would have been unwise, impolitic, and impossible. What had been the state of the Colony? These waste lands were for many years, as they had been told, and as they all knew, the theme of constant contention. Year after-year the Provincial Assembly and the Legislative Council were at issue as to the disposition of these reserves. In 1839, wearied out, as it were, by this long continued struggle, they came to some sort of agreement, and an attempt was made to pass an Act, which, for legal reasons,
 1126 1127 1128
 MR. NAPIER  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had brought them back to the Act of 1791, and he (Mr. Napier) was prepared, in opposing the Bill, to take his stand upon that Act. He begged to remind the right hon. Gentleman of the language he had used in reference to this question in the year 1840, and called upon the House to consider the provisions of the Act of 1791, by the principles of which he admitted they were bound. When he referred to the Act of 1791 he found it stated there that the ob-
 1153 1154 Fiat justitia, ruat caelum,
 MR. MALINS  said, he must disclaim having made the slightest imputation on the manner in which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had performed his duties.
 MR. MALINS  said, he understood that, when, on a former occasion, he stated that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Villiers) had held the office of Examiner some weeks after accepting that of Judge Advocate, the right hon. Gentleman contradicted him. Now, the fact was, that a new writ was moved for on the 29th of December, in consequence of the right hon. Gentleman's acceptance of the office of Judge Advocate; and the right hon. Gentleman retained the officer of Examiner until the 18th of February, on which day he petitioned the Lord Chancellor, setting forth that he desired, in consequence of the increased responsibility and altered duties of the office, to retire from the same, and not making the slightest allusion to the fact of his having accepted another office. He prayed also 750 l.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I understood my hon. Friend who has just sat down to say that he was tempted to rise in this House on the present occasion, partly because he desired to bear his testimony to the sentiments of the people of Canada on this most important question; and after this statement he proceeded to inform the House that topics of this kind were regarded in that country as political capital; that they were traded upon by intriguers; that any wishes that were expressed to the House on this subject were to be regarded as the indication only of a momentary excitement; and that the substantial sense of the people of Canada was to he considered as something entirely distinct from those wishes so expressed. I cannot conceive a higher au-
 1139 1140 1141 1142 "The most liberal and equitable mode of settling this question would be for Parliament to pass an Act, enacting that the stipends hitherto given to the clergy of the Church of England and of the Church of Scotland, or of any other denomination, to whom the faith of the Crown is pledged, shall be secured for the natural lives or incumbencies of the parties receiving the same." 1143 1144 1145 1146 "Her Majesty's Government think it may possibly be desirable, on account of the changes which may be effected in the character of the population, through extensive immigration or other causes, that the distribution in question should from time to time be reconsidered." 1147 1148 1149 1150 Laughter. 1151 1152
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he
 1072
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must of course accept any explanation, of the language used by any hon. Member, but he had taken a note of the hon. Member's words, and that note was con-firmed by the reports in the newspapers, next day. The language of the hon. Member was commented on by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford the same evening; and though, as he said before, he was willing to take the explanation of the hon. Member, even on that explanation he must say he thought a Bill was never before introduced with such a statement. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Notting ham (Mr. V. Smith) had also spoken on a former occasion, and with perfect frank ness had repudiated the idea that this Bill only transferred to the Legislature of the Colony the power of altering the disposition of these reserves, and did not in fact, alter that disposition. The right hon. Gentleman declared most frankly that if the power were given up to the Canadian Legislature the disposition of the property would assuredly be altered, for they most certainly would secularise it. Then came the speech of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), who said in substance that the necessity for the measure was a subject of regret to the Government, and that he doubted the wisdom of the proposal. "It was not wise to revive: this subject," said the noble Lord On a former occasion; but he added that even were that the opinion of the Governments there were paramount reasons for urging the measure forward. Now it was not for him (Sir J. Pakington) to comparer the past inexperienced Government with the practised men who now sat on the sat opposite benches; but this he could say with confidence, that the late Governments did not commence their career by an apology for the indiscretion of their own speeches, nor have prefaced the introduce the of measures first submitted to Parliament by such a declaration as that which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Peel). Sincerely and solemnly as he
 1073 1074 1075 "If we said at once that we desired to secularise the reserves, our request might be rejected on that ground alone. If we did not say so, we had reason to expect the support of Earl Grey in the House of Lords." 1076 "They (Her Majesty's Government) think it may possibly be desirable, on account of the changes which may be effected in the character of the population through extensive immigration or other causes, that the distribution in question should from time to time be reconsidered. Any proposal of such a nature Her Majesty's Government would be willing to entertain." "We are confirmed in this hope by the suggestion in the despatch of the right hon. Sir John Pakington, that your Majesty's Ministers are prepared to recommend amendments in the Imperial Clergy Reserves Act." 1077 l. 1078 Geo. 1079 1080 1081 1082 "That there is no subject of such vital importance to the peace and tranquillity of the province as the clergy reserves; that there is none, with reference to the future union of the two provinces which it is more necessary to deterimine without delay; that it has been for many years the source of all the troubles in the province, the never-failing watchword at the hustings, the perpetual spring of discord, strife, and hatred; that to leave this question undetermined would be to put an end to all hope of re-establishing tranquil-lity within the province; but to establish the union without settlement of it, and to transfer the decision to the united legislature would be to add to the sources of discord which then prevailed in Lower Canada an entirely new element of strife, for among the various evils by which Lower Canada has been visited, one and one only, perhaps the greatest of all, has been wanting—religious dissension; that he was satisfied that the value of arriving at a settlement could not be over-estimated; and that, strong as these feelings might have been, the immense advantage of haying the question finally withdrawn from the sources of popular discussion and dispute would reconcile all parties to it." "He would ask the House, was it not most desirable to prevent this question being brought before the united legislature, and decided in a manner opposed to the views which Parliament was known to entertain." 1083 1084 "I have seen the debate of last evening in the House of Lords, as published in the morning papers. The remarks of the Earl of Derby are, no doubt, perfectly correct—that Church endowments made previously to the revolution have been held sacred in the United States. A question seems to have been agitated whether a new distribution might not be made of Canadian reserves, without' disturbing the original grant.
 1085 1086 1087 1088 l. 1089 1090
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he approached the discussion of this subject with the deepest conviction of the truth and justice of the course he was about to advocate, and under serious apprehensions that he might be unable to Lay before the House with the force due to it the merits of the case on which they had to decide; but he should be followed by others who could make ample amends for any deficiency he might labour under, and all he asked of the House on both sides was, that they would attend to the arguments which would be submitted to them. So far as he was concerned, he relied exclusively on what he believed to be the real merits of the question, and he wished no hon. Member to go into the same lobby as himself who was convinced of the truth and justice of the case, He desired to assure the Government and the House that he deeply regretted the necessity of resisting that stage of the Bill. In the present state of feeling in Canada on this subject, he thought it would have been most desirable that it should not have been made the ground of any thing like party purposes. He was very sorry that his sense of duty compelled him now to resist the progress of this Bill, and he must express the deep disappointment he felt that it had beep laid on the table of the House in its present shape. After the extraordinary circumstances which marked the debate on the introduction of this Bill, he must say he had had hopes it would have been offered to them now in a different form. He thought he was justified in applying the word "extraordinary" to those circumstances. Let him remind the House who were the speakers who took part in the debate. The Bill was introduced by the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for the Colonies (Mr. F. Peel); the next speaker was the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith); and the third was the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord John Russell). Now what was the language which those hon. Members held? He asked the oldest Member of that House if he could call to mind a case in which a Member of Her Majesty's Government, bringing forward a measure on their behalf, admitted at the close of his speech that the Bill he introduced was calculated to shake public confidence in all religious endowments?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I supported the Bill of 1840.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  rose to order. A particular individual in the other House of Parliament had been described by the right hon. Gentleman as "the pest of his diocese." Whoever might be so described was a Member of the other House of Legislature, whose proceedings were not properly subject to revision in the House of Commons.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he did not wish at that late hour (past twelve o'clock) to occupy the attention of the House for more than a few minutes; but as the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works (Sir W. Moles-worth) had alluded to him in the course of his speech in connexion with the interruption which he had felt it his duty to offer to the right hon. Gentleman, he asked the permission of the House to meet his observations with a few words. The right hon. Gentleman had claimed the distinction of being "an ignorant Radical." Now, no one who knew the right hon. Gentleman could believe him to be "ignorant;"
 1155
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : The hon. Baronet ought to have given this lecture before. He ought to have interrupted the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Pakington) when he referred in no very courteous terms to another individual, also a right reverend Member of the other House. I do assert, however, that the right rev. Prelate I alluded to has shown that spirit both by his conduct upon the Bill of 1840, and by his conduct upon the Bill now before the House. That right rev. Prelate raised a question as to the power of the Legislature of Upper Canada to pass the Bill of 1840, and carried a proposition, in another place, against the Government, in favour of that question being put to the Judges. The question was put to the Judges, and they unanimously decided that the Legislature of Upper Canada had not authority to pass the Bill in question. This decision was in opposition to the opinion which had been expressed by the Lord Chancellor in the debate on the right rev. Prelate's Motion. It showed that for at least twenty years every Governor-in-Cliief of Canada, every Lieutenant Governor, Legislative Council, and House of Assembly in Upper Canada, and every Secretary of State for the Colonies, had been in error respecting the powers which the Canadian Legislature possessed under the Constitutional Act. The result of this decision was, that the assent of the Crown could not be given to the Bill of the Legislature of Upper Canada, and Imperial legislation became necessary. Then there were three measures, either of which the Government might have proposed. First, it might have proposed a measure similar to that now before the House, which would have enabled the Canadian Legislature to deal with the question of the clergy reserves. Such a measure would have been in accordance with the principles of colonial policy, that local questions should be dealt with by local legislatures; but in 1840 the true principles of colonial policy were not sufficiently recognised to enable
 1108
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : I know you did, but you and your friends resisted and defeated the first measure which was proposed by my noble Friend, and to which I will now refer. I said there were three courses which the Government might have proposed to pursue in 1840. The first I have already mentioned; the second would have been to introduce the same Bill as that which had received the assent of the Legislature of
 1109 l. l., l., 1110 l., l., l. l. l. "That the proportion allotted to the Church of England was monstrous, and was grounded upon claims either wholly without foundation, or upon a complete perversion of previous Acts of Parliament; and that the proportion set apart for purposes connected with parties not belonging to either of these two Churches was miserable." 1111 "It might possibly be desirable that the distribution of the proceeds of the clergy reserves should from time to time be reconsidered, and that any proposals of such a nature Her Majesty's Government would be willing to entertain." 1112 1113 à fortiori, 1114 1115
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : Sir, the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) who has just addressed the House, commenced his speech by deprecating the treating of this Bill as a party measure. I cordially concur with the right hon. Baronet in that deprecation, because this Bill raises two questions of the utmost importance, which ought not to be decided under the influence of party spirit. The first of these questions is the great and fundamental one of the colonial policy of the British Empire—namely, whether it ought to be a rule of our Colonial Government that all questions which affect exclusively the local interests of a colony possessing representative institutions, should be dealt with by the local Legislature. If this rule be assumed to be a sound one, then the next question is, whether it should now be applied to the greatest of England's colonial dependencies, with a population of nearly 2,000,000 of inhabitants—whether it ought now to be applied to Canada with reference to the question of the clergy reserves? 1091 1092 1093 1094 "That an Address should be presented to the Crown, deeply regretting that Sir John Pakington was not prepared to bring in a Bill to repeal the Imperial Act of 1840. That the great mass of the people of Canada will ever maintain the principles recognised by Earl Grey, that the question of the clergy reserves is one so exclusively affecting the people of Canada, that its decision ought not to be withdrawn from the provincial Legislature. That the refusal on the part of the Imperial Parliament to comply with the just demands of the Canadian people on a matter exclusively affecting their own interests, will be viewed as a, violation of their constitutional rights, and will lead to deep and widespread disaffection. That the opinions of the people of Canada and their representatives on this subject are unaltered and unalterable. That the House of Assembly, in, thus giving expression to the public opinion of the country, is actuated by the strongest feelings of loyalty, and by a sincere desire to prevent the lamentable consequences of a difference of opinion between the imperial and provincial Parliaments on a question on which very strong feelings are
 1095 1096 Geo. 1097 l. l. —"as so many portions of reserved wilderness, which had done more than any other circumstance to retard the improvement of the colony, intervening, as they did, between the occupations of actual settlers, who had no means of cutting through the woods and morasses which separated them from their neighbours." 1098 l. 1099 1100 1101 "after passing that Church, where would this meaning terminate? Congregationalists, Seceders, Irish Presbyterians, Baptists, Methodists, Moravians, Universalists, would undoubtedly prefer their claims, as they were each more numerous than the Presbyterians in communion with the Kirk of Scotland, and, should such claims be rejected, these sectaries would consider themselves greatly aggrieved by the refusal of what they would never have dreamt of asking had not so trifling a fraction of the population of this flourishing province as the two congregations in communion with the Kirk of Scotland succeeded in obtaining the same object." 1102 "That though the provisions made by the 31st of George III. for the support and maintenance of a Protestant clergy were not confined solely to the clergy of the Church of England, but might be extended also to the clergy of the Church of Scotland (if there were any such settled in Canada), yet that they did not extend to dissenting ministers." 1103 "Lord Grenville, who had constructed the system of the clergy reserves, had told him that it was a good deal derived from information with regard to the system pursued in the state of Pennsylvania, and that the distinction of a 'Protestant clergy' was meant to provide for any clergy that was not Roman Catholic." 1104 "The only effectual cure for evils occasioned by the clergy reserves was to adopt some mode of making them available to all religious sects; but there would be many difficulties in defining religious sects, and in allotting the proportions to be given to each. Our opinion would therefore be in favour of applying the proceeds of the clergy reserves to purposes of general education." "The result of any determination on the part of the British Government or Legislature to give, one sect a predominance or superiority, would be but to endanger the loss of the colony; that it was important that question should be so settled; at to give satisfaction to the majority of the people of the two Canadas, whom it equally concerns; that he knew of no mode of doing this but by repealing all provisions in the Imperial Acts relating to the clegy reserves, leaving them to the disposal of the local legislature, and acquiescing in whatever decision it may adopt." "1. Because Parliamentary legislation on any subject of exclusively internal concern in any colony possessing a representative assembly is, as a general rule, unconstitutional. 2. Because the authors of the Constitutional Act had declared the question of clergy reserves to be one in regard to which the initiative is expressly reserved and
 1105 1106 "It would not be possible to obtain such favourable terms for the Established Church or for religious instruction in any future Assembly of Canada; that even to this Bill insuperable objections were entertained in Upper Canada; that for many years the representatives of the people had uniformly refused to assent to an appropriation of the clergy reserve fund for religious purposes; that on fourteen different occasions they had recorded their opinion that it ought to be applied to education or general purposes; and that their assent to such a measure as this could never again be looked for." 1107 Cries of
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the course which he should recommend the House to pursue upon that very important matter would depend very much upon the result of an undertaking which was planned by a private company. There was an association of capitalists, who had either brought or intended to bring, into that House a Bill to enable them to construct two great arterial sewers under the metropolis, beginning at some distance above, and ending at some distance below, London, one on each side of the Thames, which they intended to construct out of their own funds as a commercial speculation. If that project should be approved by Parliament, and carried into execution, it would obviously render unnecessary any loan by the Commissioners of Sewers for the purpose of constructing any great general system; and the decision with regard to what he might call the draining sewers would depend very much upon the result of this undertaking.
 LORD SEYMOUR  appeared at the bar with the Report of the Select Committee appointed to try and determine the proceedings at the Election for the Borough of Guildford. The Committee had determined that Ross Donnelly Mangles, Esq., and James Bell, Esq., are duly elected to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Guildford; and the Committee had further agreed to the following Resolutions:—
 "That the allegations of bribery and treating contained in the Petition were made without any reasonable ground, and are frivolous and vexatious. "The Committee have thereupon ordered, that all costs and expenses, of and relating to the said allegations, shall be forthwith paid by the Petitioner and his surety, to the said Ross Donnelly Mangles and James Bell, esquires.
 MR. HUME  said, that, seeing the noble Lord the Member for the City of London in his place, he wished to ask him a question of great importance, not only to this country, but to the whole world. It was as regarded the formation of a ship canal through the Isthmus of Darien, to communicate between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. A publication had appeared of very great interest, communicated to the President of the United States in the form of a letter from the Hon. Mr. Everett, Secretary of State, on that subject, and as anything connected with the commerce of the world must be interesting to this country, especially to the parties who took an interest in the question, he begged to ask whether the Government had received any intimation on the subject of the undertaking, which was so much before the public, of opening a communication between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans through the Isthmus of Darien, and, if so, whether they would be prepared to state their views upon that subject?
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to know whether anything had been determined on with respect to the establishment of a Mint in Australia, which would relieve the Mint here from the pressure upon it, and also meet the growing demands of the Colony?
 MR. CARD WELL  said, he could not, he thought, be mistaken in supposing that this question originated or was connected with the recommendation which had been received by the Government from some farmers in the neighbourhood of Brighton, who complained that the corn averages did not give a fair result of the supply of corn, and that the corn rentcharges and tithe averages were in that way prejudicially affected. They proposed that the averages should he taken from returns made by the seller and buyer conjointly, and that, after the first sale from the grower, no sale should enter into the average. The House was aware that, under the present system, the buyer only was responsible for the returns. The whole subject of agricultural statistics, and these among the rest, was under serious consideration; but he was not prepared to commit himself to impose a penalty upon every farmer who did not return every sale of corn accurately to the Government, because he was sure that a measure of that kind was one which he should not have much prospect of carrying.
 MR. CARD WELL  said: Sir, in rising to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to Pilotage, I must, with the permission of the Committee, state what are the views of the Government with regard to the mercantile marine. In doing so it will be necessary for me to trespass to some extent on your time, for the subject is one on which the complaints and demands of the shipping interest have been divided into numerous details; but I shall endeavour to occupy as short a time as possible, and will not trespass on your patience by any needless observations or superfluous remarks. With regard to the present state and prosperity of the shipping interest, it cannot be necessary to occupy much of your time. It is well known to the Committee that if you test the present condition of the shipping interest by any of the tests which this House can apply to it—if you look to the aggregate amount of British tonnage entered inwards and cleared outwards, or the amount of tonnage that is owned in the ports of the British Empire, or the number of men that is employed in the mercantile marine, or the activity that prevails in all the great ports where the building of ships is carried on—if you measure the question by any one of those tests, they present to you but one uniform result—a result of unexampled prosperity. Sir, it is no part of my province—and certainly I shall not trespass into that ground—to account for this prosperity. Perhaps the time has come when I might enter into those topics without any fear of reawakening ancient controversies; but, irrespective of those controversies altogether, there are peculiar reasons which present themselves, and enter largely into the case; but whatever they may be, I shall not run any risk of awakening controversies on an occasion on which I am merely asking for permission to introduce a Bill, and may anticipate that request will receive the concurrence of the Committee. The Committee are well acquainted that from the time of the peace to the time of Mr. Huskisson, so far from there being an increase in the number of ships owned by the subjects of this country, there was a positive diminution, and also
 1228 1229 "All seamen visiting this port have now not only the great advantages, hitherto presented to them under the temporary arrangements of the institution for the last seven years, of recording a good character, of depositing their money in safety, and of having it transmitted to any quarter they may desire; but they have now the opportunity afforded them of enjoying in this spacious and splendid establishment a degree of substantial comfort and security to which they have hitherto been strangers." l. 1230 1231 "Your Committee has the satisfaction of reporting that, according to the evidence before them, the public general lights on the coasts of England, under the management of the Trinity House in London; those on the coasts of Scotland, under the management of the Northern Commissioners in Edinburgh; and the lights on the coast of Ireland, under the management of the Ballast Board in Dublin, are all maintained in an efficient state. Among the witnesses, Captain Moore, who has been for twenty-three years in the trade between the United States of America and England, states that he considers the English lights, on the whole, better than those of the United States. Captain Washington, R. N., of the surveying department on the coast says that 'generally speaking the lights, light-vessels, buoys, and beacons are efficient; the lights brilliant, and the lighthouses clean, and in high order.' Captain Denham, R.N., also a marine surveyor, and long employed on the coasts, bears the same testimony to the efficiency of the lights of the United Kingdom. On the 19th of February, 1844, the secretary to the Trinity House in London, in a letter to the secretary of the Ballast Board of Dublin, expresses the great satisfaction with which the Trinity House had received the Report of their visiting Committee, and of the efficient state of the lighting apparatus throughout Ireland.' And, on the 21st of February, 1844, the secretary to the Trinity House, in a letter to the secretary of the Commissioners of Northern Lights states—'I have it in command to request you will express to the Commissioners the satisfaction of the elder brethren at being enabled to communicate that the lamps and entire apparatus were found to
 1232 "That the lights of the United States do not compare favourably, either in efficiency or in economy, with those of Great Britain and France. In the Trinity House corporation of London, the important subjects of experimenting upon different descriptions of combustibles for lighthouses, testing the mathematical perfection of apparatus, investigating the important subject of ventilation, &c, are confided to the world-renowned Michael Faraday; upon the subject of construction and its accessories, Mr. James Walker, a distinguished civil engineer, is employed. In Scotland the lights and other aids to navigation are under the immediate direction and superintendence of the able and distinguished engineer, Mr. Alan Stephenson. In Ireland also the lights are in charge of a competent engineer, Mr. George Halpin. … To expect that our lights should compare in point of excellence and economy with systems so constituted as those named, would be to expect
 1233 l. l. l. l., l. 1234 "Your Committee recommend one board resident in London. The constitution of the (Trinity House) board is that of self-election, and your Committee have been anxious to ascertain whether any and what constituency could be obtained to give the board a more liberal character; but they have been unable to find out any proper constituency, and do not at present see how they can recommend any great alteration. Upon the whole, your Committee are of opinion that the Corporation of the Trinity House, of Deptford Strond, having been chartered 'for the good government and increase of navigation,' and the office of buoyage and beaconage having been granted to that body upon the surrender thereof by the Lord High Admiral, and the greater part of the lighthouses in England having been erected, and being now maintained by that Corporation, and this Committee being satisfied, after inquiring into the lights now under their charge, that the said Corporation are well calculated, after some modification in the regulations under which they admit their members, to have the management and control of the whole department of lights, recommend that all general public lights in the United Kingdom be placed under the management of the said Corporation." 1235 1,"To establish a control by Government authorities directly responsible to Parliament over the expenditure and application of these revenues; 2, to institute a periodical audit of the accounts connected with the receipt and expenditure of the said revenues; and, 3, to suspend the granting of new pensions or charities which have been hitherto dispensed by the corporation from these revenues in virtue of, and in compliance with, the several charters and patents which they hold from the Crown, and of Acts passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom." 1236 "The Court of Elder Brethren feel that they stand in the position of trustees in behalf, and guardians of the rights of these poor men, their widows, and orphans, to the extent at least of their claims on the revenues received by the corporation under their several charters, Acts of Parliament, and patents, and that it is their duty not to abandon their cause, but to use every proper and legitimate means to bring it under the notice and favourable consideration of Her Majesty's Government. If, after the facts and arguments which it may be necessary for the corporation to bring under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government, they should adhere to their opinion in respect of these charities, it will be the duty of the Trinity House to submit to such high authority; and in the mean time, until this important question is finally decided, the Court will abstain from making any addition to the present list of pensioners." "Board of Trade, Feb. 16." Sir—The letter which your Royal Highness, as Master of the Trinity House, has done me the honour to address to me, I have laid before Her Majesty's Government. It is very satisfactory to the Government, and, in their opinion, highly honourable to the ancient corporation of the Trinity House, that the Elder Brethren have shown so perfect a willingness to adopt the views which their sense of public duty has led Her Majesty's Government to suggest. The principles which regulate the receipt, control, and expenditure of moneys compulsorily levied upon the public for the general purposes of the community will henceforth be applied to the sums payable to the Trinity House for lights, buoys, beacons, ballast-age—in short, to all sums without exception levied upon and paid by the mercantile marine. The gross receipts will be carried to a separate account at the Bank of England, from which no payment can be made except by the authority of a department of Her Majesty's Government responsible to the Houses of Parliament. The accounts will be regularly forwarded to the Board of Trade, and thence, after examination, will be transmitted to the Commissioners of Audit. A full statement of the accounts of the past year will be regularly laid before Parliament. The provision of the statute 6 &7 Will chap. 79, for reducing the dues upon the requisition of the Sovereign in Council, will at all times be carried into effect so soon as, in the opinion of Her Majesty's Government, the state of the funds will admit, without
 1237 "EDWARD CARDWELL" "That the Trinity Corporation might be better enabled to conform to the principle upon which alone the right of collecting for the lights appeared to them to be founded—that of providing for the expenses of the lights, and the security and accommodation of the commerce of the country derived from their maintenance." 1238 "There is already a duty of 2 s. 1239 1240 l. l. 1241 "It has been asserted that Norwegian vessels are navigated much cheaper than British, the master and men being less paid and still worse fed. These assertions are as incorrect and founded upon as frail authority as that vessels can be built for 5 l. 1242 Inconstant, &c. "By the 7th of October I had ascertained that out of twenty British vessels lying at this port, but four barks, abandoned by their crews, required the aid of bands to navigate them to Valparaiso, while the remainder were either not yet discharged, chartered, or stationary; those ships being manned with Lascars, or crews hired at high wages for short voyages. Having determined upon taking those four vessels on hand, I caused them to be brought down, fitted for sea, manned with forty-one officers and men from the  Inconstant, 1243 1244 l., l. 1245 1246 "The consequence of the system has been to enhance the value of the pilots' vessels from 1,200 l. l., l. l. "The third head applies principally to Liverpool, where coasters above 100 tons burden, or vessels which have not been employed in that trade for six months, are subject to pilotage, although it appears that they were formerly exempt; and it also applies to the ports of Ireland. In most other ports coasters are free, and as their masters are generally good pilots for the places which they frequent, we consider that such vessels should be placed on the same footing throughout the United Kingdom, and be everywhere exonerated from the obligation to employ a pilot." l. "As this, however, is a question involving not merely the risk of property to an immense amount, but, still more, the valuable lives of hundreds who daily embark in this class of vessels, we conceive that some regulation is absolutely necessary, as well for the ports in which steam vessels, trading as coasters, are now exempt, as in those in which they are at present compelled to take a pilot; and this becomes the more necessary as steam navigation is so rapidly increasing both in extent and importance." 1247 1248 1249 1250
 MR. HUME  said, that although he had not come to the same conclusion as his right hon. Friend, yet be thought the Committee was greatly indebted to his right hon. Friend for the clear and comprehensive manner in which he had dealt with this subject. He (Mr. Hume) augured well from it for those reforms of which he individually had so long been the advocate. He would admit that no public body ever passed through a stricter ordeal than the Trinity Board before the Committee of
 1251 1252 1253
 MR. HUME : They are overpaid already.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that as the representative of one of the greatest shipping ports of the country, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
 1263
 MR. CARD WELL : Sir, on a former occasion I have expressed, as an individual Member of Parliament, my opinions on this subject, and I do not know that they differ very much from what the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has expressed; but to-night the province is cast upon me of bringing forward certain measures, and I have nothing whatever to do with fiscal or financial subjects. I have no authority to touch the timber duties, or in any other way to touch those questions that affect the balance sheet of the year. Those subjects were very properly referred to by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli), when he brought the case
 1267 "In England the Duke of Wellington presides, while the prince, the peer, the admiral, the commoner, and the retired sea captain sit together and devise means for alleviating the hardships and lessening the dangers of the mariner in approaching their dangerous coast."
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it was very true that one kind of judicial power had been transferred to Committees, namely, the power of deciding between the parties on petition. The power of a Committee was limited to that point; but by 15 & 16  Vict., Vict. 1281
 COLONEL BOLDERO  said, that as one of the Members of the Blackburn Committee, he had no objection to have the evidence printed.
 MR. BOUVERIE , in seconding the Amendment, said, that no Member of that House could concur more fully than he did with his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) in every effort to put down corruption and bribery in the constituencies of this country; but he thought they were bound to regard sound constitutional rights and sound principles of justice in
 1277 1278
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he should support the Amendment. The hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster had laid no ground for his Motion—a Motion which was inconsistent with the Report of the Committee, and had a tendency to dispute their decision. The Amendment of the hon. Member for North Wiltshire (Mr. Sotheron), on the contrary, was reasonable, because the mere fact of bribery at an election having been reported, though confined to a few instances, raised a suspicion that if somebody else had been before the Committee more information would have been obtained. Now, to meet such a case there was a clause which enabled any of the constituency, or any person who had been a candidate, to present a petition at any time within three months complaining of general bribery; and upon such petition a Committee might be appointed in all respects like an Election Committee—the members of which were sworn themselves, and heard the witnesses upon oath—at the public expense. The great matter for the consideration of the House was, what was to be done under the circumstances which had been discussed. Hon. Members were all aware of the delicacy of suspending writs, but he hoped they
 1285
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that hon. Members ought at once to banish from their minds every consideration connected with the convenience of the House, and the conduct of its business, in discharge of the great duty which they owed to the public. If the argument of the hon. Member who last addressed the House was good when applied to the inconvenience resulting from unseating the fifty Members who he supposed would be unseated, it would apply equally as well to the inconvenience which would result from unseating those with respect to whom a special Report might be made; and there was no reason why the House should not assume that in every one of these cases special Reports would be made. His noble Friend near him (Lord J. Russell) did not propose to exercise any revision over the proceedings of Election Committees. The duties of those Committees were confined to simply declaring whether an election was or was not valid. Before such Committees, however, no more evidence was offered by the petitioners than was absolutely necessary for the purpose of unseating the sitting Member. In the present state of the public feeling, it was the interest of all parties in that House to show themselves earnest in this matter, and convince the public that they were determined to search the truth to the bottom, and not to trust to the mere accident of how much evidence opposing attorneys might consider necessary in order to obtain the ends which they sought, and which were totally distinct from those proposed by the Select Committee referred to by his noble Friend.
 LORD ALFRED PAGET  said, he must beg to express the great gratification with which he had hoard the propositions of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade; for he believed that, if carried out, they would tend to relieve the shipping interest from some of the heaviest burdens which they were at present subject to. As all protection had been taken from them, they should, as far as possible, be relieved from the burdens under which they laboured, and amongst them one of the heaviest was pilotage. Although it might be true that the Cinque Ports pilots had some disadvantages, it should be remembered that they had also advantages which other pilots did not enjoy. There were, for instance, only the same number of pilots now that there were thirty-six years ago, although the shipping of the country had, during that time, increased from 50 to 100 per cent. They enjoyed the privilege of examining themselves; that was, although a pilot could not examine his own son, he could examine a friend's son, who might in his turn examine his—a pretty comfortable way of doing the business. Then their fees were
 1262 l. s. d., l. s. l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he would state what appeared to him to be the course which the House ought to take on this subject. He thought it was incumbent on the House to consider, with the greatest deliberation and caution—and the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken was perfectly justified in giving that advice—how it acted in the matter under consideration, for a great error might be committed one way or another. It might be a great error to refuse to issue the writ for a borough where five, six, or ten persons had been guilty of bribery; but, on the other hand, he thought that the issue of a writ to a borough of which the greater part was corrupt, and where extensive bribery prevailed at every election, would be also an error of great importance, and likely to lead to much abuse. They must consider the present state of the representation, the facts lately come to light with respect, he was sorry to say, to many of these boroughs, and the inquiries yet to be undertaken; and, from a review of all those circumstances, endeavour to come to a correct decision. The right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken said that the Grenville Act excluded the House from acting in these matters. It appeared to him that there were two points which the House used formerly to consider. With respect to one of them, the Grenville Act had been a remedy—if not a perfect at any rate a tolerably sufficient remedy; hut with respect to the other, so far from being a remedy, the Grenville Act tended to aggravate the evil. The matter on which the Grenville Act had proved a remedy was the practice which prevailed of the case of one Member or another being-taken up according to the party to which he belonged, and discussed in this House in that spirit, and a decision being come to by the majority for political reasons. Of course in such a case it probably often happened that a person legally entitled to a seat was deprived of it by a party vote in that House. That evil, he thought, had been very much corrected by what was called the Grenville Act, and others which succeeded of the same tenor; and
 1271 l. l. 1272 Vict., 1273 Vict., 1274 Vict., 1275
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that if a division took place, he should vote in favour of the proposal for suspending the writ for seven days. He considered that the hon. Gentlemen who argued this question bad lost sight entirely of the Act of last year. They seemed to consider this proceeding an imputation on the Committees. The Act of last year especially provided for cases of this kind. [The noble Lord read the clause.] Therefore, if it was thought proper on a future day to move that a Select Committee should inquire into these two cases, he conceived that it would be perfectly competent to do so, founding his opinion on this Act of Parliament. He must say, there seemed to be an unnecessary sensitiveness on the part of Chairmen of Committees, as though it were insinuated that they had not pursued the inquiry far enough. But this was not so. Had the Blackburn Committee been appointed to inquire into corrupt practices in that borough, it would have been their duty, finding that 2,500 l. 1286 l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, with respect to the question of my hon. Friend, which is on a most important subject, I beg to state, first, that with regard to the canal across the Isthmus of Darien, the recent intelligence which has been received induced the Government to think that the convention entered into with the United States would by no means answer the desired purpose, the projectors of that canal having changed their scheme from a canal which would admit merchant vessels of large size to a canal of a restrictive depth, and, in fact, one which would only be useful to coasting vessels. Her Majesty's Government, therefore, communicated with the Government of the United States upon that subject, declaring that the object originally contemplated by that plan would not be gained by the altered scheme. Lately there has been another plan proposed, which is, to make a ship canal of thirty feet depth through the Isthmus of Darien, having a very sufficient port at each end, so as to join the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. The House will at once perceive that this is a subject of very great importance. So far as Her Majesty's Government have had an opportunity of judging, they would be very favourable to a plan of that kind, and they would he very glad if the United States Government would concur with them in favouring the
 1223
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, as representative of one of the most important of our seaports, Glasgow, he felt hound to approve of the measure as far as it went; hut he regretted that so little had been done to check that growing evil, desertion. He was sorry to hear his right hon. Friend talk of the consular fees in a tone which intimated that he did not consider them any serious evil. He could assure him that the shipping interest looked upon those charges as a serious grievance, and the more so as these burdens were the heavier when a ship was in difficulties. He had known cases when, in the south-west coast of America, as much as 200 dollars for the consul's fees at a single port were paid. His right hon. Friend, he thought, had hardly indicated the principle on which his Pilotage Bill was to proceed; if, however, it was to proceed on the principle recommended by the Committee in 1835, it would give satisfaction to the shipping interests, and the country at largo.
 MR. TURNER  said, he thought the statement of the right hon. Gentleman would be heard with great satisfaction by the shipping interest. He wished, however, to draw his attention to two questions. The first of these was the desertion from British ships by their seamen in foreign ports. At present there were 80,000 tons of shipping lying in the ports of Australia, and unable to get away because the seamen had deserted, and because the only punishment which the local magistrates could inflict upon them, that of imprisonment, was totally ineffective. He hoped that the law would be made more effective, by giving the magistrates power to send deserters on board, and that two or three men-of-war would be sent out to aid the magistrates, as a water-police, He hoped also that the present system of giving salvage to Her Majesty's ships would either be abolished, or at any rate materially modified. He thought that, under ordinary circumstances, the officers of the British Navy should give their aid to British ships in distress without looking for remuneration; and that, although in cases of great danger and difficulty, it might be right something should be paid, yet this might safely be left to the generosity of the underwriters, who had always shown themselves disposed to reward amply any extraordinary services of this description. The enormous rewards now claimed by British men-of-war for services rendered to merchantmen, under very ordinary circumstances, reflected great discredit on the British Navy, and were felt by the mercantile body as a great grievance, He wished, in conclusion, to say but one word with respect to the pilots of Liverpool. There was not in the country a more respectable body, nor one which more efficiently performed the difficult or dangerous duties devolving upon them. He was sure that, as a body, they would not be disposed to interpose any obstacle to the relaxations which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to introduce in favour of the steam navy of the country.
 MR. CARDWELL : The local boards will have power to make by-laws.
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman does me no more than justice when he says that his question is one which I am capable of answering without notice. It so happens that before I had the honour of entering the Board of Trade for the
 1225
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he considered that the question before the House had given rise to several points of great constitutional and legal importance. While he concurred with the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) that this ought not to be treated as a party question, he also thought that the House was bound to respect the decisions of the Committees appointed by Act of Parliament. If there was one point clear, it was that the House was not called upon to consider this question in its judicial character, all the power of the House having been transferred to the Committee appointed under the Act of Parliament. The question as to the suspension of the issue of the writ for a definite or indefinite period was to be considered in regard to its legality, as well as with reference to future legislation on the subject. The House ought not lightly to interfere with the constitutional rights and privileges of any borough, except under very special circumstances, and upon strong and conclusive grounds. When he looked at the cases to which the noble Lord had referred, or perhaps rather imagined, he begged to remind the noble Lord of the Acts of Parliament which provided for such cases as those in which, where the Report of a Committee should warrant it, there should he a suspension of the writ, and a fresh inquiry. In the case where, although only a few acts of bribery might be proved, yet, if circumstances should leave the Committee to infer that bribery on a more extensive scale had been practised, they might, as had been done to-night, make a special Report to the House, and the House, according to a special provision of the Statute, might suspend the writ, and appoint another Committee of Inquiry. He thought there were two or three tangible objections to the course now proposed, namely, the suspension of 'the writ, and the institution of some further investigation, where such a proceeding was not warranted by the Report of the Committee. In the first place, there was no authority by Act of Parliament or by Common Law to deprive for a time a borough entitled to be represented in that House of the right of exercising the privilege of sending Members to Parliament. Another objection was, that whereas the law, from the time of the Grenville Act, had laboured to make the decision of the Committees final and absolute, the effect of the suspension of the writ would be to do away with all that the Acts of Parliament had done in investing Committees with their exclusive
 1280
 MR. HUDSON  said, he must complain that, by the arrangement that was pro-
 1266 s d.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, that there were other boroughs as notorious for corruption as either Blackburn or Bridgenorth, and it was not fair that they should escape. He would take an early opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the subject.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he had on a former occasion pointed out the inconvenience of suspending writs in all cases of bribery, and though that question did not arise directly on a Motion for printing evidence, he would state two reasons why he thought the House ought to be cautious in interfering in the present case. If he understood aright the purpose of the Grenville Act, and the several Acts that had passed since to amend that Act, it was that the House should not exercise its discretion in matters of controverted elections, but should in all cases be guided by the decision of the Committee to whom the Election Petition was referred. In the last Act for amending the Grenville Act, that which was now the law, it was enacted that the Select Committee appointed for the purpose should try the merits of the Election Petition, and determine whether the sitting Member, or any and what other person, had been duly returned and elected, or whether the election was void, and whether a new writ ought to issue or not, and that their determination should be final to the parties, and that the House should act upon it. Now, it was clear from the wording of that clause that it was intended the Committee should form their judgment on the circumstances, and decide whether or not there were sufficient grounds for the suspension of the writ. If the House suspended the writ in a case where no extensive and general bribery was proved, and without the recommendation of the Election Committee, they would be taking on themselves a discretion which the law never intended to invest them with. A subsequent Act of a most important character, the 5 & 6  Vict., 1269 Vict., 1270
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he was rejoiced to be able to say that he had heard with the greatest satisfaction all the principal parts of the statement made by his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade; and, indeed, with very little modification that feeling of satisfaction applied to all the measures which had been announced to the Committee. He had heard, however, with especial satisfaction, from the right hon. Gentleman, the statement with which he had prefaced his speech, namely, of the great prosperity, both material and moral, of the British mercantile marine at the present moment. That was a subject of the deepest interest to every individual and to every Member of that House; but as it had fallen to him in recent times to propose great and important measures affecting the mercantile marine of this country, some of which had met with very great and, he had no doubt, conscientious opposition, it was to him especially a matter of the greatest satisfaction to see a President of the Board of Trade rise in the House of Commons, and state without contradiction that, come from what cause that prosperity might, it existed at this moment in the highest degree—that never was the British mercantile marine more completely and entirely prosperous. He would not enter now into the causes of that prosperity, which he believed depended upon the general prosperity of the trade of the country; and he must say he never could understand such a state of things, as that the trade of the country should be in a state of prosperity, and that the shipping interest, which was merely the channel through which that trade passed, should be in a state of decay. He knew some persons suggested that the present state of prosperity was in spite of, and not in consequence of, the repeal of the Navigation Laws. He would not now enter into that question; he would only ask such persons to consider what would now be the condition of the mercan-
 1258 1259 l. Grenville Correspondence l, l. 1260 bonâ fide 1261
 MR. LABOUCHERE  appeared at the bar with the Report of the Select Committee on the charges contained in the petition against the return of the Sitting
 1221 "That the said James Clay, esquire, and Viscount Goderich, were, by their agents, guilty of bribery and treating at the last Election. "That it was not proved that the acts of bribery or treating were committed with the knowledge or consent of the Sitting Members. "That John Walker was actively engaged as an agent in carrying into effect a most extensive system of bribery and treating at the last Election. "That there is reason to believe that corrupt practices have extensively prevailed at the last Election for the Borough of Kingston-upon-Hull "That the Committee also found, that there is reason to believe that a system has existed in the Borough of Kingston upon Hull of bribing the poorer class of voters in great numbers, by a payment of about thirty shillings a head at the last and former Elections."
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, his experience upon Election Committees had convinced him that it was hardly possible for any case of extensive corruption to escape their cognisance. Under such circumstances the Committee would undoubtedly move that the evidence be printed, and, if necessary, that further step9 should be taken. This being the case, he trusted that the hon. Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley) would not enter upon a course which would inevitably lead to a great practical evil—that of making the issue of new writs turn upon party considerations, the old system which reflected discredit upon the House of Commons.
 MR. J. WILSON : Sir, the question of which the hon. Gentleman gave notice, had reference exclusively to the night mail from Paris—departing from Paris at half-past seven o'clock, and arriving in London about eight o'clock in the morning. It is but fair, in justice to the Commissioners of Customs, to say, that it is their desire to afford the greatest possible facility to passengers. One of the arrangements that has been made by them in reference to this particular question is, that their officers should remain up all night, in order to examine the baggage at the station, prior to the departure of the mail train for London. I am further bound to say that it appears on inquiry, that the arrival of the boats, especially in winter, is very uncertain, and that, on the departure of the mail trains it frequently happens that passengers are left behind, and more frequently that their luggage is left behind. I have had a communication with the Commissioners of Customs on the matter, and, after consideration, they have made an arrangement to meet the difficulty. It is proposed, that officers of the Custom House shall he in attendance at the London Bridge station in order to meet the night mail train from Dovor; but as it would frequently happen that the boat would arrive in Dovor long before the departure of the train, passengers might complain that they had an hour to spend in Dovor needlessly, and were again detained in London; it was therefore proposed, while facilities were afforded in London, that they should not take away the facilities in Dovor. If the passenger arrives in time, his luggage will be examined in Dovor, and if the time does not suit, the examination will take place in London. The officers in Dovor will receive instructions to telegraph information on the departure of the train, so that the authorities in London may know whether the examination has taken place in Dovor or not, so that if it has taken place in Dovor it will not he necessary to detain the Custom House officers at the London Bridge stations. To enable the authorities to take
 1227
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he did not see the necessity for a division, as most hon. Members seemed to approve of the Amendment of the hon. Member for North Wiltshire. At the same time, if the Motion for printing the evidence in the Blackburn case was pressed, he should vote for it. It could do no harm to have the facts of the case before them; and he hoped at the same time that it would do good to the borough of Blackburn. If the seven days was allowed for the purpose of forming an opinion, or bringing forward a case, the House ought to have all the information that could be given. He would suggest that the Motion and Amendment should be agreed to.
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  said, he put a question to the hon. Secretary for the Treasury, which he had placed on the paper for Friday last, namely—Whether the Lords of the Treasury would allow an examination to be made by the officers of Her Majesty's Customs, at the examination room at the London-bridge terminus of the South Eastern Railway, of the baggage of passengers leaving Paris for London by the 7.30 p.m. train, and crossing from Calais to Dovor by Her Majesty's mail packets, under such regulations as might be thought necessary for the protection of the revenue, with a view to the doing away with the inconvenience and detention now suffered by passengers when the voyage of the mail packet was so lengthened as to prevent that examination taking place at Dovor in time for the passengers to leave thereafter by the train in correspondence with the mail packet which arrives in London at 7.50 a. m.? He would observe that in 1847, when there was a prospect of the railway communication with Paris being opened, he waited on the
 1226
 MR. STAPLETON  said, he considered that the effect of the removal of the restrictions which now existed as to the manning of the merchant navy, would be to raise the rate of wages in foreign ports, and thus to improve the position of the British shipowner by removing one of the difficulties with which he had to contend, namely, the low rate at which the foreign shipowner could man his vessel. He thought, however, that means should be taken to render our merchant service more popular, by freeing it from those severities of discipline which, being carried on without responsibility, in some cases partook of the character of tyranny. He would suggest that a record should be kept of all cases in which punishment was inflicted on board merchant ships, and that similar regulations should be established to those which prevailed in the ships of war on the subject.
 MR. HENLEY : Yes; but these bylaws will be subject to the control of the central board, so that, virtually, the central board will override every other. With regard to one subject on which the right hon. Gentleman dwelt—the refusal to give certificates of pilotage to the masters of Liverpool steamers, thus compelling them to take pilots—he wished to remind the House that the Liverpool pilots were obliged to go out to sea in all weathers. This was a dangerous and an expensive
 1257
 MR. HENLEY  said, he understood that there was a sum somewhat less than 100,000 l. 1256
 MR. HENLEY  said, the Committee must have heard with great pleasure the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, because, though embracing a great variety of subjects, it was admirably clear and intelligible. He would notice a few of its points, hut would take them in the reverse order of their introduction. He fully agreed
 1254 1255
 MR. BASS  said, he begged to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the want of a sufficient supply of silver coin, from which, notwithstanding the efforts made by the Mint authorities, trade and commerce were suffering very severely. He begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he could give any hope that that inconvenience would be remedied?
 MR. INGHAM  said, he considered that the light-dues and the charges for salvage made by ships of the Royal Navy were most unjust to the shipping interest; and he would suggest that the former should be defrayed out of the Consolidated Fund, and that the latter, when any charge could be justly made out, should be paid by the Admiralty.
 MR. BRAMSTON  (the Chairman of the Chatham Election Committee) appeared at the bar and reported to the House that the Committee had determined, that Sir John Mark Frederic Smith is not duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Chatham: that the last Election for the said Borough is a void Election; and that the Committee had agreed to the following Resolutions:
 "That it was proved to the Committee that Joseph Greathead, an Elector of Chatham, had been bribed by a situation as a letter carrier in the Post Office, obtained for his son, Charles Great-head, by Sir John Mark Frederic Smith. "That it was proved before the Committee, that a large number of the Electors are employed in Her Majesty's Dock Yard and other public departments at Chatham, and that they are under the influence of the Government for the time being; and it appears that there is no instance of a Candidate being elected for this Borough who has not had the support of the Government. "Under these circumstances, it will be for the House to determine, whether the right of returning a Member should not for the future be withdrawn from the Borough of Chatham. "That it is the opinion of this Committee, that there are strong grounds for believing, that Stephen Mount, in giving his evidence before the
 1287
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he wished that the time should be seven days, and then he should not object to the printing of the evidence.
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he would now move the Amendment of which he had given notice. This Motion was copied exactly from a Resolution which was adopted by the House in 1848, in order to settle difficulties as to the issue or suspension of writs in cases analogous to this; and he had always understood that that Resolution had proved a satisfactory settlement of the matter. He would endeavour to point out what he thought would be the effect of adopting any other mode of proceeding than that which he proposed. A Motion had been made that the evidence taken before the Blackburn Election Committee should be laid before the House. Now, the House had appointed a Committee of five Gentlemen, under the sanction of an oath, who had received evidence upon oath, and had made their Report, declaring that the sitting Member was not duly elected, and that bribery had been committed. It was evident, as the Committee had declined to instruct the Chairman to offer any further Resolution on the subject, that they did not think extensive or systematic bribery had prevailed. He would suppose that, if the evidence was laid on the table, the Members of the House, after reading it, might come to a conclusion contrary to that arrived at by the Committee; and it might be proposed that the House should appoint a Select Committee to inquire fur-
 1276 Vict.,
 MR. PHINN  said, it would be of no use to prosecute the persons bribed unless they were determined also to prosecute the bribers. He thought that the evidence ought to be printed in all cases, in order that they might judge whether the Government should instruct the Attorney General to prosecute the parties.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the demand for gold was so pressing, that there was no chance of their being able to apply the Mint to the production of silver coinage. 500,000 sovereigns per week were now being turned out—that was to say, about twice as much as was supposed to be the regular work of the Mint, and means were being taken to increase that supply in order to meet the demand for sovereigns, of the diminution of which there was no immediate prospect. With respect to silver, something, he hoped, had been done to mitigate the demand. During January 92,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that subject had been under the anxious consideration of the Government for some time. There were several questions of great importance connected with it, but he hoped he might say that they were all decided, and it only remained
 1224
 MR. DEEDES  said, that if the House adopted the Resolution that seven days' notice should be given, he should not, as Chairman of the Blackburn Committee, or personally, object to the evidence being printed.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he must beg to explain. What he said was—that a sum of 2,500 l.
 MR. DEEDES  said, that as Chairman of the Blackburn Committee, he felt it due to the Members of the Committee, as well as to the constituents into whoso interests it had been their duty to inquire, to say a few words before the conclusion of the debate. He could not see that any distinct course could be followed without violating, if not the existing law, at least the existing custom of the House. There was nothing he would not do to purify the constituencies of the country from the stain that now rested upon them; but he thought the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) was going beyond the law in calling upon the House to adopt what he had rather indistinctly shadowed forth. The noble Lord, if he had understood him rightly, proposed that when a Committee had made a Report, the House was not to be satisfied with that Report if there was any reason to believe that bribery existed in the borough, but to appoint another Committee to make further inquiry. Now he thought that grievous inconvenience would be occasioned by the adoption of such a course, from the contrasting of evidence taken on oath with evidence taken without such solemnity. As regarded the Committee over which he presided, he could assure the House that nothing had been left undone by them to ascertain the real facts of the last election for the borough of Blackburn; and after a most careful inquiry, they had come to the deliberate conclusion that five persons out of a constituency of 1,200—not old freemen, hut 10 l. l. 1282 l.
 MR. DEEDES  said, he wished to remind the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, and the Committee, that in dealing with the question of the Cinque Ports pilots, that they had existed as a body for centuries. He was, indeed, aware that that was a claim to consideration which was not very favourably listened to at present. All, however, that he asked was, that before their interests were interfered with, their duties, and the manner in which they had performed them, should be carefully inquired into. When a similar measure to that proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade was in contemplation in 1837, the Duke of Wellington protested against the amalgamation of all the pilots of the country under the Trinity House,
 1264
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he was glad to hear the statement of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, because it entirely justified his hon. Friend the Member for Westminster in the course he was pursuing. He quite agreed with the observation that the House ought to he careful in suspending writs, and that they ought to view with jealousy any proposition which might have the effect of preventing constituencies from sending their representatives into that House. Nor ought the question to be viewed as a party question; for hitherto he believed there were about as many killed and wounded upon one side as upon the other. The question ought to be considered upon the broad basis of what was best to be done—whether the writ
 1283 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL : Then the House was yet in the dark. Let the
 1284 l.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he had been most anxious, for a series of years, to see the good work of reformation on this question effected. It must he obvious that the whole fabric was coming to an end. It was, therefore, quite time that something was done to accelerate that event, and to lay the foundation of a better system. But, at the same time, he must say, that, with respect to pilots, they were a most valuable body; and it was of the utmost consequence that this body of persons should be kept up in a state of full efficiency. He was sorry the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) had not determined to deal with the question of passing tolls without delay. Such was the injurious operation of this toll, that shipmasters, rather than pay this toll to Dovor, had given orders that the port of Dovor should be avoided, even though the nearest port in a time of emergency. He had attempted to get this and similar grievances redressed, but had hitherto been met with the answer that the time had not come for making any effective change. With regard to relieving the shipping interest, the best way would be to take off the duty on timber, and thus to give the British shipowner a fair chance against the foreign shipowner. He should be glad to see the question of salvage fairly and finally settled. He considered the Royal Navy was for the use of the country, and that services ought to he rendered to the mercantile marine without the Admiralty sending in a hill afterwards. No doubt when loss occurred through saving vessels or rendering assistance, such cases ought to be properly compensated, but not, as now, by a claim for salvage. He believed the present measure would be of
 1265
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he wished to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Trade when he intended to introduce a measure for amending the present system of ascertaining the average prices of British corn?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  believed the House was on a wrong scent; for if they thought the evidence would disclose any reason why they should suspend the writ for Bridgenorth, they were grossly mistaken. He thought that justice should be done even to the sitting Members. It was alleged in the Bridgenorth case that gross bribery had prevailed—not a shadow of that was proved. It was said that thirty-four houses had been opened for treating; twenty-three of them had entirely vanished. The only case of bribery proved was the payment of an old Bill; and on that question the Committee was divided—the three Government Members voted one way, and the two Opposition Members the other. The case was altogether different from that of Blackburn. Why, the Committee had even allowed the sitting Member a large portion of his costs.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I have a question to put to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, to which it is probable he can give me an answer without notice. I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether his attention has been directed to the sacrifice of human life and the frightful extent of suffering and mutilation that has been caused by railway accidents during the last few months, and more especially during the last few days? I have further to ask if the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been directed to the matter with the hope and expectation of being able to devise a remedy, and to obtain information on the subject?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  appeared at the bar with the Report of the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the petition complaining of an undue return in the above Election. The Committee had determined that William Alexander Mackinnon, esquire, is not duly elected a Baron to serve in this present Parliament for the Town and Port of Rye. That the Inst Election for the said Town and Port is a void Election. The Committee had also agreed to the following Resolutions:—
 "That William Alexander Mackinnon, esquire, was, by his agents, guilty of treating at the last Election for the said Town and Port. "That on the first day of the sitting of this Committee, the said William Alexander Mackinnon, esquire, by his Counsel, declared that, being unable to disconnect his Agents with treating which took place at a dinner given to certain of the Electors of the Town and Port of Rye, on July 2nd, 1852, he was satisfied that the Committee must come to the decision that his Election was void on the ground of treating, and therefore that he should no longer defend his Seat. "That the reasons alleged by Counsel for the abandonment of the trial of the said charges of bribery appeared to this Committee to be sufficient to justify such abandonment, and they therefore have not felt it necessary to examine the Sitting Member, or the Candidate, or their agents, under the powers given by the Act 5 & 6  Vict., s.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he understood that a petition, numerously signed, was expected to arrive from this borough to-morrow. His purpose would be answered by having the seven days' notice. The inhabitants of these boroughs ought at any rate to have an opportunity of representing
 1288
 VISCOUNT CHELSEA  said, he must defend the Cinque Ports pilots from the charges that had been made against them. The Cinque Ports pilots were compelled to serve in rotation, whereas the Trinity House pilots had the option of whatever ship they chose, and they usually selected the largest as the most profitable. The Cinque Ports pilots were bound to serve in Her Majesty's Navy, while the Trinity House pilots were exempt. The Cinque Ports pilots were bound to make an annual survey of the opposite coast of Holland—an obligation which did not rest on the pilots of the Trinity House. It had been said that the Cinque Ports pilots were appointed by patronage, but the contrary was in fact the case. They had to undergo a severe examination before the officers of the Lord Warden. So far from patron, age having any influence on the case, ou-of 149 persons passed, and 45 rejectedt there were among the latter several who were related to the examining officers. Again, the Cinque Ports pilots were bound to serve an apprenticeship of seven years, whereas the Trinity House pilots had only to serve three years.
 MR. HUME  said, he was rather surprised at the course taken by the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate in reference to the Motion for leave to introduce this Bill. With regard to the encomiums which the right hon. and learned Gentleman had passed on the existing system of administering justice in Scotland, he (Mr. Hume) recollected the time when similar encomiums were lavished on the Court of Chancery year after year, yet he had lived to see those statements falsified in the reforms which public opinion had forced upon that institution. What did the people of Scotland want in this case? They only wanted to be placed in the same situation as regarded the administration of the law as that in which the people of England stood. Again, we were living in an age of strict competition. Why then should the right hon. and learned Advocate object to his (Mr. Hume's) hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Craufurd) trying his hand at legislation? He (Mr. Hume) coutended that it was high time that the law of Scotland should be made more in accordance with that of England. If there was one thing more desirable than another in matters of that kind it was the abolition of sinecures; and if the government of Scotland depended on the maintenance of those sinecures, he thought the sooner that government was altered the better. He would suggest that time should be allowed for ascertaining the opinions of the people of Scotland in regard to this question; and if that was done he had no hesitation in saying that the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate would find three to one against the maintenance of this sinecure office, and four to one in favour of an assimilation of the law of Scotland to that of England.
 DR. J. PHILLIMORE  said, the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate involved this simple principle: There was I a Judge in the county who heard the case, having the parties before him; and when | an appeal took place he sent up the papers: to a Judge in Edinburgh, who did not hear the parties, but who decided upon the case. Was such a thing not a monster in jurisprudence?
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, there was a general impression out of doors that several pictures in the National Gallery had been spoiled in a process of what was called cleaning, and he wished that the Government, considering that these pictures were national property, would take steps to satisfy the public on that subject. The hon. Member for Haddingtonshire (Mr. Charteris) had some time since put a
 1312 1313
 MR. HUME  said, he was doubtful whether the inquiry did not embrace too many subjects. He hoped they would go thoroughly into the question of cleaning the pictures. Years ago he had moved for a copy of the Minutes relating to this subject; and the late Sir Robert Peel
 1316 omnium gatherum 1317
 MR. HAHFIELD,  after presenting several petitions, complaining of the inconveniences of the present laws relating to the probate of wills, said, he would beg to move for leave to bring in a Bill to prevent the necessity of obtaining several probates of the same will, and several grants of administration in respect to the estate and
 1319
 DR. J. PHILLIMORE  said, he recognised the importance of the proposed measure, as calculated to put an end to a system which cried aloud for amendment, and which no person could wish to see continued. He remembered a case in which, for one and the same instrument, it was necessary to have a probate in Canterbury, another in York, letters of administration from Scotland, and a certified copy of the will from the Colonies. It was perfectly clear that it was a monstrous state of the law which required such a multiplicity of documents when one probate would be ample. He thought, however, that this should form part of the great measure of reform to be introduced by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, and that the Government would be very ill-advised if they allowed the present Session to pass without achieving the reform which the hon. and learned Solicitor General had promised—a reform which, however surrounded with difficulties, was not impossible. He trusted that they would do their utmost to deal with this subject as a whole, and to place the testamentary law of this country upon such a footing as would be consonant with the wishes of the people, and consistent with the due administration of justice.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he begged to express the satisfaction which he had felt at hearing the statement of the hon. Gentleman, and he trusted that the supervision of the Legislature would be extended to benefit societies as well as assurance associations. The poorer classes of society, he begged to assure the Government, required protection, even more than the middle classes, from the schemes of designing adventurers. He had had bitter experience in the part of the country in which he resided, of the utter demoralisation which had been occasioned by the failure of benefit societies. Within a circuit of something like ten miles, comprising a population of nearly 30,000 inhabitants, the habits of prudence and thrift which had been created among the labouring population had been seriously endangered, because the present law had failed to insure to them the provision which they believed they had made for sickness and old age. The same principle operated in the case of burial societies, and all other societies of the kind; and he hoped the attention of Government would be seriously directed to this important subject.
 MR. HUME  said, he never had any confidence in the Act of 1844; and if people did not take care of themselves, what could Acts of Parliament do for them? To his mind, nothing could be more satisfactory than the statement of his hon. Friend (Mr. J. Wilson) that out of 335 insurance companies projected since that Act, only fifty-nine now remained. The same erroneous principle had been applied to banking companies, and the day was not far distant when the country would appreciate at its true value that course of legislation. His hon. Friend saw that Parliament had done wrong, and he thought he was quite right to "try back." As to balance sheets, they were of no use. If he were disposed to be a rogue, he would make out as fair a balance sheet as any man could show-in the Kingdom. The question upon a balance sheet was, whether the account presented was a true account. He did not know anything that was more material to the welfare of the community than a well-established assurance office; but, after all, every man must look after his own affairs, for they could not be safely left to any one else.
 COLONEL MURE  said, he rose pursuant to notice to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the management of the National Gallery. It might be in the recollection of many hon. Members that at an early part of the Session his hon. Friend the Member for East Lothian (Mr. Charteris) had given notice of a Motion similar to this; but his hon. Friend was afterwards appointed to an office in the Administration, the duties of which precluded him from devoting to the subject so much attention as he could desire, and for which his qualifications so well fitted him. Under these circumstances, his hon. Friend had requested him (Colonel Mure) to undertake the task, which he himself had been obliged to forego. After this statement he should content himself with one or two brief remarks. The House would recollect that no longer ago than 1850 a Committee of that House was engaged in a very similar course of investigation, and produced a Report founded on a valuable body of evidence. That Committee had been suggested, he believed, by the excitement that then prevailed in the public mind in consequence of the injuries that were alleged to have been committed on several fine works in the National Gallery by a rash and unskilful process of cleaning. The inquiry, however, took a wider range; for, as it proceeded, it was found impossible to separate the mere technical question from that of the general management of the National Collection. His hon. Friend's attention had been directed to the subject from the reappearance in the Gallery of several other pictures after a like operation; and, similar as might be the objects of the former and of the Committee he was now moving for, and short as might be the interval between them, there were various circumstances which tended to justify or demand a renewal of the inquiry at the pre-present season. In the first place there could be no doubt that a very great advance
 1308 "With regard to the disputed question of cleaning and varnishing, the Committee do not wish to express any opinion, but they refer to the evidence produced before them."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, before this discussion closes, I wish to say a few words upon the general principles on which the judicial system of Scotland appears to rest. That system has always seemed to me singularly well adapted to procure the good administration of justice; for it would appear that, considered with regard to the general principle, you by it attain justice speedily, and you consequently attain it cheaply. But if you make the system entirely local, you run the danger that the Judge, who is resident, becomes too much connected with the locality in which he is placed; and, likewise, not having the means of appealing to those higher sources of jurisprudence in the great central Courts, he is hardly able to give any decision in conformity with the opinions of the most enlightened and highest Judges of the country. Upon the other hand, if you have your system of justice entirely dispensed by the central Courts, you have then the evils of expense and delay. It appears to me desirable, therefore, that you should combine the advantages, and, if possible, avoid the disadvantages of the two systems. There are different means of doing this. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General for Ireland under the late Government (Mr. Whiteside) stated that the mode in Ireland is to appoint a gentleman from the Bar, who attends as assistant barrister in his own Court, and presides over the Court of Quarter Sessions, and, being also a prac-
 1304 1305
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I cannot say that I agree with my hon. Friend who has just spoken. I think, with regard to the hon. and gallant Member who has made the Motion, and who is so eminently qualified to develop its objects, that in the first place we may well confide the task of inquiry to his hands; and next, I think that he has judiciously chosen the terms of his Motion. Because, though there is no doubt that the Committee will think it right to inquire into the manner in which
 1314
 MR. DUNLOP  said, in Scotland they might boast that while in England no man could recover the smallest debt without coming to Westminster, they had for centuries enjoyed the privilege of recovering all debts in a cheap, easy, and simple way. The County Courts in England were truly a borrowing from Scotland, extending in some degree the amount of jurisdiction; and now they turned round, saying they would confer upon Scotland the boon of County Courts, as if nothing of the kind had existed before in that country. The case was not exactly as it had been put by the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr, Ewart) that in Scotland two Judges were doing what one did in England. The Sheriffs in Scotland were not only at the head of the police, but had to hear actions for debt, and almost every other class of action besides, so that there was an immense mass of business, and it would be impossible to give to them anything like the great extent that was consigned to the County Courts in England. He was most anxious to treat the Bill of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Craufurd) with the fullest impartiality; but he thought great difficulties would attend its adoption, particularly the entrusting a single Judge with the power of giving final judgment in cases which came before him. Nor, on the other hand, did the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate altogether meet his views. He limited too much the small-debt jurisdiction. There was in. his (Mr. Dunlop's) opinion no reason why all sums above the small-debt jurisdiction should not be dealt with in the same way. The present system was not what had been
 1303
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, it had been remarked that the Sheriff Principal was removed from local influence. It was wonderful, however, that it had not struck the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) who made this observation that the Sheriffs Principal of Glasgow and Edinburgh were both resident in those cities, and were surrounded by all the local influences which he would seem to deprecate; but he (Mr. Hastie) ventured to say, that this circum stance had not the slightest influence upon their proceedings, or upon the proceedings of any other Sheriff. So long as Scotland had an independent bar and an independent press, no fear need be entertained as to the manner in which these officers discharged their duties. He recommended that both Bills should be referred to a Select Com-
 1307
 MR. COWAN  said, he was satisfied that the people of Scotland would be much disappointed if the right hon, and learned Lord Advocate did not consent to refer both his own and the present Bill to a Select Committee, before which evidence could be given.
 MR. COWAN  said, he should support the measure, and begged to express a hope that it would be extended to Scotland.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he disapproved of the measure now under consideration being referred to a Committee, on the ground that the object of it was to abolish the office of Sheriff Principal, which was part of the judicial system of Scotland. It had been said that this office was a sinecure. He denied the accusation; for the truth was, that these officers had grave and serious duties to discharge. He was satisfied that the House would not consent summarily to abolish an office which had conferred the greatest benefits upon the people of Scotland, upon the slender grounds alleged by the hon. and learned Gentleman who promoted this measure.
 MR. GEACH  said, he would be the last person in the world to advocate legislation upon questions which might be left to the discretion, prudence, and care of individuals themselves. He had, however, had a good deal of experience in matters of this kind, and he considered that this was one of those subjects with regard to which the public did require to be protected by legislation. He did not deny that legislation had very materially increased the evils of this system, by giving to those who wished to establish such institutions opportunities of covering over the inherent weakness of societies by apparent legislative sanction. It was, he thought, of essential importance that these societies should be placed upon such a foundation, and under such supervision, as to afford some guarantee that their business was conducted upon safe
 1330
 MR. BARING WALL  said, he did not object to the appointment of the Committee; on the contrary, he felt indebted to his hon. and gallant Friend for having undertaken a task which he would find would prove to be no slight one. For himself he had a most anxious desire that this Committee should be the last. There had
 1311 l l l
 MR. CRAUFURD,  in reply, said, he must express his regret at the course the Government seemed inclined to pursue by adopting at once the principle of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate's Bill as a foregone conclusion.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, in rising to ask for leave to bring in a Bill to alter the constitution of Sheriff Courts in Scotland, he wished to state that his original intention was to have moved for a Committee of Inquiry; but the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate having given notice of a
 1291 l l s d l l l l l l l 1292 l l 1293 l l l "That the Bill introduced into the House of Commons by the Lord Advocate of Scotland for the improvement of the Sheriff Courts of Scotland, contains various useful provisions; but by perpetuating the present system of double sheriffs, and the expense, delay, and uncertainty which are the unavoidable consequence of this erroneous system, it falls far short of the just expectations of the country."
 MR. DUNCAN  said, that from the tone of the discussion it seemed to be held that none but lawyers were competent to arrive at a correct opinion upon this subject. But he could inform hon. Gentlemen who so thought that the mercantile interest of Scotland had something to say upon it, and that their opinion was that the office of Sheriff Principal ought to be abolished. As the question now stood, great injustice would be done to Scotland unless both measures were referred to a Select Committee, and if they were so referred, the opinion of the people of Scotland would be ascertained.
 MR. BELL  said, he objected to the decision which appeared to have been come to, that the National Gallery and the various scientific bodies should be located together in the new building at Kensington. The scientific societies strongly objected to this arrangement. The secretary of the Geographical Society said that the communications of the society with the Government would be put an end to if their rooms were to be removed to Kensington. Even with regard to the removal of the pictures, there did not appear to be sufficient evidence in favour of the measure. The evidence of Mr. Uwins was much relied on; but that gentleman had objected to the site of the Great Exhibition as about the worst in Hyde Park. Now, the site for the new gallery was still worse than that, as it was in a still lower situation. Dr. Faraday stated that the injury to the pictures from the smoke of Belgravia would be as bad as the injury from the smoke in Trafalgar-square. Sir Charles Eastlake said that if the gallery were removed from its present site it would be necessary to have it opened on Sundays. Whether the Exhibition Commissioners had come to that conclusion or not, he did not know. He had no doubt, however, that Mr. Uwina' prophecy would, in one respect, be fulfilled—there would be far less dust at Kensington than at Trafalgar-square, because there would be far fewer people attending. To his mind, however, the great charm of the existing gallery was the great numbers of people that were at all times to be found there. With regard to having pictures and sculpture brought together, he admitted that, considered simply in itself, that would be an advantage; but it was possible that that advantage might be bought at too great a cost, and as it was clearly impossible that they could remove the paintings to the British Museum, it followed that they could only move the sculptures to the same site with the pictures, thus rendering useless the buildings in the British Museum, which had already cost the nation more than 1,000,000 l
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that although it was not his intention to oppose the Motion, or throw any obstruction in the way of the introduction of the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Ayr, he must be allowed to say that he did not think that the course which had been adopted by his hon. and learned Friend was the most convenient that could have been pursued, or the readiest way of attaining the end which he professed he had in view. He (the Lord Advocate) had introduced a Bill on the subject of these Local Courts early in the present Session, and had fixed the second reading for Thursday next; but understanding that many hon. Gentlemen, especially Scotch representatives, wished for more time to collect the opinion of the country on the subject, he postponed the next stage to a more distant period. It was the intention of the Scotch Members to take the usual, and, in his opinion, a very wise course, namely, to meet together for the purpose of discussing the various matters connected with that Bill, and to ascertain the various sentiments of their constituents previous to its second reading. He could not help thinking that his hon. and learned Friend would have acted wisely had he postponed the introduction of his measure until the Scotch Members had had an opportunity of ascertaining each other's opinions upon his (the Lord Advocate's) Bill. However, he had no other object than to obtain for
 1295 l l 1296 1297
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished merely to say, in reference to what had fallen from an hon. Member opposite on the subject of the Irish assistant barristers, and on the utility of resident Judges, that important as were the functions performed by these learned gentlemen, they were not resident in the counties over which they presided, and that immediately on the termination of the civil and criminal busi-
 1300
 MR. J. WILSON,  in rising to move for a Select Committee upon this subject, said it was incumbent upon him to make a few observations in order to explain the general objects he had in view in making this Motion. It was impossible perhaps for the House to approach a subject which contained within itself principles of greater difficulty, or had led to more diversity of opinion. It was impossible to look at these associations in one view without regarding them as trade associations; and it might be said, with some amount of justice, that so long as the principle of public and open justice was relied on in this country, the interference of the Government, in any way, was likely to destroy the beneficial effects of that competition, to create a false reliance upon the Government, and to inflict injury upon the public at large. Upon the other hand, it might be as fairly contended with regard to associations of this description which asked for peculiar privileges, that it was the bounden duty of the House, in granting those privileges, to accompany them with such securities as should afford a proper guarantee that they would be used for the public advantage. Between these two conflicting opinions, on which, he admitted, much might be said on both sides, it was not his intention to decide; but he thought the House would agree, that if they were to interfere at all, they ought at least to see that their interference, while it impeded as little as possible the objects of private trade and competition, yet would honestly confer on the public the security which such interference on the part of the Government professed to give. With regard to these associations, he would particularly guard himself from being supposed to be the advocate either of one class or the other. He was well aware there was a contention between the two classes—the old proprietary offices, and the new offices, established generally on mutual principles. He particularly requested that the House would understand that he had no object whatever, and that the Government could have no object, in advancing the interests of one class in preference to the interests of the other. The only object was to see that the privileges given by Acts of Parliament were not so far abused that the public were placed in a condition of insecurity against which they ought to be protected by that House. Perhaps it was not generally understood to what an enormous
 1321 l l l l l 1322 1323 1324 Vict 1325 "This Act had not been long in operation when public attention was forcibly directed, by the discovery of a series of frauds, which, when contrasted with the station and resources of the individuals concerned in them, may be described as of unexampled magnitude, to the imperfection of a state of the law under which such frauds were possible. Some half-dozen of adventurers, any one of whom in his individual capacity would have found it difficult to obtain credit to the most limited extent, boldly announced to the world the formation of an imaginary assurance company with a capital of 1,000,000 l l l "A consideration of the class of persons who suffered by this fraud, and who would be most likely to suffer by any similar fraud in time to come, being chiefly persons of very moderate incomes, who had been lured by the prospect of an advantageous investment of their savings, and to whom, therefore, the bursting of the bubble disclosed the fact of their ruin, had much effect in stimulating the Legislature to devise some means by which the perpetration of similar frauds might be prevented for the time to come. A Select Committee of the House of Commons was appointed in 1841 to inquire into the state of the law respecting joint-stock companies, with a view-
 1326 l l l 1327 1328
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that with respect to the establishment of mints in Australia, he thought he might say that the Government had come to the conclusion that it was a question which was more to be determined by the Colonies themselves than by this country, and consequently the Government were disposed to afford every facility which the Colonies might require for that purpose. With regard to the place where the mints were to be established, the only part of the Australian Colonies which had yet demanded such a convenience, and which had supplied the necessary funds, was Sydney, and from that Colony 10,000 l
 MR. FERGUS  said, he thought the Scotch representatives in that House would be ungrateful indeed if they did not acknowledge that to the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate the people of Scotland owed some of the most useful and extensive reforms in the law, and some of the most able adaptations of the practice. He (Mr. Fergus) was anxious that the law and the practice of Scotland should be assimilated to those of England in cases where experience had proved the law and practice of England to be superior, and where such an assimilation would be an undoubted improvement; but he saw in the Motion of the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Craufurd), not an improvement, but a very rash innovation. He (Mr. Fergus) was not an Edinburgh lawyer, and he was not therefore tinctured with the prejudices of the profession; but from long residence in Scotland he thought the Sheriffs Depute were a valuable part of the law of Scotland, and that there were undoubted advantages in the appeal from the local Judge to the Judge in Edinburgh, which he, for one, should be very sorry to see lost to the people of Scotland.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR,  in seconding the Motion, said, that the object embrac-
 1294 l
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he should willingly express his gratification that the Government had taken up this most important subject. He was certain the determination of the Government would give great satisfaction generally to the institutions which were solvent, and would only be unsatisfactory to those which had certainly attempted frauds upon the public. He thought it was most important, as these institutions had been in a measure sanctioned by Parliament, that Parliament should endeavour to guard the ignorant and unwary against a system which, if it was allowed to go on, would be attended with most injurious results.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that he regarded with some alarm the introduction of a foreign system, and on a previous occasion he had expressed his sentiments on the subject; but as the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that the Government were not pledged to the removal of the National Gallery, he should not trespass upon them with any remarks. They ought never to forget that great school which already existed for the development of those branches of manufacturing industry and ingenuity, upon which the prosperity of the country so mainly depended.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he should be sorry that anything should occur, tending to interfere with the present local jurisdiction in Scotland. He hoped that two Bills so utterly irreconcilable in principle would not be sent before a Committee. He had received most valuable information from a work written by Sir William Gibson Craig in reference to the working of the judicial system in Scotland. He thought that they had accomplished that which the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) alluded to—a local machinery for determining of all legal questions, while, at the same time, those tribunals were divested of all those local influences which always tended to impair the administration of justice. In reference to the case of the assistant barristers in Ireland, there was also an appeal from the Judge of Assize's decision to a Court of superior authority. As well as he could understand the system of Scotland, he would say, in passing, that the Judges in that part of the Kingdom were as able a set of men as could be found in any country. If these Bills were to be discussed, he hoped that they would have an opportunity of considering the traditional scruples of Scotland as to whether the existing system was to be continued, or to be altogether upset, for the purpose of making a new experiment, which might involve the
 1306
 MR. M. FORSTER  said, that Parliament had already interfered in the regulation of joint-stock companies, and had done harm by its interference; consequently, it must undo what had been done, or it must go further. Having paid a great deal of attention to this subject, he had become acquainted with a good many of the abuses which were going on under the present system; and he must say, that the country was greatly indebted to the hon. Member
 1329
 MR. BASS  said, he wished to put a question to the hon. Secretary for the Treasury with respect to the gold coinage. It had been understood by the country that an intimation was given by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer last evening that it was intended by the Government to establish mints in the Australian Colonies, and it was a point upon which much curiosity had been expressed to know in what particular parts of those Colonies the Government would sanction those establishments.
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he quite agreed that we ought not to legislate to attain only problematical advantages. He would offer his personal thanks to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. J. Wilson) for having brought this subject forward. He was entirely unconnected with any assurance office; but in the course of the inquiries before the Committee relating to benefit societies, several gentlemen, who were actuaries or managers of some of the most respectable and long-established assurance offices, were examined, and he believed, from their statements, it was their wish and desire that some such investigation as that now pro-
 1332 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not wish to enter on the general subject mere fully than had already been done by his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell). Between those Gentlemen who thought the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Mure) had included too much in his Motion, and those Gentlemen who thought he had included too little, there was room for the comfortable belief that he had framed his Motion very judiciously; and he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was very glad to see the matter in his hon. and gallant Friend's hands. He wished, however, to make a remark on two subjects. First, the removal of the National Gallery to Kensington. It seemed to be supposed by his hon. Friend (Mr. Hume), and likewise by other hon. Gentlemen, that the Government had absolutely decided on that removal, and were pledged to its taking effect. As far as he was informed, no such decision had been arrived at. Nothing had been done—which, in the event of an expression of public feeling on the question, and he entirely agreed with those who thought this a matter in which the public were deeply interested, and ought to be heard—nothing had been said or done, which in the event of such an expression, or in the event of its being found on the whole wiser that the removal should not take place, to prevent the Government consulting the wishes of the public so expressed. He wished also to
 1318
 MR. W. BROWN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. EWART  seconded the Motion, and said he rejoiced that his hon. and gallant Friend had not limited it to a mere technical question as to the cleaning of the pictures in the National Gallery. His hon. and gallant Friend had wisely extended the Motion into the general question of establishing a real National Gallery—a gallery not only of painting but of sculpture—of antiquities, and other objects indispensable for the cultivation of fine art, the want of which had hitherto been almost a disgrace to the country. He (Mr. Ewart) should confine his observations to the management of the National Gallery and to its composition. The management of the gallery fluctuated in a most extraordinary manner between the trustees upon the one hand, and the Treasury upon the other. At one time the trustees had the government of
 1309 prima stamina Chalcographie 1310 "Non obtusa adeo gestamur pectora Poeni, Nee tarn aversus equos Tyria Sol junaet ab urbe." "That a Select Committee be appointed, to inquire into the management of the National Gallery; also to consider in what mode the collective monuments of Antiquity and Fine Art, possessed by the Nation, may be most securely preserved, judiciously augmented, and(advantageously exhibited to the public."
 MR. EWART  said, that reference having been made to a representation from Dumfriesshire on this subject, he was bound to declare that up to the present moment he was of opinion, gathered from a statement of facts, that the people of Dumfries were very much in favour of a single Judge. With reference to the subject of law reform, he was afraid, if the House left all law reforms to lawyers alone, those law reforms would proceed at the slowest possible rate. It might be true that all the law reforms in this country had been effected by lawyers; but it was indisputably true that they had been stimulated by
 1298
 MR. FORBES  said, he must confess that he was somewhat startled to hear the observations which had fallen from the noble Lord who had just sat down. The noble Lord seemed to think that the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate having introduced a Bill, nobody ought to find fault with it; in short, that the Government of the day having introduced a Bill, the House ought to pass it  sub silentio 1302 paripassu
 MR.FORBES MACKENZIE  said, in reference to what had fallen from the preceding speaker, he hoped that the right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite the Lord Advocate would not consent to allow his Bill, and that of the hon, and learned Member for Ayr burghs (Mr. Craufurd) to go concurrently before a Select Committee; for his experience led him to believe that such a course would be attended with the worst possible result. He was a Member of a Committee at that moment, which had two Bills before them, and he could assure the House that it was found no easy matter to carry on their business. The hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) spoke of the offices of Sheriff Depute and Sheriff Principal in Scotland being sinecures. He believed that there was no gentleman resident in Scotland who would join in that
 1299
 SIR GEORGE STRICKLAND  said, it struck him, as it seemed to have done other hon. Members, that the Motion of the hon. Member for Renfrewshire (Col. Mure) did not sufficiently define what were to be the particular subjects of the proposed inquiry; for if the Committee went into a rambling inquiry as to the nature of National Galleries and Museums of all sorts and kinds, he did not see how their labours could lead to any useful results. The hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) appeared to think that the inquiry ought to include everything on the face of the earth that had any relation whatever to arts or manufactures. And the scope of the Motion was, in fact, not only for inquiry into the nature of a National Gallery, but into all those subjects for which he thought the British Museum had been exclusively set apart. The Committee would have to inquire concerning the custody of our national pictures, the preservation of antiquities, the nature of schools of art, and how persons might be better instructed in the fine arts hereafter. [Mr. EWART: No!] Why, it was quite clear that it would take in every one of these questions. In his (Sir G. Strickland's) opinion, the Committee would be much more useful if it confined its inquiries to the National Gallery, and the preservation of the fine paintings which it contained, and did not ramble over all those other matters. He concurred with the hon. and gallant Member (Col. Mure) that there were serious reasons for the appointment of a Committee; because his own impression was that many of the finest pictures in the National Gallery had been totally and entirely destroyed by the process of "cleaning." Indeed, some of the pictures which years ago he most admired, he could only look upon now with disgust and shame.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he thought it was a disadvantage to interfere by legislation with existing commercial institutions, whose security and stability were the pub-lie confidence and credit, by inviting Parliamentary inquiry, on the ground that many of these institutions were not deserving of the confidence which they enjoyed. He considered, therefore, that the proposed inquiry would be attended with imminent peril. He did not think any
 1331 l l l l
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  said, that with all due deference to the zeal of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Ayr, he considered he had not acted very judiciously in asking for leave to bring in his Bill at the present moment. The right hon. and learned Lord Advocate, in his opinion, had outstepped the bounds of courtesy in giving his sanction to the introduction of any such Bill. There was, no doubt, great excitement in Scotland existing on this question. There was a fixed determination come to that some law reform in the Sheriffs' Courts must be adopted; but surely it would establish a very awkward precedent if, when the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate had not only brought in a Bill, but had intimated in the most courteous manner his anxious desire to meet the Scotch Members in a body, to listen to their suggestions, to accept all practical advice from them, and from other interested parties in Scotland—it would surely establish a bad precedent if an inexperienced and new Member were encouraged to come forward in so inopportune a manner, and press on the House his own independent measure. He was sure that the Scotch Members, if they had been appealed to in a body, would have supported the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate, had he been disposed to oppose the present Bill. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had shown the greatest courtesy to all Scotch Members, and he regretted the hon. and learned Member for Ayr had not had more experience, else he would have waited till the Scotch Members had met, and until the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate had read his Bill a second time. Alterations might be proposed in Committee. As the Member for Dumfriesshire he had several suggestions to make. The convener and others in the county of Dumfries had taken a very strong and able lead in the call for law reform, and when the Commissioners of Sup-
 1301
 MR. FITZROY  said, he thought that no adequate grounds had been stated to induce the House to agree to the second reading of this Bill, which had, in fact, been introduced to give Ids hon. Friend (Mr. Duncombe) an opportunity of bringing forward what he conceived to be the injustice of a case heard in the north of England. He thought, however, that the statement of the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) had quite disposed of that case. With respect to the extension of the appeal in cases of conviction, under the Cruelty to Animals Act, he must remind the House that there was already a more extended right of appeal here than in almost any other class of convictions. Coder the Assault Act, 9  Geo. l. Vict. 3 l. s. 1343
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was afraid that the Bill of his hon. Friend (Mr. Duncombe) was too much founded on a single isolated case, which would not justify the House in interfering with legislation based upon anything like sound principles. He believed that it would be most undesirable to introduce a right of appeal in cases where the fine was lower than what the law at present allowed. On the contrary, he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby), that it would be better to do away with the right of appeal altogether, than extend it to the class of cases supposed by the Bill. Such a right, in his opinion, would only work against the poor; for it would enable the rich defendant to crush and oppress by heavy costs the humble prosecutor. And though there was something in the uniformity of practice contended for by the hon. Member for Cockermouth, still he much preferred the line of demarcation which the law at present drew.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he begged to move an Amendment in Clause 23, page 12, line 31, after "Act," to insert "in respect of the classes of improvement marked in Clause 8 of this Act, by the numbers 1, 2, 4, 6, 8." If his Amendment were agreed to, he believed that the operations of the Bill might be made to extend to a very much poorer description of land than that which it would if the clause remained unaltered; and it seemed to him that the interests of all classes interested in land were now-a-days so clearly defined and protected by law, that no one could have any objection to seeing land of the least valuable kind open, at all events, to receive the benefits of the Bill, more especially as it was entirely of a permissive character. The description of land to which his observations had reference, was not, in its present state, worth more than 4 s. s. l. l. l.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  believed the Bill one of the most important measures of a private nature ever introduced into Parliament, and considered full time should be afforded for its discussion. It contained most extraordinary clauses. The promoters promised two great sowers to be made one on the north side of the Thames, ending at Barking Creek, and the other
 1333
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  seconded the Amendment. He thought the Bill ought to be postponed, in order to give the metropolitan parishes an opportunity of considering the details. He believed some objections had been made to it by several parishes. If these objections were obviated, facilities might be given for passing the Bill; but he could not think it could be allowed to pass in its present shape.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had been asked to move the second reading of this Bill, and he had not consented to do so without consideration. This was a great public work that must be done by somebody. The metropolis must be drained. A question was put to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether it was the intention of Government to introduce any measure for the purpose of enabling the present Commissioners of Sewers to borrow money on the security of the rates; and the noble Lord (Lord Palmerston) replied that that depended very much on a private enterprise undertaken by an association of capitalists
 1334 sine quâ non
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, if this were a mere question of detail, he should be willing to agree to the second reading. It was not, however, a question of detail, but of principle involving the right of taxing the public. It was only reasonable to give time to those who would be affected by it to examine the Bill, and he therefore should support the Amendment.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished
 1335
 MR. SOTHERON  said, he trusted the House would be favoured with the opinion of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department on this Bill.
 VISCOUNT PALMBRSTON  said, he thought this a very important question, inasmuch as the object was to effect a great improvement in the drainage of the metropolis, and to do that which must be the foundation of any system of drainage. It was evident that unless they got some great outlet at a sufficiently low level to enable the ends of the drains to be discharged into it at some distance from the metropolis, nothing they could do would have any real or considerable effect. The question seemed to be whether this work, which must be very expensive, should be undertaken by an association of private individuals, who entered into it as a commercial undertaking, or whether the money requisite should be raised by loan, that loan to be guaranteed upon the rates levied on the various parishes and districts of the metropolis. He thought the metropolitan Members, representing the feelings of their constituents, would prefer that this work should be done by private enterprise, rather than by money the interest and sinking fund of which must be defrayed by rates to be levied on the inhabitants of the metropolis. He had, perhaps, rather misled the House the other day when he said that he thought this great work would supersede the necessity of any further material outlay. He had
 1336
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, for many years they had been considering the best means of draining the metropolis. Now the House of Commons seemed to object to the Commission of Sewers, which certainly was by no means a popular body. Again, it had been proposed that a Government Board should undertake it, and that was considered still more objectionable. Now another proposal was made, that a private company should undertake the arterial drainage. Now there were great objections to a private company doing any thing of the kind. They had had private companies supplying them with water, and that had not been satis-
 1337 l.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought there could be no doubt that the three great nuisances of this metropolis were the Commissioners of Sewers, the Board of Health, and the Corporation of the City of London. He believed the Corporation of London were backing this Bill. He always wished that any measure affecting very important interests should be referred to a Committee; but in this instance, notwithstanding the observations of his right hon. Friend near him (Mr. M. Gibson), he believed it to he a fact that the question of the 3 per cent guarantee was vital to this Bill, because the parties would admit that they had no hope of getting the necessary capital together, unless the House consented to the guarantee. The postponement of the Bill for three weeks would enable the promoters of the Bill to turn round and see whether they were right in this belief. He did not go so far as to say that the measure was absurd, for he wished to see the drainage of London carried out on one large plan, and in such a system the City must he included. Though anxious to refer the Bill to a Committee, he could not consent to the second reading now, as the ratepayers had a right to have the measure well considered.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he thought that to refer the Bill to a Committee, which might modify or remove the guarantee clause,
 1338
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, that, in regard to the guarantee principle introduced into this Bill, he had been requested by the right hon. Gentleman near him to mention a circumstance to the House—
 MR. M. GIBSON  wished it not to be stated that he had made the request.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY : Well, then, it had been suggested to himself by his own mind, that this principle of a local guarantee to a private company, which appeared so strange in this country to English Members of the House, was perfectly familiar in Ireland. He could name many instances where guarantees had been required from impoverished districts of Ireland by those metropolitan Members who now protested against the application of the same principle to their own more wealthy constituents. A guarantee of 3½ per cent was given some years ago by the ratepayers of Galway and Roscommon upon the capital expended by a private company in extending their line of railway from Athlone to Galway. Similar local guarantees of 3 per cent were contained in several of the Irish Railway Bills now before the House: amongst others, in a Bill affecting a portion of the country which he had the honour to represent—namely, the Bill for extending the Bandon Railway to Bantry, with a branch to Clonalrilty. In regard to that Bill, the ratepayers of the districts west of Bandon have voluntarily come forward, at public meetings, and agreed to subject themselves to a certain amount of guarantee. Although a railway does benefit the district through which it passes, it is also beneficial to the nation at large. But the Bill before the House was peculiarly-calculated to benefit the inhabitants of the metropolis, whose sanitary condition it would greatly improve. The metropolitan Members who had so constantly advocated the principle of a local guarantee in Irish measures of improvement, and had invariably denounced those Irish Members who, in their phrase, wanted to have "a pull at the Exchequer," now rose  en masse 1339 l.
 MR. DIVETT  begged the House not to vote for the second reading of this Bill, with the impression that it was possible for this work to go on as a private speculation, because, in his opinion, that was a perfect delusion, and in voting for the second reading, they would be in reality voting for the guarantee.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he had always heard his constituents say they were ready to pay their share towards an efficient system of drainage. Although he did not express any opinion as to the amount of the proposed guarantee, which might be a question for the consideration of the Committee, he thought it would not be expedient to refuse a guarantee to a scheme which would save the ratepayers from expenditure in some other form.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, he thought the parties who came forward to supply a public want of this kind ought rather to be looked on as public benefactors than as speculators upon the public purse, as they were represented as being. A Committee of the House of Commons had stated that the evils now complained of could only be got rid of through the instrumentality of a private company; and the benefit contemplated was so important a one that, even supposing the payment of the guarantee by the ratepayers was certain, instead of being only contingent, he thought they ought not to refuse their sanction to the second reading.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he would withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he would recommend that both the Amendment and the Proviso should be withdrawn, and that the power of appeal should be given both to the landlord and tenant against the decision of the Commissioners of Public Works.
 LORD SEYMOUR  would only say that he thought that if they could get a cheap mode of obtaining local Acts it would be the best thing they could do, and for that purpose it would be necessary to have the provisional orders of the Privy Council that were now made under the Act put in some clearer form, for the present form made it almost impossible to know what the orders were.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that the statement of the right hon. Baronet as to the cost of obtaining private local Acts, as compared with that of obtaining a provisional order under the Board of Health Act, was a proof of the objectionable manner in which the private business of the House was conducted. It was, in fact, a greater incubus on the enterprise of the country than the Ecclesiastical Courts or the Chancery Courts, which had been so much denounced in that House.
 MR. HUME  said, he who was not one of the youngest Members of the House, would undertake to prove every word that his hon. Friend (Mr. Whalley) had stated. A large reduction of the expense might be effected in almost every branch of the private business.
 MR. HUME  said, he would not at present oppose the Motion, but he should probably move that the man be brought to the bar, and asked his reason for refusing to take the oath on the Separatist declaration.
 Resolved Ordered
 MR. STAFFORD , in seconding the Motion, said that he would take that opportunity of alluding to a matter in which he was personally concerned. It had been stated in an influential morning paper of the previous day, that, whereas—
 "In 1860, the Admiralty had resigned the dangerous patronage of the dockyard at Chatham into the hands of Sir Baldwin Walker, surveyor of the Navy, who exercised it without regard to politics, the Duke of Northumberland and Mr. Stafford last year took it from him, burked his remonstrance addressed to the Board, and threw the patronage back into the old corrupt channel, so far as actually to degrade the efficient men selected by Sir Baldwin Walker, and put partisans into their places."
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, it appeared to him that apart from the savings to be effected by the Bill, there were very grave objections to its principle. An amount not exceeding 1,220,000 l. l. 1360
 MR. HUME  said, he did not think that any statement could remove the doubt which existed with regard to the Report on this subject. The Report stated that 296,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he objected to the Bill being sent upstairs. He did not believe there was any information which might be asked for, that he was not in a position to give. He could assure the hon. Member (Sir W. Jolliffe), as he had on a former occasion assured the House, that, so far as the taxation of the City of London was concerned, so far as the duty on coals was concerned, so far as the whole question of the London Bridge Approaches were concerned, this measure introduced no changes whatever, one way or the other. It was entirely a question as to the mode of applying the money, and with regard to the London Bridge Approaches Fund, whether it should go through one department of the Government or another. One reason why he objected to sending the Bill before a Committee upstairs was, that every day's delay was a cost of 150 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1361 l. l. l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1362 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 LORD NAAS  said, he was opposed to the clause, considering that its effect would be to expose landlords to vexatious litigation.
 LORD NAAS  said, he considered that as the Bill now before the House was based upon an Act which had been found to work most successfully in Ireland, its provisions ought to be strictly adhered to; and the more so, as there were other Bills to come before the House having for their object the encouragement of land improvement in that
 1347
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, there were large quantities of improvable land in Ireland, and it would be well to afford some incentive for their improvement.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he would willingly bear testimony to the respectability of the persons who had signed the memorials complaining of the decision of the Penrith magistrates. If the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) having inquired into, had adjudicated upon the matter, no one could have questioned his decision; but neither the right hon. Baronet nor the two Lord Chancellors had ever returned any answer to the memorials addressed to them. For his own part, he would take away appeals in all cases, and let cases be settled at once; but still, if there were to be any appeals at all, he thought that there should be no limitation to them. On what principle should a fine of 40 s. s. d. d.
 MR. HENRY ARTHUR HERBERT   reported
 MR. H. HERBERT , the Chairman of the Committee, said, that he wished to draw the attention of the House to the facts stated in the Report. Robert Edmund Bower had been tendered by the petitioners as a witness to give evidence before the Committee. Upon the Testament toeing handed to him, he stated that he had conscientious objections to taking an oath. He had then been asked whether he belonged to the sect of the Quakers, Moravians, or Separatists. He replied that he was a Separatist; upon which the form of declaration prescribed by Act of Parliament for that sect was commenced to be read by the clerk of the Committee. When coming to the words, "I do solemnly declare that I belong to the sect called Separatists," the man demurred, stating that in saying he was a Separatist he had meant that he had separated himself from other religious persuasions, but that he did not belong to any particular sect called "Separatists;" and he still
 1358 Vict.
 MR. BRADY  said, he would suggest the following proviso to the Amendment: "Provided always that the said increased rent shall not exceed the sum of 5 l. l.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he thought this would be a dangerous Amendment to introduce into the Bill. He had known cases in which the money laid out was repaid in the course of two years; and if this limitation was adopted, the only effect of
 1348
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he considered that the Amendment, if adopted, would alter the whole principle of the Bill, and therefore he must object to it.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he was much surprised to hear one of the youngest Members of the House presume to say that the private business of that House was not conducted in a proper manner. He had seen great improvement take place in the mode of conducting that business, and it was a most unwarrantable assertion for the hon. Gentleman to say it was not conducted properly.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was glad to hear the announcement of the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Molesworth) as to the revision of the constitution of the Board of Health, and the amendment of the Act; because unquestionably the Act was not working satisfactorily, and in the orders made under it frequently matters foreign to the purpose of the Bill were introduced.
 MR. HILDYARD  said, he had received letters from two attorneys present on the occasion of the hearing of Mr. Hill's case, who both confirmed the statement that the Rev. Mr. Milner did not act as a judge on the information which he preferred. The hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Buncombe) said he had received not very courteous letters from two of the magistrates. But he (Mr. Hildyard) held in his hand a copy of a letter from the hon. Member to one of those magistrates, dated February 19, 1853, in which he stated that he enclosed a copy of the Bill, and he added, "Should it pass, I trust it will prevent a recurrence of that flagrant injustice which I consider was inflicted on Mr. David Hill." He thought it was an abuse of the privilege of a Member of Parliament to write to a magistrate whose conduct had been arraigned, and who had been acquitted of blame, and to tell him that he had committed a flagrant injustice. As a lawyer, he would tell the hon. Member, that if the magistrate in question were disposed to act
 1344
 MR. INGHAM , the Chairman of the Derby Election Committee, appeared at the bar with the Report of that Committee. He said—
 MR. IRTON  said, he could bear testimony to the high character of the Rev. Mr. Milner and the Penrith bench of magistrates.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, his object in introducing this Bill was, as the preamble stated, to give the right of appeal in all cases of conviction under the Act for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, instead of, as now, limiting the right of appeal to cases in which the flue was 40 s. l. 1341 l. s. d.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE , in reply, said, as
 1345 "I am at a loss to know whether your inquiry is founded on a desire to have my Bill amended. If so, I shall he happy to receive any assistance from you, especially if you should have an amend-
 1346
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, in bringing forward this Bill, he had to propose that it should be read a second time without any discussion, and committed  pro formâ
 MR. V. SCULLY  argued, at some length, in support of the Amendment, insisting that the 36th Clause of the Bill, as it then stood, invested the Commissioners of Public Works with an unlimited power to increase compulsorily, to any extent, the rent of a tenant whose holding might be improved, even against his will, by the landlord. He contended that if this principle of compulsory valuation wore to be applied in favour of an improving landlord, against an occupying tenant, it would follow, as a just consequence, that it should also be introduced to the same unlimited extent in favour of the tenant, into the Landlord and Tenant Bills, which were now before the Select Committee. The present Bill was one which ought, in his opinion, for several reasons, to have been also referred to the same Committee; but, at all events, the principle of an unlimited compulsory valuation, in favour of the landlord, which was clearly involved in the 36th Clause, was one that should not be introduced in this House without full deliberation and discussion.
 MR. DEEDES  said, that it was his intention originally to have moved a clause prohibiting the use of dogs in dog carts in the country, as well as in London, giving greater facilities for the feeding of animals while in pound, and for the recovery of any expenses which parties might be put to for so doing; but as he saw that clauses of that nature came scarcely within the scope of the present Bill, he did not moan to persist in that determination. He was bound, however, to add, that no sufficient case had been made out for the introduction of the Bill.
 MR. EVELYN  said, he concurred in the opinion of the noble Lord that cheap local Acts would be less expensive than petitions to the Board of Health, while they would be much more satisfactory. At present small towns were left to the mercy of that Board, who enjoyed a sanitary monopoly, and would adopt none but their own plans. Every town in England should have the power of deciding upon the plans to suit it in sanitary matters.
 MR. KIRK  said, he wished to add at the end of this clause the following Proviso:—
 "Provided always, that the said increased rent to be so fixed by the said Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland shall not exceed the sum of 5 l. l. 50 l. l.
 MR. LASLETT  said, he had great pleasure, as Member for Worcester, in second-
 1353
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE , in order to give the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury (Mr. Fitzroy) an opportunity of replying to the future statement of the hon. Member for Finsbury, would move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he had intended originally to support the Bill of his hon. Friend; but on coming to look at its provisions as introduced, he was forced to come to the conclusion that its effect would be anything rather than to diminish cruelty to animals.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that as he was formerly Home Secretary, having been alluded to relative to the case of Mr. Hill at Penrith, he thought it due to the magistrates who had adjudicated in that case to say, that having received a memorial complaining of their conduct, he had instituted inquiries into the matter. In answer to these he had received a statement from the four magistrates who sat at petty sessions, in which they denied that the Rev. Mr. Milner had taken any part in the proceedings as a magistrate, that the fine was purposely imposed of such an amount as to take away the right of appeal, or that Mr. Hill or his attorney ever demanded
 1342
 SIR GEORGE BROOKE PECHELL  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the operation of this Act. In 1847 and 1848 the Earl of Carlisle, then Lord Morpeth, devoted much time and attention to the framing of a measure calculated to give satisfaction—in a sanitary point of view—to the several interests that might be affected by its operation. The objects contemplated by the Public Health Act, namely, improved water supply, drainage, sewerage, paving, and lighting, were doubtless most desir able to be carried out. But in the endeavour to effect these objects, it created a system of centralisation not dissimilar to that which was so much complained of under the Poor Law Amendment Act. The Public Health Act proposed to bring towns within its operation in two ways— in the case of towns having local Acts or Municipal Corporations, by means of what was termed a provisional order, and a confirmatory Act of Parliament; and where there was not a local government, by an Order in Council. It also provided that no interference should take place in any town unless by Petition of not less that one-tenth of the inhabitants wishing to be brought under the operation of the Act. Now, as the House might suppose, it was not a very difficult matter to induce one-tenth of the inhabitants of a town to petition when they were told that by so doing they would get wide streets, plenty of 'water, and comfortable waterclosets, A petition being presented, the Board of Health sent down a gentleman, whom they called a superintending inspector, to see whether the Act should be applied to the place in reference to which the petition was presented, who, of course, always reported that it was necessary to carry out the Act, or his occupation would be gone. A provisional order was then issued, to which the sanction of the House was obtained, without the House really knowing anything about the matter. He (Sir George Pechell) would now explain to the House what a provisional order consisted of. Here was the ease of a town of 60,000 inhabitants, having a good local management of its own. In that
 1350 1351 1352 l. l. l.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that he did not rise, as the President of the Board of Health, to defend all the provisions of the Health of Towns Act, referred to by the hon. and gallant Baronet, or to defend the present constitution of the Board of Health itself. Still he must be permitted to say that the original framers of the Health of Towns Act, and the administrators of it, had been excessively desirous of benefiting the public. The premises upon which that Act was founded were, that certain towns and populous places were in an unhealthy state, and that to promote the health of the inhabitants, to guard against diseases, and to prevent fevers, it was necessary that the system of water supply, of drainage, sewerage, and paving, should be amended and improved. In order to bring about these improvements, it was held that two things were requisite to be done: first, that the water supply, the drainage, sewerage, and paving, should be placed under efficient local management; and, second, that this local management should be subject to a certain degree of control, by some department of the Government. These were the objects of the Health of Towns Act, and therefore the General Board of Health had two duties to perform: first, to put the water supply, and the drainage and sewerage of various places, under efficient local management; and, second, to superintend that local management. It must be admitted, with regard to the first of these duties, that it was a good thing that the water supply, the drainage, sewerage, and paving, should be put under efficient local management. That was the object of the Health of Towns Act, and the Board of Health was the Department in which that control was placed. Before the passing of the Health of Towns Act, there was a great obstacle to the carrying out of these improvements, namely, the expense of obtaining a private Bill. Now, the first object of the Health of Towns Act was to enable those places which required
 1355 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1356
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he thought the arguments that had been urged against this measure were by no means an answer to the case which had been made out by the noble Lord (Lord R. Grosvenor); and it was his duty to state the reasons why he supported that Motion, and why he thought it ought to be pressed
 1400
 MR. HUME  said, he had always been an advocate for the remission of taxes wherever it could be justly done; and if the noble Lord would move that all the existing taxes on licences for carrying on particular trades and professions should be repealed, he would cheerfully vote for such a Motion. The question he put to himself was simply this, "Is this the worst tax of this kind now existing?" He had in his hand a list of about thirty-
 1401 l. s.
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion. He said, he entirely concurred with his hon. Friend (Mr. Pellatt) in the opinion that the time had arrived when it was incumbent on the Legislature to take some effective measures to prevent the desecration of oaths by their irreverent and too frequent administration. Our laws were intended for the good of the community, but they too often operated to their disadvantage. A bad man would take an oath; while a good and conscientious man would refuse it, and yet the law as at present administered favoured the bad man, and tended to the persecution of the good. Unnecessary oaths were a great evil, and the effects of them were to diminish a regard for truth. He considered the present system was extremely injurious, and he therefore hoped that, whatever opinions hon. Members might entertain, they would not object to the inquiry proposed by his hon Friend.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he thought there was one great objection to the appointment of a Committee, namely, that so many Committees were already sitting that it would be almost impossible to find a sufficient number of proper Members to compose it; so that the effect of such a step would rather injure than assist the cause of which the hon. Mover of the question was the advocate. He doubted whether the hon. Member for Carlow (Mr. J. Ball) could move such a Motion as that of which he had given notice in Committee on the Bill. In 1849 he (Mr. V. Smith) had proposed to make but one simple oath for all Members of the House; and though he had found himself in a small minority, he yet thought that that would be the proper course to take. So far from the taking of the present oaths being a religious or a solemn rite, he looked upon it as one of the most revolting and disgusting ceremonies that could take place. When hon. Members came to the table and gabbled over oaths which every one took in a different sense from his neighbour, it was impossible to look upon the scene with anything like awe or respect. The question was not one involving any necessity for inquiry, but it was one upon which every Member was as capable of giving an opinion in full House as in a Committee upstairs.
 MR. FITZROY  said, he rose for leave to bring in a Bill for the better prevention and punishment of aggravated assaults upon women and children. In making this Motion it would not be necessary for him to trespass upon the attention of the House at any length, because the evil which the Bill was intended to remedy was one so generally felt, so universally acknowledged, so rapidly growing, and constituted such a blot upon our national character, that he was convinced that any measure which he should attempt to introduce for the purpose of amending it would meet with general favour, or that, at all events, he should not subject himself to the charge of having needlessly rushed in to provide an unnecessary and uncalled-for remedy. No one could read the public journals without being constantly struck with horror and amazement at the numerous reports of cases of cruel and brutal assaults perpetrated upon the weaker sex by men who one blushed to think were Englishmen, and yet were capable of such atrocious acts. One's mind actually recoiled when he thought of the dastardly and cowardly assaults which were being constantly perpetrated upon defenceless women by brutes who called themselves men. There was a case which appeared in the public journals a short time ago, where a brute in the form of a man assaulted his defenceless wife, who was in an advanced state of pregnancy, and, in order that he might wreak his fury upon her with greater effect, he put his foot under her clothes, and struck her with great violence on the lower part of her person. It was in vain to hope that he could introduce into his Bill any penalty which would be an adequate punishment for so brutal an offence. Nothing but the most ignominious kind of penalty, such as corporal punishment, or something of that sort, which he did not feel justified in proposing to the House, could mark
 1415 l. "On the 8th of December, 1852, a man named Henry Bennett was charged at the police-court, Bow-street, with assaulting his wife. It was proved that the defendant's wife had ceased to live with him for some time; that on the morning of the 4th of December, 1852, she was walking in Drury-lane, when she met the defendant. He asked her how she was getting on. She replied 'Pretty well.' He then called her aw—,and, without any provocation, struck her as hard as he could, and knocked her down, and injured her back severely. With the assistance of others she got from him, and went home. He followed her there, and struck her repeatedly with all his force on various parts of her body. On the following morning he again went to her room, seized her by the hair of her head, drew a knife from his pocket, opened it, and attempted to cut her throat. She endeavoured to prevent his doing so, and her fingers were severely cut. The magistrate, fearing the wife would not appear at the sessions if the prisoner were committed for trial, fined the prisoner 5 l. "On the 7th of January, 1853, at the same court, James Coghlan, a floorcloth-worker, was charged with beating his wife. The husband, between twelve and one o'clock at night, was outside the house in which they resided, and the wife, fearing he might go and drink with the persons who were with him, went to him and begged him to come in. He shortly after entered the room in a passion, and began to beat her with his fists, gave her two black eyes, and then beat her severely with the tongs, saying that 'she had made him appear little in the eyes of the persons with whom he had been outside of the house.' Her screams were heard, and a policeman went to the spot and saw the husband strike her, and, observing that she
 1416 l. "At Marlborough-street police-court, in December, 1851, Thomas M'Millan, a tailor, was-charged with beating his wife. It appeared that at twelve o'clock at night she returned home and found him there. He immediately began to abuse her, and struck her several blows with his fists on and about her head; on her screaming 'Murder, he took a bit of iron, used as a poker, and struck her with it on the arm and on the head several blows. Her screams were heard by a police-constable, and he went to her assistance; the man was in liquor, but the woman sober. The magistrate, seeing the disposition of the woman to screen the husband, summarily convicted him—5 l. "On the 5th of January, 1853, John Mullett was charged at the same court with beating his wife. The man missed a small bit of cloth of the value of 3 d. l. "On the 23rd of November, 1852, at the Westminster police-court, Frederic Giles appeared to answer the complaint of Susannah Preston, who had been living with him for two years. After being out all night, she returned in the morning, and saw Giles putting into a basket some food which she had provided, in order to carry it away; she remonstrated; he struck her; and on her then abusing him, he beat her with the buckle end of a strap about the neck, arms, and hands, till she was one mass of bruises, and covered with blood. A constable heard her sereams, went to the spot, and found her clothes saturated with blood, and a ring on one of her fingers beaten into-the flesh to the bone; she was conveyed to a hospital, and the ring was cut out.—Punishment 5 l. "At Worship-street police-court, on the 23rd of November, 1852, was a charge against Jeremiah: Donovan. It appeared that about half-past one o'clock in the morning, the cries of 'Murder' and 'Police' were heard in Prince's-street, Mile-end-road; that a police constable proceeded to the-room whence the cries issued, and found the wife-sitting in a chair, attended by two women; she had a large cut over the left eye, which was bleeding much; her eyes were blackened, and she appeared to suffer great pain in her stomach. The wife was taken to a hospital and remained there for some time. Both parties were sober. It appeared in evidence that the defendant had brutally ill-used her, and when she was on the ground had jumped upon her and severely injured her. She was unable to attend before the magistrate for some time; when she did attend she endeavoured to make it appear that she had been very slightly assaulted, and from her conduct the magistrate perceived that unless he disposed of the case in a summary way the husband would go unpunished.—Fined 5 l. l. 1417 l. 1418 Vict. l. certiorari 1419 habeas corpus
 MR. FITZROY  said, that he did not intend to alter the jurisdiction of the magistrates in respect to the offences included under the Bill.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that he could have been the last to have objected to the admission of Irish Members to the Indian Committee if it had been proposed at the proper time; but he could not forego expressing his surprise that the Irish Members should have suppressed their indignation for twelve months. The Committee had already deliberated on one of the principal portions of the inquiry, and the introduction of two new Members would be a great inconvenience. He hoped, therefore, the House would not assent to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman. He would say one or two words about the progress of the Committee, which he regretted the right hon. President of the Indian Board was not present to hear. The Committee were now continuing their inquiries, although an intimation had been given in both Houses by the Government that they intended to bring in a Bill on the subject during the Session. Now, the Committee which sat last year made a Report, in which they divided their inquiry into eight heads, the first of which, it was stated, would embrace the consideration of the Government in this country, and the other seven were of very considerable importance. They comprised the military and naval departments of India, the income and expenditure, the judicial establishments, the system of education, the local improvements, the ecclesiastical provision, and another head covering all these things—one of miscellaneous topics. Now, if the proposed Bill was introduced upon the first head, neglecting the consideration of the seven others, he contended, as one of those who served upon the last Committee, that that could never have been the intention of the Committee when they made their Report to the House; that they could never have contemplated the introduction of a Bill with reference to one head without including the others he had mentioned. The inquiries of the pre-
 1427
 MR. HUME  said, he hoped the hon. Member (Mr. F. French) would not trouble
 1429
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that while he concurred in the observations which had fallen from the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier), he thought that, under the circumstances, the Motion ought not to be pressed. He agreed that Irish Members had hitherto been excluded from Committees; but he would remind the hon. Member (Mr. F. French) that no Committee could be appointed without due notice thereof being given upon the paper, and then was the proper time to oppose its constitution.
 COLONEL HARCOURT  said, he rose to move for a Return of all cases in which either of the Superintending Inspectors of the General Board of Health have been employed as the engineers in carrying out the works which have been executed under the authority of the Public Health Ac!, 1848. In moving for these Returns he considered he was only doing that duty which fell to the lot of every Member of that House, namely, that of drawing attention to an abuse which had lately come to light. The way the abuse came to his knowledge was this: In 1851 Ryde was attempted to be brought within the operation of the Act, by the application of some anonymous parties against the wishes of the majority of the inhabitants. Mr. Ranger was thereupon sent down to ascertain if it were desirable and expedient that this Act should be applied to the district. A public meeting was called by advertisement, and notices were sent to the ratepayers to tell them such a meeting was to be held. The meeting took place, and there was a large majority against adopting the Act. This was not thought sufficient, and the ratepayers were appealed to in another form. The result was a majority of forty-one against the introduction of the Act. Mr. Ranger
 1431 l l. s.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the above Resolution of the Chatham Election Committee; and to move, firstly, that the Attorney General be directed to prosecute the said Stephen Mount for wilful and corrupt perjury; and, secondly, that in all cases in which a Committee shall report there are grounds for believing a witness to be guilty of perjury, the Attorney General be directed to prosecute at once. It was a melancholy fact that there were many witnesses examined before Election Committees who took a solemn oath to tell the truth, but who entered the Committee-room with the fixed determination either to withhold the truth, or to say the very opposite. It had been truly remarked that it was easier to draw blood from a witness before an Election Committee, than the truth. He hoped the House would not allow such things to continue. Justice was now undermined by falsehood, and, unless some effectual check were devised, it would be said that they not merely allowed but almost encouraged perjury. He was on the Bridgenorth Election Committee, and a witness was produced who stated that he was a labouring man and often out of work, and that when at work his wages were 8 s. l. 1433
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, that after the suggestion which had been made to him, he of course should not press the second Resolution; but he could not help expressing his regret that it should be omitted.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that the clause which the hon. Member proposed to add to this Bill, constituted the main part of one which was thrown out on Wednesday week last.
 MR. FREWEN  said that this clause was withdrawn and not rejected.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that the fact was that this clause, which the House
 1438
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR : He only wished to say a few words before they divided. He was sorry to find there was a division of opinion among his right hon. Friends in the Cabinet as to this being the proper time for bringing forward a Motion of this kind. The President of the Board of Trade (Mr. Cardwell) was certainly not of that opinion the other night when it was proposed to reduce taxes to a far larger amount. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that on a former occasion he had acceded to a request made to him by the Government to postpone his Motion for a while. He certainly had done so; but he would beg to remind his right hon. Friend that the question was then in a very different position from that in which it now stood. This Motion had already been received with favour six or seven different times by the House of Commons; and therefore his right hon. Friend ought not to have been in the least degree surprised at his bringing it forward again. His hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) said if he (Lord R. Grosvenor) would bring forward a Motion for repealing all taxes of this nature, he would support him; but he liked, if he could, to propose something practicable; and if he had taken the course recommended by his hon. Friend, he did not think he could fairly have counted upon the support of the House. He objected to all taxes imposed on the administration of the law. "But," said his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, "why did he not object to the duty on articles of clerkship?" He certainly did object to that; but his objection lay far more against the annual tax. All poll taxes of this kind were objectionable; but he thought this the most so, and therefore it was that he now
 1402
 LORD ROBERT GR0SVENOR : Sir, it will be in the recollection of the House, that last year a Committee was appointed, to whom all the propositions with regard to supplying the metropolis with water were referred. After a very long, patient, and laborious investigation, that Committee made a Report, and the result was, that a Bill was brought in, giving power to the old water companies to continue to supply the metropolis with water, upon their undertaking to reduce their rates, and to layout a large sum of money in making certain improvements. Until they had an opportunity of proving whether or not they intended to perform those conditions, it was proposed that those old companies should have a sort of monopoly in supplying the metropolis with water, but no such stipulation was inserted in the Bill of last year. At all events it was understood that no new Bill should be introduced into Parliament the object of which would be to interfere with their privileges, until it was seen to what extent the old companies would meet the wish of the Legislature. From a conversation which took place the other day on the London Waterworks Bill, it transpired that the opinion that such delay should take place in favour of the old companies was shared in by the Chairman of the Committee of last year, and also by Her Majesty's late Government. On that occasion I took the liberty of requesting that some member of the Government would inform the House what is the opinion of Her Majesty's present Government with respect to this important question. It so happened on that occasion that no member of the Government was present, and I therefore gave notice of the question which stands on the paper in my name, to the following effect:—"What are the intentions of the Government with
 1384
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR , on rising for leave to introduce a Bill to repeal the Attorneys and Solicitors Annual Certificate Duty, said, before he went into the merits of this case, which he was afraid he should be compelled to do, he wished the House to take notice of the position in which this question was now placed. 1386 ad valorem 1387 l. l. l. l. 1388 l. l. l. 1389 l. l. 1390
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the subject of oaths. He said he attached a paramount degree of importance to the Motion of which he had given notice. It was eminently a question of truthfulness, and concerned the stability of our political and social institutions. Now, he ventured to state, that the period of the greatest untruthfulness in our history was that when the greatest number of oaths were taken; for instance, in the reigns of Henry VIII., Mary, and Elizabeth, before the Reformation was completed, when the prelates especially distinguished themselves by taking and revoking antagonistic Oaths. His object was to obtain a Committee armed with ample means of inquiry and investigation on this subject, in order that they might be enabled to arrive at the  ultimatum 1403 Si sciens fallo, turn me Diespiter, salva urbe arceque, bonis ejiciat, ut ego hunc lapidem; Jovem lapidem jurare per' Jovem lapidem. ex-officio 1404 1405 "There is no trace in the journals of the House of any oath being required to be taken by Members of the House of Commons upon taking their seats in the House, previously to the Act of the 5th of Elizabeth, cap. I, which directs, by sec. 16, that Members shall take the oath of supremacy (as set forth in I Elizabeth, cap 1), and which oath is thereby directed to be taken corporally upon the Evangelists before the Lord Steward or his deputy, before entering the Parliament House." 1406 l. 1407
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that after the very handsome manner in which the question had been treated by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of Exchequer, and seeing that they all concurred in the same opinion, he should he very sorry to divide the House.
 MR. COWAN  begged to second the Motion. The city with which he was connected was not distinguished for its commerce and manufactures, but depended upon the law and literature for its prosperity. He had that day had the honour to present a petition from the solicitors of Edinburgh, signed by 111 members of that body; and there were no fewer than 445 persons who paid the tax in the city | of Edinburgh, which amounted to about one-twentieth part of the whole sum contributed to the Exchequer by that duty. He objected to the tax, and he had always voted for the repeal of it, because it was a burthen which those gentlemen had to bear in addition to their share of all other taxes; but with regard to the principle of taxing professions, in his opinion no fairer tax could be demanded than an annual licence or certificate duty, provided it did not merely embrace a class small in number but was extended to all trades and professions alike. He gave notice two years ago of a Motion which he intended to submit to the House on that subject in
 1391 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. s. l. l. l.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  begged to express his full concurrence in what had fallen both from the Chairman of the Committee, and from the noble Lord the Home Secretary. As a Member of that Committee, he regretted that the Chairman did not recommend a prosecution in this case, for there were several other circumstances connected with the evidence which made it appear to him one of the most aggravated cases of perjury that in all his experience he had ever become acquainted with.
 MR. PACKE  said, he considered that the House was greatly indebted to Her Majesty's Government for having introduced the present measure. He wished to ask the hon. Member (Mr. Fitzroy) whether any alteration was proposed with respect to the number of magistrates who would have to adjudicate upon these eases?
 MR. FORTESCUE  said, he wished to take that opportunity of saying one word with respect to the oaths taken at the table of the House, which he had always thought very objectionable, and, indeed, absurd. He had a strong feeling against both the oaths, as they now stood—that taken by Protestants, and that taken by Roman Catholic Members of the House. As to the oath of supremacy, it was a relic of a state of things which had ceased to exist, and was either a truism or unmeaning; and an unmeaning oath was an irreverent oath. Then as to the Roman Catholic oath, he was persuaded that they had no right to impose such an oath on the consciences of any particular class of the Members of that House. He had a strong feeling that they had no right to protect any particular institution of the country, however sacred its objects, by such means. No such limitation of their constitutional right was imposed upon other Dissenters from the Church of England. The members of the Anti-State Church Association were not fettered in their crusade against the State Church by any such obligation. The Established Church of Scotland
was not defended by any such contrivance. He hoped to see the time when one simple
 1414
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that his name had been placed upon the Indian Territories Committee, but he had consented to have it struck off the list, on the ground that the Roman Catholic Members were not sufficiently represented upon the Committee. The hon. Gentleman whose name was substituted for his own, was the hon. and learned Member for Ennis (Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald).
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, I that there had been an understanding with the late Government that the Irish Members should be more fully represented on the India Committee. Their attention had been called to the subject by an hon.! and learned Member, who showed that while vast sums were paid to the Protestant clergy in India for the charge of about 50,000 people, as well as for the support of the Mahomedan and Hindoo religious, not one farthing had been given to the Roman Catholics, who were very numerous. The Roman Catholics were even deprived of the money left to them i for religious purposes by members of their faith. What he complained of more particularly was, that there was a systematic practice of excluding Irish Members from Committees of the House, unless on questions connected with Ireland. India had exerted an enormous influence over this Empire, and yet Irishmen had been as far as possible excluded from that country, though the names of Wellington, Keane, and Gough proved they had not been inferior to Englishmen or Scotchmen in promoting the interests of the British Empire on that great continent. The first man who ever gave a check to the system of peculation which had existed in India was an Irishman, who, when President at Mysore, had refused a bribe of 100,000 l. 1423
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he was aware that when a Committee was named, it was invidious to get up and to take exceptions to a particular Member, He thought, however, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with whose politics he seldom coincided, had gone beyond his province in lecturing hon. Members. For his own part he felt himself quite as competent to bring forward any measure he pleased, as the right hon. Gentleman himself, his Parliamentary experience being quite as long and as extensive as that of the right hon. Gentleman. As far as the injustice to Irish Members was concerned, that was an evil which had long been felt. He pledged himself, however, so long as he had at seat in that House, he would not cease from his exertions to get this injustice redressed.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he really did think that, under the circumstances, it was important that they should understand precisely the position that the Motion took; and from what he had learned from his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it was quite clear that if the noble Lord agreed to postpone his Motion until some indefinite period, when his right hon. Friend should have taken into consideration the pressure of different taxes upon different classes of society, the noble Lord would share the same fate that all others had mot who had acceded to a request for postponement made under such circumstances by a Chancellor of the Exchequer, and would ultimately fail in accomplishing his object. The right hon. Gentleman said this was not the proper time to bring forward this question; that it was not proper to consider in an isolated way one particular tax pressing upon one particular class. With great deference to his right hon, Friend, he said, that if there was a peculiar tax that pressed heavily on a peculiar class, that was a subject worthy of consideration. It was to be distinguished from other cases, and was deserving of being brought under the attention of the House; and that it might he useful for a Chancellor of the Exchequer, before he prepared his Budget, to know what the feeling of the House was on a certain tax. This was a very peculiar tax, and nobody had ever suggest-
 1398 l. l. l. l. l. 1399 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that, in putting the question on this subject of which he had given notice, he would remind the House that in 1810 there was laid upon the table the Report of a Committee, into which Committee Sir Robert Peel was put by the Government of the day to support their erroneous opinions. Sir Robert Peel, however, became a convert to the sounder principles of Mr. Locke and Sir Isaac Newton, and from that time sound principles had been followed by the various Administrations, and by no member of those Administrations more remarkably than by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax (Sir C. Wood) during the Government of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London. Since that time circumstances had occurred of a totally un-
 1385
 MR. J. BALL  begged to express his con currence in the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer that a division on this Motion at that time would only weaken the cause the hon Gentleman had in view; hut being one or those who felt very strongly as to the position in which Roman Catholic Members of the House stood from the present state of the law on this subject, he felt it his duty to say that at the earliest opportunity, which he believed would be upon going into Committee upon the noble Lord's Bill, be should bring before the House the question of oaths taken by Roman Catholic Members, with a view to carry out the object of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Southwark (Mr. Pellatt)—namely, to assimilate the oaths taken by all Members of that House.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that the oaths required to be taken by Roman Catholic Members of Corporations in Ireland were felt to be a great grievance. In a corporation with which he was himself officially connected, that of the city of Cork, a Roman Catholic Member bad refused, some time ago, to take those oaths; and considerable discussion had arisen on the point whether he could fulfil his duties until be had done so. Upon that occasion it was
 1411
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he must assert that the Irish Members were excluded systematically from Committees, except those on Irish subjects. He believed that there bad been great dissatisfaction in India in consequence of the injustice done to Roman Catholics, and at Hyderabad there
 1426
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  said, he approved of the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Bath as to corporal punishment, because it was scarcely possible to conceive those feelings and sympathies which revolted against such a punishment should have any application to a person degraded by one of the savage assaults which this Bill was intended to prevent. There were two points connected with criminal jurisprudence which he hoped would also receive the attention of the Government. The first was the gross injustice of inflicting punishment on labourers for taking their masters' corn to give to their masters' horses. By a scholastic subtlety, the Judges held that to be precisely the same offence as if the person had stolen the corn and sold it for his own purposes; and he had never seen a case of that description tried in which the Judge, the jury, and the counsel did not all do everything they could to facilitate the escape of the accused person. Such a law was an abomination in itself, and ought to be altered. The second point was the disgraceful custom of exacting fines from persons acquitted of misdemeanors. It was the constant practice of police officers and others to prosecute parties for misdemeanors, and just before the time appointed for the trial to withdraw the charge; the accused persons had to pay a sum of money although they were acquitted, and he said that was an abuse disgraceful to a civilised country. The Government, he considered, by this measure would add another to their claims upon the gratitude of the public.
 MR. STAPLETON  said, he wished to call the attention of the hon. Member to
 1422
 MR. HENLEY  said he must characterise this Bill as containing some things which were certain, and others which were uncertain. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer was to pay 130,000 l. l. l. l. l. 1439
 MR. HENLEY  said, he understood the hon. Gentleman to say that every day they postponed the passing of this Bill they were increasing the charge on the London Bridge Approaches Fund, and so delaying the period when the coal tax would cease. To the extent of 34,000 l. l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, if the two funds were entirely distinct, he did not understand why the 130,000 l.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he agreed with the
 1428
 MR. LOWE  said, he regretted the absence of the right hon. President of the Board of Control (Sir C. Wood), which proceeded from unavoidable causes; but had his right hon. Friend imagined that reference would have been made in the course of the discussion arising out of this Motion to the general question of legislation regarding India, he would have no doubt endeavoured to be present. He
 1430
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he was decidedly opposed to this Bill, because the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that it would not make the slightest difference in the duty now charged upon coals. He objected to a tax being levied, not only upon the inhabitants of London, but upon all those who lived within twenty miles of it. The London coal duties were now charged upon 3,000,000 of persons; and not only had the citizens to pay it, but also those who lived in the metropolitan counties, and who derived no benefit whatever from local improvements. The inhabitants of Croydon, for instance—a town situated twelve miles from the heart of London—consumed 40,000 tons of coal annually, and upon that quantity they paid a tax of 3,000 l.
 MR. BRAMSTON  begged, as Chairman of the Chatham Election Committee, to second the Motion. He had not been authorised by the Committee to make a Motion that the witness, Mount, should be prosecuted; at the same time, having heard that evidence, be had not the slightest doubt on his mind, nor did he think any Member of the Committee had, that the man while giving evidence was telling very gross false hoods, and that in point of fact he was guilty of wilful and corrupt perjury. He thought it was of very great consequence that the character and dignity of the Election Committees should be held up to the utmost by the House; and that the witnesses and parties should know that they could not come before these tribunals and wilfully tell what was false without incurring the risk of the same punishment as would be inflicted upon them if convicted before any Court of Record in the Kingdom. It was also of great consequence to show witnesses the distinction which existed between Select Committees of Inquiry upstairs, and Committees of the nature of Elect ion Committees, which, by virtue of certain Acts of Parliament, had power to try the issue brought before them, upon oath, and were constituted in all respects as judicial tribunals. They should be made to feel that if they dared to tell falsehoods they would be subject to the severity of the law. He therefore cordially seconded the Motion. At the same time, he very much doubted the expediency of the second Resolution of the hon. Member. He thought it was of great consequence that a Motion for prosecuting a witness for perjury should be made by the Chairman of the Committee, under the direction of the Committee itself, who had beard the evidence and were cognisant of the manner in which it was given. They ought not to fetter the proceedings of these Committees, nor those of the House, by any sweeping and general Resolution of the description proposed by the hon. Member (Mr. L. King). If any
 1434
 MR. BRAMSTON  said, the Committee appeared to have been guilty of more than one omission, for they ought to have stated in their report that the witness Mount was called by the petitioners, and not by the Member who was unseated. A misapprehension had gone forth in that respect. The sitting Member having been charged with bribery, and bribery having been proved against him, the evidence of the witness Mount might be considered to have affected him. But that was not the case. Mount's evidence was tendered by the petitioners, and did not at all affect the unseated Member.
 MR. PHINN  said, he thought the country and the House were much indebted to his hon. Friend (Mr. Fitzroy) and the Government for introducing the present Bill; but he very much regretted that they had not gone further, and introduced the principle of corporal punishment to persons convicted of such offences. He candidly confessed that he was not an advocate for corporal punishment in ordinary cases. He believed that it both brutalised and degraded the objects to whom it was applied; but in cases of this kind, where men were already reduced below the level of the brute, when all moral sense had gone out of them, he believed it might be applied with good effect in the way of a preventive of such crimes in future. He might refer to two cases of recent legislation in proof of this. It was well known that at the commencement of Her reign Her Majesty was subjected to more than one brutal attack by persons who had no treasonable designs, but who were merely anxious to acquire notoriety. Well, these attacks had been entirely put an end to by the application of corporal punishment to the offence. Then, again, there was the other case of the destruction of national monuments and objects of priceless value by reckless persons. That, too, had been put an end to by the threat of corporal punishment; and it had never been necessary to apply it. He hoped it would have an equally good effect in the present class of cases, and he begged to give notice that, in Committee, he should move a clause introducing the principle of corporal punishment, being satisfied in his own mind
 1420 l. certiorari certiorari 1421
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he rose to express his concurrence in the recommendation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it would be the better course not to press this Motion at present, lest a division upon it should indicate to the public a difference of opinion, which really did not exist in the House. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that unnecessary oaths were a great evil, which should form the subject of some remedial legislation, but did not require to be investigated by a Select Committee, because the facts were already well known to Members of the House. He wished, however, to direct the special attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to some few facts, in order to illustrate the mode in which unnecessary oaths were administered at contested elections in Ireland under the existing laws. During the last election for the
 1412 1413
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he really thought it very confusing to attempt to settle the question of adding two Members to the Committee on Indian territories by reference to what had been done with respect to Kilmainham Hospital. It was mixing up matters which had no relation whatever. [Mr. F. FRENCH: I submit they have everything to do with it.] Their only relation to each other was their being combined in the same speech. Besides that, he protested against any such connexion. The hon. Member pro-
 1424 1425
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he rose to correct an error in his statement on the preceding day. He had stated that the consumers of coals would not have to pay a farthing more or less under this Bill, whereas he should have stated that the consumer of coals
 1441 l. 1442 l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he was now assailed on both sides with regard to this Bill; and he hoped that before the hon. Gentleman behind him (Mr. Alcock) charged him with seeking to increase the burdens of the consumers of coals, he would first settle his quarrel with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), who objected to the Bill that it would relieve the London Bridge Approaches Fund
 1443 l. pro tanto l. l. l. 1444 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the land revenue was entitled to receive, as the law now stood, from the Commissioners of Works the reimbursement of all that was paid out in interest on the London Bridge Approaches Fund and other assets. He now proposed that they should be reimbursed immediately, instead of remaining longer out of their money This was not a payment that had been made by the land revenues once and for all and without return. The land revenues, although they could not recover that payment of interest,  eo nomine 1446 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the attention of the House had been directed for a long series of years to the subject of unnecessary oaths, and great advantage had attended the operation of the measures that had been passed in reference to them. He perfectly agreed with both the hon. Members who had spoken, and he believed he had the concurrence of the House in the opinion, that unnecessary oaths were great evils; that they, first, positively offered temptations to bad men, and even to others who were not quite bad men; and, secondly, that they had a most important effect in diminishing the reverence for the sacred name of the Deity. He was sure that as far as regarded that proposition, and the proposition of the hon. Member (Mr. Pellett) that for the promotion of truth he might count upon the universal sympathy of the House. He would venture, however, to express a hope that the hon. Member would rest satisfied with the opportunity afforded him of enforcing his views, and that he would not at present call upon the House to assent to his Motion. In the Motion the Hon. Gentleman pointed at three objects which he had in view. First, an inquiry "into the subject of oaths, and the operation of the Act 1 & 2  Will. Will. 1409 1410
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in answer to my hon. Friend I have to state, that Her Majesty's Government have carefully watched and observed the course of monetary transactions, and especially with respect to the influx and efflux of gold into and from this country during a recent period; but they do not see the proofs of the reduced value of gold by any means so clearly as they have appeared to my hon. Friend; and they have no intention, under present circumstances, and as at present advised, of appointing any Committee to inquire into this subject.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was very plain that whatever might be the interest of the hon.
 1392 1393 l. l. 1394 l. 1395 1396 1397
 MR. MONSELL  said, the Committee had been appointed by the late President of the Board of Control, who had stated, not as had been alleged, that he would place Irish Members upon the Committee, but that if the number of the Committee was increased, he would then place additional Irish Members upon it. The present President of the Board of Control had simply substituted Members of the present Government for those who had gone out of office, and had continued the same number of Irish Members upon the Committee as his predecessor had done, and had substituted the name of the hon. and learned Member for Ennis (Mr. J. Fitzgerald) for that of the hon. Member for Louth (Mr. C. Fortescue). If the appointment of the Committee had now for the first time come under consideration, he should have been I glad to see more Irish Members upon it; but, at present, any addition to the number which had been decided upon would be very inconvenient in itself, and a bad precedent for the future.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  hoped that the object of this measure was to reduce the interest upon the whole amount by one or one and a-half per cent, and that by that process the tax upon coals might terminate the sooner, for the benefit of the metropolis.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought the statement made by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, with respect to the London Bridge Approaches Fund was quite satisfactory; but. he still contended that the Consolidated Fund did take upon itself a portion of debt for which there was no security.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he had on a former occasion moved for some returns connected with this subject, which he elicited at the time, but failed in accomplishing the object he had in view. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would afford the House that information which was so desirable on the subject. There was a debt of 1,200,000 l. l. 1440 l. l. l. l.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he hoped in coming to this Resolution, the House would carefully avoid attacking small men, without at the same time being prepared to attack the great. Among the Sessional Orders he found two, one of which he thought applied quite as much to the man who was unseated for bribery as the other did to the case of the individual then before the House. The Sessional Order, referring to the case of perjury, stated, that if it should appear that any person had given false evidence in any case before the House or before Committees, the House would proceed with the utmost severity against such individuals. He also found it resolved that if it should appear that any person was elected or returned to the House, or endeavoured so to be, by bribery or any corrupt practices, the House would proceed with the utmost severity against such person for such corrupt practices. His object was to express his hope that the House would proceed with evenhanded justice in this case; and that this latter Sessional Order would be followed up; and, as Sir Frederick Smith had been found guilty of bribing voters at the Chatham Election, he hoped the Committee would recommend the same course to be pursued with regard to Sir Frederick Smith as was now recommended in the case of Stephen Mount, and that he would be visited by the House with the utmost severity, according to
 1436
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  then moved for a return of the number of actions or suits in the High Court of Admiralty of England for each of the six years preceding the passing of the Act 3 & 4  Vict. Vict.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he wished to ask what was the sum that would have to be repaid to the Treasury from the London Bridge Approaches Fund before any reduction could take place in the coal duties levied from the public? Was it the 895,000 l. l. l.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he would not then enter into a statement of the duties of the Board of Health; but he would say that the reconstitution of the Board of Health was under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government, and something would no doubt be done. He had no objection to the Returns being produced.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he wished in the first place, to express his most cordial concurrence in the opinion delivered by his hon. Friend (Mr. L. King) as to the fair and impartial manner in which the Election Committees bad performed their duties. It was impossible to do more than common justice to them in saying that they had acted with the greatest impartiality, and, what was still better, had acted with becoming promptitude. He attached as much importance as any man could possibly do to punishing, and thereby preventing, perjury before these Committees, because it was obvious, if witnesses who were brought before Election Committees were permitted to pursue that course of perjury which it appeared some witnesses had systematically pursued, the functions of the House of Commons itself would be entirely defeated, and all the purposes for which these Select Committees were appointed would be entirely frustrated. Therefore it was the duty of the House to visit with every possible degree of severity every case of perjury which could be established against any witness. He therefore entirely concurred with that part of the Motion which directed a prosecution in this case. He believed, according to the ordinary course, it would have been the part of the Committee to resolve that their Chairman should make that Motion. So far as regarded the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman who seconded the Motion (Mr. Bramston), that the second Resolution should be omitted, he entirely agreed. It would no doubt be right to make good the omission of the Committee in the present case; but with regard to all future cases he thought it would be better to leave it to the Committees to pursue what was the regular course, and not to take out of the bands of the Committees functions which properly belonged to themselves; reserving, of course, to! the House, the power of making good
 1435
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that undoubtedly there was no positive stipulation between Parliament and the existing water companies, which should preclude the House from dealing as it might think fit with any Bill for establishing any new water company which might be brought in this year, or at any other time. But if he were asked what the opinion of the Government was on the subject with regard to the expediency and discretion on the part of Parliament, he should say, that the Act of last year having imposed upon the existing water companies the obligation of undertaking large works, which could only be executed at very great expense, and there being, apparently, reason to think that, if those works were executed in the manner prescribed, and the supply of water was given in accordance with the provisions of the Act, there was a reasonable probability that the metropolis might be supplied with good water, he should say, on the part of the Government, that they would recommend the House to abstain from establishing any new company until the existing companies had had a fair trial as to whether they could or could not accomplish the purposes under the provisions of the Act for which that Act was obtained.
 MR. STAFFORD : Whatever, Sir, may be the result of the Motion of the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall), I must commence my observations by tendering to him my acknowledgments for the spirit and tone of his speech, and for the courteous and candid communications which he has made to me, during the last few weeks, with reference to the subject now before the House. But having said this much in reference to the hon. Baronet, I must ask the indulgence of the House while I remind them that it will be a somewhat difficult task for me to follow the various details to which the hon. Baronet has adverted; for it is one thing to defend oneself when in office with all the resources of the department at hand, and quite another thing to do so when deprived of access to those official documents and memoranda which are necessary to be referred to in such cases. I hope the House will bear in mind, therefore, that I labour under considerable disadvantages in the present discussion; and that, notwithstanding the kindness of the right hon. Baronet who now holds the office of First Lord of the Admiralty, the minutes and papers which I should have wished to have consulted have not been so accessible to me as they would have been had I remained in office. I may be permitted, without disrespect to the hon. Baronet who has just addressed the House, to alter somewhat the order of the subject which he has brought forward, because I feel there is one point of such great importance to myself—if I may be allowed so to speak—that I must claim the indulgence of the House while I refer to it in the first instance. The hon. Baronet has stated, and stated justly, that it is the privilege of the representatives of the people to ask questions of the Executive Government in reference to the several departments of State; and he says most truly that there is the
 58 59 "Castle Malwood, April 11, 1853. "I saw Mr. Stafford in the presence of Sir Baldwin Walker, and Mr. Stafford stated to him that he had not any intention, by the circular sent to the dockyards, of casting any reflection upon the Surveyor. I think Mr. Stafford brought with him a written memorandum, which he read, and Walker made some objection to a part of it, which, I think, Mr. Stafford altered. This memorandum was afterwards sent to the dockyards. Walker appeared satisfied, and I then considered it settled, and destroyed Sir Baldwin Walker's letter. This, I believe, is the whole case.—Yours very truly, "HYDE PARKER." "By Mr. Serjeant Kinglake: You say, although you addressed a letter, it was not brought before the Board? "Sir B. Walker: I discovered afterwards that it had not been brought before the Board; the letter was on the 21st of April, 1852. A further explanation is necessary on my part; it was delivered to the senior naval Lord of the Admiralty, addressed to the Secretary. "By Mr. Merewether: Did you deliver it?—Yes, I did. I wish to add, I discovered, some months afterwards, that it had not been brought before the Board. "By Mr. Serjeant Kinglake: Do you know what became of the letter after you had delivered it to the senior naval Lord of the Admiralty?—I do not. "Did you see it at all afterwards?—I saw it in his hand the day afterwards. 60 "In whose hand?—The senior naval Lord's. "Who was the senior naval Lord at the time?—Admiral Hyde Parker." "Admiralty, April 26, 1852. "Misconstruction having arisen with reference to their Lordships' circular issued on the 19th instant, I am to acquaint you that no imputation is intended to be cast thereby upon the Surveyor of the Navy. The arrangements with regard to the dockyard promotions as laid down by their Lordships' circular of 27th February, 1847, will be strictly adhered to, and they deem it desirable to revert to the system then in force of having all communications on the subject addressed to this office in the first instance. "By command of their Lordships, (Signed) "AUGUSTUS STAFFORD. "To the Superintendents of the Dockyards at Deptford, Woolwich, Sheerness, Chatham, Portsmouth, Devonport, and Pembroke." 61 "Somerset House, Nov. 25, 1852. "Sir—Having observed in the public papers that the Secretary of the Admiralty is reported to have stated in the House of Commons, on the evening of the 23rd instant, in reply to certain questions asked by Admiral Berkeley and Sir George Pechell, that there was no correspondence with the Surveyor of the Navy on the subject of the promotions in the dockyards, and also that the Surveyor of the Navy had not tendered his resignation, I desire, through you, to call the at tention of my Lords the Commissioners of the Admiralty to letters from me, bearing date the 21st of April and the 10th of May last.—I have, &c, (Signed)— "B. W. WALKER, Surveyor of the Navy. "Augustus Stafford, Esq., M.P., &c. Secretary of the Admiralty." "Admiralty, Nov. 26, 1852. "With reference to your letter of the 25th instant, I am to acquaint you that your letters of the 21st of April and 10th of May, referred to by you, do not appear to have reached the Record department of this office, and my Lords therefore request you will transmit copies of these letters. "By command of their Lordships, (Signed)"A. STAFFORD. "Surveyor of the Navy." "Somerset House, Nov. 29, 1852. "Sir—With reference to your letter of the 26th instant, I beg to acquaint you that since my communication of the 25th instant, I have been informed that my letter of the 21st of April, ad-
 62 (Signed) "B. W. WALKES. "Augustus Stafford, Esq., M.P., &c, Secretary of the Admiralty."
 MR. STAFFORD : No, not a proviso. It was as follows:—
 "And in case such correspondence shall not be in the office, that the Surveyor shall be directed to furnish copies of any letter or letters addressed by him to the Secretary or the First Lord of the Admiralty on such subject." 63 "Admiralty, April 2,1852. "Dear Sir Baldwin—I find that great dissatisfaction exists among my political friends as to the present arrangement of appointments and promotions in the dockyards, and there is a very general impression that all these things are dispensed among our political opponents, insomuch that there seems no alterative but to resume the system which existed previous to September, 1849. I need not tell you that no one considers the blame—if blame there be—to rest with you; but you are thought too far removed from politics altogether to understand the small intrigues which go on in these places. For myself, I hate the notion of patronage altogether, and a change of the existing arrangements would only expose me to perpetual annoyance and trouble; but in any case your wishes would always have great weight with me; and in the perfect frankness with which I now state the case and ask your opinion, I hope you will perceive the sincere respect with which I remain, dear Sir Baldwin, truly yours, "A. STAFFORD." 64 65 "When the Whigs, in 1848, began to feel their power declining, they thought it necessary to fall on some plan for continuing a system which would, even if they retired from office, still leave the dockyard patronage in their grasp. The commencement of that system had stuffed every hole and corner in the yards with Whig officials and underlings, and during twenty years these worthies had managed to exclude from entry or promotion all parties who would not support the Whig interests. It became necessary to vest all recommendations with dockyard authorities, the channel for which was the Surveyor of the Navy—and thus erect a formidable  chevaux de frise "Political party feeling is very strong in this dockyard, and the heads of departments being all
 66 prima facie 67 "All reports from the officers of the yard shall be made and transmitted, when necessary, by the superintendent to our Secretary for our information and direction. Superintendent, you are daily to correspond with our secretary, acquainting him with the transactions of the yard, &c. You are to report all vacancies, without exception, that occur in the dockyard; and when any vacancies, occasioned by promotion or otherwise, shall occur, you are, after consulting the officer in whose department such vacancy may happen, to forward to the Admiralty the names of persons belonging to the yard fit, from ability and character, to succeed to the vacancy; but no person whatever is to be promoted or entered on the establishment of the yard in any vacancy or otherwise, as office clerk, artificer, or labourer, without our express authority." "Are the miscellaneous estimates of the present year laid on the table of the House of Commons?—I am told not. I have now got a draft with regard to the office of Surveyor of the Navy, which I will put in. My wish has been that Sir B. Walker should know his office well before we absolutely settle his establishment. But this expresses the view I take of what it ought to be. I think it will meet his views, and I hope it will meet the
 68 "In all professional details of matters connected with his duties, in requiring information or explanation on professional points, the Surveyor will be at liberty to correspond with the officers of the yards; but he is not to issue any orders of a general nature, or to enter upon any part of the general correspondence with the superintendents of the yards." 69 "Somerset House, May 10, 1852. "My Lord Duke—I feel that I should be neglecting my duty were I not to point out to your Grace the evil system of my position as Surveyor of the Navy, but also with reference to the appointments and promotions in the dockyards." "Your Grace is aware that the Secretary of the Admiralty thought proper to cancel, without the knowledge of the Board, their Lordships' Circular of 29th September, 1849, which directs that all papers respecting promotions and vacancies in the dockyards should be sent through the Surveyor to their Lordships. This order of 1849 was only reverting to a system which had always been in force prior to 1845, and which was then discontinued, I have reason to believe, on personal grounds." "The abolition of a system which was found to work well for upwards of three years, causing an annual saving of 130,00(M. in the wages of the artificers of the dockyards, independent of upwards of 60,000£. in the steam factories, without impairing the efficiency of those establishments, must be prejudicial to the public interest, and has tended much to lower the position of the Surveyor." 70 l l l Duke of Wellington, Duke of Wellington. "Now there is no one to control the establishments, and the Surveyor can no longer be held responsible for the Estimates not being exceeded, nor can he be answerable for the efficiency of those establishments; for the Board's admirable Circular of February, 1847, which directs that all advancement in the dockyards shall be for merit alone, has been virtually thrown aside—vacancies have been filled up which were not necessary, and men advanced, not for merit, but by political influence; and in one instance a person has been promoted who is not competent to fill the situation to which he has been appointed; and that was done without any reference having been made to the superintendent of the yard." 71 "Having stated thus much, I think it right to inform your Grace that I attribute the inconsiderate manner in which I have been put aside by the Secretary of the Admiralty to my unqualified refusal to depart from their Lordships' Circular of February, 1847, by lending myself to recommend men for advancement on political grounds." 72 73 "were brought before the master attendant intoxicated, through taking, it appeared, some of the contractor's ram, about 40 cent above proof, under delivery, and they were ordered to be discharged. The master shipwright having stated these men to be of excellent character, and that they did not neglect their duty on this occasion above a minute, he was directed to reprimand them, with a caution for the future." 74
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE  said, that as a member of the late Board of Admiralty, he thought the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford) had most ably and satisfactorily vindicated himself from the charges brought against him. He had the honour and the pleasure of knowing Sir Baldwin Walker, having been associated with him in service, and he believed him to be a most able officer, and a most honourable man. At the same time he was bound to say, looking at the evidence Sir Baldwin Walker had given before the Chatham Committee, and at the contents of papers which had been laid before that House, there were discrepancies between the two, which he hoped that officer would be able to explain most satisfactorily, and consistently with his honour as a gentleman.
 MR. STAFFORD : I can tell him they were not. I admit going in the  Black Eagle; l. George Fury. 85
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he had hoped that the hon. Gentleman, after finishing his speech, would have seconded the Motion of the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall). [Mr. STAFFORD: That has been done already.] He had hoped, however, that the hon. Gentleman would have shown some anxiety to have a Committee, after all that had passed. He (Admiral Berkeley) rose to speak for an absent man—a man he was proud to call his friend, having been on service with him when he greatly distinguished himself in the naval profession, and having known him also when employed in civil situations—he meant Sir Baldwin Walker. The hon. Gentleman, throughout his speech, had cast imputations on that officer; and he maintained that the House would not do him justice unless a Committee was appointed. If Sir Baldwin Walker were present, he believed he would be able to give excellent reasons for the assertion that the circular, to which reference had so often been made, was cancelled without the knowledge of the Board. The regulations originally commenced by the present First Lord of the Admiralty (Sir J. Graham were framed, not, as the hon. Gentleman had insinuated, to encourage jobbing, but to put an end to the political jobbing which had previously taken place. The same principle was carried out by his successors; and if a Committee were granted it would be shown that, under the sur-
 86 Morning Herald, Morning Herald "New-street, Spring-gardens, April 15." My dear Sir James Graham—From a communication I have had to-day with Mr. Piers, it seems that in my letter to you on the 12th inst., I have confounded the submission of the Surveyor's recommending Wells with another submission from the Surveyor as to an appointment of a draughtsman to his office, and I am reminded that I dealt with his letter precisely as I had supposed I had dealt with the submission recommending Wells; and, as regards the missing minute, I am
 87 "The original submission of the Surveyor of the Navy, dated September 9, 1852, recommending Mr. Wells for the situation of master-smith at Portsmouth, was, as I perfectly recollect, placed in my hand, together with other papers relating to the case, by Captain Hamilton, who desired me to keep them by me until Mr. Stafford's return from the Mediterranean, Mr. Stafford being then expected back in a few days. On the return of Mr. Stafford to the Admiralty I lost no time in giving all the said papers (including the above-mentioned original submission of the Surveyor of the Navy), either to Mr. Stafford himself, or to his private secretary, Mr. Grant—I cannot positively state which—in accordance with the directions I received from Captain Hamilton. "O. BARRINGTON PIERS. "April 16, 1853." "I beg to state that as far as my memory serves me, I saw the original submission of the Surveyor of the Navy recommending the appointment of Wells, with the following minute upon it by Admiral Parker:—'Approved, H. P.' This document is not in my possession, and I do not know what has become of it, and from the length of time that has elapsed I am unable to say whether Mr. Piers ever put it into my hand." 88
 Mr. CORRY  said, it would be a work of supererogation on his part to enter upon the defence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Stafford) after the convincing statement he had just made. He was satisfied the House would agree with him that if the object in making the Motion had been to bring charges against him, it had signally failed. He must say, also, that the good feeling he had displayed in his speech, and the ability he had displayed in vindicating his conduct and character, could hardly fail to have elevated him highly in -the opinion of Parliament and the estimation of the country. Although he should not on that account enter into the special subject, he would ask the House to grant him its indulgence to correct an erroneous impression which the letter of Sir Baldwin Walker to the First Lord of the Admiralty (the Duke of Northumberland) was calculated to create. It was stated that "this order of 1849 was only reverting to a system which had always been in force prior to 1845, and which was then discontinued, I have reason to believe, on personal grounds." That implied a most serious charge against the Board of Admiralty, with which he had the honour to be connected; but he could assure the House there was no alteration of the
 89 90
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, it was not his intention to address the House at any length, but he thought that, after the defence which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stafford) had made against the charges of Sir Baldwin Walker, decency and justice would induce the House to grant the Committee. After a letter of a distinguished and hon. officer making such grave charges, and after such charges as those which the hon. Gentleman had brought against Sir Baldwin Walker, and also against Mr. Parker, the justice of the case would not be satisfied if they shuffled off this inquiry. He would make one observation with regard to the personal conduct of the hon. Gentleman with respect to the accuracy of an answer which he had given. It was painful enough to be opposed to hon. Gentlemen upon political grounds, but he hoped no political feelings would ever induce them to forget those feelings which ought to be entertained by gentlemen towards gentlemen. The explanation of the hon. Gentleman was hardly required to satisfy them that he had had no intention whatever of giving an inaccurate answer. The hon. Gentleman had said that, as long as Sir Henry Ward was at the Admiralty things went well, but when Mr. Parker came, an order was issued to satisfy a particular party. Now, that order was issued under his (Sir F. Baring's) administration of the Admiralty, and, as far as Mr. Parker was concerned, he might say that it was not his (Sir F. Baring's) habit to allow orders to be issued by the Secretary without the knowledge of the Board, whatever any subsequent Board might have done. The right hon. Gentleman who last spoke asserted that the old practice was that the superintendents of yards should recommend men for appointments; that the recommendations never went through the Surveyor; and that in his time no alteration in that practice was made. Now, he thought when the right hon. Gentleman said so that he was wrong, for, upon turning to some papers with
 91 "The several superintendents of Her Majesty's dockyards have been directed to report all vacancies for artificers and labourers in the yards under their superintendence to you, and to send no return of these vacancies to the Secretary of the Admiralty, and you are to forward the returns from the respective dockyards, with any remarks you may have to offer upon them, as soon after you have received them as possible. "You are to report all vacancies without exception that occur in the dockyard, and when any vacancy occasioned by promotion or otherwise shall occur, you are, after consulting the officer in whose department such vacancy may happen, to forward to the Admiralty the names of persons belonging to the yard fit from ability and character to succeed to the vacancy; but no person whatever is to be promoted or entered on the establishment of the yard in any vacancy or otherwise, as officer, clerk, artificer, or labourer, without our express authority." 92 93 forte.
 MR. STAFFORD : The hon. Gentleman said that the election was then over. Yes, but the election petition was not over. Why was not this paper laid before the Election Committee? Here I find the name of Cotsell entered in a double capacity, both as a briber and as bribed, and the person who bribed him is entered as the Secretary of the Admiralty. [ Laughter from Sir G. Pechell. 75 "With reference to the accompanying letter from the Admiral Superintendent at Portsmouth, and to their Lordships' decision that an experienced master shall be appointed to Portsmouth yard, from the private trade, I beg to state that Mr. James Wells, who is in his thirty-seventh year, has been recommended to me as being well qualified for the charge of a smithery." "I received an order from the Admiralty to select the best man for this appointment. I merely obeyed my orders to select the person best qualified. I am not aware that I have departed from the ordinary course." 76 "With reference to the papers moved by Mr. Stafford, as to the decision of the Board in August last, as to the filling up the vacancy of master smith at Portsmouth, I have to acquaint you that such decision does not appear in this office. In directing me to supply a copy of the order, I beg to acquaint you that there is no official document on the subject in the office." "James Wells, who is in his thirty-seventh year, has been very strongly recommended as being well qualified for the charge of a smithery; and I therefore submit that he be appointed master smith at Portsmouth Yard in the present vacancy, and that, as in the case of Messrs. Black and Ainslie, appointed respectively to Woolwich and Devonport Yards under similar circumstances, he be entered on probation for six months, to be paid at the rate of 200 l l 77 "My Lords have been pleased to appoint Mr. James Wells to be master smith at Portsmouth Dockyard. He is to be entered on probation for six months, and to be paid at the rate of 200 l. l. 78 "I venture to ask you, was it not out of the ordinary course of your duty your sending that communication to Wells?" "It certainly was, I may say, out of the ordinary course of my duty; but the Admiralty not having had the address, I concluded the letter had not been sent to him on that account." "I am directed by Sir Baldwin Walker to acquaint you that their Lordships have been pleased to appoint Mr. James Wells to be master smith at Portsmouth Yard; and he requests you will communicate this to Mr. Wells, in order that he may make arrangements to take up his appointment." protege "Their Lordships' order of the 10th ultimo for the appointment of a master smith to Portsmouth yard has been cancelled; and the undermentioned
 79 vice "I have received your memorial without date, and I am commanded by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you that they are not aware that you have received any appointment from them, and that their Lordships do not consider you justified in designating yourself 'late master smith of Her Majesty's Dockyard at Portsmouth;' they therefore return you your memorial." "If, however, from any communication with any of the officers of the several departments you have been led to expect such an appointment, their Lordships are prepared to give their consideration to any memorial from you on that subject; but my Lords cannot recognise you as late master smith of Portsmouth dockyard, as no warrant has been given to you by their Lordships for such appointment." 80 Duke of Wellington. "I beg to submit the above for the consideration of the admiral superintendent, and to observe that for professional ability and general fitness for the situation of master smith in this yard, and with regard to faithfulness, economy, and an appreciation of the improvements in smithery work, I have the highest opinion of Mr. Cotsell." "'May I venture to ask who recommended Wells?' he said, 'I must explain how it was done fully, if you will allow me. The person that he was immediately selected or named by was the master smith at Woolwich, who had worked in the same firm at Liverpool with Wells. 'He was asked,' Is that a firm that makes machinery?' and his reply was, 'I am not prepared to answer that question.' He was then asked,' Can you say whether Wells ever forged an anchor?' to which his reply was, 'I am not prepared to say that he has.'" 81 82 83 "A few words to certain electors of Chatham about bribery. Electors of Chatham—The law as to bribery at the present election is a new law. If one of the Secretaries of the Admiralty has accompanied Sir Frederick Smith in his canvass at the dockyard, the Secretary of the Admiralty will be obliged to declare every circumstance of that visit on oath. He must tell every word that passed between himself and Sir Frederick Smith; every word that Sir Frederick Smith said to the men in his presence. If any promise were made in his presence he will have to declare it. If in private he promised Sir Frederick Smith for any man, he will have to declare it. The Secretary to the Admiralty will have to convict himself. The Derby Ministry is beaten in the country. They will not be in power to damage any man for an honest vote, or to give a man a place of any sort for a dishonest one. Electors of Chatham, you are free, &c." "That it was proved to the Committee that Joseph Greathead, an elector of Chatham, had been bribed by a" situation as a letter-carrier in the Post-office, obtained for his son, C. Greathead, by Sir J. M. F. Smith. That it was proved before the Committee that a large number of the electors are employed in Her Majesty's dockyard, and other public departments at Chatham, and that they Are under the influence of the Government for the time being, and it appears that there is no instance of a candidate being elected for this borough who has not the support of the Government. Under these circumstances it will be for the House to determine whether the right of returning a Member should not for the future be withdrawn from the borough of Chatham. That it is the opinion of this Committee that there are strong grounds for believing that Stephen Mount, in giving his evidence before the Committee, had been guilty of wilful and corrupt perjury." 84
 MR. LIDDELL  said that, as a Member of the Committee, the impression produced upon his mind by the evidence, was that the state of the borough of Maldon was very corrupt; he should, therefore, support the Motion for the address.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I rise chiefly, Sir, for the purpose of saying, that if I thought in the terms of the appointment of the Committee there was any imputation on the personal honour of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Northamptonshire, I should certainly move for the omission of those terms. I do not find that the words contain any imputation, and I can only say I think the hon. Gentleman has successfully vindicated himself. I cannot say I am of the same opinion with respect to the judgment he displayed in cancelling the Minute of the Board of 1849. It appears to me a great principle is involved in the maintenance of that Minute, because the real efficiency of the public service depends on rewards being given in the dockyards for merit only, and on that Minute the whole utility of the dockyards rests. I deny that it resolves itself into a mere question of the exercise of patronage, for I hold that public servants have a right to expect that reward should be given for merit only, and I believe that that is the only method by which they can get officers to work for the public as efficiently as they do in private dockyards. I will only state that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) seems to me to have very needlessly vindicated the character of the Duke of Northumberland, upon whom I conceive no imputation has been cast. It does not appear in any part of this discussion that
 120
 LORD R. GROSVENOR  moved an ad-dress to the Crown, to issue a Commission to inquire into the existence of corrupt practices in the borough of Maldon. He would put the question of treating in this case entirely aside; but he might say that the Committee had not able to extort evidence from adverse witnessess, who gave their testimony in a very unsatisfactory manner; and he only expressed the opinion of the Committee when he said that a great amount of perjury had been committed. It was, however, shown that the agent for the sitting Member was a gentleman, named Parker, and that when he arrived in the borough, he went to the house of a man who was familiarly known as the "King of the Island," and offered him 150 l. 123 l,
 MR. DISRAELI : Well, but then I find this document in reference to Mr. Wells:—
 "By the Commissioners for executing the office of Lord High Admiral in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.—To Mr. William Wells—Whereas we think fit to appoint you to be master smith in Her Majesty's dockyard at Portsmouth, and you are hereby directed to receive forthwith and take upon yourself the duties of that station, and follow such orders and directions as you shall receive from the superintendents of the said dockyard, or from any other superior officer for the time being. For which this shall be your warrant." 118 119
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, this question, during the discussion, has assumed a various and varying aspect. It has now taken, from the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir James Graham), the form somewhat of an allegation of corrupt administration on the part of the late Government. I must make one
 114 115 116 117
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that he was anxious that the House should consider gravely the course they were invited to adopt, which it appeared to him would establish a most dangerous precedent, if they were going to appoint a Committee to investigate facts which had already been fully detailed by an impartial tribunal, composed of members themselves sworn to decide according to the evidence adduced before them, who examined witnesses upon their oaths. The Committee they were now about to appoint were not empowered to take evidence upon oath. He could not fail to deprecate the conduct pursued by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) with respect to this subject. Sir Baldwin Walker was examined before the Committee by order of that right hon. Gentleman; but after the case for the petitioners against the return from the Chatham Election had closed by the following observation of Sir Baldwin Walker, "That when the circular, vindicating his conduct, had been issued by the Admiralty, he thought that was sum-
 121
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he could not see why the authorities at the Admiralty should have sent Sir Baldwin Walker down to tender documentary evidence concerning circumstances which had passed in relation to himself, after that gentleman had declared himself satisfied with what had taken place. He thought that the right hon. Baronet had thus placed Sir Baldwin Walker in a most unfavourable position; and he must excuse him (Mr. Newdegate)
 122
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he must beg to express his thanks to the right hon. Baronet who had just resumed his seat for having done justice to his (Sir F. Thesiger's) hon. Friend (Mr. Stafford) in that part of the case which affected his personal honour and character. He did this the more readily, because he had certainly received a very painful impression from some of the observations made by the hon. and gallant Member for Gloucester (Admiral Berkeley), who very distinctly indeed charged his hon. Friend with having evaded the question put to him, and insinuated that there had been a suppression of some documents in the Admiralty, which suppression he more than insinuated was the act of his hon. Friend. Now it seemed, from what the right hon. Baronet said, that he was of opinion that this Committee ought to be granted, and that the public would not be satisfied unless there was a searching investigation. Let him ask, an inquiry into what? Because it appeared to him, upon the explanation given by his hon. Friend, that with regard to three at least of the four heads in the Resolution, the House was in possession of all the in-
 94 95 96 97 98 "Sir—Having observed in the public papers that the Secretary of the Admiralty is reported to have stated in the House of Commons, on the evening of the 23rd instant, in reply to certain questions asked by Admiral Berkeley and Sir George Pechell, that there was no correspondence with the Surveyor of the Navy on the subject of the promotions in the dockyards, and also that the Surveyor of the Navy had not tendered his resignation, I desire, through you, to draw the attention of my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to letters from me, bearing date the 21st of April and 10th of May last.—I have, &c, (Signed) "B. W. WALKER, Surveyor of the Navy. "To Augustus Stafford, Esq., M.P., Secretary to the Admiralty." "With reference to your letter of the 25th inst., I am to acquaint you that your letters of the 21st April and 10th May, referred to by you, do not appear to have reached the Record department of this office; and my Lords, therefore, request you will transmit copies of these letters." "With reference to your letter of the 26th inst., I beg to acquaint you that, since my communication of the 25th inst., I have been informed that my letter of the 21st of April, addressed to the Secretary to the Admiralty, which was delivered to Vice-Admiral Hyde Parker, was not brought before the Board; and, with reference to the letter of the 10th of May, it was a communication addressed to the First Lord of the Admiralty, and not to the Secretary.—I have, &c. "B. W. WALKER." Augustus Stafford, Esq., M.P., Secretary to the Admiralty." 99 "Copies of all correspondence during the year 1852 between the Board of Admiralty and the Surveyor of the Navy in reference to the resignation of his office." "In case such correspondence should not be in the office, that the Surveyor should be directed to furnish copies of any letter or letters addressed by him to the Secretary, or the First Lord of the Admiralty, on such subject." 100 101 102 103 104
 MR. BANKES  said, he must express his regret that a Motion of so much importance should be brought forward at so late an hour, because he thought no Motion for a Commission ought to be agreed to without full discussion. He had been a member of the Maldon Election Committee, and he must say he thought that bribery had been in no degree proved. He was not acquainted with any case in which he was more confident that no agency was proved that could justify the verdict of the Committee. He (Mr. Bankes) was not satisfied that, legally, power was granted by the Act of Parliament to institute inquiries on the ground of treating only, and he did not think the House was justified in voting for Commissions with reference to former occurrences at elections, unless there was some present case upon which they could found their decision. He supposed, however, that what seemed to be the spirit of the times was not to be resisted, and if the case of Clitheroe was to be taken as a precedent, he thought the case of Maldon could scarcely be distinguished from it.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  appeared at the bar, and reported that the Cockermouth Election Committee had determined—
 "That Henry Aglionby Aglionby, esquire, is duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Cockermouth. "That General Henry Wyndham is duly elected
 33
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he must divide the House against the Motion. He had looked carefully over the evidence, and could only find one case of bribery.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer respecting the intention of the Government in relation to the Irish Consolidated Annuities, as some misconception appeared to prevail upon the subject. He wished to know whether the Government intended to make any distinctions, or to remove the whole of the Annuities, in consideration of the imposition of the income tax being extended to Ireland.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he wished to ask whether it would not be as well to leave out of the inquiry the circumstances connected with the appointment of Mr. Wells and Mr. Cotsell?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he considered that this was a proper case in which a Commission should issue. The noble Lord (Lord R. Grosvenor) seemed to intimate that he (Mr. Walpole) was looking with a scrutinising eye, as if he wished to stop these inquiries. He only thought that, as they had been entrusted with extraordinary powers, they ought to be careful in applying them. He still thought that treating was not included within the Act of Parlia-
 124
 MR. PHINN  said, he must protest against the principle of questioning the decisions of the Select Committees. They should be taken by the House as just and fair.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am much obliged to my hon. Friend for having put a question to me upon a point so important as this. I stated last night that the whole of the Consolidated Annuities due from Ireland represented nearly 4.500.000 l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL : Before I proceed to make any observations upon the important subject which I shall feel it my duty to bring under the consideration of the House, I must be permitted, in the first place, not merely as in duty bound, but with every feeling of gratitude, to offer my sincere thanks to the two hon. Gentlemen (Mr. R. Phillimore and Sir W. Clay), who had precedence on the notice paper, for having permitted me to address you at this early part of the evening. It is quite unnecessary for me to assure the hon. Gentleman to whom I must frequently allude
 34 35 "Admiralty, February 27, 1847. "Sir—I am directed by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to inform you that they
 36 l. l. l. l.; l. "My Lords have much satisfaction in acknowledging the good moral tone that prevails amongst the artificers generally, and the excellent quality of the work performed by them. On the other hand, they think that there is abundant evidence to show that the quantity of work done is below the standard of well-conducted private establishments; and that there is great room for improvement in the application both of stores and labour. Their Lordships will not entertain any general charges of indifference to expense on the part of the officers, or of inertness on that of the men; and they are equally unwilling to dwell upon representations made to them of the effect of political feeling, in some of the yards, upon the course of promotion, though they can conceive nothing-more dangerous to their discipline, if true, or more detrimental to the public interest. They wish to look forward, not to look hack; their object being to introduce a system that may inspire every man with the belief that his conduct will he known and appreciated by his superiors, and that, however humble his position originally, his future fate depends upon his own exertions. Their Lordships see too much reason to apprehend that such is not the present state of feeling in the dockyards; but that the rise from shipwright to leading man, and from leading man to inspector, is regarded rather as a matter of accident or favour than as a reward due to merit, and to be dispensed upon plain and equitable principles." "My Lords have now only to call upon the admirals, and captains, superintendent, the master shipwrights, and the other principal officers of the dockyards, to assist them in working out this plan honestly. They have given sufficient proof, by the surrender of their own patronage, of the sincerity of their desire to make these great national establishments what they ought to be. They have re-
 37 "Do the Admiralty, on receiving that recommendation, in any case go out of the names recommended?" "We have tied and bound ourselves by this circular; everything in the yard is conducted upon the principles laid down in this circular. We have foregone all patronage whatever with regard to the promotion of the men; we found that it was working most injuriously upon the characters and morals of the men. We have wished to teach them to look to the head of the yard as the person through whom every recommendation to the Board must come, and to limit the action of the Board to the selection of one of the names that were submitted to them from the yard. We have done that with every class of artisans; we never advance a man of any kind without a report from the superintendent." "At elections, do the superintendents of the yard interfere directly or indirectly by the use of influence?" "Most distinctly not; we have had no complaint or suggestion of such a thing having been done in any one instance at the last election, of which alone I can speak. Had any one man done so, I will venture to say that under Lord Auck-
 38 "Admiralty, September 26, 1849. "Sir—In order that the Surveyor of the Navy may be enabled to check and properly control the new establishments of the dockyards which have been recently promulgated, all reports and correspondence on the subject of vacancies, promotion, or changes of the officers and workmen, are in future to be transmitted through him, instead of their Lordships, direct.—I am, &c. (Signed) "W. A. B. HAMILTON." l. l. l. 39 "Admiralty, April 19, 1852. "With reference to their Lordships' order of the 26th of September, 1849, which directs that all reports and correspondence on the subject of vacancies, promotion, or changes of the officers and workmen of the dockyards, shall be forwarded through the Surveyor's department, I am to as-quaint you that the order in question is to be considered as cancelled, and that in future such reports and correspondence are to be transmitted direct to the Secretary of the Admiralty.—By command of their Lordships, (Signed) "AUGUSTUS STAFFORD. "To the Superintendents of the Dockyards at Deptford, Woolwich, Sheerness, Chatham, Portsmouth, Devonport, and Pembroke." 40 "Somerset House, April 21, 1852. "Sir—You having been pleased to inform me that great dissatisfaction existed among your political friends at the manner in which the promotions, &c, were made in the dockyards, and that it was your intention, in consequence, to cancel their Lordships' circular of the 29th of September, 1849, which directs that all papers respecting vacancies and promotions should be sent through the Surveyor to their Lordships; and as the cancelling of this circular is the only step taken to remedy the evil you were pleased to state existed, it can bear no other construction than that of a censure on my conduct. I must therefore beg to tender to their Lordships my resignation; for I can no longer continue to hold the appointment of Surveyor of the Navy with such an imputation on my character as that of allowing political motives to influence my submission to the Board.—I have, &c. (Signed) "B. W. WALKER, "Augustus Stafford, Esq., M.P., &c, Secretary of the Admiralty," 41 "Admiralty, April 26,1852. "Misconstruction having arisen with reference to their Lordships' circular issued on the 19th inst., I am to acquaint you that no imputation is intended to be cast thereby upon the Surveyor of the Navy. The arrangements with regard to the dockyard promotions, as laid down by their Lordships' circular of the 27th February, 1847, will be strictly adhered to; and they deem it desirable to revert to the system then in force, of having all communications on the subject addressed to this office in the first instance.—I am, &c. (Signed) "AUG STAFFORD." 42 43 "Somerset House, May 10,1852. "My Lord Duke—I feel that I should be neglecting my duty were I not to point out to your Grace the evil system which has been pursued of late, not only with respect to my position as Surveyor of the Navy, but also with reference to the appointments and promotions in the dockyards. Your Grace is aware that the Secretary of the Admiralty thought proper to cancel, without the knowledge of the Board, their Lordships' circular of 29th September, 1849, which directs that all papers respecting promotions and vacancies in the dockyards should be sent through the Surveyor to their Lordships; this order of 1819 was only reverting to a system which had always been in force prior to 1845, and which was then discontinued, I have reason to believe, on personal
 44 l. l 45 46 Hansard "Whether the present Board of Admiralty, soon after their accession to office, gave directions that the names of the workmen and artificers recommended for promotion, were to be sent direct to the Secretary to the Admiralty instead of being first submitted to the Surveyor of the Navy, as had been previously the rule, and whether any correspondence took place with the Surveyor in consequence of such order, and whether such order is still in force?' "He had to state that he supposed the hon. and gallant Gentleman alluded, in the wording of his question, to the arrangement made by Mr. Ward in 1847. The arrangement, which was first made when the Navy Pay Office was consolidated with the Board of Admiralty in 1843, confirmed in 1844, and assumed to be in existence in 1847, when Mr. Ward issued his last regulation, was still in force, and had not been at all disturbed by the present Board of Admiralty. There was no correspondence with the Surveyor of the Navy on the subject."—[3  Hansard, Hansard, 47 48 "With reference to the accompanying letter from the Admiral Superintendent at Portsmouth, and to their Lordships' decision that an experienced master smith be appointed to Portsmouth yard from the private trade, I beg to state that Mr. James Wells, who is in his 37th year, has been very strongly recommended as being well qualified for the charge of a smithery; and I therefore submit that he be appointed master smith at Portsmouth yard in the present vacancy, and that, as in the case of Messrs. Black and Ainslie, appointed respectively to Woolwich and Devonport yards, under similar circumstances, he be entered on probation for six months, to be paid at the rate of 200 l. l. 49 l. "I have received your memorial without date, and I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you that they are not aware that you have received any appointment from them, and that their Lordships do not consider you justified in designating yourself' late master smith of Her Majesty's dockyard at Portsmouth;' they therefore return you your memorial. If, however, from any communication with any of the officers of the several departments, you have been led to expect such an appointment, their Lordships are prepared to give their consideration to any memorial from you on that subject; but my Lords cannot recognise you as late master smith of Portsmouth dockyard, as no warrant has been given to you by their Lordships for such appointment. I am also to desire that, in any future communication to their Lordships, you will state your address." 50 51 "Thomas Scott, of High Street, Chatham, in the County of Kent, Relieving Officer of the Medway Union, says:—I am, and have been for the last five years, well acquainted with Mr. George Cotsell, of Chatham Dockyard, Master Smith. A few days prior to his departure from this yard to Portsmouth, I met him; our conversation turned upon his removal to that place. He said, 'Now the thing is all settled I don't mind telling you how it happened. When I found by the  Times "Chatham, April 16." 52 53 "Sir—Your exertions in the House the other night to expose the abuses, jobbing, and trickery of the last election, induce me to furnish you with a few particulars of what took place in the dock and victualling yards here. The facts speak for themselves. Mr. Stafford, the then Secretary of the Admiralty, accompanied by Colonel Green, came here, and introduced his friend, Mr. Peter Rolt, to the officers, who, of course, promised and gave their vote and interest. They then attended at the muster office when all the men returned from dinner, so that they should not be ignorant that Mr. Rolt was the Secretary's special friend. A wink being as good as a nod to a blind horse, the most stupid of us could not misunderstand the motive nor the consequence of our stupidity; even our wives were shrewd enough to advise us to be on the safe side. Admiral Stewart was thrown overboard. Two extra clerks, whose relatives are special friends of Mr. Stafford, were appointed, at 80 l. l. 851. 54 Derisive cheers from the Opposition. Cries of from the Opposition. Black Eagle, 55 "Admiralty, July 18, 1835. "Sir—Representations having been submitted to the Board of Admiralty of attempts having been made by the officers of the yards to influence the workmen in the exercise of their elective franchise, my Lords, being most desirous that no such interference should take place, but that the men should be left at perfect liberty to give their votes as they may think proper, are pleased to direct that it may be a standing order, the infringement of which will be visited with the highest displeasure of their Lordships, that in any future election for the town or county in or near to which the yard under your superintendence is situated, the exercise direct or indirect of any influence on the part of the superior officers to induce the workmen to vote in any way is to be carefully avoided; and, in order to take further precautions against the appearance of such
 56
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL : I have parted with the paper, and have not got it at this moment; but it stated that after Cotsell got the appointment, he said, now that the election was over, he did not mind telling how it occurred; that Mr. Stafford promised him the appointment; that he came up to the Admiralty and saw a friend of his there; that Wells's appointment was lying on the table; that Atkinson said he thought himself hardly dealt with, and, thereupon, the appointment was put aside, and the gentleman said there would be no more heard of it.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL,  in reply, said that he was willing to acquiesce in the desire expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Stamford (Sir F. Thesiger) and in that expressed by his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Graham), and he therefore proposed to strike out all the words after the word "boroughs," in his Motion. He was unwilling to make an attack upon anybody, and would wish to frame his Motion accordingly.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL : I said the two Conservative candidates.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL : A proviso.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  seconded the Motion.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I said there could be no warrant in Mr. Wells's case.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Sir, the hon. and learned Member who has just sat down has said that we should be free, open, and candid; but I confess that—after having listened to the speech of the hon. and learned Member, and also to that of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Stafford)—at this moment I cannot divine whether they mean to support or to resist the appointment of this Committee. I am very unwilling to be dragged into this discussion, and am ready to admit that in our representative form of government, which naturally entails frequent changes of the governing powers, with respect to a great department like that of the Admiralty, I see great inconvenience and evil to the public service in bringing succeeding Boards into hostile collision, thereby breaking the thread of administration, and introducing angry discord and disorganisation. It has always been my endeavour, to the utmost extent consistently with my duty, not to interfere with the acts of my predecessors, or to show a hostile tone or bearing towards them. I think that what is to myself the most agreeable performance of my duty in what relates to the public, is what I should hold generally to be most advantageous for the public good. I am relieved from one painful feeling in at once declaring that, having listened attentively to this debate, all doubt—I could not allow that doubt to weigh upon my mind, considering my acquaintance with the hon. Member for Northamptonshire—but all doubt, if a shadow of doubt did ever exist, with respect to the personal honour of the hon. Member, is fully and completely removed. It is quite certain that a misunderstanding did arise between honourable men who were officially associated together. The Surveyor of the Navy (Sir Baldwin Walker) wrote a letter, addressed to the Secretary of the Admiralty, which he thought a sense of duty compelled him to write. That letter was not put into the hands of the hon. Gentleman opposite, nor, as is the ordinary course, was it sent through the customary channel; but it was placed in the hands of the senior naval Lord. He, as I believe, communicated it to the First Lord of the
 105 106 107 108 109 110 111 112 113
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he must beg to say a few words in reply to what had just been stated by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. It was not very regular to impute motives, either with respect to his past conduct, to his conduct that night, or to the conduct he would pursue in future. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) had laid it down as a canon that was always observed in that House, that every Gentleman, while worthy of sitting there, was to be believed when he made an assertion. He (Sir J. Graham) disclaimed the motives imputed to him by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Newdegate); and he might without any impropriety give a proof with respect to the past, which he hoped the House would receive as an earnest for his future conduct with respect to this painful inquiry. When he was informed that evidence would be required from the Admiralty by the Chatham Election Committee, Sir Baldwin Walker asked his advice as to the course he should pursue in circumstances so painful, and involving imputations upon the late Government. He (Sir J. Graham) told him that his course was easy; he advised him to go down to the Committee to answer every question that was put to him, but to tender nothing that would give facility, unless he was asked for anything, in the nature of an attack on the former Government. That was the course he had pursued; and he asked the hon. Gentleman if he should not be more cautious in imputing motives of that kind to him?
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, he thought it very astounding that, if Maldon was so corrupt a place, the Members had not paid a farthing for their election. If the boroughs were corrupt, it was the Reform Bill made them so, and he advised hon. Gentlemen opposite to take example from the counties. If such evidence as existed in the present case was taken as ground for issuing a Commission, it would be impossible to say how many borough Members would be left in the House.
 MR. HUME  said, he would suggest that, as the Government had recently consented to the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry into the licensing system in England, it might be advisable for the hon. Member (Mr. Forbes Mackenzie) to postpone the present measure until the Government had decided whether or not an inquiry should also be made into the licensing system in Scotland. In making this proposal, he begged to say, that he was as anxious as any hon. Gentleman in that House to put an end to the vice of drunkenness, than the increase of which in Scotland of late years he knew of no greater evil. He (Mr. Hume) hoped the hon. Gentleman would therefore take the subject into consideration.
 MR. HUME  said, he never could believe that these vicious propensities were generated by the licensing system. They might depend upon it that there would be little fear of children demanding spirits at the grocers' shops if they had not had the example set them by their parents at their own homes. If he thought that they could reach the root of the evil in that way, he would be ready to support the introduction of the Maine Law (entirely prohibiting the sale of spirits) into this country.
 MR. HUME  moved, that the Recorder of the City of London, shall, during his continuance in office as such Recorder, be incapable of being elected or sitting as a Member of the House of Commons.
 MR. HUME  said, he did not intend that his Amendment should apply to the present Recorder; therefore, he would move the insertion of the words in the Schedule, and if necessary bring up a clause preserving the right of the present Recorder.
 MR. HUME  said, he begged to disclaim any wish to make his Amendment personal to the right hon. and learned Gentleman; but he must say that he considered the office which he held to be incompatible with a seat in Parliament. At the time the Masters in Chancery and other persons were excluded, the question of the office of Recorder came under consideration. At that time the Courts were held only two or three times a year; but now the Sessions were held monthly, and supposing them to last only a week, the Recorder's time was taken up with his judicial duties for more than a quarter of the year. He thought the less Judges had to do with popular constituencies the better.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would not say a word on the principle of the Bill, but as regarded the Amendment proposed, he thought it was pushing the exclusion of judicial functionaries a great deal too far. He could not see why on the same principle all Recorders should not be excluded, as they performed exactly the same functions as the Recorder of London, although his position was considered more dignified. As had been said by his right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Wortley) he was similarly circumstanced as other Members, who as Serjeants and Queen's Counsel discharged the functions of Judges on circuit. Would the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) exclude all Queen's Counsel and Serjeants from that House? If he did, he would exclude the  elite 136
 MR. LABOUCHBRE  said, that the question of incompatibility in a Member to discharge his duties was for the constituency to decide. As to the general question, he took the same view as his right hon. Friend the Member for Morpeth (Sir G. Grey) and he believed that the principle of the exclusion of Judges from Parliament had been pushed not only far enough, but too far; and he believed that the debates had lost by the exclusion of the Judge of the Admiralty Court, as there were often questions of public law on which he was competent to give information. If it was pushed further, to the exclusion of the Recorder of London, it must be extended to all Recorders, and they would thus deprive the House of the assistance of many eminent lawyers. He should be glad if the Bill did not pass through the House, and he should oppose the Amendment.
 MR. HUME  said, it appeared to him that the course recommended by the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) would materially save the time of the House. He should be very sorry to endanger the success of the Bill, and, as on the third reading he could take the sense of the House on this question, he would withdraw his Amendment for the present, with the understanding that on the third reading he would move a clause to the same effect.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he should like to hear the schedule read, in order to see who were termed the Judges of the Superior Courts.
 The CHAIRMAN  proceeded to read the schedule—Master of the Rolls in England, Official Principal of the Arches Court of Canterbury.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he had not heard the noble Lord (Lord Hotham) say that his Bill was confined to Judges of the superior courts. It had been the argument of a right hon. Gentleman opposite, who would probably have some difficulty in proving that these officers came within that definition. However, he (Mr. V. Smith) intended to vote against the whole Bill on the third reading, and he thought this discussion showed the difficulties attending such a measure.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he entirely approved of the clause as it stood, and hoped that the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. F. Mackenzie) would persist in retaining it.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, that if the words were inserted in the Schedule, it would have the effect of disqualifying the present Recorder.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he begged to tender his acknowledgments to the hon. Member for Montrose for his disclaiming any desire to affect him (Mr. Wortley) personally, but that, painful as it was to him to address the Committee on a matter personal to himself, he did not think he should be doing his duty to that House or to the office which he held, as well as to his constituents, and whose rights it was proposed arbitrarily to abridge, if he did not state what were the duties of the office, the holder of which it was now proposed to exclude from the House of Commons. There were in the Schedule other Judges, who, like the Recorder of London, were not included among the Superior Judges, and the introducer of the Bill only intended it to apply to Superior Judges. The principle of the Bill was not in question to-day, and, if it were, he should shrink from taking any part in the discussion on it, and he should take no part in a division on the present question if one took place; but he was anxious to draw the attention of the Committee to the distinction which existed between this office and those to which his noble Friend (Lord Hotham) had alluded in introducing the Bill. The principle of the Bill was to exclude all judicial officers whose duties were so absorbing that they could not attend to the duties required by their offices and to their duties in this House; and also that their position was so exalted, that it would depreciate their dignity if they sought to be returned by popular elections, or had seats in that House. Another ground taken by the supporters of the Bill was, that the Judges were in the service of the Crown, and were appointed by the Crown. He could show that the Recorder of London did not come within any one of those three characters. The Recorder of London was not appointed by the Crown, but from time immemorial had been elected by the Corporation of London; and it was one of the privileges for which the Corporation felt the greatest attachment, that of electing their own judicial
 132 133
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he should support the clause, which involved no undue restriction upon trade, but would merely prevent every grocer's shop from becoming a small public-house, where every child or servant who was sent for an ounce of coffee, and had to receive a halfpenny of change, was liable to be tempted and seduced into the vicious habit of spirit drinking. It was in this way that young persons often acquired their first taste for such a depraved indulgence.
 MR. ELLIOT  said, he must defend the conduct of the magistrates in Scotland. In his own county every effort had been made by them; but they were found to be ineffectual. The great object of the Bill was to put an end to drunkenness; but
 129
 LORD HARRY VANE  reported that the Committee had determined—
 "That George Henry Moore, esquire, and George Gore Ousley Higgins, esquire, are duly elected Knights of the Shire to serve in this present Parliament for the County of Mayo." "That it appears from evidence given before the Committee, that there was great abuse of spiritual influence on the part of a great body of the Roman Catholic priesthood during the last Election for the County of Mayo."
 LORD HOTHAM  said, the official principal of the Arches Court of Canterbury, who was commonly called the Judge of the Ecclesiastical Court, was at the head of that court, and decided appeals which were sent up to him from the lower courts. He (Lord Hotham) conceived, therefore, that that learned functionary came under the designation of a Judge of the superior courts. He might observe that no less than five Bills for altering and reforming the Ecclesiastical Courts had been proposed in Parliament, and that every one of those Bills contained a clause excluding the Judge of the Ecclesiastical Court from a seat in the House of Commons. On this ground, then, as he was informed the Judge of the Ecclesiastical Court could not with propriety be regarded otherwise than as a Judge of a superior court, he had inserted him in the schedule.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that when he consulted a professional' gentleman with reference to the offices to be comprised in the schedule, he was asked, "What will be said if you include the Judge of the province of Canterbury, and omit the Judge of the province of York, and you a Yorkshireman, too?" He was informed that the hon. Member (Mr. Granville Vernon) occupied the same position in the province of York as was occupied by Sir John Dodson in the province of Canterbury, and he therefore included the office of the former Gentleman in the schedule. Indeed, he had endeavoured to include in
 140
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he could not think that a sufficient reason for striking out of the schedule the names of officers whose exclusion from Parliament had been over and over again recommended by Committees of that House.
 MR. DUNLOP  would support the clause, believing that the magistrates did not exercise the discretionary powers which were entrusted to them. The present system of licensing grocers' shops was a snare and a trap to the innocent.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, he must admit that too much whisky was consumed in Glasgow; but the same charge would apply to the consumption of spirits in the large towns of England. He believed that the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond) was entirely mistaken in the idea that the people were not allowed recreation on Sunday, and also
 130
 MR. COWAN  hoped that this wholesome provision of the Bill would be retained. The evil of spirit drinking prevailed to a fearful extent in Scotland; and it had been recently ascertained by a religious society, that in the city of Edinburgh, with a population of 150,000, there were 975 licensed houses including hotels, 312 of which were opened on the Sabbath, and that on one Sabbath there entered into these public-houses 22,202 men, 11,031 women, 4,631 children under fourteen years of age, and
 127
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he saw no reason why the rural districts should be excluded from the benefit of the operation of the clause.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he was quite willing to grant that they could not make people better by Act of Parliament; but this Bill was intended to put an end to a system which encouraged the vice of intemperance, and as such he gave it his cordial support. He thought it was pushing free trade to an unreasonable extent, to say that it was right or proper to make traffic of the happiness and health both of the souls and bodies of the people of Scotland. That was a sort of free trade which he utterly and entirely repudiated. So far as the petitions he had presented to the House were concerned, they rather complained that the Bill did not go far enough, for seeing that in the city of Glasgow alone during the past year upwards of 1,200,000 l
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he considered the clause mere surplusage. The means of checking the evil were already in the hands of the magistrates, and the clause involved a censure upon that body in Scotland.
 MR. SERJEANT MURPHY  said, he thought, that as reforms in the Ecclesiastical Courts were about to be proposed for the consideration of Parliament, it would be unwise now to leave in this schedule of persons to be ineligible the names of the Judges of the Arches Court and the Prerogative Courts, who would be able to explain the operation of any changes that might be recommended in regard to those courts. These functionaries did not come within the category of Judges of the superior courts in the meaning that had been
 141
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he agreed with the hon. Member who had last spoken, that the licensed tollhouses were a public nuisance in Scotland. The evils attached to the present system of selling spirits in that country, were scarcely known to the House in all their deformity. He therefore supported the clause.
 MR. GRANVILLE E. VERNON  had not intended to have said one word in this discussion, but he believed the Committee would understand his reasons for then rising, and that they would also appreciate the motives of his previous silence. A near relative of his had been alluded to, and as the present Bill proposed to exclude the holder of the office which that relative had the honour to hold, he (Mr. Vernon) had intended to have taken no part in discussions on the Bill in Committee, as he did not wish to rest his opposition to it on any but public grounds. It was in the recollection of many hon. Members that his father held a seat in Parliament for more than fifteen years—that he was a diligent, able, and useful Member of that House. As far as his father was concerned, this measure might have no personal bearing. He (Mr. Vernon) was not aware that his father had any intention of re-entering political life. He quite concurred in the course which the hon. Member for West Surrey and the right hon. Baronet (Sir G. Grey) proposed to take, and he should reserve his opposition to the Bill until the third reading. He thought that the whole Bill was vicious in principle. He objected on constitutional grounds to thus narrowing the choice of the constituency. He objected to the exclusion of so much of that intelligence, that information, and those services which it ought to be the object of that House to secure; and while he should decline to make particular objections to this or that office being inserted in the schedule, he should in common, as he hoped with a majority of the House, vote against the third reading.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he intended to move that Mr. Speaker do not leave the chair till this day six months—that was, that the Bill be not committed till then. However, he would be satisfied at present to state that he thought the Bill most destructive and objectionable in its tendency; thinking it would be better to let it pass this stage unopposed, he gave notice that on the third reading it would certainly meet with his opposition.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he was as much opposed as any man to the desecration of the Sabbath, but in his opinion the superstitious reverence paid to the observance of that day in Scotland was one very great cause of drunkenness. Some of the religious bodies regarded it almost as a sin for people to take a walk on Sunday. ["Oh, oh!" and "Hear, hear!"] He should be sorry to have to adduce instances which had occurred within his own knowledge; but he believed he was speaking in the presence of many Gentlemen who knew the truth of what he was stating; and he said, if they restrained the people from the ordinary recreations to which they were religiously entitled, they must force them to the sole remaining enjoyment for which they cared, namely, perpetual drunkenness. He spoke upon good authority when he said, that in the town of Glasgow alone, 30,000 people every Saturday night steeped themselves in whisky and opium, and lay in a state of perfect insensibility till Monday morning. Now, how was this to be remedied? Certainly not by legislation, but by the common sense of the higher orders setting their face against the absurd superstition to which he had referred; and if these classes set the example, the people would gladly follow them; and then, instead of this pharisaical paying of "tithe of anise and cummin," the weightier matters of the law would be respected.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he thought it scarcely fair to the hon. Gentleman who brought forward this Bill to ask him to defer it in order to consider the propriety of appointing a Committee to examine the general question. The object of this Bill was to check a great and crying moral evil, which almost overshadowed every other evil that existed in Scotland; but he was afraid they could not very effectually cope with it by provisions of this kind. At the same time he did not think the Bill interfered with free trade—he looked upon it as being substantially a police regulation; and although this clause might not reach the root of the evil, yet it would remove a very great temptation to which the lower classes of Scotland were exposed. He would not now inquire what was the cause of the growing intemperance among the people of Scotland—he would only say that he met with it at every turn in his professional avocations, and the criminal statistics of the country told its glaring magnitude; and certainly he was not disposed to pry too curiously into the abstract principle of any remedy that was likely to diminish the evil. Now this clause proposed that the sale of whisky across the counter should not be combined with the sale of the ordinary provisions of a household; and this suggestion was founded not merely upon the general ex-
 128
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to say a few words with regard to an Amendment which he had proposed to the same effect with regard to the Recorder of Dublin. Whatever arguments might be urged to justify the admission of the Recorder of London, he did not think he should bear any justification with regard to the Recorder of Dublin. The right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. S. Wortley) said that the appointment of the Recorder of London was not made by the Crown; but under the Municipal Corporation Act it was provided that the Recorder of Dublin should be appointed by the Crown, and he believed part of his salary was paid also by the Crown; so that the argument of the right hon. and learned Gentleman as to the independence of the Recorder of London did not apply to the case of the Recorder of Dublin. The Recorder of Dublin had besides a very extensive jurisdiction, and had much to do: he revised the jury lists, heard poor-law cases, and presided in a small-debt court, in which a vast number of cases were tried, and all this besides his duty in the criminal court. It would be difficult to say that such an officer could attend in that House compatibly with his other duties; there was therefore a marked
 135
 MR. FERGUS  said, he must protest against free trade being in any way connected with a Bill for the regulation of the licensing system. This was entirely a measure of police, and, like the Factory and other Acts, was intended to afford protection to those who could not protect themselves.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he must deny that any large share of the drunkenness and immorality of Scotland was traceable to the sale of spirits by grocers, and it would be extending a most mischievous principle to the retail traders of the country if such a principle as that embodied in the Bill were to be sanctioned by the House. He should certainly divide the House against the original clause, and take every opportunity which the forms of the House afforded for preventing its passing. It was impossible to make the people of Scotland sober or virtuous by Act of Parliament: that could only be done by improving the education and social comforts of the people, and thus weaning them from the habits of secret and solitary drunkenness which prevailed to so great an extent throughout the country.
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  said,' he should support the clause, and he hailed the Bill as a step in the right direction.
 MR. STAPLETON  said, he also would support the clause, and he could vindicate the Bill from the charge of interfering with trade. It only separated two kinds of trade which were very distinct, and the combination of which at present engendered great social mischief.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he cordially agreed in the principle of the Bill, but he should be sorry to see its operation extended beyond the Judges of the Superior Courts. He could not but apprehend that if an attempt were made to carry it further, its adoption by the House on the third reading might be seriously endangered. He would, therefore, suggest to the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) that he should withdraw his Amendment for the present, and that after the Bill should have been read a third time he should move the addition of a clause for the purpose of carrying out the object which he had in view, if he should still think the attainment of that object desirable. He would by that means secure a fair consideration for his proposal, while he would avoid the risk of strengthening the hands of those who were altogether opposed to the measure.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would not pretend to be peculiarly skilled in determining the application of a particular term to these Judges, but he believed they were the principal ecclesiastical authorities of the country.
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, he was decidedly opposed to the Amendment. The drinking usages of the country annually killed 60,000 persons, and ought to arrest the attention of that House. He would be glad to see the sharp end of the wedge introduced by this Bill, and he hoped the day would soon come when the House would look upon intoxicating liquors as poison, and legislate accordingly.
 MR. MALINS  said, that their jurisdiction extended to matters of the highest importance, and their courts were attended by all the civilians, including the Queen's Advocate—a law officer of the Crown who took precedence of the Attorney General and the Solicitor General. It would be inconsistent to have excluded from Parliament the Vice-Chancellors and the Judge of the Admiralty Court, and, by the second reading of this Bill, to have sanctioned the exclusion of the Master of the Rolls, on the ground that their occupations were inconsistent with attendance at a contested election and in Parliament, and now to allow a technical objection that the Judge of the Prerogative Court was not a Judge of one of the superior courts, though he certainly was so, in the meaning of measures of this class.
 MR. EWART  said, he felt as anxious as the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. F. Mackenzie) for the promotion of temperance, but not only would the proposed plan be inefficient for the purpose, but it would be in direct opposition to those principles of free trade which the House had pledged itself to support.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said, that it would be useless to wait for the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the licensing system, because it was not to the licensing system but to the mode of regulating public-houses that he objected. Besides, a Committee sat a few years ago on this subject, upon which there were many Scotch Members; and upon the Report of that Committee his present Bill was strictly founded. The clause would not interfere with the trade of the grocers, except to prevent their selling spirits to be drunk on the premises—a practice which it was absolutely necessary to restrain. The Amendment which had been proposed was at variance with the object and principle of the Bill.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said, he must object to the Amendment. The object of the Bill was to put a stop, if possible, to a system which was the cause of
 125
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said, he would give his attention to the suggestion as regarded tollhouses.
 Sir WILLIAM VERNER  said, he believed the schedule involved the supporters of the Bill in great difficulties, from which he had no desire to relieve them, as he intended to vote with the hen. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond) on the third reading.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished to know whether it was proposed by the schedule to exclude from that House persons holding judicial offices on the ground that they were Judges of superior courts? The Judge of the Ecclesiastical Court for the province of York (Mr. Granville Vernon) had sat for a long time in that House, and he believed no one had ever thought of proposing his exclusion. He (Sir G. Grey) wished to know whether there were any special reasons for considering these functionaries Judges of the superior courts?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Is he a Judge of a Superior Court?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not present during the discussion on the second
 134
 SIR HENRY DAVIE  said, that seeing the feeling of the Committee was against his Amendment, he would, with their consent, withdraw it.
 SIR HENRY DAVIE  moved an Amendment, the object of which was to allow licensed grocers to continue the sale of spirits for consumption on the premises, as at present.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he objected to the Bill, and he objected not less to the clause now under consideration, which strangely proceeded from one of those hon. Members who professed an anxiety to extend the eligibility of their fellow-subjects, without reference to their creed or any other qualification. The Recorder of London was elected for life, and
 138 in esse, in posse;
 MR. ATHERTON  said, he still adhered to the opinion he had expressed on the second reading of the Bill, that, by confining the exclusion from that House to the Judges of the Superior Courts, they would sustain, and would, if possible, add to the efficiency and lustre of the eminent persons who filled those distinguished situations, while they would at the same time escape the evil of unduly narrowing the limit of selection for Members of that House. He considered that if the Committee acceded to the Amendment, they would fail to draw the proper line, because, if the Recorder of London was to be included in the schedule, and was declared ineligible to sit in the House of Commons, he did not see why they should not also exclude every recorder, every chairman of quarter-sessions, and every magistrate included in the commission of assize. It was, in fact, difficult to say where they were to stop. He thought it could not be denied that, by such exclusion, the House would deprive itself of very great assistance; and he considered that it would also interfere improperly with the privileges of the electors, by unduly limiting the classes from whom they might select representatives.
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, he thought the best mode of dealing with a matter of this kind was to apply to it the test of experience. Now, the present Recorder of London had sat in that House ever since his appointment; but he (Viscount Monck) never heard that the learned Gentleman's judicial or official duties had interfered with
 137
 An HON. MEMBER : You must give notice of Motion.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, in future, the 5 per cent now levied on the wine duties was to cease with the other duties or not?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he complained that no drawbacks were allowed to yachtsmen for wines, spirits, and things of that sort, which they wished to take out of the country, the consequence of which was, that they went abroad to buy those articles, and that to that extent the trade of this country was a loser. He should be glad to find that some portion of the zeal and ability which the hon. Gentleman had devoted to the subject generally, would be paid to this small matter. With reference to the charges which had been brought against the dock companies, he thought that whatever there was to be regretted in that transaction, arose from the nature of the service, and was not owing to the gentlemen who administered the Customs department.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he thought that it would have been much better if the disputes between the Customs and the dock companies had not been introduced into the subject now before the House. He regretted that any hon. Member should have gone out of his way to pass a censure upon the gentleman who held the office of Solicitor of the Customs.
 216
 Mr. ALDERMAN THOMPSON  said, that having sat on the Customs Committee, and taken great interest in the subject, he begged to be allowed to say a few words. He congratulated the House and the country on the change that was about to take place, for he had looked with great dissatisfaction, during the last thirty years, at the way in which the Customs department of the country had been administered. During that period the House had been frequently engaged in giving increased facilities to trade and commerce; but, as regarded the Board of Customs, matters appeared to have retrograded, and they were now actually more obstructive and stringent in their regulations than during the period of the war. He hoped he was mistaken in supposing that it was the intention of the Government that these Customs cases, such as the detention of goods, the seizure of vessels, & c, were to be heard in public, but that the Commissioners were to give their answers in private, and without any reasons being given. He was satisfied that such a course would be quite unsatisfactory. The proper way to put down smuggling was to hear every case in open court, and pronounce a public judgment upon it; let the party be brought forward, and his offence made known publicly, and let there be no secret tribunals. Let all be done openly and publicly as before a Judge or a magistrate, instead of having the matter decided secretly and privately. He did not agree with the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the laws had bnee as well administered by the present Board of Commissioners as they would be by any others. [The CHANCELLOR
 217 ex-officio
 MR. J. A. SMITH  begged to thank the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury for the great boon which he had conferred upon the commerce of England by this revision of the Customs regulations. He knew enough of these details, of their difficulty and intricacy, to be able to estimate properly the zeal and the labour which the hon. Gentleman must have bestowed in mastering them, as he showed he had done that evening. Some weeks ago he had been a member of a most remarkable deputation which waited on the Chancellor of the Exchequer to bring this subject under his notice, and the right hon. Gentleman had most nobly redeemed the hopes he had held out to that deputation. With reference to the constitution of the Board of Customs, and the remarks which had been made on that subject by the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Mitchell), he believed that hon. Gentleman had only expressed the opinions of a very large majority of the commercial community of London. They had felt most deeply upon this
 215
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to explain that in what he had said he was only influenced by a sense of duty. He might state the fact, also, that Mr. Hamel was paid by salary, and not by fees.
 COLONEL HARCOURT  said, he cordially concurred in the Amendment. The pilots of the Isle of Wight, who stood in an altogether different position from the Cinque Port or the Thames pilots, considered that they were labouring under serious grievances in consequence of the regulations of the Trinity Board, and he thought that for the redress of the grievances complained of, the appointment of a Select Committee of this House was the most advisable step that could be taken. In 1844 the Southampton authorities claimed the exclusive privilege of piloting the course of their river; but they not only did that, but having some influence, he supposed, with the Trinity Board, they also requested to have the power of piloting vessels out to sea. Now, he should have had no objection to that, if in return they had granted to the Isle of Wight pilots the power of carrying the ships they were put in charge of at sea up to Southampton; but they did no such thing; and the result of the arrangement then made was, that, supposing a vessel which had come to Southampton from a foreign port to return to that foreign port, the Cowes pilot would receive only 3 l., l. s. 225 l. l.
 MR. FITZROY  moved for leave to bring in a Bill for the regulation of hackney carriages in the metropolis. There was no capital in Europe where hackney carriages were so entirely removed from all efficient control and supervision as in London. That state of things arose principally from the existing system of licensing those vehicles. There was no restriction upon the number of licences that were issued, nor did the fitness of the carriage for the purposes for which it was designed form any consideration in the decision whether the licence should issue or not. Certainly, some disqualifications did exist; for example, with respect to persons that had been convicted, also with respect to minors, and in cases where in consequence of arrears of duty there had been a revocation of the former licence; but these disqualifications were more nominal than real, and scarcely an instance occurred in which a licence was refused. The consequence of such a system was to crowd their stands with vehicles of an inferior description, and with horses which had been graphically described by the first living novelist as being kept on their legs by the rickety vehicles to which they are attached. The best way to secure to the inhabitants of the metropolis vehicles in a fit and proper condition for the public use was, to alter the system on which licences were issued; and he therefore proposed to insert in the Bill which he now asked to introduce a provision to the following effect:—That every person who is desirous to obtain a licence for using or letting to hire a hackney Carriage within the limits of the metropolitan police district, shall make his application to the Commissioners of Police, who on such application shall cause an inspection to be made of the carriage for which he proposes to ask the licence, and on a certificate being granted by the Commissioners of Police, that that carriage is in a fit and proper condition for the public use, shall obtain at the Board of Inland Revenue a licence, on the production of such certificate. He also proposed that power should be given to the Commissioners of Police from time to time to have a fresh inspection of those carriages, and if they found them to be out of order the licence should be suspended; and a penalty should be attached to the hiring out of any vehicle of that description after due notice was given by the Commissioners of Police that such vehicle was not fit for public use. In ad-
 232 d. s. d. s. d. d. d., s. 233 l. l., s. l. s. l., l. s. l., l. s. s. d., 234
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, he begged to put the following questions to the noble Lord the Home Secretary; and he would be glad to know—If the clerks of the peace in counties have any legal right, or have any authority from the Government, for charging the officers of militia with fees, either on appointment or promotion; and if it is the intention of the Government to take any steps to prevent a continuance of this practice for the future? Also, if the clerks of the peace, or clerks of the lieutenancy in counties, have any legal right, or have any authority from the Government, for charging the officers of militia or yeomanry with fees, either on appointment or promotion; and if it is the intention of the Government to take any steps to prevent a continuance of this practice for the future?
 MR. W. O. STANLEY : Then I give notice that I will move to-morrow to that effect. I have also to give notice that, when the evidence is in the hands of Members, I will move that a Commission be appointed to inquire into the corrupt practices which prevailed at the last election for Barnstaple. So far I have been ordered by the Committee. I have now to state, upon my own account, that it is my intention to call the attention of the House to the circumstances attending the last election at Barnstaple, with a view to further measures, when the Report is before the House.
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  appeared at the bar, and brought up the report of the Barnstaple Election Committee, which stated, that the Committee had determined—
 "That Sir William Augustus Fraser, baronet, and Richard Bremridge, esquire, are not duly elected Burgesses to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Barnstaple. "That the last Election for the said Borough is a void Election. "Also that Sir William Augustus Fraser, baronet, and Richard Bremridge, esquire, were, by their agents, guilty of bribery and treating at the last Election. "That it was proved to the satisfaction of the Committee, that corrupt practices have extensively prevailed in the borough of Barnstaple, during the last and former Elections."
 MR. W. O. STANLEY : I now move that the issue of the writ for the borough of Barnstaple be suspended for six weeks.
 LORD ALFRED PAGET  said, that in case of grievance the pilots of the Isle of Wight could have redress from the Board of Trade if the present Bill passed. The hon. Member for Berwick (Mr. Forster) had expressed an opinion that the Pilotage Bill would not be of any benefit to the shipowners. He begged to state that an important document had been forwarded to him from a large body of shipowners in the port of London, representing 350,000 tons of shipping. The document had appended to it the names, among others, of Mr. Green, Mr. Phillips, Mr. Ingram, and Mr. Lindsay, and set forth that the undersigned British shipowners were of opinion that the proposed Pilotage Bill would be of great benefit to the shipping interest, especially as related to the system of the Cinque Ports pilotage, as it would open a competition among the pilots, and, by their having cruising licences, would encourage them to seek ships off Dungeness before the danger commenced, in lieu of awaiting
 226
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish to make an inquiry from Her Majesty's Government respecting the course of public business, which, from what has occurred, I regret to say, is rather perplexing and unsatisfactory to those who are sitting on this side of the House. It is about ten days ago, I think, since the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer placed some very important Resolutions upon the table respecting the reduction of interest upon South Sea and other annuities, and affecting also a much larger amount of revenue. Those Resolutions, in their corrected and complete form, were not put into our hands up to five o'clock on the day they were moved; and I understood subsequently that a day would be appointed for their consideration. After the Resolutions had been moved, a somewhat desultory conversation took place; about ten o'clock I rose to ask the right hon. Gentleman to name the day when they would be taken into consideration, and the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell)—I will not say in a somewhat captious spirit, because the noble Lord shows so much courtesy on all occasions—but certainly the noble Lord found great fault with the discussion having taken place. He said that, the discussion having taken place, he would not fix a period for the due consideration of them. I was not inclined to avail myself of the means at my disposal to oppose the Government, having, as I hope I always have, a sincere desire to facilitate the course of public business. I know how burdensome it is for a person in the position of the noble Lord to carry on affairs in this House; but, certainly, there was a declaration, a very formal declaration, on the part of the noble Lord, that by the House agreeing to the Resolutions that night, the House was not pledged to them
 162 163
 MR. DISRAELI : Very well, the spirit duties. That does not at all interfere with the conclusion. At any rate it justifies my appeal to the Government; and I shall be glad to hear now if the arrangement announced by the right hon. Gentleman is to be observed.
 MR. COWAN  said, he begged, in consequence of some misunderstanding which appeared to prevail in several parts of the country upon the subject, to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, from what period the additional duty of 1 s.
 MR. SPEAKER , in reply, said, that as the Bill was to be recommitted, the sense of the House might then be taken on the question that the Speaker do leave the chair. The House then went into Committee  pro formâ.
 MR. TURNER  said, he rose merely for the purpose of thanking the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wilson) for the great boon he had conferred on the people and trade of Liverpool in giving them, what they had long asked for, power to decide in those very numerous cases which had hitherto been referred to London with very great delay, and to the serious injury of the merchant. He did not intend to enter into any details, but could not allow the discussion to pass over without thanking the hon. Gentleman for this, and also for allowing them to decide questions up to 100 l. l.
 MR. TURNER  said, he considered that this was a measure which demanded a very strict examination in consequence of the important interests which it affected. The interests at stake, both as regarded the persons immediately connected, in one way and another, with pilotage, and as regarded the lives and property of the public, were so vast, and the question itself was so complicated, that a Select Committee could alone properly investigate the subject. The Pilot Boards of this country were numerous, many of them of ancient date, and performed their duties in a manner highly creditable to themselves and beneficial to the country. But the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) proposed by this Bill to take power to cashier them all whenever he thought proper. By the tenth clause of the Bill, power was given to the Board of Trade to license masters and mates of vessels as Pilots—a provision which would place
 219 l., 220 l. l. l. 221
 MR. CARDWELL  said, after the discussion which the Bill had undergone from Members on both sides, he should not, at that hour, occupy more than a few minutes of their time. He should defer the observations he wished to make until they had a Committee of the whole House; but he wished to make one observation, with the view of bringing the sincerity of those who supported the Motion for a Select Committee to the test on this subject. They had passed the second reading of the Bill without a division; and he would ask them, did they or did they not intend that the shipowners should have the benefit of the reforms which it contemplated? The House might remember that a similar Motion was made, to refer to a Select Committee the Bill for the promotion of the public health. That Bill accordingly went before a Select Committee, and there was an end of it. If they were to have a Select Committee on this Bill upstairs, for the purpose of calling witnesses on all the subjects which had been mooted by hon. Members who had supported the Motion for a Select Committee, he should like to know when the Bill would be likely again to make its appearance in that House? The noble Lord opposite (Viscount Chelsea) had spoken on
 229
 MR. CARDWELL , in moving that the House resolve itself into Committee on this Bill, presented a petition from merchants and shipowners of Liverpool approving of certain provisions in the Bill, and also a petition from masters of Liverpool vessels engaged in the coasting trade in favour of the Bill.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to know, if the Bill now passed through Committee  pro formâ,
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he felt bound to express his satisfaction at the measure introduced by the hon. Gentleman opposite. The subject had been under the consideration of the late Government; and
 211
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he hoped that before hon. Gentlemen formed any opinion respecting the person whose conduct had been impugned that evening, they would be good enough to read the evidence taken before the Committee, in which they would find that every possible variety of opinion had been expressed on the subject. He thought that disputes of this nature, when once settled, had better not be reopened; but if this matter were to be raised again, he (Mr. Goulburn) must say that he had arrived at a different opinion from that which had been expressed by the hon. Member who had last addressed the House. He could not refrain from bearing testimony to the great ability with which the Secretary of the Treasury had developed the views of the Government on the subject of the Customs; and he trusted that none of the changes which were proposed, would interfere with the due collection of the revenue.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he considered that the details of the Bill would be much better discussed in Committee; but believing the Bill to be a most important one, he could not help asking to address a very few words to the House. The complication of the pilot laws, involved as the system was under local jurisdiction, and defended as they were in that House by Members who represented shipping localities, was one of the most difficult questions which any Government had to grapple with for many years. He was old enough to remember the time when his friend the late Lord Sydenham endeavoured to grapple with it; but his attempt was defeated by the opposition of the local representatives of the ports, while, if Lord Sydenham had succeeded, many hundreds of thousands of pounds would have been saved. He hoped a better spirit would animate the House now, and that they would not allow those local interests to defeat a measure which was due to the great shipping interest and to the country at large, and that they would not allow any obstruction to be the means of frustrating a measure which deserved the highest consideration. He had heard from both sides of the House expressions of an earnest desire to benefit the shipping interest; nothing could effect that better than to substitute a simple, uniform, economical, fair, and impartial system, instead of the present complicated system. He thought the House could not confer a more important boon than that on the shipping interest. He believed this measure would place the pilotage of vessels on a vastly improved footing; but he thought if all the minute details of the measure were to be sent before a Select Committee, instead of the question being settled in the present Session, it would be put off till the Greek Kalends. He had heard, with great pleasure, the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the
 228
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that it was not intended that Customs cases should be brought before magistrates for decision, excepting in places where there were no County Courts.
 MR. J. WILSON : I ought to say in regard to that, that nothing is to be removed from one floor to another without being entered in the book always kept for the purpose, and which the officer signs, and which, if not neglected, is a perfect security to the warehouse-keeper. The next subject is the interesting one of passengers' baggage, with respect to which the Committee recommend that it should be examined on board. [Mr. W. WILLIAMS: Hear, hear!] The hon. Member for Lambeth has experienced the inconvenience of the present system, like all the rest of us. I have taken a great deal of pains upon the subject, and there can be no better
 188 189 190 191 192 l. 193 l. l. Baron Osy, l. 194 City of Boulogne 195 l. 196 l 197 City of Boulogne. 198 199 200
 MR. J. WILSON  was understood to say that there would be no exclusion whatever, but that the offices would be open to every one.
 MR. J. WILSON :  * 166 167 168 169 l. l., l., l. 170 ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem 171 ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem 172 ad valorem ad valorem ad valorem "The Commissioners of Her Majesty's Customs hereby give notice that directions have been given to their officers that, whenever they seize or stop any vessel, boat, or goods, they are to furnish to the owner or agent a written notice, specifying the grounds of such detention." 173 "The Commissioners of Her Majesty's Customs hereby give notice, that they will be prepared, in any case of seizure in London, under the Customs laws, upon application being made to them in writing, and where the owner of the goods, &c. may be desirous of such a course, to appoint one of the members of the Board to take the evidence on oath, of the merchants or other parties claiming the property on the one side, and of the detaining officers on the other, supported by that of any witnesses that may be necessary for the proper investigation of the case, and to report the same for the Board's decision, agreeably to the practice observed in cases of complaints, by merchants and others, against officers." 174 l., 175 1., l., 176 177 l., l., 178 in transitu 1. l., l. 179
 MR. J. WILSON : I am obliged to my hon. Friend for recalling my attention to this subject. The Committee observe that the law which limits the size of packages in which goods are conveyed, and which applies to those cases where it might afford facilities for smuggling, should be altered so far as regards such goods imported for the purpose of being re-ex-ported. With regard to spirits, tobacco, and such goods, the law provides that they shall not be imported in packages below a certain size, because if they were, the facilities for smuggling would be greatly increased. I have to call the attention of my hon. Friend to the fact, that such a distinction, if attempted, would open the door to simple and easy frauds, and afford all the facility for smuggling, which the existing distinction is intended to prevent. Suppose that a ship were approaching our shores, and that the Custom-house officers, on boarding her, were to find small casks of brandy, amounting only to ten gallons; the captain might say, "Oh, these are for re-exportation;" we should have no means of knowing whether the goods were really for re-exportation or were in the ship with a view to being smuggled for home consumption, and thus all facilities would be afforded for smuggling. But I can assure my hon. Friend that the practice adopted by the Commissioners of Customs will meet his views, because there are certain specific regulations which have received the sanction of the Treasury, which will allow the importation of small packages; but security will be taken, before the permission is given, that these small packages are really to be re-exported. Brandy in fifteen gallon casks may thus be imported for re-exportation to Mexico, Peru, and Chili, and wine in small cases of from one to two dozen bottles, but with the distinct intimation to the Custom-house that it is the intention of the importer to export them, notice of
 183 "Your Committee is of opinion that the criminal responsibility of the crews of vessels for an act of smuggling on their part, ought, in most cases, to be a sufficient security to the revenue, and that it is therefore not expedient to detain the ship, or to fine the owner, excepting when the fraud has been committed by the captain or chief mate, or when such extensive preparations for fraud have been detected as to argue great negligence on their part." 184 "On the evening before the report was to be received, Sir Robert Walpole summoned a meeting of the principal Members who had supported the Bill. The meeting was largely attended, and he reserved his own opinion till the last. Most were for persevering, and they argued that as all taxes were obnoxious, there would be an end to the functions of the Legislature if this intimidation were submitted to. Sir Robert heard them all to an end, and then he shortly addressed them, and told them that he was conscious that he meant
 185 186
 MR. J. WILSON : We mean that every person who has goods in bond, and who sells them, shall be at liberty—there will be no compulsion—but if he chooses he may re-enter his goods and pass them at the time he sells them to the person to whom they are sold. It will be a transfer, and he will be at liberty to transfer the responsibility with the property.
 MR. J. WILSON : That is done with regard to all sorts of the more valuable goods sold by reweight at present. ["No, no!"] But however that may be now, it will be an arrangement between the parties themselves, and it cannot be said that the seller will then have any reason to complain. Now, with regard to taking stock, it has been suggested to me that the change will involve a great deal of trouble. All we say is this—we wish to
 187
 MR. J. WILSON : Yes, to every part of the United Kingdom.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the questions formerly put by the hon. Member related to three points—the prohibition of Christmas boxes, the subject of allowances, and the inequality of the pay. With regard to the first question, he was glad to inform him that the Postmaster General had already issued a circular withdrawing the prohibition of last year as to Christmas boxes. As to the second, relating to allowances, a more just and liberal scale had been prepared by the Postmaster General, and sent to the Treasury for approval. Then, with reference to the unequal amount of pay in the different parts of the country,
 157
 MR. GEORGE  said, he cordially approved of the Bill, which he believed would be of great advantage to the steam vessels plying between Liverpool and the ports of Ireland. He thought a most beneficial power would be given by this Bill to the Board of Trade, and also to the local authorities, to limit every act in relation to pilots, and to fix their fees. The local boards of Liverpool had full authority to grant pilotage licences to the mates and captains of vessels; but they had never done so, although the local boards of Glasgow and other ports had done this. He therefore rejoiced that by this Bill a power was given to the Board of Trade to compel them to give licences, if they continued to refuse. In case of any injustice, also, a valuable power of appeal was provided by the Bill. He would take the liberty of pointing out to the House, that at the time the 5th of Geo. IV. was passed, there was not probably one steamer plying between Dublin and Liverpool; in the interval that had elapsed since then, whole fleets of steamers from the various ports of Ireland—from Dublin, Drogheda, Dundalk, Cork, Belfast, Newry, and Derry, were continually plying to Liverpool, and repeated applications had been made in vain to the Liverpool authorities for some modification of their pilot regulations. He would just mention a few facts, which would, perhaps, rather surprise the House. He alluded to the case of the City of Dublin Steam Packet Company. In three years the vessels of that company made 2,736 voyages between Dublin and Liverpool. In the whole of that period pilots were furnished 245 times by the local board of Liverpool, the fees paid on those occasions amounting to 4,500 l. l. 227
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he thought that when it was considered that 22,000,000 l. 212
 MR. STAPLETON  said, he begged to ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was his intention to make persons who succeed to property under the shifting clause of a settlement, by which one property shifts from them on their succeeding to another, pay the duty to be imposed on succession on the whole value of the property to which they succeed, or merely on so much thereof as may be in excess of the value of the property which shifts from them?
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the statement of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury had, to a very great extent, fulfilled the wishes of the Committee that sat on this very important and very complex subject. The Custom laws being framed to prevent fraud, and it being very difficult among our vast commercial transactions to distinguish always where irregularity ended and fraud began, it was almost inevitable that parties of respectability should sometimes become subjects of suspicion. The hon. Gentleman had said a good deal about the advantage of local tribunals. He thought it would be a vast advantage, and contribute very much to the satisfaction of the commercial world, if the parties were heard before the Commissioner who gave the decision, instead of a report merely being sent to the Commissioners, on which they sent back their decision. There was one part of the hon. Gentleman's speech which he (Mr. Henley) had heard with great satisfaction, and that was his intention of referring disputes connected with the Customs to the County Courts; but he thought it required great consideration how far it would be wise or fair to send such cases before magistrates, who did not sit in courts of record, and who would be liable to actions arising out of their decisions. It might be said that the Crown would protect magistrates, but such a system would be open to very serious objection. He hoped that the Government would give greater facilities to the bonding system than seemed to be at present contemplated by the hon. Gentleman, and he thought it worthy of consideration, whether the Crown would not have sufficient security for the duties in the bond to be given by the warehouse keepers, and by its lien on the goods themselves. He certainly regretted to hear that increased facilities were not to be given to the coasting trade, which was at present engaged in a severe competition with railways.
 MR. HENLEY  said, with respect to the remark of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) that no means were taken to oppose the second reading of the Bill, no objection that he (Mr. Henley) was aware of was taken by any party in the House to the principle of the measure. What he contended was, that the first nine clauses
 230
 MR. M. FORSTER  said, he was highly gratified with the statement which had been made on the part of the Government. Reference had been made to Mr. Hamel, and he must say that that individual left a very bad impression on his mind, and he believed on the minds of all the Committee. The hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Seymour), however, seemed to have a brotherly feeling for one of his own profession.
 MR. HILDYARD  said, his constituents felt strongly the necessity of legislation on the pilot laws. They had over and over again applied to be licensed, and to be excused from calling upon the Liverpool pilots. They were perfectly ready to pilot their own vessels in all weathers, and very frequently they had to pilot their own vessels in bad weather.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : Do these new regulations apply to Ireland?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he begged to ask the hon. Secretary to the Treasury a question of which he had given him notice. He (Mr. Duncombe) had brought under the notice of the House on former occasions the grievances of the letter carriers, and presented petitions containing statements of the grievances under which they laboured. Upon the last occasion the answer given was, that the subject was under the consideration, and it was understood under the favourable consideration, of the Postmaster General. He now asked his hon. Friend what steps the Postmaster General had taken towards removing the grievances of the letter carriers of the metropolis, as well as throughout the United Kingdom?
 MR. MITCHELL : What do you propose with regard to removing goods from one floor to another?
 MR. MITCHELL : Are they to be re-weighed?
 MR. MITCHELL : Will every fresh transfer require a fresh entry?
 MR. MITCHELL  here asked what were the intentions of the Government with regard to the size of packages?
 MR. MITCHELL : He considered the statement of the hon. Gentleman with respect to fines-and satisfactions was perfectly satisfactory. He did not think, however, that the hon. Gentleman had done justice to the amount received by the officers, for in one year they received as their share of fines and penalties the sum of 10,890 l. s. d. ad valorem ad valorem s. s. l. 207 s., 208 l. l. 209 l. l., l., 210
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he considered the statement of the hon. Gentleman, except in one important respect, exceedingly satisfactory. He thought the hon. Gentleman had met the just claims of the mercantile interest in a fair and liberal manner. He wished, however, to make a few suggestions on some of the subjects which had been brought under the consideration of the House. And, first, with regard to the appointment and promotion of officers. He did not exactly understand whether the
 206
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is in no respect necessary, Sir, for me to enter on a discussion of the numerous points of detail, very important though they are, which have been included in the statement of my hon. Friend (Mr. Wilson). There are some of them in respect of which it would be much better that hon. Gentlemen should read the Minute of the Treasury before they express an opinion with regard to them. But I wish to say something with regard to a topic which has been revived in this discussion—revived, I must say, somewhat to my regret. I do not think there is any advantage to be gained from resuscitating the feelings which were connected with the controversy between the Board of Customs and the Dock Companies. I think we have fairly passed that by, and the recollection of it will, I trust, recur to none except as an inducement to caution in the future. But I must say that I very much regret that the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Mitchell) should have taken this opportunity to have dealt so freely in censure upon the persons engaged in these proceedings. The hon. Member had an opportunity of bringing out all the proceedings before the Committee which entertained the matter; that Committee declined to entertain those views of the matter which the hon. Gentleman has now thought fit to lay before the House. The hon. Member for Bridport thinks that what fell from my hon. Friend (Mr. Wilson) to-night, and what fell from me on a former occasion, has been the expression of an opinion that greatly extended powers might be given to the Board of Customs. In the first place, I never mentioned the Board of Customs at all; and, in the second, though I did
 213 214
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in considering the proper form of the Resolution to be submitted to the House with regard to the Legacy Duty, he found that both precedent and the prudence of keeping within the rules of the House dictated the use of very general terms indeed, and that it was impossible to introduce into that Resolution the various specifications which must necessarily be introduced with great care into the Bill, the subject being one of consider-
 160
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I believe I stated it was the intention of the Government, as a matter of course, that the increase of duty upon spirits which they propose should date from the passing of the Resolutions of this House; but I made an omission on Monday in relation to the subject, which I regret. I ought to have requested the House, in compliance with all former precedents and the convenience of the trade, to have the kindness to pass the Resolution upon that night—the course uniformly pursued upon every such occasion. That course is not
 161
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had stated on Monday night that it was a great object with him to get rid of the additional 5 per cent duty where he could afford to do so, on account of the trouble it gave in many cases; but when he came to the 5 per cent on the wine duties, the amount of which was 100,000 l., l.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, with regard to the latter part of the right hon. Gentleman's observations, I assure him there is not the slightest intention of deviating from the order announced for Monday night. The intention is to proceed—first, with the income tax, and then with the legacy duties; and if it is agreeable to the House, there can be no objection on the part of the Government to take the discussion upon the spirit duties after the others. I do not myself quite remember the order in which the Resolutions are printed, but there never was any intention of deviating from it, and, in point of fact, that respecting the property tax had been already moved, and was in the hands of the Chairman. With regard to the South Sea and other Annuities, it would certainly be a matter of extreme regret to the Government if any hon. Gentleman had not had an opportunity of discussing the Resolutions. As the right hon. Gentleman is aware, expedition in matters of this kind is of importance; but, on the other hand, expedition would be too dearly purchased if it were purchased at the expense of depriving Members of this House of the full opportunity of discussing matters of this sort. With regard to the second reading of the South Sea Annuities Commutation Bill, I think the right hon. Gentleman is in error when he says that my noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) made any reference to the discussion on the second reading when the Resolutions were
 164 pro formâ, 165
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I said the spirit duties.
 MR. W. BROWN  said, he was glad to hear what the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had said about the constitution of the Board which managed the Customs. He, for his part, should like to see one individual responsible for the good management of the Customs, and should be satisfied if they gave him one so intelligent, or who lent his mind to the subject so successfully as the right hon. Gentleman. Much, of course, depended on how the details were carried out, but, looking at the scheme as it stood, he might certainly say that his constituents would be exceedingly gratified with what the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wilson) had propounded.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he quite agreed that, however good the regulations might be, they never would be carried out satisfactorily until the Board of Customs was thoroughly changed. Above all things, he hoped that the Government would insist that one member of the Board should be a Member of that House. It would be recollected how beneficial this had been in the case of the Poor Law Commission; that as soon as it had a Member of the Commission in that House, they never had any complaint, or ground of complaint, brought before them. With the statement, on the whole, however, he was very much gratified.
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, he seconded the Amendment with much pleasure, and he could not but hope that the right hon. President of the Board of Trade would feel it to be his duty to accede to the reasonable request of referring this Bill to a Select Committee, for if ever there was a Bill which demanded a strict investigation as affecting the great maritime interests of the country, as well as the vested interests of individuals, it was this. The hon. Mover of the Amendment had detailed the probable effects of the Bill on the Liverpool pilots. He (Sir E. Dering) would follow the hon. Gentleman's example by alluding to the interests of those with whom he was more particularly connected—he meant the pilots of the Cinque Ports. The Report of the Commissioners on Pilotage in 1846 ought to have the greatest possible weight with the House. That was the last Commission which had eat on the question; its authority was the best to which they could refer;
 222 223 s. l. 224
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he would take that opportunity of inquiring of the noble Lord respecting a statement that he had seen, that at a recent meeting of the magistrates of the western division of Sussex, 500 militiamen were to be embodied as a corps of artillery in that county, to be stationed near Brighton: he would beg to ask the noble Lord, if that number was to be in excess of the quota ordered to be provided by the county of Sussex?
 VISCOUNT CHELSEA  said, he would support the Motion for a Select Committee, as he thought that much consideration was required as to the provisions in the Bill affecting the power of the Trinity House and the Cinque Ports. The provisions of the 9th Clause were of such a nature, that it would be necessary to refer the Bill to a Select Committee to consider them. It was proposed by that clause to deal with the funds of the Cinque Ports, and to hand them over to the Trinity House; but this was a subject which ought rather to be referred to an actuary than disposed of in a Committee of that House. The proposition of the Government appeared to him to substitute a much worse system than the one which now prevailed. He saw no reason why the Bill should be pressed on the House at this early period of the Session, and should therefore support the Amendment.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The quota to be raised by each county was, of course, settled by Order in Council, and to that quota no addition could be legally made. The Crown had, however, the power of training portions of the quota belonging to each county in such manner as was best for the public service; and he was of opinion—and in that opinion he was supported by the highest authorities—that it would be desirable to train a portion of the militia in maritime counties to the management of batteries and the use of great guns. But this force would form no addition to the militia.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had received many representations upon the matter to which the questions referred—namely, the varying, and, in some cases, the very considerable, fees which were levied by clerks of lieutenancy and clerks of the peace upon militia officers for their commissions. The hon. and gallant Member was doubtless aware that the commissions of militia officers were signed, not by the Secretary of State, like the commissions of the regular Army, but by the Lord Lieutenant of the county, who, by the Act of Parliament, was the person competent, authorised, and required to sign them. The Government, therefore, had no control over these different clerks referred to. But, as far as he was informed—and he had made inquiries about it—he was not aware of any law by which the clerks were entitled to levy those fees. They might, of course, have a claim to some recompense for the labour and duty of preparing commissions; but he was not aware of the existence of any law which either fixed a rate of fees, or under which they could legally recover such fees. His right hon. Friend the Secretary at War and himself had turned the matter over in their minds for the purpose of ascertaining if any remedy could be applied to it; and his right hon. Friend thought that, subject to inquiry with regard to the manner in which it could be arranged, these commissions might be made out at the War Office, without giving the clerks of lieutenancy anything to do. They could then be returned to the Lord Lieutenant to be signed
 159
 MR. HUME  said, that it was a somewhat serious matter if the assent which had been given to the Resolutions by the House was to bear the interpretation now put upon it by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. For his own part, he would have objected to the passing of the Resolution the other night if he had not understood that it was a mere matter of form. This was certainly the first time he had ever heard that Resolutions which were laid upon the table bound the House to any course of proceeding. With respect to the general question, he strongly objected to increasing the capital of the national debt, though the plan now proposed might be safely tried, he thought, as an experiment. He had no objection to a reasonable amount of security being given, and unquestionably there was much truth in the remark of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer that, in order to secure the establishment of the stock, it was necessary to offer superior terms.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he thought the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had very properly availed himself of the present opportunity of abundance of money and the prosperity of the country to make an effort for the reduction of the interest on the national debt. The only question was, as to the best means of doing so. As to the first proposition, of offering 3½ per cent upon a stock of 82 l. s. l. s. l. 342
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, he was glad to hear the observations of the hon. Gentleman who last addressed the Committee. He could not help thinking, little as he agreed with most of what had fallen from the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring), that there was too much truth in his observation that that House had been too indifferent to the subject of the reduction of the debt. He regretted that more had not been done in that direction, and that more attention had not been paid to the subject of terminable annuities. He cordially agreed with the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stockport (Mr. J. B. Smith), that the public would gladly submit to some temporary sacrifice in order to obtain the benefit of having the debt reduced at some fixed period. Let hon. Gentlemen consider that the keystone of the operations by which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to get rid of the income tax in 1860 was the falling in of an amount of terminable annuities at that period, and they would see the full importance of this question. With regard to the subject before the House, he regretted that the hon. Member for Huntingdon, whose intimate acquaintance with the subject was so well known, had not alluded to one particular point on which the whole importance of the 2½ per cent stock depended. It was known to the hon. Gentleman, and to every one acquainted with the subject, that it was of the utmost importance to begin the creation of a 2½ per cent stock. Unless that were done, the conversion of the debt into a lower description of stock would be prevented, or at least would be considerably delayed. He appealed to the right hon. Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) for the confirmation of this opinion, that it was of the utmost importance, in reference to the reduction of the annual charge, that a 2½ per cent stock should be created. If this experiment succeeded, it would be open to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in case the present prosperity and case in the money market continued, to go on with a further reduction of stock at 107½, or 110 l. l. 343
 MR. HUME  said, he had heard with much satisfaction the statement of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he hoped he had put that statement on record in the form of a Resolution—that on no occasion should loans be raised lower than the current rate of interest, so as to add to the capital. On every occasion that the Chancellor of the Exchequer referred to, where that had been done, his voice had been raised against it. But the question now before them was, whether this ¼ per cent, which was to be raised by the transaction, should be established as a sinking fund. He confessed a good deal of his objections were removed if that were done. He had no objection to the first proposition before the Committee, that of the 3½ per cent stock; and he would willingly see that carried to any extent, and he would very gladly see a large portion of the debt converted into terminable annuities. With regard to the sinking fund of the ¼ per cent, one might say what did they gain by it? Why, they admitted this—the establishment of a 2½ per cent stock; and he thought the experiment was worth the risk.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he wished to ask if the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had any objection to lay on the table the calculation of the actuary which
 344
 MR. STAFFORD  begged to say that, so far from regretting the appointment of this Committee, he rejoiced at it, and he should go before the Committee, constituted as the hon. Baronet proposed, with the most entire confidence that he should fully absolve himself upon the charges that had been made against him.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, when this question came before us first in the shape of a Resolution, as it is now in the shape of a Bill, the general impression was that Her Majesty's Government were about to deal with the great body of the public debt. That was the general impression. The sum that was to come under the immediate or contingent operation of the measure, whether in Consols or other denominations of stock, would be about 500,000,000 l. l. l. l. 345 l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 346 l. l. l. l. l. l. 347 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 348 l. l. s. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. d. l. l. l. 349 l. 350 351 l. 352 l. 353 l. l. l. l. 354 l. l. l.
 MR. DISRAELI : Whether the amount of saving was on the whole, or on only part, of the propositions, the result is the same so far as my argument is concerned. How the right hon. Gentleman's surplus is made, from what source it is derived, and how formed—if it is only 460,000 l. l. l. l. 355
 MR. DISRAELI : I was referring to, and I mentioned, the amount of the bonus given by Lord Bexley.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he must protest that the course taken by the House in this matter was extremely unfair, and calculated to establish a most mischievous precedent. The whole case stated by the hon. Member for Marylebone had been sifted by a Committee of that House already, as it related to his hon. Friend, the late Secretary to the Admiralty (Mr. Stafford),
 370 Times Times, Times Times Times, 371
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to set himself right on certain points adverted to by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but, first, it was essential to notice an incidental point which had arisen with reference to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman on Monday night. He certainly understood the right hon. Gentlemen to say on that occasion that there would be a saving of 100,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. 364 l. l. l. l. l. l, s. l. l. s. l. 365 l. l. l. l. s.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he agreed with the last speaker that it was unnecessary to offer any objection to that part of the Bill which related to the South Sea and minor stocks; but he thought it right to state, for the information of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he
 321 l
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  explained that he had only recommended trying them as far as they could.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY : Not if there was a guarantee.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he was much astonished at what had just fallen from the right hon. Gentleman. He had understood that some proceeding had been allowed to take place in that House with
 322 l l.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, it had been his intention to have moved an instruction to the Committee, or to have submitted some other form of amendment under which it would have been competent for him to call the attention of the House to the very important principles involved in this measure, and especially to the great and important objection that it provided for a large increase to the capital amount of the national debt, and also guaranteed.
 305 l. s.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would now solicit the attention of the Committee whilst he offered some observations, not merely upon the principle of the Bill, but upon its provisions. The principle of the measure was unexampled in the extent and importance of the interests involved in it, and as a scheme of finance it was unequalled in its magnitude and consequences, involving as it did principles immediately affecting a sum amounting to not less than 100,000,000 l. l. 306 l. 307 l. s. l. l. l. l. l.; l. l. l. 308 l. l. l. l. s.; l. s. 309 l. l. s. d., l. l. l. s. d. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. s. l. s. 310 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. 311 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. 312 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. 313 l. l. l. s. l. s. l. l l. l l l s. l l. s. l. s. l l. l. l. l. s. 314 l. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. i. s. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 315 l. l. l. 316 l. l l l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. 317 pro tanto
 MR. GLYN  said, that he had no doubt these bonds were likely to be exceedingly popular, though no doubt they were open to objection, arising from the risk attendant on the transfer of a document payable to bearer, as many of them might eventually get into the hands of trustees, who would naturally object to hold documents which did not give them that security for which, as trustees, they bad a right to look. He thought it would be desirable that a power should be given to trustees to have these documents written up as stock on handing them into the Exchequer.
 MR. GOULBURN : I am referring to the operation of the year 1824. Then the right hon. Gentleman came down to the period in which it was my own fortune to effect a large reduction of the debt under circumstances peculiarly favourable to such an operation; and he states that a guarantee was given at that period, that there should be no further reduction until a certain period had elapsed, but that it was comparatively short as compared with that which my right hon. Friend now proposes. Now what I have already stated as to the reduction of interest, applies to the question of guarantee. As you advance in the reduction of interest on the debt—that is, as you require those who have a smaller interest to make a considerable sacrifice—you must offer them some corresponding advantage in order to induce them to accept the terms you propose, for if you propose to make any considerable reduction, without some corresponding advantage of this sort, you will fail in the operation. I believe that if in 1844 I had not given the
 358 l. l l. l. 359 l. l. 360 l. l. s. 361
 MR. GOULBURN : Sir, I must return to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire my thanks for the complimentary expressions he has used towards me respecting my conduct when in office. I fear that I shall make but an unworthy return, for it will be my duty, in commenting upon his speech, to use that freedom of speech which is the privilege of hon. Members of this House in the discharge of their public duty. The right hon. Gentleman began his speech by telling us what was the state of public opinion upon the subject of the reduction of the national debt. He told us that there prevailed among the public a general opinion that we could at once deal with 500,000,000 l. l. l. l. l. 356 l. l. s. l. l. l. l. 357 l. l.
 MR. SPOONER  said, that every stockholder now of 100 l. l; l s. d. 318
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to know if the present discussion was limited to the South Sea and other minor stocks, or if it applied to the whole of the 3 per cent stock?
  MR. SPOONER  said, that under these circumstances he would not press his Amendment, for, while he strongly objected to tying up the hands of the Finance Minister for so long a period as forty years, still he did not think the minor stocks of sufficient importance to justify his intervention at that stage of the discussion.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 CAPTAIN LAFFAN  said, he begged to ask whether the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, would have any objection to insert in it a provise that no issue of these bonds should take place under par?
 CAPTAIN LAFFAN  said, that, however desirable it might be, even on a small scale, to create the 2½ per cent stock, and let it go into the market, yet it appeared to be completely settled that the advantage was not to counterbalance the greater disadvantage, in fact and in feeling, of adding to the nominal amount of the debt. He must confess he felt some surprise at the statement of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, that when the first and second propositions were submitted to an actuary, he had declared that the comparative value of the two propositions was, that the 110 l. l. s. d., l. s. l. 5s. d., l. s. d. l. s. l. s. l. l. s. l. 5s. d. l. s. d., l. s. l. s. d. 341 d
 MR. LAING  said, that the subject under discussion was reduced to a simple issue, namely, whether it was or was not desirable to create a 2½ per cent permanent stock, to serve as a barometer to test the public credit. If so, it was necessary to pay a price to effect the operation, and the only question was how that price was to be paid. The object of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was the most economical mode of purchasing it. If he were to sell 2½ per cent stock in the market at a discount, or borrow the money, he would certainly increase the national debt by a much larger sum than it was now proposed to do. The only remaining question was whether we would pay the price which the operation would cost, or throw it on posterity. It was contended by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Kelly), who opened the debate with so much ability, that the new stock would present such superior advantages, that no one would be found to take Exchequer bonds. In this opinion he did not agree, for it was the opinion of all the practical men with whom he had conversed on the subject, that Exchequer bonds would be more in demand than any other kind of stock offered by this conversion, and that it would command a higher price, and would become the favourite stock of the two. Although he did not think the present was a convenient time for settling the conversion of the whole debt, yet he believed it was favourable for laying the foundation of a siege which might lead to a successful capitulation. If by this experiment they were enabled to lay the foundation of a conversion, he thought they might ultimately be in a position to effect a considerable reduction of our national burdens.
 340
 MR. T. BARING  said, that under any circumstances he must express his objection to the adoption of a plan which involved the probability or possibility of an increase of the nominal amount of the national debt. He did not think the present circumstances of the country justified such an increase. In his opinion, unless there was a strong ground for increasing the debt, it ought not to be attempted. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred to several cases in which the national debt had been increased—at one time for the funding of Exchequer bills, at another time, shortly after the Peace, to relieve by conversion the charge upon the debt, and subsequently to raise loans for the relief of the West Indians and the relief of Ireland. He did not deny that strong cases might not render it necessary to add to the national debt—such, for instance, as the case of the slave-holding colonies, and the necessity of an advance to relieve the people of Ireland from starvation. He believed that it might be necessary at times considerably to increase the debt in order to relieve the country from certain burdens. Nay more, after any great effort of the country—after a war which involved this country in great cost for national purposes—the country might think it desirable by a commutation or increase of the debt to relieve the taxpayers of the present day. But the present circumstances of the country did not come within any one of those cases. Nay, the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had told the Committee that there was no similarity between the operation which he now proposed, and any of the cases to which he had referred. Was the country in such a state of distress as to require a relief of this description? Hon. Gentlemen opposite declared that the country had never been in such a state of prosperity—that its burdens had never been so light—that it had never been better able to meet its engagements. Was there any reason, then, for adding to the principal of the debt, and casting an additional burden on posterity to relieve the country at the present moment? He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that it was a legitimate desire to diminish the burden of the debt, if it could be done in a proper manner, by the reduction of the interest of that debt. He was not so sanguine as some Gentlemen
 335 336 l. 337 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. 338 l. l. l.
 MR. T. BARING  said, that if there was an impression that these bonds would be issued under par, it would have an unfavourable effect upon the subscription.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought it would be better not to insert such a proviso, but to leave the matter to the discretion of the Government. At the same there was no doubt it would not be desirable to issue these bonds much below par.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was here understood to remark, that the surplus was derived from the whole operation of his scheme.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he quoted the answer of the actuary in answer to some observations of the hon. Gentleman opposite. His object was to show that there were elements in the calculation which were not reducible to figures, and he said that in what was reducible to figures, if the premises were so and so, then the results would be so and so. But the actuary did not undertake to calculate the risk of redemption from one year to another, as that must depend upon questions of war or peace—upon the case and prosperity of the country, or the reverse. He had only to say, in answer to the question of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), that he was prepared to bring up a clause which would give effect to the proposition he recommended.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Bill would give not only to trustees, but to all persons who held these bonds, the power to convert them into stock whenever they pleased.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : If I had asked the House to authorise me to into the market and sell 100 l. 331 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 332 l. l. s. s. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 333 l. l. 334
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. and learned Gentleman never intimated that there was the slightest difference between the practicability of issuing 20,000,000 l. l. s. s. s. s. 328 329 330 l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I regret, Sir, to find, after the very kind manner in which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Kelly) has referred to me, and after the favourable terms in which he has spoken of the Bill, that his objections to the scheme are of such a broad and sweeping character. I was at a loss for some time to understand to what part of the plan his objections applied. At one time it appeared as if his objections were limited to the question of the 2½ per cent stock; while at others he described the whole scheme as being impracticable, inexpedient, and unjust. I am bound to say that I think the objections of the hon. and learned Gentleman do really go to the root of the Bill. I think his remarks have been dictated by certain commercial and politico-economical views, which undoubtedly are at variance with mine. The hon. and learned Gentleman appears to think it is perfectly safe to assume, and to act upon it as a practical principle, that we are going to create a great revolution in the value of money. He refers to a state of things forty years ago, when he says the value of money was 5 per cent, whereas it is only now 3 per cent. He infers, therefore, that the value of money will continue to fall, as heretofore, as if the process had been in steady and continuous working from time immemorial. But what is the use of going back only forty years? If you go back at all, you should go a little further. Go back more than 100 years, when, as I stated on a recent occasion in this House, the value of money was less than 3 per cent, and when 3 per cent stock sold in the London market for 106 l l 324 325 l s. l l. 326 l. l. s. d. l. s. l, s. l s. d. l s. l s. l 327 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that both the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Kelly) and the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had entirely misapprehended him. He never intended to convey the idea that the House had pledged itself to pass the three alternatives embraced in the Bill. What he did say was that legal notice had been given
 323
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that, speaking from recollection, he thought the hon. Member was in error in stating that heretofore raisins and currants had paid the same rate of duty. In 1845, or about that time, when the duty upon currants was reduced, the duty on raisins was not reduced from 15  s. s. s. s. ad valorem s.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, they were now dealing with the clause which related exclusively to the South Sea and other minor stocks; but it appeared from the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, that while he would not object to the 40 years' guarantee in regard to those stocks, he intended to raise the question when the Committee came to consider the more important portions of the scheme. He only desired to point out to the hon. and learned Gentleman that it would be better to discuss the point in connexion with the question he had himself raised with respect to the 2½ percent stock. The course hitherto pursued had been in strict accordance with established and constitutional usage. Although the Resolutions of the House had no effect in point of law, yet, with regard to the commutation and redemption of stock, the course of proceeding had always been that the Resolutions of the House were acted upon by the parties whose duty it would be, under the Act of Parliament, to give the requisite notice of the redemption. Accordingly, acting strictly upon that principle, Mr. Speaker had communicated to the holders of stock the Resolutions at which the House had arrived. Now the Resolutions ran in these terms—that the holders of minor stock should give notice within a given period of their intention to claim such and such stock in lieu of what they now hold. Their right, therefore, to give such notice had certainly been in existence for a considerable number of days, and although he was not in a condition to say whether any such persons had given such notice, or whether they had even formed an intention to do so, yet he felt himself some doubts and scruples about any interference at all with the terms upon which the House had declared its intention to deal with those minor stocks.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the clause before the Committee had reference solely to the minor stocks.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if he thought that the proposed guarantee was too favourable to the public creditor, he would at once accede to the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Kelly); but this was a question of calm, careful, deliberate opinion, and after endeavouring to form the best judgment he could upon it, he was convinced that the guarantee proposed in the Bill was that which the Committee should adopt. The hon. and learned Gentleman opposite appeared to think that no harm would be done by omitting one of the alternatives offered to the holders of stock. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was of an entirely contrary opinion. His view was, that the dignity of Parliament would be lowered by such a proceeding, and that the wisdom of Parliament and of the Government would be exhibited in a somewhat ludicrous and humiliating light, if they came out with offers altogether unequal to the just expectations of the stockholders. An hon. Gentleman (Mr. Laing) near him had given notice of a Motion to limit the amount of stock convertible into the proposed 3½ per cents. He could understand the meaning and object of that Motion, because if their knowledge was limited, it was right they should limit the range of their experiment. All along he had found great difficulty when dealing with this subject, in consequence of the ignorance of the measure which prevailed. The opinions of hon. Gentlemen in that House were all well enough; but those opinions would not help him when he went to the stock market and endeavoured to transact business there. It was, no doubt, very satisfactory to know the opinion of any hon. Member of that House with reference to a subject of such vast importance as the present; but that opinion was as light as a feather in the stock market, and would not, he was afraid, assist him much in his financial operations. But it was important to bear in mind what his proposal really was. They were now about to pay to the holders of 50,000,000 l l 319 l l l l. s. d. l s. l. l s. l s. 320
 MR. EWART  said, he begged to call the attention of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer to that portion of the Resolutions to be submitted to the House, which proposed that the duty on raisins should be reduced from 15  s. s.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, they had before them two propositions. The one was a good bargain for the stockholder, but a bad one for the public; while the other was a bad bargain for the stockholder, but a good one for the public. It did not require much forethought to know which of them the stockholder would prefer. He did not think that the creation of a 2½ per cent stock was of so much advantage as some hon. Gentlemen supposed; and with regard to the Exchequer bonds, if these were not redeemed at the option of the holder, he was afraid they would not float. Upon the whole, he thought it was yet too soon to attempt a conversion of the debt.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that if the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer now succeeded in breaking down a portion of the 500,000,000 l. 339 l. l.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he would now beg to nominate the Select Committee on Dockyard Appointments: namely, Sir Benjamin Hall, Lord Seymour, Lord Hotham, Sir Henry Ferguson Davie, and Mr. Beckett.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that after the able manner in which the subject had been discussed, it would be presumptuous in him to detain the Committee for more than a few minutes. He wished to advert, however, to what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn), and he was the more desirous of doing so because he agreed with his right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli) in attaching the greatest weight to whatever fell from the right hon. Gentleman on financial subjects. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) had hardly acted fairly in reproaching his (Sir J. Pakington's) right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli) for having omitted to state the bonus which Lord Bexley offered to
 362 l. l. "Another plan, very much entertained by the public, and on which much has been said in its favour, is to create a 2½ per cent stock, and to give the holder of every 100 l. Hansard, "Another principle on which I am determined to act is this—that I do not think it just to purchase present advantage at the expense of burdens to be sustained by those who come after. I think with respect to debts incurred in case of war, it is quite legitimate that posterity should bear their share of the burdens. But to incur additional debt in times of peace, and thus burden those who come afterwards, with the view of obtaining greater relief for ourselves, is a course which I say I myself reprobate, and I am sure when I mention it I shall meet with the general concurrence of those who hear me."—[3  Hansard, l. l. l. l. l. 363 "A great nation like this may hereafter be engaged in wars and beset with difficulties, and, under necessity, obliged to recur to the money market to support so large an expenditure, and whatever desire there may be to effect an immediate saving, I say that to march on in such a course would be fatal to the permanent interests of the country."—[3  Hansard,
 MR. HUTT  reported that the Select Committee appointed to try the Election Petition for the Borough of Maidstone had determined—
 "That George Dodd, esquire, is not duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Maidstone. "That the last Election for the said Borough, so far as regards the Return of the said George Dodd, esquire, is a void Election." "That George Dodd, esquire, was, by his agents, guilty of treating at the last Election for the said Borough. "That it was not proved to the Committee that such treating was committed with the knowledge or consent of the said George Dodd, esquire."
 SIR EDWARD BULWBR LYTTON  rose to more, by way of Amendment, that
 454 455 l. per contra, 456 l. l., l., l. l. 457 l. l. l., 458 l. s. d., l. 459 460 d. d. l. 461 battue; 462
 MR. HUME  said, he was anxious to call the attention of the House to this subject, because he considered that the Motion before them was one of vast importance to the country in whatever way hon. Members might view it, whether they opposed or supported it—indeed it appeared to him that the character of the House as a representative Assembly would be mainly tested by the course pursued on the pre-
 468 Edinburgh Review, 469 l. Vict. C. l., l. l. 470 l., 471 l., l., l. 472 l. l. 473 l. l. 474
 MR. BLACKETT  tendered the thanks of his constituents to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for his Budget; at the same time he was bound to add, that, while they accepted it as a whole, there were portions of it which they would have been glad to see modified. In the first place, as members of a mercantile community, they regretted the omission of the timber duties from the proposed list of remissions of taxation, the present arrangements in regard to timber being opposed to every principle of commercial science, inasmuch as while the manufactured article, that was the ship, was exempt from duty, the raw material of which it was made was taxed. His constituents also regretted the postponement of the period when they might look forward to an abatement of the income tax, and especially for some alleviation of the severity with which that tax pressed upon precarious incomes. They could have wished that there had been in the right hon. Gentleman's speech some indication of amendments in the machinery for collecting the income tax—and they objected to the extension of the receipt tax
 485 l l.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished to say a few words in reference to the question of the hon. Member for Fins-bury (Mr. Duncombe). The noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) had frankly and promptly recalled the statement he made the other night relative to the seizure of certain munitions or preparations of war. As the matter had been commented upon by the public press, and connected with the character of an illustrious exile, who had taken refuge from his oppressors in this country, and as it had been imputed to M. Kossuth that warlike stores were found in the house of Mr. Hale for his use—it was right that the true facts should be publicly known. He knew that many people in this country thought there was some foundation for the charge against M. Kossuth. He had heard people say if M. Kossuth knew nothing about the stores, why does he not take moans explicitly to deny the charge. He had now to state, that as soon as M. Kossuth was informed of what had taken place in that House, he, on the day when the charge was made, did him the honour to address a letter to him which he received late at night. He would, with the permission of the House, read the letter, as it was short:—
 "Alpha Road, St. John's Wood, April 15, 1853. "My Lord—In answer to your kind note, I have the honour to say that all the accusations in the  Times honour, morality, and the laws of that country where I hap- 453 pen to reside; "I remain with high regards and particular consideration, my Lord, your's respectfully, (Signed) "L. KOSSUTH. "Lord Dudley Stuart, M.P."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed that the Members of Her Majesty's Government seemed to be of opinion that with respect to the proposal for reimposition of the income tax for seven years, the least that was said by them would be the soonest mended. He would ask any Member of Her Majesty's Government to rise in his place and assert there was any urgent necessity for this renewal of the income tax. From the able statement made by the right hon. Gentleman the other night, it appeared there were two courses open to Government. The right hon. Gentleman also said there was a third course. To that third course he objected. But there were two courses perfectly open to Government, according to the opinion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer—one was, to relinquish the tax, the other, to renew it. The' third—the course he deprecated, was to emasculate the tax, and so weaken the power of this great weapon as that it should not be available in case of necessity. These were the points indicated by the right hon. Gentleman. He would now ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he was prepared to say there existed any absolute necessity for the renewal of the tax? When the right hon. Gentleman made his statement, so far from saying this was the
 495 l. l. 496 497 heu prisca fides, ad valorem. 498 Cheers from the Opposition. 499 500
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had heard with great satisfaction the able and lucid speech of the hon. Member for Hertford (Sir E. Bulwer Lytton), with which he entirely agreed. He should, therefore, oppose the income tax at every stage, and at every period that it was brought forward. He continued to hold the same unchanged opinions with regard to it. He looked upon it as a measure which was always adopted by all Chancellors of the Exchequer, in order to relieve themselves from difficulties, and to give them an opportunity of playing and dallying with the finances of the country. It might be a very good tax in time of war, but it was unwarrantable and oppressive to impose it in the time of peace. The right hon. Gentleman said it was a very good tax in case hostilities should happen to break out. How had he come to think of that? Had he smelt a rat, like the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord J. Russell), who had proposed to raise the militia? Perhaps there might be more than apprehensions of hostilities. He wished such a thing would
 475 l.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, that it would have been more convenient for the House and more in accordance with usage, if the hon. Baronet had given notice of the
 463 d. d. 464 "When house and land are gone and spent, Then learning is most excellent." d., d. 465
 MR. WARNER  said, that the hon. Gentleman's argument should rather have led him to support the measure than to oppose it. Had not the hon. Member shown beyond all doubt that Ireland was more prosperous now than she was in 1842? Had he not told them that whereas formerly Ireland was an exporting country, she was now an importing country? case, he stated the alternatives that he
 494
 MR. MUNTZ  said, it was with very great regret that he rose to oppose the Budget
 507 bond fide l. l. 508 l.
 MR. H. DRUMMOND  could assure his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract (Mr. M. Milnes), that he never rose to address the House in a mood less humorous. He could see nothing very lively in a subject like the income tax, and though, no doubt, it was within the power of his hon. Friend to produce a poetical budget, yet the two greatest geniuses in the House—the right hon. Gentleman the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the right hon. Gentleman the present Chancellor of the Exchequer—had not been able to relieve it from that dulness which was generally connected with pounds, shillings, and pence. He (Mr. Drummond) had been induced to rise in consequence of some observations that had fallen from the hon. Member for Herefordshire (Mr. Booker), with respect to the proposed tax on successions to real property. The hon. Member had stated that the Government measure, in reference to the imposition of a legacy duty upon the succession to that species of estate, would tend to the dismemberment of the aristocracy, and to the breaking up of all the landed property of the country. But the proposed legacy duty would be a tax upon elder brothers, rather than a tax upon land. Now, he (Mr. Drummond), had no antipathy to elder brothers—no doubt they were the best and the most distinguished of the whole family—but he should remind the Committee that, as long as he could remember, that duty had been looked upon as a very serious evil by younger brothers. When the hon. Member opposite spoke of it as likely to break up the aristocracy of England, he seemed to pay very little regard to historical facts. Who broke up the landed aristocracy of France? Was it not the younger brothers in the National Convention? They saw that while their fathers left large estates to their elder brothers, those brothers were not compelled to pay a tax, whereas the younger sons, who received but a few thousands, were compelled to pay duty upon that sum. And when the hon. Gentleman said that such a tax was new in this country, he (Mr. Drummond) must ask where his historical knowledge was? It was one of the oldest taxes
 505 inquisitiones post mortem? formula, 506 sine die.
 MR. KER SEYMER  brought up the Report of the Select Committee appointed to try the petition against the return at the late election for Berwick-on-Tweed. The Committee had determined—
 "That John Stapleton, esquire, is not duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough and Town of Berwick-upon-Tweed. "That Matthew Forster, esquire, is not duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough and Town of Berwick-upon-Tweed. "That the last Election for the said Borough
 451 "That John Stapleton, esquire, was, by his agents, guilty of treating at the last Election for the Borough and Town of Berwick-upon-Tweed. "That Matthew Forster, esquire, was, T>y his agents, guilty of bribery at the last Election for the Borough and Town of Berwick-upon-Tweed. "That it was not proved to the Committee that the said acts of bribery were committed with the knowledge or consent of Matthew Forster, esquire.
 MR. STANHOPE  said, that as long as a Chancellor of the Exchequer was allowed to reimpose the income tax when he had a surplus at his disposal, so long they could entertain no reasonable hope of terminating that impost. If there were a surplus of 2,500,000 l., l. l. l 509 l. l. l. s. l l. l. l. l., l. l. 510 l.
 MR. J. BALL  said, hon. Members appeared to have almost lost sight of the real matter in controversy. He imagined it to have rested between the income tax, as modified by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and as modified by the theorists and practical financiers on the other side of the House; but one hon. Member had risen after another, and protested against the income tax altogether. Now, what was the meaning of this sudden change? How was it that those who in, December last sought to modify and extend the income tax, now wanted to abolish it altogether? He did not think their objection to it could be founded on the abolition of the soap duty, or on their sympathy with Jamaica, which found no more favour in December than at the present time. He could not but attribute the change of feeling to the proposed extension of the legacy duty, and the equalisation of the taxation of the country. He believed that to be the secret cause of the aversion of hon. Gentlemen opposite to the Budget; whereas that was in his (Mr. Ball's) opinion one of its strongest recommendations. As an Irish Member, he must say, that he did not concur in the view taken of the measure by the two hon. Members connected with that country who had already spoken (Mr. Fagan and Mr. Maguire). Remembering that Ireland was an integral portion of the United Kingdom, he could not consent to view the question as though the interests of Ireland and England were separate and distinct. At the same time, he could not forget the great claims which
 511 47,900L., l. l., l. s. d. s. d. d. l., l. l. 512 513
 MR. MAGUIRE  willingly accepted the definition of responsibility that attached to every hon. Member of that House who voted or expressed his opinion on that occasion. The hon. Member for Montrose said, the candour of each hon. Member would be tested by the course he now took. He willingly bowed to that, and would take his stand on the merits of this question as far as regarded his own country, though if it was a question that referred
 489 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. l., 490 l., l. "In my opinion, if war should arise—I speak, of course, of some great European contest, calling upon this country to put forth all her energies-in such a case, Ireland ought to contribute, and would be desirous to contribute, her fair share of taxation; but this is a tax which was not levied in Ireland during the war, and there is no machinery for levying it." 491 l. l. l. l. 492 493 s.
 MR. BUCK  was opposed to the Budget as unjust in principle, and as pressing with unequal severity on a class which had already suffered much from recent legislation—those engaged in the cultivation of the soil. When Parliament announced its determination, in the first instance, to carry out free-trade doctrines, he never could have imagined that the application of those doctrines would be so partial and one-sided—that whilst large classes were relieved from heavy burdens, it was meant to continue the burdens which pressed upon another and most important class, whilst, at the same time, they diminished their ability to endure them. Was it not hard that the farmers of England should be obliged to pay from 50 to 100 per cent tax on one article, the produce of their soil, whilst the local burdens were suffered to remain, and whilst the prices of their produce were greatly depreciated? And, as if all this was not enough, they were now asked to impose another incubus on the land, by sanctioning a legacy duty. The proposal for the continuance of the income tax would be received with regret and disfavour by the nation—it was oppressive in its amount, and most inquisitorial in its nature—the sanction of Parliament to it had been obtained under false pretences—it was asked for the specific purpose of doing away with those burdens and taxes which peculiarly afflicted the country, and upon the assurance that when the occasion had passed away the tax would cease; but, instead of its ceasing, they now again asked for a fresh renewal of the term. The Chancellor of the Exchequer and his friends boasted of the prosperity of the country; he wished he could find any cause for exultation in the condition of the landed interest: the farmers' of England would not join in the expression of triumph. What were the signals of agricultural prosperity? A vastly increased and increasing emigration was one of the most prominent. And let it be remembered that it was, so far as the farming class was concerned, an emigration not of choice, but of necessity. To those connected with the land it was especially painful to quit the home of their fathers, and seek that subsistence in a foreign land which was denied to them in their own. It was now the spring of 1853,
 484
 MR. COBDEN  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he would not detain the House beyond a few minutes, for he was sure they must be anxious to hear his hon. Friend (Mr. Drummond), whose eloquence and humour would enliven the debate which, so far, seemed to him to possess but little interest. It was no great want of political charity to say that hon. Gentlemen opposite, however anxious they might be to make a good legitimate use of the circumstances of the evening, could not be expected to be very enthusiastic upon the question of discrimination in the Income tax-—the effect of which was to place a larger proportion of taxation upon the fluctuating incomes which they themselves did not especially possess. Nor could hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House, who had expressed a desire for such a modification as would make a distinction between fixed and fluctuating incomes, have any great satisfaction in saying—what he should say—that we were about to give the Budget of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer the fullest support in their power. This was a practical question, to be dealt with on practical grounds. In dealing with it, they were obliged to give up what many of them believed to be very just and sound opinions; but they gave them up as Englishmen; they sacrificed their own views and opinions when it was found necessary to fall into larger schemes and enter upon higher considerations; and therefore they surrendered their opinion in favour of a modification of the Income tax, for the sake of the other advantages of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's scheme. No doubt many of them had, in the presence of their constituents, advocated the immediate repeal of the tax; it would be unjust to the constituents of many of those who had spoken most strongly upon this subject, were they in any way to give up their opinions; but when they had uttered those opinions, they regarded the income tax as in a certain degree part of the permanent resources of the country. But when his right hon. Friend laid it down only as the basis of his scheme for the revision of taxation, and showed that by the falling in of the Long Annuities in 1861, the income tax might be remitted alto-
 501 502
 MR. WALPOLE  brought up the Report of the Committee appointed to try and determine the petition against the return for the borough of Knaresborough. The Committee had determined—
 "That Joshua Proctor Brown Westhead, esquire, is not duly elected, and ought not to have been returned a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Knaresborough. "That Basil Thomas Woodd, esquire, is duly elected and returned a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the said Borough of Knaresborough. "That John Dent Dent, esquire, is duly elected and returned a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the said Borough of Knaresborough."
 MR. BOOKER  said, he was ready to join in almost every expression which the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had applied to the high character and talents of the Financial Minister, whose scheme was now under consideration; and he also desired to thank the right hon. Gentleman for his kind and courteous attention to some matters of commercial import which he had ventured to submit to him. But in the double capacity of the representative of an agricultural constituency, and of one who was personally engaged in the pursuits of commerce, he must say that he felt the greatest dismay at the conclusions to which the right hon. Gentleman had come, and the plans which he had submitted to the House. Speaking for his agricultural contituents, he must say that the right hon. Gentleman, in his luminous address the other night, completely made out their case, and proved with his proverbial cogency that, so far as the income tax was concerned, they were overtaxed to an enormous extent, and bore a very uneven share
 466 d. d. d. d. l. l. l., l., l 467
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE : I wish, Sir, to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Homo Department a question in reference to what he stated on a former night on the subject of the seizure in a dwelling-house—which, however, now turns out to be not a dwelling-house, but a manufactory—at Rotherhithe, of certain implements of war and gunpowder. The noble Lord stated on that occasion that there had been a considerable number of war rockets, in various stages of preparation, seized at this place; that there were seized also 2,000 shells, and a considerable quantity of the composition with which rockets were filled, and 500lb. of gunpowder. The noble Lord, drawing a distinction between the composition with which rockets are filled and gunpowder, on that occasion I took the liberty to say, on the authority of Mr. Hale's son, that there was not an ounce of gunpowder found on the premises. I now ask the noble Lord whether he was not in error when he stated that 500lb. of gunpowder were found, in addition to the rocket composition, which might or might not be gunpowder, but that was hereafter to be decided by another tribunal.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he would now give notice that he should on Thursday next move for copies of all the correspondence in the custody of the Ordnance Office on the subject of Mr. Hale's inventions in regard to rockets.
 MR. FAGAN  said, he rose, reluctantly and with regret, to oppose the Resolution of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He freely admitted that the superstructure of the financial scheme of the right hon. Gentleman was grand—statesmanlike; but the keystone of the arch on which it was erected was the inquisitorial income tax to be extended to Ireland—not to Ireland prosperous and prospering, but to Ireland downtrodden and struggling from the sad effects of a five years' famine. He felt it, therefore, a duty to his constituents and to the country of which he was one of the representatives, to offer the proposition the most strenuous opposition. It was held out as an inducement to Irish Members to vote for an income tax for their country that the Consolidated Annuities should be abandoned. Now, he solemnly and earnestly protested against bringing these annuities into the discussion at all. He recollected some months ago forming one of a very distinguished deputation to the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject of these annuities. At its head was Lord Mont-
 476 477 l l., l. s. d. l. s. d. s. d.; l. s. d. l. s. d.; l. s. d. 478 l. l. l. 479 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. criteria. criteria 480 l., l., l. l. l., l., l., l. 481 l. l. criteria l. l. l. l., 482 l. l. s. l. l. d. 483
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  considered the propositions of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to be the most statesmanlike scheme of finance he had heard laid before the House of Commons. In his opinion the extension of the income tax to Ireland was only a measure of justice. The hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Fagan) had protested against that extension, on the ground that Ireland had already contributed more than her fair proportion to the general taxation of the Empire. Now he (Mr. Williams) believed himself able to prove that for every shilling of taxes which Ireland paid, it received two shillings from the taxation of the United Kingdom. The taxes paid by Ireland were about 1–13th of the taxation of Great Britain. The amount of the whole taxation of the United Kingdom, according to the last official account he had seen, was 56,000,000 l l l., l. l. 487 l. l., l. l. 488 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l., l.
 MR. GROGAN  should say that the pro-
 514 Times, l. d. 515
 MR. R. KNIGHTLEY  thought it was rather hard that they should be called upon now to legislate for posterity, more especially as the noble Lord the Member
 486
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had put the question before the Committee in quite a novel light. He had said that he was about to give a blind adhesion to the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and that he was not afraid to go down to his constituents and let them know the course which he had adopted. He said that they on the Opposition side of the House were making some party move with respect to the income tax; now he (Sir W. Jolliffe) said they should look to the hon. Member, for he was prepared to break away from all the pledges he had previously given, and blindly to follow the Minister in whatever he might propose. But there had been another speech delivered in that House in the course of the evening by the hon. Member for Malton (Mr. E. Denison), which threw the same novel light upon the subject under the notice of the Committee as the observations which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed them. The hon. Member for Malton had stated that he had made up his mind to look neither to the right nor to the left, but to follow without hesitation the propositions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He (Sir W. Jolliffe) could not help thinking that such was rather a strange mode of proceeding. He felt satisfied that those hon. Gentlemen, as well as the hon. Member for Montrose, were describing rather dangerous circles around the Budget of the right hon. Gentleman, and that it would act upon them by and by like the light of a candle upon some imprudent insect, and singe their wings. Now he would just for a moment call the attention of the Committee to the mode in which it was proposed to deal with the Excise duties. In the case of those duties, the right
 503 pro tanto, l. 504
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I must say, Sir, in reply to my hon. Friend's question, I have been misinformed in regard to the matter. In respect to that part of my statement my information has been erroneous. I was informed that 500lb. of gunpowder, in addition to a certain quantity of what is called rocket composition, together with other materials, were seized; but it appears by the report of what took place at Bow Street on Saturday, that the total quantity discovered has been 260lb. of that substance, in regard to which it still remains to be determined on Thursday whe-
 452
 MR. HUME  said, that in seconding the Motion, the consideration which chiefly influenced him in doing so was the importance of establishing throughout the country a force of police sufficiently effective to supersede the necessity of invoking the interference of the military in domestic matters. He had always been of opinion that one of the great evils of maintaining a large military establishment in this country was, that it afforded to the magistrates temptations and facilities of calling out soldiers for the repression of disturbances. This was a most objectionable proceeding, and could only be obviated by having in every county a civil establishment which would be efficient for the preservation of the peace throughout the year. He was for establishing in every county a general and continuous system of police. At present there were in England no fewer than twenty-two counties, and six or seven in Wales, which had no police establishments whatever; and the injustice of the system was, that the counties which supported the police had in a great degree to pay for the counties which refused to do so. The amount of this injustice, regarded as a mere monetary wrong, might be estimated when it was stated that no less a
 548 l.
 SIR RICHARD BULKELEY  said, that although not one of the representatives of Ireland, he knew very well that at the time of the Union it was distinctly understood that the communication between the two countries should be made as perfect as possible. He had often heard that from the late Lord Congleton, under whose auspices upwards of 1,000,000 l. Prince Arthur Prince Arthur 556
 MR. GOULD  said, that if a high rate of speed was to be maintained between Holyhead and Kingstown, it was essential, as the hon. Baronet the Member for Anglesea (Sir R. Bulkeley) had remarked, that the passages should be made in the daytime.
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, he thought it would be impossible to accelerate the communication between both countries without very considerable expense. That object could be accomplished only by the employment of a larger and a swifter class of vessels than at present were engaged in the packet service. He believed that the passage between Holyhead and Kingstown was made, upon an average calculation, in four hours and a half. Now, it might be accomplished in a shorter time by the employment of an improved class of vessels; but they should not think of building a class of vessels of a description superior to those which at present perform the Channel service, until they had made such alterations in the harbour at Holyhead as would enable steamers to ride there in safety.
 MR. BUTT : Whose evidence is that?
 SIR JOHN BULLER  said, it was clear that if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not give way, the House would be involved in a debate upon the third reading of this Bill; and as he thought this would be most un-advisable, he would move that the debate should be adjourned.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that in consequence of communications which had taken place with the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk, a clause had been prepared to accomplish the object desired by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), namely, to restrain trustees for parties having a limited interest from accepting the one particular portion of stock that would have the effect of diminishing the capital without the consent and approbation of a Judge of the Court of Chancery. There was a clear understanding that the Bill should pass through its final stages that night; and he was sure that the greatest possible desire had been shown to meet the wishes expressed by hon. Members on the other side of the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 621  said, that it was perfectly vain to proceed with a Bill of this kind in the face of such a determination as was manifested by hon. Members opposite. He would not, therefore, waste the time of the House by pressing it; but he could not withdraw the Motion for the third reading without entering his protest against this proceeding. The hon. and learned Member for Suffolk {Sir F. Kelly) having made an express declaration on this subject, disappeared from the House. It was alleged that he bad done this because it was half-past one o'clock; but the hon. and learned Member was not in the division which had taken place; and then hon. Gentlemen came forward with their presumptuous suppositions and interpretations, flatly in contradiction of the intentions which the hon. and learned Member had stated. He should propose now to read the Bill a third time, inserting the clauses, and making the amendments he had to propose; and then to let the final stage of the Bill stand over, in order to give the hon. and learned Member an opportunity to move the additional clause of which he had given notice.
 SIR JOHN BULLER  said, he would withdraw his Motion for the adjournment of the debate.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that, though favourable to inquiry, and prepared, if necessary, to vote for the Motion, he had no desire to see established throughout the country a general system of police, with their head-quarters in London, and subject to the control of the Home Office. He should like to see an efficient and uniform system of rural police, and did not apprehend that the expense of such a force would be at all as great as was occasionally supposed. Nothing like one policeman to 1,000 inhabitants would be required
 552 d. d.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he must oppose the Motion for an adjournment. This was a question upon which the House had frequently deliberated, and all its merits were sufficiently before the House. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hamilton), who had conducted the debate on the other side, had stated the whole case in the most powerful manner against the present national system of education. The hon. and learned Gentleman who last sat down had stated that what the Protestant clergy of Ireland wanted was, that they should have the power of reading the Bible in the authorised version to Roman Catholic children as well as to Protestant children. He was glad the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated thus openly and frankly the object of the Motion now before the House. It was true that object was implied in the nomination of the Committee. The House would observe that what the hon. Gentleman opposite wanted was, not a general Committee to inquire what had been the operation of the
 616 l. l.
 LORD LOVAINE  said, he was decidedly favourable to the establishment of a regular and uniform system of police throughout the country—a system which would embrace towns as well as counties. The great evil of the present system, and the great difficulty in the way of establishing a better, arose from variety of jurisdictions, which existed all over the country. Having had great experience in a county in which the rural police had been established, he much approved of the system. In his opinion it was a most difficult matter for the magistrates to manage an irregular and unpaid constabulary.
 LORD NAAS  said, he was not before aware of that circumstance; but whether the hon. Member had or had not given the notice, he (Lord Naas) maintained that such an attack upon one who had contributed so largely to the welfare, both temporal and spiritual, of all around him, was not a matter which ought to be introduced into a debate of this kind. Lord Clancarty had, no doubt, used his influence from time to time for the propagation of those principles which he believed to be right; but he (Lord Naas) thought it could in no single instance be proved that he had brought any other influence to bear in support of what he conceived to be the truth, than the legitimate influences of argument and persuasion; and he utterly disbelieved the statement that the noble Earl had exercised his influence as a landlord, by putting the "screw" upon his tenants, or keeping the "hanging gale of rent" over, their heads—a course of conduct which ought to be reprobated in the strongest possible manner by every honest man. The noble Lord the Member for Portsmouth (Viscount Monck) had made a statement that night which had taken him (Lord Naas) completely by surprise. The noble Lord said that the conduct pursued by hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House was characterised by such inconsistency as to be utterly incomprehensible to him; and in the absence of that candour which usually distinguished his proceedings, the noble Lord quoted a statement which was made by him (Lord Naas) in November last, in answer to a question put to him by the hon. Gentleman the present Secretary to the Admiralty (Mr. B. Osborne). What the noble Lord
 603 "If it shall seem to any hon. Gentleman on either side of the House either that the object for which that system was originally established has not been fully carried out, or that by an addition to, or the amendment of, any of the existing rules, conscientious scruples might be avoided, and extended spheres of usefulness given to the system, it would be the duty of Government not only to acquiesce, but to assist in such an inquiry to the utmost of their power, and to give any proposal that was made of that nature all the care and consideration which the difficulty and delicacy of the subject demand."—[3  Hansard, 604 605
 LORD NAAS  said, he was sorry the hon.
 602
 MR. FREWEN  said, that the transit of the mails from Dublin to London was not so expeditious as it was from London to Dublin. He thought that the Postmaster General ought to direct his attention to the matter, in order to ensure the more speedy progress of the mails between Ireland and this city.
 MR. FORTESCUE  said, he was of opinion that the steam packet service between Kingstown and Holyhead could be placed upon an improved footing at the
 558
 MR. RICE  said, he rose, pursuant to notice, to move for a Select Committee to consider the expediency of adopting a more uniform system of police in England and Wales. The House was doubtless aware that a different system of police existed in almost every county of England and Wales, regulated according to the will of the magistrates. There was no uniformity whatever in these systems, and it was a very general opinion that a material national benefit, in many respects, would arise from the application of one well-matured common system throughout England and Wales. The House would bear testimony with him to the advantages derived by the metropolis from the system of police introduced by the late Sir Robert Peel, in 1829, though that system was met with great hostility on its first introduction. Had a similar system existed in Blackburn, the late disgraceful riots in that borough could not have taken place. It was therefore desirable to have a good police force in the boroughs sufficient to preserve the peace without the aid of the military force, which was objectionable on various grounds in such cases. When the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) moved the Rural Police Bill, he urged many reasons to that effect; and, among others, quoted the observation of the commanding officer of a large district, who considered it inadvisable to employ the military on such occasions. Another reason was, that, while the soldiers acted
 546 547
 MR. LUCAS  said, he must beg to explain that he had on the previous day given notice of his intention to the hon. Mover of the Resolution, who, in reply to his inquiry, said it was not necessary that he should give any further notice.
 MR. LUCAS  said, as far as he understood the question now before the House, the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) and the Members of the Government generally had two opinions on the subject of religious education: one an English opinion, applicable to English education; another an Irish opinion, applicable to Irish education. He confessed that he preferred, of the two authorities spoken out of the same lips, the English to the Irish opinion: he thought the opinion that hon. and right hon. Gentlemen entertained as applied to education in England was sound—that the opinion they entertained as regarded Irish education was unsound; and he could not understand why there should be a different system for the poor in Ireland from that which they recognised as right, true, and sound in this country. But he believed that what existed in Ireland existed only, and was tolerated only, because it was in name one thing, and in practice another. He believed that the national system of education in Ireland was, not in form but in substance, a separate system of education. He believed that it was tolerated and existed only because it was a separate system, and that if by any calamity it Could become a united system, it would either fall in pieces, or be productive of the greatest evils to the people of Ireland. He agreed with a very great part of what had fallen from hon. Gentleman on that (the Opposition) side of the House, but had a great difficulty in agreeing with the Motion they had laid on the table of the House, because he was not able to satisfy himself of the motives they had in view. As to the Motion itself, it had his hearty assent, so far as he understood its meaning; but as to the object of its supporters—which, if he misunder-
 599 600 601
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he would state as briefly as possible the reasons he had for now adopting the course of proposing a Select Committee to inquire into the working of the national system of education in Ireland. Hon. Gentlemen who were Members of the last House of Commons might recollect that on several occasions he (Mr. Hamilton) had felt it his duty to press this important subject on the consideration of the House, but in a different shape. On all former occasions he had moved that an Address be presented to the Crown, setting forth that large numbers of Her Majesty's subjects in Ireland entertained conscientious objections to the national system of education as at present carried into operation, and praying that Her Majesty would be pleased to take their case into consideration, and direct that such a modification of the system might be made as would remove those conscientious objections; or otherwise, that means might be taken to enable those of the clergy and laity of the Established Church, who entertained those conscientious objections, to extend the blessings of Scriptural education in Ireland. That Motion was supported by a considerable number of the Members of the last Parliament. He believed it was supported by more than 200 Members, and it would not be denied that the question was acquiring increasing interest. He had intended on the present occasion to confine himself to
 559 560 561 562 563 "The right of instructing the faithful in the truths of religion, and of resisting every system, by which error may be propagated and instilled into the tender mind, has been always vindicated to itself by the Catholic Church." "The Church will preserve, in preference to everything else, her sacred right to educate and teach;" "Religious liberty requires that ecclesiastical authority should exercise over all public establishments of instruction and education such a control as will enable it to fulfil the duties that conscience places on it." "Indeed (he says), every religious community in England has schools in which its own peculiar doctrines are inculcated; and such schools are considered as part of the machinery necessary for working out the religious views of the sect." "Such are the sentiments of our statesmen—such the principles on which the laws regarding education in England have been enacted. It is difficult to assign any reason why different principles should be applied by the same statesmen to the arrangements for education on this side the Channel. But, whatever reasons they may be influenced by, it is quite clear, that believing, as we do, that there is but one true faith, we should anxiously exert ourselves to have that faith interwoven with every part of education—that we shall take care to have it deeply impressed upon the minds of our children in the schools requiring that the men who teach should be religious; and finally, with Lord John Russell, we should admit no system which would inscribe education without religion—that is, without true religion, on its banner." 564 565 566 "Your Committee having for the present closed their inquiry, owing to the approaching termination of the Session, are anxious that the evidence they have already taken should be presented to the House, although not sufficiently ample to enable them to report their opinion upon the important subject submitted to their investigation." "Your Committee have generally adhered to this course of examination, but they cannot profess to have exhausted the witnesses they would have been desirous of examining under any of these classes." "Although your Committee have made such small progress, as compared with the extensive inquiry sketched out in this course, yet, having attended with the utmost care to the examination of some Members of the Board, and of the witnesses who appeared before them objecting to its system or practice, they think the evidence they now present to the House a valuable preparatory document for further inquiry; at the same time, with a view to guard against the possibility of its leading the House to a premature conclusion, they have accompanied it by this brief exposition of the partial nature of the evidence, limited as it is by the abrupt termination of the Session." 567 568 569 "We permit the Bible to be read every day. We encourage the reading of it on two days; we require the reading of selections on which all agree on every day in the week;" and he adds, "Surely this cannot be called the exclusion of the Bible from the school for any number of days in -the week." 570 l. d. 571 572 573
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he was not averse to inquiry, but he hoped that the inquiry would be full, fair, and searching, and that both sides of the question would be considered. He could not give his adhesion to the opinion that a police station was required for every hill and valley of this country. He had sufficient faith in the rural population of England to believe that the parochial constable system, if remodelled and improved, would be found thoroughly effective for the preservation of order. It was a mistake to suppose that crime abounded least where policemen were most plentiful. In his county, Somerset, there was no rural police; in the adjoining county, Wiltshire, there was such a force, but there was much less crime in Somersetshire than in Wiltshire. He was for educating the people rather than coercing them. In all towns, however small their population, he would have a regular police; but the same necessity did not exist in counties. The chief qualification for a regular policeman was stature, whereas the parish constable must be of excellent character, and must possess a qualification. This was one advantage out of many in favour of the old system, which, however, he admitted, required to be improved. As the Government assented to the inquiry, he hoped that it would be carried on fairly, that the whole question would be well sifted, and that due regard would be paid to the different circumstances of the urban and the rural districts.
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON  said, he wished to ask a question of the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty, of some importance, in reference to the ships employed at Behring's Straits. It would be within the knowledge of his right hon. Friend that a letter had been received by the late Board of Admiralty from Commander Maguire, of the  Plover, Plover, Investigator Enterprise, 545 Rattlesnake, Plover
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, be rose to move for a Select Committee, to examine into the present state of the communication between England and Ireland. As he had been informed that the Motion would not be opposed, it would be unnecessary for him to address the House at any length; he would therefore leave all matters of detail for the consideration of the Committee. He wished, however, to make out  a primâ facie 554 "That a Select Committee be appointed, to examine and report upon the present state of the communication between England and Ireland, as regards the expeditious conveyance of the mails, the transport of troops, and the convenience afforded to the public, and to the Irish Representatives in particular, in their attendance on this House, and to report what improvements modern science can suggest to establish a more speedy and commodious communication between the two countries."
 MR. RICH  said, he cordially approved of the Motion, and was fully sensible of the necessity of establishing a better state of things with respect to police than that which at present prevailed. The question was of much greater importance than might appear at first sight. The police had saved an enormous amount of property and life, and enabled persons to sleep in peace. He fully concurred with the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) in the opinion that the interference of the military in domestic matters was greatly to be deprecated, and he hoped the day was not distant when there would be a civil establishment of sufficient strength and efficiency to preserve the public peace. He agreed with the noble Lord the Member for Northumberland (Lord Lovaine) in thinking that the cause of much of the evil and mischief of the present system was to be looked for in the multitude of conflicting jurisdictions. There were no fewer than forty counties in England and Wales, all of which claimed different jurisdictions, and very many counties had no police at all worthy of the name—simply a head constable, with a few men under him. The great thing to be accomplished was uniformity of action—an object which was to be achieved by a compulsory enactment, and not by an optional one, such as the present. There were large towns and small municipalities which had distinct
 549
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that, to prevent their English brethren being alarmed at the dangers encountered by the Irish representatives in crossing the Channel, he might state that he believed a quarter of a century had elapsed since any passenger lost his life between Kingstown and Holyhead. He was recently asked to attend a meeting in the City, where a number of scientific shipbuilders demonstrated the practicability of constructing vessels capable of making the passage between Holyhead and Kingstown in two hours and a half. It was a mere question of money—an embarrassing question, no doubt; but he hoped the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer would relieve them from that as well as from all the other difficulties with which they were surrounded.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he had listened to the right hon. Baronet to hear a reason for resisting the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin; and he found that his answer was, that the National Board was in danger, but that the system of national education was excellent, and that the more it was inquired into the more its advantages were discovered; therefore the more inexpedient was it to have any inquiry. He believed the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas) spoke the truth when he said the Board was on the point of dissolution; and he believed there never was a moment when inquiry was more necessary than at the present moment. Now, he would answer the question put by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham), because he admitted that, on a subject of this magnitude, there ought to be no equivocation, no subterfuge, and no attempt to catch a vote by misstating a principle, or misrepresenting the motives of persons. The real and the short question was, had they any grievances? Now, he contended that they
 613 614 bonâ fide 615
 MR. GEORGE  said, that so far from opposing the Motion of the hon. Member for Kerry, he should give it every possible support in his power, being assured that it would tend to the ultimate advantage of both countries. He had the honour of being a director of the steam packet company to which the hon. Member had referred; and, on the part of that company, he must take the liberty of saying that he could not agree with the hon. Member that the communication between Dublin and Holyhead had deteriorated during the period he had spoken of. If the hon. Member would refer to the official returns, he would find the contrary to be the fact. The contract between the Government and the City of Dublin Steam Packet Company was entirely inadequate for the service to be performed. Vessels of larger size and greater speed were required to carry the mails and passengers with that rapidity which the temper and spirit of the age desired. He held in his hand a correspondence which showed that the Dublin Steam Packet Company was ready to accelerate the passage across the Channel; but in order to enable it to do so, it was absolutely necessary that a fresh contract should be entered into with the Government. With respect to the conveyance of troops, he was sure the Select Committee would find the Dublin Steam Packet Company willing to afford them every facility in that respect. He did not anticipate any difficulty upon this score, when he considered that a fleet of twenty vessels could be got ready at twenty-four hours' notice for the transport of troops between the two countries. He hoped the Committee would succeed in improving the communication
 555
 MR. MACKIE  said, he would beg to move, as an Amendment, that the inquiry should be extended to Scotland, where the police system was extremely defective.
 MR. VANCE  said, he thought that the Dublin Steam Packet Company should be more amply remunerated for their services, and that a new and more efficient arrangement with respect to the communication between England and Ireland should thus be secured.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he had listened with all the attention in his power to the speeches of his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Hamilton), and of the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, and he could only regret that he should feel compelled to dissent from the propositions they had put forward, however conscientiously maintained, and however moderately expressed. Those propositions had been moderately expressed, with the exception of one remark in reference to the Earl of Aberdeen. He (Sir J. Young) could assure his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin that he approached the subject in no sectarian spirit; and with respect to the allusion made by his hon. Friend, he might be permitted to express his conviction, that as regarded any ques-
 576 577 578 579 580 "My Lords, during the recess my attention, and that of my Colleagues in the Government, and more especially my noble Friend the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, has been directed most anxiously to the question of national education in Ireland. My noble Friend the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland has felt it his duty to devote very great consideration to this question; and with every desire to remove, as far as possible, the feelings or the prejudices of those who are opposed to that system, and who desire certain alterations in it, neither I nor my noble Friend at the head of the Government in Ireland can see our way to the introduction of any change which would have that effect without disturbing or materially altering the present system of education in that country. All I can say is, that I consider it would be a very great evil if we were seriously to disturb the existing system; and the Government, not seeing their way to make any alteration with the view to which I have alluded, have no intention of bringing forward any measure to effect what one party had in view, seeing that could not be effected without incurring evils which they would greatly deplore."[3  Hansard, 581 582 583 l, 1. 584 585 "It is Monday morning, and the village, at a certain well-known hour, is quite alive with girls and boys, of every age and size; their hair combed, their faces and hands clean, and, if they are tidy, or have tidy mothers, with neat clothes. The big ones are kindly leading by the hand a little brother, or sister, or neighbour—all on a very important errand; they are going to school. It is pleasant to walk through a country town or village on a Monday morning. The children are all looking their cleanest and freshest, and their parents have not that tired, worn look, which they get towards the end of the week; for yesterday was Sunday—a day of rest—a day precious to all Christians. It was the Resurrection-day of our Lord Jesus Christ from the dead; and all people who call themselves Christians celebrate this event, and consider the day as a holyday; for, however much they may differ from their neighbours in other things, in this they all feel alike, that it is happy news to all that their Redeemer rose from the dead, and still lives for them. Surely it is the quiet, religious happiness of Sunday, the first day of the week, which makes us fresh on the second—the first of our work-a-day week—so fresh and strong, 'to do whatever our hand findeth to do.' It is Monday, then. Every school in Great Britain and Ireland is beginning the business of the day. Boys and girls of all ages are pouring by thousands and tens of thousands into the streets, and roads, and lanes—often over bogs and mountains—on their way to school. But I now speak of the girls and boys of Ireland, and, among them, of those only who attend the national schools, because I know most about them. Of these schools there are 4,704, and no fewer than 520,000 children attend them. 500,000 children, then, are tripping forth, like yourselves, every Monday morning to school. 5,000 masters and mistresses are busy preparing to teach them, and many thousands of parents have just had the comfort of sending out their children to learn what will be good and useful for them now, for their future life, and we hope for ever. But, of all these multitudes of living beings, are there many, are there any, who ever think as they walk along, why they are going to school? or how it came about that there are schools to go to? Now, this is just what I want to make you think about. How all these thousands of school-houses came to be built, and the books bought, and the teachers paid—as far as they can be paid for such a hard and anxious task—it is right that you should inquire, and right that you should be told. I will explain the thing as far as I am able. The Government,—that is, those who govern in the Queen's name, get leave of the Parliament—that is, the Gentlemen who are chosen to overlook the Government, and watch over the concerns of the people, to set apart a sum of money for building schools, paying teachers, and other expenses belonging to them. But the number of schools required is so great that this money would not be sufficient unless the gentry gave their help towards it, and a number of them do give ground and pay part of the ex-
 586 587
 MR. NAPIER  said, he had listened to the observations of the right hon. Baronet with great interest and anxiety, because he had said before he sat down he would show that the whole object of the Motion was to subvert the national system of education. After this declaration, he had expected that something would have been shown by the right hon. Baronet beyond a mere comment and eulogium on the books that were published for carrying out the system. He Could not for the life of him see how the explanation of the value of these books tended to prove that it was the intention of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hamilton) to subvert the national system. The object and terms of the Motion of his hon. Friend, who generally said what he meant, were an inquiry into the practical working of the system, and
 "whether, by any further extension or modification of the rules framed by the Commissioners or otherwise, the conscientious objections which many of the people of Ireland entertain to the system as at present carried into operation might be reasonably obviated, so as to enable them to partake of the public grant, and render the system more comprehensive and national." 588 589 "The most essential element of the nations health and safety, is that we shall be sound at bottom; but this is, an element which nothing tends more fearfully to endanger than that the Christian instructors of a land—the officials charged with that highest of all education, the education of principle—that they should be brought down, whether by their own deservings or the injustice of others, in popular estimation. It is a blow struck at the corner-stone when the moral integrity of clergymen is assailed; and when, not in any secret or obscure whispering-place, but on the very house-top of the nation, we behold, and without a single expression of remonstrance or regret from the assembled peerage of the Empire, one nobleman sending forth his wrathful fulmination against the honesty and truth of ministers of religion." "I am bound, after making all possible inquiry, to declare that I am more averse to the system and more fearful of its consequences than before." "For four or five days in the week the use of the Bible as a school-book is prohibited, and that not because of its literary unfitness for the purpose, but of its religious unfitness in the estimation of the Catholic priesthood. The most common effect of the regulation is the prohibition of Scriptural instruction to which it subjects the Protestant Church. But in the minds of the committee there is another strong objection against it, which could not be done away with, even though other days were allowed, and other methods pointed out, by which the absence of Scriptural instruction could be compensated for. The objection is, that the State now for the first time lays a practical restriction upon the use of the Scriptures." "Their Lordships regret that the children of Dissenters should not be admissible into the Church schools without the requirement of the catechism; and their Lordships would rejoice in any change of there ulations in the Church schools. While,
 590 591 592 593 594
 MR. WIGRAM  seconded the Motion. He did not mean to make an attack on the existing national education system in Ireland. He could not say that he approved of the principle on which that system had been founded; but the system itself had been in operation for twenty years, and had, as he believed, been an instrument of great benefit to the Irish people, and more especially to the Roman Catholics in Ireland, and he had no wish to effect its detruction. The object of this Motion was not to overthrow the system,' but to enlarge the numbers of those who could partake of its advantages. The Church of England schools were at present prevented from participating in the benefits of the system by the operation of the rule that any person might object to religious instruction being given in the school. That rule was a practical barrier to the extension of the system to the Church schools, and he and those who agreed with him upon the question wished to see that barrier removed. He thought there were several reasons why their opinion upon this point ought to be adopted. Such a concession would meet the views of those Protestant ministers who believed it was their bounden duty to see that all the young confided to their charge should be instructed in Divine truth. What physician who undertook the care of another would submit to be debarred from applying the remedy which he conceived to be necessary? How could a conscientious clergyman of the Church of England, located in Ireland—a country placed the shadow of darkness-how could he be a party to educating the young without imparting to them the most important of all things, the pure Word of God? That was the principle on which the great majority of these clergymen re-
 574 575 "It would, he was confident, put an end to the delusion that this was a real system of united education. He believed it would appear, speaking generally, that there was no union of the children of the different religions in the same schools under the national system;" "with any propriety, be called a united education was to be found in the schools of the Church Education Society."
 MR. SPOONER  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would not press his Motion at that late hour. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Suffolk (Sir F. Kelly) had a notice on the paper in reference to this Bill which he would not be able to bring forward if the third reading were taken that night. He begged to move that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he thought there was good reason for not proceeding with the Bill that night. There was a very important point connected with the measure still undecided, and that was the situation in which trustees were placed by it. Trustees for reversionary interests, as the case stood at present, had the power of altering and disposing of this stock without the consent of the person who had that interest. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that he did not wish to change the law, and that it must be left exactly as it had been before. In every other proposition of a similar kind which had been made to Parliament, trustees had been obliged to act according to the provisions of the new law; but under this measure they might take any one of three courses. A clause, he thought, should be introduced, preventing them from acting without the consent of the person who had the reversionary interest.
 MR. MANGLES  said, that although he was an English and not an Irish Member, he happened to know something about this matter, in consequence of having been a director of the unfortunate Chester and Holyhead Railway. He was sorry to say that, in his opinion, the efforts of Government had of late years tended to retard rather than to promote the means of communication between the two countries. In
 557
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he was quite of opinion that this question had not yet been fairly discussed, and he should, therefore, second the Motion of the hon. Member for an adjournment.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that this was a question with respect to which every day's delay was matter of most serious inconvenience. Here were parties the whole foundation of whose property was to be changed to the amount of 10,000,000 l. 620
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that, after the distinct declaration of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Suffolk, they had no right to presume that he would not have attended in his place to bring forward his Motion.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk had been in the House at the commencement of the evening, and had said that he would be prepared to move his Amendment that night.
 MR. FAGAN  said, he was exceedingly anxious to express an opinion upon this question, in common, he believed, with many other hon. Members; but still, if it was the desire of the House to divide now, he had no wish to oppose himself to the general feeling.
 MR. FAGAN  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. KIRK  said, he had been intrusted with a short petition from Newry, which he had only received that day, in which the petitioners expressed their deep conviction that the national system of education was one of the greatest blessings ever conferred upon Ireland, and that, taking into consideration all the peculiar circumstances of the country, they believed it was the best practical system for Ireland, recognising as it did the right to a full enjoyment of religious freedom, and securing perfect liberty of conscience to those who availed themselves of it. This petition was signed by the Dean of Dromore, the Protestant rector, the Presbyterian and Methodist ministers, and the merchants of the town of all denominations, and it would have received the signature of the Roman Catholic bishop if he had had the opportunity of giving it.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Having been associated, Sir, with the Earl of Derby in the Administration of Earl Grey, when the system of national education in Ireland was originally founded—having always taken the deepest interest in its success—having, amid every variety of circumstance, uniformly supported it—differing, as I do, from the noble Lord who has just sat down, in thinking that there is an attack, hardly concealed, on the system itself in the present Motion—and feeling that system to be in danger, I should not, I think, be discharging my duty if I failed to address a few words to the House before the debate closes. I was anxious to hear from the noble Lord (Lord Naas) an unequivocal declaration with reference to the pertinent question which was put by the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas). I wished to hear it distinctly stated whether there was on the opposite side of the House, and on the part of those who have promoted this Motion, a desire to obtain for the Church Education Society separate grants for their own schools or not. I know not, of course, what is their intention at present, but I am sure that at no very distant period those who have promoted this Motion to-night, and who brought it forward on a former occasion, did entertain such a wish, and did not conceal it. Now with reference to the proposed inquiry, it is absolutely necessary to consider what has been urged by those who have taken part already in this debate. I think I am not wrong in saying that I heard, or thought I heard, the hon. Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Hamilton) declare to-night that the time had arrived when it was necessary to abandon this "phantom," as he called it, of mixed education in Ireland. ["Hear, hear!"] Surely, the hon. Member used that expression; and if he used it, there cannot, I think, be a doubt of the objects and motives which have actuated him in bringing forward the present Motion. The hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Wigram), who seconded the Motion, as I understood him, put the claims of the parochial clergy as high as this—that it was not only their duty but their right to administer the religious education of the whole of their parishioners. Now, probably this declaration may win for the Motion the support of the hon. Member for Meath. He, too, is de-
 606 607 "I am thoroughly adverse to the delusive scheme of Irish national education. No system, I conceive, can prosper in which the word of God is not sincerely honoured as the greatest blessing to a nation. It should he remembered that the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable; and I cannot compromise that principle." 608 609 610 "During the last few months of his life the subject of national education was much upon his mind. The following was written about a week before his death, and comes to us sealed with the impressive character of being the last formal expression of his truly enlightened judgment on any great public question. Dr. Chalmers says on this subject, 'I would suffer parents to select what part of education they wanted for their children, and would not force arithmetic upon them if all they wanted was writing and reading; and as little would I force any part of religious instruction that was given in the school, if all they wanted was secular education.'" "The danger of this ignorance being, by the confession of the most judicious divines on both sides, acknowledged to be so great, the woful state of the poor country wherein I live is much to be lamented, where the people generally are suffered to perish for want of knowledge—the superstitions of Popery not doing them half that hurt that the ignorance of those common principles of the faith doth, which all true Christians are bound to learn The consideration whereof hath sometimes drawn me to treat with those of the opposite party, and to move them that, howsoever in other things we did differ one from another, yet we should join together in teaching those main points, the knowledge whereof was so necessary unto salvation, and of the truth whereof there was no controversy betwixt us." 611 "As soon as the system was announced, meetings were got up in almost every town in Ulster. The great meeting of Rathfriland, at which Lord Roden presided, was the first. The people were led to believe that the Government were about to send round the police to take possession of their Bibles. To this meeting they carried their Bibles and flourished them over their heads, expressing their determination to die in defence of them. After this meeting gun-clubs were established, for the purpose of furnishing the peasantry with guns to protect their Bibles."
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I am not aware of the name. The evidence was given in answer to questions 7,687 and 7,688 of the Committee. If the hon. and learned Member will go to the library he will find it. A pamphlet has been published upon the system of Church Education Society by the Rev. Mr. Trench, and a most able one it is. I think I can show, from a fact mentioned by Mr. Trench, that there lurks under the semblance of religious differences the real venom of political animosity. In one town in Ireland, in which there is a national school and a Church Education school, Mr. Trench says—
 "In company with the landlord of the town I visited, first, the national school, and afterwards the Church Education school. In the national school we found the Scripture extracts were read. On our entering the Church Education school, the landlord, not being well acquainted with the principles of the Church Education school, asked the master whether the Scripture extracts were read in his school? His reply was, 'Oh no, Sir; we are all Tories here!'" 612
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that he was aware of the despatch from the commander of the  Plover,
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought that the question was one which fell within the legitimate province of the Government, and should be left to their discretion rather than to that of independent Members. If the Government were not prepared to undertake it, he should certainly give his voice in favour of the appointment of a Committee, but he should much prefer that the Government should take the question into their own hands. Nothing could be more unsatisfactory than the state of the police in England, as well in towns as in counties. Some of the larger towns had, at a great expense, organised an admirable police, but there were others of them whose arrangements in this respect were wretched beyond description. Many of the counties had larger public establishments than they required, while others, influenced by mistaken considerations of economy—and these amounted to, perhaps, one-half the counties of England—had no police whatever. The defect and mischiefs of this system arose from the fact that the question was regarded simply as one of money. It was remarkable that, the better and more effective were the police, the less disposed were the people in country places to pay for them. It was a common thing for a ratepayer to object to the expense of the police on the ground that he could never see a policeman, forgetting that it was at night that that official was on duty, and that he was taking care of the ratepayer while the latter was sleeping. Another
 550
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that when there was a notice of an Amendment on the paper, it might have been fairly concluded by hon. Members that so important a measure would not be pressed to a third reading at so late an hour.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  moved the adjournment of the House.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must disclaim any intention to offer an unfair opposition to the progress of this Bill; his conviction was, that there was some misunderstanding on the part of the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk. If the final stage of the Bill were fixed for the following day, no delay could be occasioned, as the Bill could be taken up to the House of Lords on Thursday, and that branch of the Legislature did not sit on Wednesday.
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  said, that as one who was well acquainted with the south of Ireland, he wished to bear his testimony to the importance of an efficient means of communication between England and that portion of Her Majesty's dominions. He hoped that not only would a Committee be appointed to inquire into the subject, but that the Government would consider the question as one which deeply affected the prosperity of Ireland. The whole system of postal arrangement in that country was most deficient, and required immediate revision.
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, that after the concurrent testimony with respect to this system of education borne by every Government for the last twenty-one years, after the repeated divisions which had taken place in that House, and after the emphatic declarations which had been made both in that House and in another place by the leading Members of the late Administration, he had hoped the matter had been set at rest, and that no Member of the late Government would have reopened the question, when so doing could be attended with no practical result. His hon. Friend (Mr. Hamilton) had, as he bad stated, brought forward this question upon several occasions, in the form of an address to the Crown for a change in the system of education adopted by the National Board; but he had not explained his reasons for now bringing it forward in this particular form—namely, that of a Motion for a Committee of Inquiry into the working of the system. He (Viscount Monck) would endeavour to put the House in possession of the reasons which had caused this change of form. He should not refer to the past for the purposes of political recrimination, but he thought there were some subjects which ought to be excluded from the domain of party politics; and they would do a serious injury to the cause of education in Ireland if they gave the people of that country reason to believe that their conduct in respect of this question depended upon which side of Mr. Speaker's Chair they sat. He did not believe his hon.
 595 sub silentio; 596 597 598
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that this undoubtedly was a matter which fell within the legitimate range of the Government's duty, and one in respect of which they would be prepared to take an active and decisive part. At the same time, he could not but think that, with a view to collecting information as to the advantages which had resulted to some counties from having police, and as to the evils and inconveniences which others had endured from the want of such an establishment, the Committee moved for by his hon. Friend the Member for Dovor (Mr. Rice) would be extremely useful, and would prepare the way for beneficial legislation. He entirely agreed with his hon. Friend as to the superior quality of the county police as compared with those purely local constables which were in some places preferred to them; and he was persuaded that those counties which were deterred by motives of economy from establishing a well-disciplined and effective police, had taken a most erroneous view of their own peculiar interests. He had the strongest conviction that one of the results of the labours of the Committee would be to show that the counties which pursued such a course lost much more by reason of depredations of property, and all the expenses consequent on the multiplication of crime, than would have sufficed to have established an efficient system of police. He had no doubt that much inconvenience, and not a little injury to the public, resulted from the jealousies of small municipalities, which did not like to surrender their small prerogatives, and feared that their dignity might be compromised if they were to make common cause with the counties. From these unfounded jealousies much evil had followed, and the Committee no doubt would feel the matter to be of sufficient importance to merit their attentive consideration. Let the result of the proposed inquiry be what it might, he was of opinion that his hon. Friend the Member for Dovor
 551
 MR. HUME  said, he could not think that the hon. and learned Gentleman's proposal was the safe and proper course for the Government to take. He thought the experiment should he limited to as small an amount as possible; but, at all events, the right hon, Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer should try to obtain the amount on terms as low as possible.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that he had prepared a clause upon this point, which he hoped would meet with the concurrence of his hon. and learned Friend and of the House. It was to the effect that, in all cases in which any trustees, executors, or administrators, shall be possessed of or entitled to any part of the capital stock now proposed to be paid off and redeemed upon trust for the benefit of any persons having limited interests, or being under any legal disability, no such trustees, executors, or administrators shall be at liberty to commute such stock into any new stock or Exchequer bonds to be created under this Act, without the consent in writing of all persons beneficially interested in such stock, if competent to consent; but if such consent is not given, or any such party is under any legal disability or beyond the seas, or if the trust is such that persons yet unborn are interested in it, then in all or either of such cases every such trustee, executor, or administrator, shall commute the stock so held by him in such manner, and in such manner only, as a Judge of the Court of Chancery in England or Ireland, or of the Court of Session in Scotland, shall direct.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that those who objected to an application to the Court of Chancery should remember that that tribunal had been very much altered, and that the application which he had suggested would be made to a Judge sitting in chambers, and would cost only a few shillings, whilst it would not interpose more than possibly two hours delay. His hon. and learned Friend (Sir F. Kelly) and himself were quite at issue upon the point, whether the Bill should require the trustees in every case to obtain the consent of all the parties interested. The condition proposed by his hon. and learned Friend would assuredly operate as a clog and an impediment that would render the conversion of any considerable portion of stock held in trust wholly impracticable.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would now move the Clause of which he had given notice.
 MR. HUME  said, he would suggest that the best way of saving expense to parties would be by requiring the Judges in the Court of Chancery to give their decisions free of cost.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the effect of the Amendment would be this, that in every case, if any one of the parties interested should disagree to the commutation, the amount of stock in which the parties were interested would be exempted altogether from the operation of the Act. The object, therefore, of the Amendment was to render the Act inapplicable to a large amount of stock, and to reduce its operation within the smallest possible limits.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  replied, that any Judge in Chancery in Ireland would have power to deal with every application.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  replied, that they should have recourse to the intervention of a Judge, who would then have to discharge the functions of the trustees.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he was compelled to advert to the remarks made by the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) with reference to Mr. Baron Richards. That learned person was present in the Court of Exchequer when his services were required. When Sir John Romilly introduced the Encumbered Estates Bill it was necessary to place a bold, experienced man at the head of the Court; and the Government of the day wisely selected Baron Richards, a man of matured judgment. The additional emolument Baron Richards derived from sitting front one year's end to the other, eternally at work without vacation, was 800 l 654 l l l l l
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he
 636 cestuique
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said,
 622
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had begged the whole question. The sum to be dealt with was limited, and they could not apply the same reasoning to it as if they were dealing with the whole amount of the funds, and were offering propositions which the parties must accept or decline. He should vote against the clause, because he did not think it was necessary to the proposed operation, while it would cause a vast amount of useless and expensive litigation.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman might move that his own Clause be brought up, and then the Chancellor of the Exchequer would state what were the terms of his Amendment. The rule of the House was, that all the clauses should be added to a Bill before considering the Amendments.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. and learned Member will have the opportunity of addressing the House upon the several questions that the Clause be read the first time, the second time, and also the third time, and also upon the question that it be added to the Bill.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had taken a very mistaken view of the question before the House. They had already sanctioned an arrangement by which they proposed to make a change in the position of the public debt, and were now discussing the expediency of offering an inducement to certain parties to accept their terms. If it was not the interest of those parties to accept the terms offered them, the whole operation would, of course, fall to the ground; but he apprehended that such a result would not be satisfactory either to the House or the country. The right hon. Gentleman put the case of five persons under a trust, one of whom might consider it for their interest that the trustee should accept the terms; but among the others a difference of opinion might exist as to whether the terms should be accepted or not. In such a state of things, said the right hon. Gentleman, it would not be proper to give any of the parties the power of appealing to the Court of Chancery, Now, the party was entitled to assume that the proposed operation would be successful, and that it would benefit those who might take advantage of it. But if the trustee would net accept the terms unless they all consented, they would be in a worse position, because they would be left to be paid off at a more disadvantageous time. That House had
 641
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he rose with great regret to offer objections to this Clause, and he could not but feel astonished that, however desirous it might be to introduce a clause of this kind into the Bill, the House should be called upon finally and irrevocably to determine not only upon the substance but also upon the precise language of the Clause, without sufficient time duly and properly to consider its terms. He might at once call the attention of the House to the fact that a difficulty arose even on the very first words of the Clause, which commenced by stating that "in all cases in which any trustees, executors, or administrators shall hold or be entitled to any part of the capital stock of any of the 3 per cent annuities now proposed to be paid off, commuted, or redeemed;" and so on. Now he would ask his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, not what he intended by these words, for it was evidently the intention of the Government to apply the Clause to the whole of the 3 per cent stock of every description, and not merely to the 10,000,000 l 643 l l 644
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to move an Amendment declaring that an appeal to the Court of Chancery should not be competent in the case of a mere disagreement of opinion amongst parties.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY : I assure you, Sir, I wish to address the House but once, and that for a very short time.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY : Then I will move  pro formâ
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he believed that there was no substantial difference between hon. Members on either side of the House upon this important point. The object of the proposition that he had originally made was, that where the stock was held in trust, the trustees should not have the power to exchange the stock without the authority of all the parties who are beneficially interested in it; and with regard to the case of lunatics, infants, persons beyond seas, under coverture, and the like disabilities, he had provided that any stock held in trust for such persons should be commuted by the trustees under the authority of the Court of Chancery. A clause to effect these two objects, he conceived, must be entirely unobjectionable. There could be no undue expense and no injustice in such a provision; but with respect to cases in which all the parties interested did not agree, he did not think that there should be any application to the Court of Chancery—a proceeding which he quite concurred with the right hon. and learned Member for Bute (Mr. S. Wortley) would be attended with heavy expense. He would suggest to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it would be better to defer the further consideration of this Bill till to-morrow, and in the meantime he (Sir F. Kelly)
 637
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he had listened with great attention to the Clause, and it appeared to him that it affected stock in which lunatics and others had a beneficial interest, and that it was identical with his own proposal. But his objection to the addition was, that the right hon. Gentleman's proposal exposed families to the expense of an application to the Court of Chancery when all parties were agreed as to the expediency of commutation. All were agreed that if the Bill passed it was their duty to give effect in the best way to the intention of Government as far as that intention agreed with the feelings and wishes of the country. He would ask attention to what he considered to be the intention of Government, and how far that intention agreed with his own views. He would, however, in the absence of the hon. and learned Solicitor General, postpone the
 628 l l l l l 629 l l l. s. l 630 l. s. l. s. l. s. d.,
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that seeing the feeling of the majority of the House to be opposed to him, he would not trouble them to divide.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  then proposed another clause, for the purpose of preventing the acceptance of this stock by trus-
 635 cestuique
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that course would expose both himself and the House to great difficulty, whilst it certainly presented another reason for complaining of the undue precipitancy with which the Bill had been carried through. Thus, at the last moment, when it was competent for him to propose an Amendment to protect persons beneficially interested in stock against the imprudent and perhaps wanton acts of trustees, he was told that Her Majesty's Government had prepared a clause calculated to meet the objection he had raised. But he was in this difficult situation—he must propose his clause now or not at all. The Government had not theirs
 626
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he regretted that he did not see before him any
 624 625 The Chancellor of the Exchequer here entered the House. l
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, tobacco dealers were put under a heavy charge for licences under the right hon. Gentleman's plan, and he should take an opportunity of calling attention to their case.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would suggest that the law officers of the Crown should in all cases attend before the Court and argue the cause gratuitously.
 MR. WHITESIDE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to facilitate the sale, partition, and exchange of lands by the Court of Chancery in Ireland, and the recovery of monies secured by recognisance in the said court. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that the House was no doubt aware that an Act of Parliament which had produced a great effect in Ireland, called the Encumbered Estates Act, would expire, so far as regarded its purpose of receiving petitions for the sale of lands, in the space of two months. He had asked the Secretary of the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland what course the Government intended to pursue in reference to this important Act, which affected a great portion of the landed proprietors of Ireland, and involved in its operation many millions of money; and he had been told in reply that it was intended to consult the Lord Chancellor on the subject. This question had been under the consideration of the late Administration; and when a proposal for the renewal of the Encumbered Estates Act had been brought forward last year, a pledge was given that this large and difficult subject should be fully inquired into, and that before the lapse of another year a Bill should be introduced on the subject. The misconception under which they had heretofore laboured was this, that they had feared to apply the machinery which they possessed to accomplish a great and manifest advantage. When Sir John Romilly introduced this Bill originally, he told the House that it was proposed that the money produced by the sales should be paid into the Bank of Ireland in the name of the Commissioners, and that it should be paid amongst the various parties who should be entitled to it without delay. Now, the House might desire to know why it was necessary to interfere at present—what was the mischief which was complained of—and what was the remedy proposed? He would state, in the first place, that he wished to cast no reflection whatever upon the Commissioners of the
 648 l l l l l 649 650 l. 651 652 l scire facias, 653
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he must object to such a proposition, for a provision of that nature would invest the Judges with an unprecedented power. He congratulated the Solicitor General on the additional business which that clause was calculated to bring to the Court of Chancery.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he had never conversed with any person, either professional or connected with the landed interest in Ireland, who was not of opinion, not only that it was desirable, but that the time had come for a retransfer of that extraordinary, however necessary, jurisdiction of the Encumbered Estates Court to the ordinary tribunals. If the Encumbered Estates Act had worked good, it was through the zeal and ability of the Judges who had administered it. He hoped steps would be taken for a rigid and careful examination of titles in Chancery similar to that which we had in the Encumbered Estates Court.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, that the authority to which the hon. and learned Gentleman ascribed the Bill—that of Mr. Chancellor Blackburne—must carry great weight in the opinion of every one; and therefore Her Majesty's Government were disposed to receive the measure in the spirit in which the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated that he intended to propose it, when he said that he did not bring it forward in a spirit of hostility to the Government. The Government had a scheme under consideration; and, therefore, they could not pledge themselves to the measure of the hon. and learned Gentleman, nor could they promise to give him any facilities for carrying it on; but they were prepared to bestow on it the fullest consideration.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would now ask what was to be done if the trustees should disagree as to the course they ought to pursue?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was afraid that the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose, even if carried into effect, would be comparatively worthless; for, although the Judges might deliver their judgment gratis, the Chancery Court practitioners could hardly be expected to do their part of the work for nothing. With respect to the clause now before the House, he thought if the Government had tried to contrive machinery for the purpose of dragging all the unfortunate persons who were possessed of property held in trust into the Court of Chancery, which even in its reformed state was not a desirable place to get into, they could not have succeeded more effectually than they would do if this clause were adopted. But he especially objected to the haste with which the Government were endeavouring to pass this Bill through the House. Here was a new clause, which nobody had seen in print, which had evidently not been considered with the care it deserved, and which perhaps the most competent person in that
 645
 MR. HENLEY  said, that he had had the honour to act in conjunction with the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham) in attempting to improve the practice and procedure of the Court of Chancery, and he thought that the measure of last Session enabled parties to obtain the intervention of that Court at much less cost and delay than had hitherto been the case; but, with all deference to the right hon. Gentleman, that was entirely foreign to the subject now before the House. The principle laid down by this Bill was, that if five parties were interested in a common fund, and one of them, however trifling his interest might be, wishing to do something with it, that person would have the option of dragging the other four into an "amended tribunal," and of exposing and ripping up all the circumstances of the trust. Because it might happen that the Court would not be able to form a correct judgment as to whether that fund should be so delt with or not, without having all the complicated interests of the parties before it—proceedings of such a nature possibly that it would not be easy to conduct them through that Court even in its reformed state. He contended that what was now proposed was in direct opposition to the known and recognised principle of the law,
 640
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he did not object to the clause proposed by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, but he doubted if it would have a good effect. He did not consider the expense attending an application to a Judge of the Court of Chancery in chambers would be so insignificant, or the course of such a proceeding so expeditious, as the hon. and learned Solicitor General would have the House to suppose. As a practical man he knew that in every case where the parties interested did not agree to the conversion of the stock, they would apply to their solicitors to prepare a petition, and very considerable expense and delay must necessarily be the consequence. The clause of the hon. and learned Solicitor General would enable the trustees to act in opposition to the wishes of the parties interested—a principle to which he thought that House ought never to assent. This was a very serious matter, and deserved more attention than it had yet received. He therefore hoped the discussion would be deferred till to-morrow to allow the clause to be printed with the Votes.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he wished to inquire whether it was intended to give the Master of the Rolls in Ireland co-ordinate jurisdiction with the Court of Chancery?
 MR. NAPIER  said, he thought some misappreheusion existed with respect to what had been said of Baron Richards. There wa3 no doubt that Baron Richards was asked to take that place which he occupied at the head of the Encumbered Estates Court. He was a Judge of great experience in the Court of Exchequer, and discharged his duties with great assiduity. What the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) had said cast no imputation on Baron Richards, but was merely a statement that he could not be in two places at the same time. There was also a misapprehension in supposing that the intention of the Bill was to absorb the Encumbered Estates Court. What the public desired was, to have facility for sale and security for title, and they had a right to expect that as much facility and cheapness as was consistent with the administration of justice should be secured in any Court of competent jurisdiction—that the title should be a Parliamentary one—and that the decretal title of the Court of Chancery should be equally efficacious with the title given under the Encumbered Estates Act. As a Member of the Irish Privy Council, to whom appeals lay from the Encumbered Estates Court, he could bear his testimony to the care and diligence with which titles were examined; Parliamentary efficacy was added to a real and well-examined title. He had heard it remarked that it would be an actual advantage to have an estate encumbered for the purpose of effecting a sale through the Encumbered Estates Court. The object of the Bill, however, was not to absorb but to extend the facilities of that Court to the Court of Chancery.
 MR. BASS  said, that this subject had, within the last few days, assumed a degree of importance which it did not before possess. On every occasion when the noble Lord had brought it forward, he had felt it his duty to oppose the proposition for repealing the annual duty upon attorneys and solicitors' certificates, not because there was any special reason for it, but because so long as forty-two other classes remained subject to the impost, he could not conceive why attorneys should be the first to be relieved. But now, while the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had assented to a reduction of the duty on attorneys' certificates, he had actually proposed upon seven other branches of business very important alterations or additions. The certificate duty which would be imposed upon Messrs. Barclay, Perkins, and Co., in their capacity as brewers and maltsters, would amount to no less a sum than 2,850  l. 623 l
 MR. SPOONER  said, he would also recommend the postponement of the clause in order to give time to frame it, so as to obviate all objections.
 MR. SPOONER  said, the question as to the mode of raising the money was not really before the House. He concurred with his hon. and learned Friend (Sir F. Kelly) that the bargain was a bad bargain for the State, and too greatly in favour of capitalists. He would, however, allude to the Motion, which was grounded on the fact that the Government had made an improvident bargain. He was prepared to say he did think it was a bad bargain. He would beg to call the right hon. Gentleman's attention to a statement he made the other night, when the question respecting the 2 l. s. l. s. 634 l. s. l. s. l. s. l.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that by this Bill there were three different kinds of investment in which commuted stock might be placed. One of these might be more advantageous for a tenant for life, and another more advantageous for a tenant in remainder. If a tenant in remainder should object to the investment proposed by the tenant for life, then, according to the present clause, as drawn by the hon. and learned Solicitor General, the parties would have to go to Chancery and settle their dispute there as to whether commutation
 646
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he gave the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer credit for the courage he had shown in giving the death-blow, by his scheme, to the currency laws of 1819 and 1844 of the late Sir Robert Peel. He believed his scheme would be of great benefit to the commercial as well as to the landed interest of the country, and he believed that if the right hon. Gentleman were to reduce the interest on the whole of the Exchequer bonds to 2 per cent, they would be at a premium in a month.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, it was quite unnecessary for him to enter upon any vindication of the learned Judge who presided so ably as Chief Commissioner of the Encumbered Estates Court, and to whose invaluable services testimony had been already borne on both sides of the House. It was, however, right he should mention, that the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) was mistaken, in asserting that Baron Richards had at all neglected or had failed to discharge his duties as Judge of the Court of Exchequer. He attended assiduously to the business of that Court during the whole of term time, which, however, occupied only about twelve weeks of the year. His after hours during
 656 l. l. l l l l l l l 657
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he believed the hon. and learned Gentleman very much overrated the probable operation of the clause on the business of the Court of Chancery. He never recollected a discussion in which such gigantic results had been predicted from causes so trifling, as the discussion that day. Hon. Gentlemen opposite should recollect that there was one important consideration which would decide many of the questions they had raised; and that was the value which parties would find attached in the money market to the different descriptions of stock.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, there is this preliminary objection to the proposal of the hon. and learned Gentleman—that if the clause he has proposed were to be introduced into the Bill, the effect would be that there would be two clauses directly contradicting each other, one clause allowing 30,000,000 l l 631 632 l l l l l l 633 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that so far as he was able to gather the import of the Clause, it appeared to introduce new matter, which he did not understand to be comprised in the views of the hon. and learned Gentleman when this point was last discussed. The suggestion which was then made from the other side, and very properly made, with regard to providing sufficient securities in the case of trust money, was met by himself and his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General by the statement that, in their view, it would be very proper to place the proceedings of trustees under the control of a Judge of the Court of Chancery. That proposal he understood to be entirely acceptable to Gentlemen on the opposite side; it was certainly so spoken of; and he understood it had been accepted by the hon. and learned Gentleman himself. Under these circumstances he had not conceived it necessary—there being no question remaining except the words to be prepared for the purpose—to print the words by which it was proposed to carry out that suggestion. He was very sorry that, owing to business, his hon. and learned Friend
 627
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that the Amendment proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Sir F. Kelly) merely renewed the question which the House had just decided, namely, whether the consent of the parties should be required to the commutation, and, failing that, whether resort should be had to the Court of Chancery.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in order to remove the objection of the hon. and learned Member as to the wording of the clause, and to limit the application of the clause to the stocks affected by the Bill, he was willing to introduce a restriction to that effect.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, who was not now present, had drawn a clause for the purpose of meeting the case of parties beneficially interested in stock in respect to the trustees; and he would suggest that the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite should defer his own clause until that of the Solicitor General was before the House.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, that if the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Kelly) divided the House, he would unwillingly divide with him on the question of the limitation of the stock.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Kelly), in his proposed Amendment, overlooked the difficulty which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had to contend with in effecting the reduction of a debt of 500,000,000 l
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he entirely admitted the great importance of this question, and considering the immense interests involved in it, he should certainly be most happy to advise his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer
 638 639
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he wished to press on the attention of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer the very embarrassing position in which trustees would be placed with respect to the course they ought to pursue under that clause.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he thought the effect of the clause would be to place trustees in this unfortunate position—that while, on the one hand, they might be pressed by persons related to them by the dearest ties, and having a life interest, to do the best for them with regard to the property held in trust, any attempt to do so would, on the other hand, be opposed by those who were hereafter
 647
 VISCOUNT BERNARD  said, he could assure the House that a measure of Chancery reform would be most welcome to the landed interest of Ireland, whichever side of the House it came from. At present the unencumbered proprietor was in a worse position, as regarded the sale of his laud, than the encumbered one, inasmuch as the latter could sell in the Encumbered Estates Court, and give a Parliamentary title, whereas the former could not convey any such title through the Court of Chancery, and was consequently impeded in his endeavours to borrow money, which, with a Parliamentary title, he could readily do.
 655
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG , Controller of Her Majesty's Household, appeared at the bar and read the following Answer of Her Majesty to the Address of the House of Commons on the recent birth of a Prince:—
 "I thank you for your loyal and dutiful Ad-dross. The interest which you have expressed in My Domestic Happiness is very gratifying to Me."
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER : The reconsideration of which I have spoken will apply—I do not say equally in all cases—to the entire scale.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, in respect to an observation of the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat, he must explain that there was a misprint in the statement of the Amendment upon the Votes; the words "without any mitigation" should have been inserted before the words "of the inequalities of its assessment."
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, that having on a former occasion taken part in the discussion respecting this tax, he was anxious to make some remarks on the Motion now before the Committee. The hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent (Mr. J. L. Ricardo) had complained of the form of the Amendment before the House. Now, so far from joining in that complaint, he was glad that it bore the shape which it did, because it did not rest the Amendment upon any isolated details of the scheme of the Government, but challenged the whole principle of the Budget, and asked the Committee to say whether or not it was prepared to sanction that principle. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had very frankly avowed that the corner stone of his Budget was the income tax, and that whatever alterations might subsequently be made in some of its details, unless the income tax was continued in its present form, the Budget was, of course, at an end. Well, the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman with regard to the income tax was, that it should be continued for seven years in its present shape, with the view
 726 727 l. l. l. 728 l., l. l. l.; l., 729 l. l. l, l. l. l., l. 730 s. d. 731 732 l., l. l. l.; l., l.,
 SIR FRANCIS BARING : Well, then, the relief he would take at 245,000 l., l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l., l.; l. l., l. l.; l.; l.; l., l. l. 733
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY : Sir, however reluctant I may be to trespass upon the attention of the Committee, I am anxious not to give a silent vote upon the proposition before us. In the language of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) we have all our explanations to make on this question. I have always stated my opinion that the income tax is an unfair, an unequal, and an unjust tax; and that opinion, so far from having been altered, has been confirmed by what has occurred in the course of the present debate. Sir, I have the authority of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) for the soundness of that opinion. I agree in all that right hon. Gentleman observed in the course of his able statement the other night, as to the effects of that tax; but although I agree with his statement, with his arguments, and with his facts, I am sorry that for that very reason I am compelled to dissent from his conclusion. I agree with him that it is a tax which you cannot make fair, equal, or just; that if you make the attempt to improve it you will get into a quagmire which will endanger the public credit, and put in peril a tax to which you must have recourse in times of danger and difficulty. Sir, what is the natural inference to be drawn from the statement of the right hon. Gentleman on this point? Why, that as soon as possible you should get rid of so odious, so oppressive, and so un-English a tax. That certainly appears to me to be the natural conclusion to which he comes. What, then, does the right hon. Gentleman do? Why, he extends the tax for a longer period than it has ever yet been imposed before. For this reason I oppose the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman. It is true, he says, that at the end of seven years the tax will expire altogether. It is
 739 d. 740 d. l. d., d., l. l.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, that so far as the right hon. Baronet was referring to his observations, those observations were made when the question related to the house tax.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought the best course was to refer the Bill to a Committee upstairs, where fresh evidence might be received. The people of Scotland took a deep interest in this measure.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, he believed that the Bill, now that it had been amended and remodelled, was viewed with great favour in Scotland, and he hoped that it would become law in the course of the present Session. He thought that the Lord Advocate had conciliated public opinion in Scotland to a great extent in favour of his measure. He deprecated, however, sending the Bill to a Select Committee, with permission for them to send for evidence, which would delay the measure until a period of the Session when it would have little chance of passing.
 COLONEL BLAIR  begged to express a wish that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee; in a few days meetings would be held in various parts of Scotland, at which an opportunity would be afforded to the people of that country of expressing their opinion on the subject.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he was also of
 753
 COLONEL LINDSAY  said, he thought there could be no possible objection to the course proposed by the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate—that of referring the Bill to a Select Committee. The measure was, no doubt, one of considerable interest to the people of Scotland, and it was desirable that their feelings with respect to it should be clearly elicited; but he did not think that the progress of the measure need be retarded on that account, inasmuch as in two days from the present time meetings would be held in all part of Scotland, at which the provisions of the Bill would be accurately canvassed, and the opinions of the country at large distinctly ascertained.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the Bill would be referred to a Select Committee, for the purpose of making some improvements, and moulding it into a proper shape. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would reserve his objections for a future stage.
 LORD LOVAINE : Sir, I shall trespass on the attention of the Committee for a very short time in the observations I am about to make on the important matter before the House. On a former occasion my hon. relative and Friend the Member for West Surrey, said, there was no one so stupid as not to be capable of picking a hole in a Budget. On the other hand, I recollect the dictum of the poet—
 "Base is the slave who pays." Pistol; 734 lacunes d. d. d. l. d. l., l. l. 735 Chambre des Fils, l. l. Bradshaw's Railway Guide. voe victis 736
 MR. DISRAELI : I beg pardon—I gave notice of a Resolution upon the subject at that time.
 MR. DISRAELI : It cannot be that; the consolidated annuities are upwards of 4,000,000 l., l.
 MR. COWAN  said, he could confirm the statement of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose as to the deep interest which the people of Scotland took in this question. He would also venture to protest against the manner in which Scotch business was generally treated in that House. It was very unfair, whilst the other business of the Empire was so fully discussed, that Scotch business should be thrown over until one o'clock in the morning. He hoped the Government would consent to give a morning sitting for the consideration of this very important measure.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, no doubt the actual vote was upon the house tax, but the debate took a much wider range. At all events if hon. Gentlemen were prepared to say that there should be a difference between property and trades and professions, it was far better that the distinction should be made by means of a different tax, and not by a different rate of assessment for the same tax. There was also the further advantage in the Budget of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it finally regulated the succession duties. It would certainly be impossible to maintain the present system much longer, for, as the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond) had shown the other night, it was unfair to retain the existing distinction between personal and real property. The proposal of his right hon. Friend, as it stood, was clearly for the benefit of the land; it was much more favourable than the proposal made in December; and he recommended the owners of land to close with the bargain at once. He would remind hon. Gentlemen opposite that even in the last Budget they would not have escaped the succession tax, for the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) said the Government
 745 l. 746 l. 747
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : But the right hon. Gentleman said he would not be bound by the recommendations in the Report of the Committee of the House of Lords. He appealed to the hon. Member for Mayo (Mr. G. H. Moore) on this subject. The hon. Member concurred with him (Mr. C. Wood) in the opinion that the proposition to extend the income tax to Ireland as contained in the late Budget, necessarily involved its extension to landed property, and that there was no intention on the part of the Government to remit any portion of the consolidated annuities. The hon. Member for Mayo, in December last, spoke of "the contemptuous refusal of the Government to accede to the recommendation of the Committee of the House of Lords on the consolidated annuities—a Committee fraudulently set up for electioneering purposes, and audaciously disregarded as soon as those purposes had been secured." This certainly confirmed what was his (Sir C. Wood's) impression of the intentions of the late Government. Now with respect to the imposition of the income tax in Ireland, what had he (Sir C. Wood) said? He bad never argued against the imposition of the income tax in Ireland on principle. Quite the contrary; he had said the time might come when it would be right and proper to impose it in that country, but that, weighed down by the poor-rate and the additional taxation which fell on them in consequence of the famine, the Irish were not then in a position to bear it. He was asked, was there any reason why Belfast, which had never been distressed, should not pay the tax as well as Liverpool? The reason was this: that inasmuch as other parts of Ireland were exempted on account of their extreme poverty, Belfast was also excused because she had the good fortune to be in the same country with the distressed districts. If those flourishing places, however, had enjoyed the exemption for some years in consequence of the distress that was prevalent in the western parts, and if the reason for not imposing it upon the distressed parts had now passed away, surely there could be no claim for the exemption of any part of Ireland from that
 748 l., l. l., l. l. l. d. l. l.; l., l.; l., l.; l., l.; l., l.; l., l. l., l. 749 l. l l.; l. l., l.; 750
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that after listening with great patience to the two nights' debate which had taken place upon these Resolutions, he found it utterly impossible to reconcile the Amendment of the hon. Member for Hertfordshire (Sir B. Lytton) with the speeches which it had been delivered in its support. There were two classes of persons who had objected to the Budget: one class—that of the landowners—was fairly represented by the noble Lord who had just resumed his seat, and urged that the pressure of the Budget upon the land was very unfair; while the other consisted of the Members from Ireland, who objected to any extension of the income tax to that country. But did the Amendment object to the extension of the income tax to Ireland, or say one word as to the unfair pressure of the Budget upon the land? On the contrary, it said, "Do not extend the income tax either to people with incomes between 100 l. l. 741 742 d. l., l, d. d. 743 l. l. d. l. l. l. d. 744
 MR. FORTESCUE  said, he must express his admiration at the plan brought forward by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, and of the able speech by which it was introduced. He only rose to say one word as to the extension of the income tax to Ireland. He did not mean to enter into any discussion with the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Kilkenny county (Mr. Serjeant Shee), as to the duties of Irish patriotism, or to insinuate in the slightest degree that the hon. and learned Serjeant had any improper motive for the course he took; but there were other considerations to be taken into account by Members who were charged with the responsibility of deciding what was really for the interest and honour of the country generally. Nor, though it might be one mode of obtaining popularity, did he think the duties of an Irish Member solely consisted in refusing assent to a fair share of Imperial taxation for Ireland. He most sincerely said, that if he could have made up his mind that the scheme would press unfairly upon his constituents, nothing would have induced him to support it; and if he had been able to satisfy himself that there were fair grounds for refusing on their behalf the obligation of the additional burden to be imposed on them, he should certainly have refused it. He had listened with the greatest possible attention to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth (Sir P. Baring); but he regretted to say that it had not supplied him with any convincing arguments against an Irish income tax,
 737 l.; 738
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn) upon a matter concerning these two bodies, of which he was a member. By the 14 & 15  Vict., 680
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he would then give notice that he should move for returns connected with the subject.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he had the following Motion on the paper: On the question being put, that Mr. Speaker do now
 751
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that he would therefore give notice that, when the Committee was appointed, he should move that they be empowered to take evidence, and send for papers if necessary.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY : I beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether his reconsideration will extend to the proposed licence for maltsters?
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he must express his great astonishment that the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) and his friends, who said so much of the injustice and inequality of the income tax when the late Government were in power, should now be willing to vote for that tax unaltered, not for one year, but for seven. If the injustice of taxing equally precarious and permanent incomes was to be continued, it would be occasioned solely by the abandonment both of principle and professions by the hon. Member and his followers—patriots or party men, as suited their purposes. The hon. Member had been kind enough to turn his attention to the finances of Ireland. He was considered an able accountant and experienced financier, but it was very evident that the hon. Member knew nothing whatever of the question of the finances of Ireland. Instead of Irishmen being extrava-
 714 l., l. l., l.; l., l., l. l., l. l. 715 l., l. s. l. l., l.; l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l. 716 l. "In her present state it is not wise for us to press Ireland down with additional taxation. Considering the large burdens recently imposed upon her, and her depressed condition arising from the calamities of late years, the income tax ought not to be extended to Ireland. The proposal is to put in the narrow end of the wedge; and an Irishman is less wise than I take him to be if he is gulled by such a proposition. I do not think it wise to extend the income tax to Ireland."—[3  Hansard, "One objection to the tax was the admitted inequality of its operation. It is obvious that if you take three or four persons having each 300 l 717 "The amount of taxes taken off or reduced from the termination of the war to 1836, exclusive of the income tax, is 23,873,000 l., l. "The tax was inquisitorial in its nature, unequal in its pressure, hitherto considered as the financial reserve of the nation in time of war, is not called for by public necessity, and therefore not advisable." d. s. d. s. 718 l. l. l. l. l. 719 l. l., 720
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he willingly admitted that the Bill had been greatly improved since its first appearance in that House; but unless a clause were introduced for the abolition of the double shrievalty, he believed that it would be inoperative of good, and even productive of mischief. Such also was the opinion of the magistrates and town council of Dundee.
 MR. G. H. MOORE  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. SANDARS  rose and said: Sir, I rise briefly to express the views which I entertain on this important question. I am the more desirous of doing so, as I believe I have arrived at a different conclusion from hon. Gentlemen generally on this side of the House. I believe in the sincerity of their views, and I trust they will accord equal justice to me. Sir, the question before the Committee is, not alone the abstract Resolution of the renewal of the income tax, but it is the whole financial scheme of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The income tax is the corner stone of that scheme, and if that be defeated the whole fabric is destroyed. Were I called upon to vote upon the abstract Resolution alone, that the income tax should be continued for seven years on all classes of income alike, I should at once say Nay to such a proposition; but I must now consider this question along with the other propositions proposed by the right hon. Gentleman; and first and foremost is that of the legacy duty on successions of real property in cases of death. And let me tell the Committee, that the support of this tax is not new in my case, as  Hansard 723 d. d. d. l. s. d.; s. d. 724 l. l. l. d. l., l., ad valorem 725
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he was prepared to allow the same deductions for insurance and repairs in house property in the valuation of income tax as are allowed in the case of poor-rate; also, whether he intended to assess the profits of the occupiers of land in Scotland at the same rate as those in England?
 MR. VANSITTART  complained that the right hon. Gentleman had not answered his question.
 MR. GOULBURN  said, the proceedings of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners were regulated by two separate Acts of Parliament—one applying to them as Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and the other to some of their body as the Estates Commissioners. The law referring to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners required them to state in their Report certain special things, namely, the schemes they submitted from time to time to Her Majesty in Council, and a statement of their accounts in full. This was all the Act required from them; but with regard to the Estates Commissioners the Act required a different course. Their Report would be laid upon the table immediately, in compliance with the directions of the Act; and if the Commissioners had not thought it their duty to take upon themselves the introduction of extraneous matters, he thought the House would excuse them. To adhere implicitly to the Act of Parliament was the only course the Commissioners could take.
 MR. LABOUCHERE : I wish to put a question to my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as to a part of the financial scheme of the Government, which has had the effect of creating much dissatisfaction among dealers in tobacco, which I think it is quite possible the answer of my right hon. Friend may remove. The question is this, whether he is prepared to modify in any manner the system of excise regulations which he proposes to apply to this class of tradesmen, which they complain of as an act of injustice, as an increased house tax. If that is the case, I wish to ask my right hon. Friend also whether he will have the goodness to give publicity to the alterations he proposes in time for them to be fairly considered by the trade?
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that ample time had been given for the discussion of this Bill, and that the course which he now proposed with reference to it was that which he had all along led the House to expect he would take. He did not think that injury would result to any party by referring the Bill to a Select Committee, and he hoped the House would sanction that course.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  moved that this Bill be referred to a Select Committee.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that when the Bill was under the consideration of a Select Committee, there would be ample opportunity for the consideration and settlement of that question.
 MR. BRIGHT  asked whether property in the possession of corporate bodies was to be subject to the duty on successions?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was perfectly satisfied with that answer, as it promised due consideration of the subject; and would proceed to repeat a recent question as to the wages of manufacturing operatives, namely, whether there would be included in the aggregate subject to income tax, the wages of the wife and family, as well as of the husband and father?
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, if he might judge from the communications with which he was deluged every morning on the subject of the Bill, he was inclined to think that nothing since the Free Church question had agitated the people of Scotland so much as the reform of the Sheriff Courts. He believed that they would never be content until they had abolished the office of Sheriff principal. Any Bill which did not effect that object would fail to give satisfaction to the Scottish people.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, he did not intend to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman into the detailed accounts which he had given to the House; but he (Mr. Ricardo) had heard with some surprise the elaborate attack on his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), for hating ventured to suggest to the Irish
 710 "That for and in respect of any profession, trade, or vocation, whether the same shall be respectively exercised in the United Kingdom or elsewhere, for every 20  s. l. l. d.; d.; d." 711 712 713
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I think I observed, in the remarks with which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer opened the subject in his very remarkable—I may say very marvellous—speech, that he spoke with some degree of emotion, and I thought even pathos, as to the way in which this House had been spending the anticipated surplus of the revenue. I thought it came from him in a tone that seemed rather to invite the attention of this House to that part of his financial statement; and I really do not know that I have any other motive for intruding myself thus early, except that, at this moment, when taking a full view of our assets and liabilities, we present ourselves before
 683 l. l. l. l. 684 l. l., l., l. l. 685 l.; l.; l. l.; l. 686 l. l. l. l. s. 687 d. d. d. l. l. l. l., 688 Vin ordinaire, 689 690 d., 691 bonâ fide 692 per se, l 693 l. l. l. l. l, l. 694 695 coups d'état, l. l. Cries of l. l.; 696 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 697 l. 698 ad valorem Laughter. 699 Times 700 Times. s.; ad valorem 701 Chambre des Pairs (péres), Chambre des Fils. 702
 MR. BELLEW  said, he would scarcely have ventured to address the Committee were it not for the remark of the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee). That hon. and learned Member concluded his observations by stating that, in his opinion, no independent Irish Member could conscientiously support this measure. Now, as it was his intention to give his conscientious support to the measure, it was but fair that the Committee should have patience with him for a very few minutes while he stated his reasons for doing so. On Monday he came to the House with a mind perfectly unembarrassed; he had not decided before the debate as to how he should vote. He had listened to all the objections which had been urged against the Budget, and especially as it would affect the Irish constituencies, and he had heard nothing to contradict the assertion he now ventured to make, that it would be a great boon to the tenant-farmer in Ireland. It might, as it had been urged, press hard upon the struggling shopkeeper; but he begged hon. Members to recollect that the shopkeeper derived his existence from the tenant-farmers who surrounded him. Then it was urged that by the remission of the consolidated duties, taken in connexion with the imposition of the income tax, the richer parts of Ireland would be made to pay the debts of the poorer. Taking that view of the case, he maintained that it was right and just it should be so; for if it had not been for their connexion with the poor parts of Ireland, Belfast, and its neighbouring towns, for example, would not so long have escaped the income tax. Then it was said that if they once consented to the imposition of the income tax, it would be imposed for ever. Some people said, "Oh, would you believe the word of the Chancellor of the Exchequer?" He, for one, did believe in the word of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He believed in the unsullied honour and the clear judgment
 721 Suaviter in modo, fortiter in re. l. 722
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was quite aware that there must be considerable anxiety on these subjects; but hoped that any answer he might make previously to the introduction of his Bill—which, of course, would be the final and authoritative exposition of the Government views—would be received with a certain indulgence. With regard to the question whether the earnings of an entire family would be added together, and so subjected to income tax, he replied that as man and wife were one in law, that principle would be considered to hold with regard to the income tax; but it was not the intention of the Government to propose that the earnings of the children should constitute any part of the sum taxed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman would see that his Resolution in Committee of Ways and Means referred simply to certain duties to be granted to Her Majesty on successions to property in consequence of the death of any person, and that the terms,
 682
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he supposed the hon. Gentleman to refer to the assessment of land in Scotland and England. He would, therefore, say it was intended to continue the rate of assessment with regard to the occupation of land in Scotland and in England which had been enacted heretofore.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was not intended on the part of the Government, to assimilate the assessment of house property for the purpose of the income tax to the assessment for the purpose of the poor-rate; and it was intended to assess the profits of the occupiers of land in Scotland at the same proportionate rate as they had been heretofore assessed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am much obliged to my right hon. Friend for enabling me to state in this House what I have already announced to various persons in different parts of the country. I am very sensible that the scale of licences proposed, if it were ap-
 681
 MR. EWART  said, he was disposed to view the Bill with favour, but hoped that during its progress an opportunity would be afforded of settling that question, which had excited a greater interest than almost any other modern one in Scotland, namely, whether there were to be double Sheriffs.
 MR. FORBES MACKENZIE  said, he regarded the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate's as an excellent Bill, and he would give it all the support in his power; but he would recommend him not to send it to a Select Committee, who would take evidence upon it. He was sitting in a Select Committee upstairs upon two Bills of different principles, and the experience he had gained there certainly would not lead him to recommend the Lord Advocate to take a similar course with the present Bill. He objected to the course suggested by the hon. Member for Montrose, which, if adopted, would probably end in their losing the Bill altogether.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, that in offering a few observations to the House, he would endeavour to get rid of the feeling of irritation which the speech to which they had just listened had produced: for that purpose he would advert to what fell on a former evening from his hon. Friend the Member for Carlow (Mr. J. Ball), who exhorted the Members for Ireland to remember that they sat in that House as representatives, not merely of their own constituents, but of the general body of the Queen's subjects. He knew no one who was better entitled than the hon. Member for Carlow to inculcate that rule of Parliamentary conduct, first laid down, he believed, by Mr. Burke, for no one adhered more faithfully to another rule also declared by Mr. Burke to be a leading principle of his policy, namely, to demonstrate on all occasions his "settled, habitual, systematic attachment to the cause
 703 l., l., l. 704 l. l. l. l. l. 705 l. l., l., l. l.; l. l., 706 l. l., l. 707 708 l. l l. 709
 COLONEL HARCOURT  said, he considered it due to his constituents, and to the great party with whom he generally acted, to state the reasons why, on the present occasion, he could not support the Amendment of the hon. Baronet the Member for Hertfordshire (Sir Bulwer Lytton), and why he should vote for the measure proposed by the Government, When he looked back upon the last ten years, and observed the enormous benefits which had been conferred upon this country by the imposition of the income tax; and when he looked forward to the next seven or ten years, and estimated the great advantages which might be derived from the continuance of that tax, he confessed he could not bring himself to vote for an Amendment which declared the continuance of the tax to be unjust and impolitic. Though it was true that the late Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to modify, to a certain extent, one of the inequalities of the tax, by making a distinction between precarious and permanent incomes, it was equally true that the present Chancellor of the Exchequer had conclusively shown that a sufficient distinction existed already, land and houses being virtually charged at the rate of 9 d. d. l. l. l. 825 l. ad infinitum; d.; d.; 826 A cry of
 MR. C. R. MORGAN  said, that it had been charged against the party with which he acted, that it had leagued with Irish Members in factious opposition to the Government; but, so far as he was concerned, he repudiated any intention factiously to oppose the propositions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer) but when he saw such interests involved, although not representing an agricultural constituency, he could not give a vote detrimental to agricultural interests. With respect to the income tax, he could not understand, when every Member who spoke upon it represented it as unequal and unjust, how the preposterous idea could be entertained of not only extending it to persons who were before exempt from it, but also to a country which had been always described as unfitted for its burden, and that that exten-
 830 d. d., l 831
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that this case naturally resolved itself into two parts; first, with regard to the naval, and, secondly, with regard to the political part of the question. As to the first point, he might observe that Lieutenant Engledue was not struck off the naval list for conduct unbecoming a gentleman, though, unquestionably, for an act of great insubordination and disobedience ten years ago. The difference between the circumstances attending his application in June, when it was refused, and in December, when it was granted, was contained in the last three lines of the last paragraph but one of his memorial of November 30, 1852, in which he stated that his position gave the means of greatly advancing the enlisting of seamen for the Navy, as it caused him to come in contact with hundreds of men. The House might or might not agree with the late Naval Board, but a great addition having been then, in December, ordered to be made to the Navy, and great difficulty being felt in procuring men, the Board did not feel that it would be right to reject the application of a person occupying such a position that he could connect the naval service with the mercantile marine. Although, therefore, they had rejected his application in June, they felt that it would not be compatible with their sense of duty to do so in December. With regard to the political
 881 882
 MR. STAFFORD  said, that he happened to be out of town when this took place, and if the hon. and learned Gentle-would refer to the papers he would find that they were signed by the other Secretary, Captain Hamilton. He did not say this to shrink from the responsibility of the appointment, because he was aware that while they were in office together, either Secretary was responsible for the acts of the other. He was not, however, aware that any Secretary to the Admiralty, or any official person, had the power to state the various opinions and debates which might have occurred at the Board of Admiralty, and, therefore, even if he had been aware of any division at the Board on the subject of Lieutenant Engledue's appointment, which he was not, because he was absent from town at the time, he should not have thought fitting for him in his place in Parliament to give the information asked for, and he should therefore have refused to do so. This act was done by the Board. Those gallant members of the Board had the power to protest against it, but they were bound by it if done, and it would be impossible to carry on the business of Government if inquiries such as this were to be made and answered by those who were the organs of the department in that House.
 CAPTAIN DUNCOMBE  said, that as a member of the late Board of Admiralty he wished to express his high sense of Lieutenant Engledue's services rendered both before and after his appointment. His conduct in dealing with difficulties, his tact and discretion in equipping vessels, showed how much he was entitled to any reward to which he could be thought entitled.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE  said, he had always understood that in the event of the financial propositions of a Government not receiving the approbation of the House, they would be withdrawn, or the Ministry would resign; but the circumstances of the present discussion were rather novel, inasmuch as they were told that if the majority recorded their opposition to the scheme under consideration, the Government would then appeal to the country. He must, therefore, complain of this attempt to coerce hon. Members against their conscientious convictions by threats of a dissolution of Parliament. That was not what the late Chancellor of the Exehquer did. On the contrary, he took his stand on his measures, which he stated he believed to be just, and declared he would carry them, or go out of office. Such noble conduct had raised him higher in the eyes of the country, than the threat of a dissolution would ever raise Her Majesty's present advisers. Some Members might be deterred from giving their votes as they thought right by such an extraordinary and novel threat; but he trusted it would have no effect on the great majority of those he was now addressing. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in introducing his Budget, mentioned that questions had arisen in that House which went to the very elementary principles of tax-
 833 data l.; l.; l.; l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l., l. l. l. l. s. d. 834
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, the first answer of the noble Lord was a mistake, and not the first into which he had fallen. He had been under the necessity of correcting his statement, that Hale had 500 lbs. of gunpowder in his possession, when it turned out that he had not half that quantity. He said the first part of the case against the Hales was closed. That was not quite correct. The police magistrate had given his decision; one that had astonished a great many persons well able to judge; but Mr. Hale intended to appeal to a superior Court, and that decision might be set aside. It turned out that the person in whose possession the powder was found was a manufacturer, and as such had a right to have almost the quantity that was found—within about 5 l. s.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not object to the Motion, but said he must express a hope that this long debate might be brought to a close on Monday night.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it seemed to him that this Report was of a very peculiar character; it was not of the character of those with which the House had usually dealt, which stated that corrupt practices had extensively prevailed, and upon which a Commission might issue according to the Act of Parliament. No such course was proposed by the Committee; but they had suggested to the House, as the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Aglionby) had just stated, that it might be proper to withhold, not the writ for Chatham on this particular occasion, but altogether the power of returning Members for Chatham to that House. That appeared to him (Lord J. Russell) to be a very serious question. It would be a question whether Chatham was in that situation that it was quite unable independently to choose Members. It would be a question whether or not there were other dockyards in a similar situation. Therefore the matter was one of very considerable importance. The question of disfranchising the borough, singly, ought to go upon grounds of very great public justice. He, therefore, was not prepared at once to come to that conclusion. There was another remedy which was well worthy of consideration, namely, if there were at Chatham, or other dockyards, a number of persons under Government influence, and who were liable either to be coerced to vote for the candidate in favour of the Government, or to be in fear of losing their situations if they did not so vote, whether it would not be proper that such persons should be placed in the situation of revenue officers who are not
 875
 MR. DISRAELI  said, there were several Gentlemen on that side of the House who wished to speak, but he did not think there would be any difficulty in coming to a decision on Monday.
 MR. DISRAELI  said that, having had
 876
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the evidence taken before the Committee had not yet been circulated.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that agreeing as he did with his noble Friend who had just sat down in regret at his having lost the friends who formerly sat beside him, it must at least be acknowledged that in the matter of the income tax no responsibility rested with those who now occupied that bench. In the year 1842, when the late Sir Robert Peel introduced the income tax, the right hon. Baronet had the advantage of his noble Friend's support. In the year 1845, when he (Mr. Cardwell)had the honour of holding a subordinate situation in the Treasury under Sir Robert Peel, he knew from personal experience that lamented statesman most carefully examined the possibility of extending to the professional classes that alleviation for which his noble Friend had now contended. Sir Robert Peel then determined that, without breaking up and destroying the income tax, it was impossible to accomplish the object; and, when the present Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) brought the question before the House of Commons, his noble Friend (Viscount Jocelyn), then
 848 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 849 l. l. 850 l. l. 851 l., l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 852 l. "The continuance of the income tax for seven years, and its extension to classes hitherto exempt from its operation, without any mitigation of the inequalities of its assessment, are alike unjust and impolitic." 853 Laughter from the Opposition benches. d. d. d. d. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. d. d., 854 d. 855 856 "With regard to the discovery which the hon. Member for Marylebone had made, that there was one bad thing which did not exist in Ireland, and with regard to his extraordinary anxiety to supply that deficiency, he admitted that he agreed with the hon. Member in thinking that property in Ireland ought to be amenable to income tax. He thought it was just to the people of this country, and necessary for the welfare of the people of Ireland, that every man, and every description of property, should be made to bear his share of the national burdens. While the tradesmen of England were contributing to the necessities of Ireland, and while the former was endeavouring to bear up against an impossible experiment, was it not monstrous that the man who received twenty times the income of either should be allowed to sneak out of the difficulty and escape free? So far from thinking that the present circumstances of Ireland exonerated her people from the payment of an income tax, he was of opinion that the present condition of the country was the very reason why they should be taxed."—[3  Hansard,
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he must beg to remind the hon. Member that the income tax was now being extended to Ireland when the whole of the burden which was then imposed for the relief of the famine was to be removed. He begged also to observe that the speech of the hon. Member, on whatever occasion it was made, was a very good speech, his argument a very good argument, and his language such as he had great pleasure in quoting, because it was so much more powerful than any he (Mr. Cardwell) could use. In conclusion, he would ask the Committee to consider this. He had troubled them with a very concise summary of the benefits which consumers had derived from the financial reforms which, under the shelter of the income tax, they had been enabled
 857 l. l.; l. l. l. l., l. 858
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, this was a case in which there was no bribery proved, and no special report made by the Committee. All the Committee reported was—
 "That George Dodd, Esq., is not duly elected a burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Maidstone; that the last election for the said Borough, so far as regards the return of the said Dodd, Esq., is a void election; that the said George Dodd was, by his agents, guilty of treating; and that it was not proved to the Committee that such treating was committed with the knowledge and consent of the said George Dodd."
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he begged to move for a new writ for the Borough of Maidstone, in the room of George Dodd, Esq., whose election had been determined to be void.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH , said, he could not but express his surprise that any such attack as they had witnessed that evening should have been made upon a statesman who had done more than any other Minister of past or modern times to
 803
 MR. G. H. MOORE  said, that the right hon. Member had forgotten that the speech which he had just quoted was in support of a proposition which he had put upon the paper of the House—but which he was not then allowed to move—the object of which was to impose an income tax on Ireland for the support of the poor during the famine.
 MR. G. H. MOORE  said, nothing had surprised him more during the progress of this debate than the diverse and contradictory grounds upon which the advocates of the present Budget had rested their arguments. They appeared to unite in a harmonious discrepancy of opinion, which he had imagined was the special prerogative of Her Majesty's present advisers. The hon. Member for Montrose sepported it because it perpetuated direct taxation. He regarded the income tax as his child—and, though a somewhat unruly one, he clung to it with parental fondness.  Esto per-petua Bob Acres 806 "It is perfectly plain that the income tax is not well adapted for a permanent portion of our financial system, and it is on all hands agreed that it is not well adapted for a permanent portion of our financial system, unless we can by reconstruction remove its inequalities. The general views of Her Majesty's Government with respect to the income tax are, that it is an engine of gigantic power for national purposes; but that there are circumstances attending its operation which make it difficult, perhaps impossible, to maintain it as a permanent portion of the finances of the country. The public feeling of its inequality is a fact most important in itself; the inquisition it entails is a most serious disadvantage, and the frauds to which it leads are evils which it is impossible to characterise in terms too strong." 807 808 d. d. l. l. l., 809 810 811 l 812 l l, 813 l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l.; l.; l. l. l. l. 814 815 816 817 d. 818 819
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he begged to second the Motion. He had read with great care the Parliamentary paper respecting Lieutenant Engledue, and it did appear to him that after that gentleman had been removed from the list for so many years, and had been refused to be replaced by three Boards of Admiralty, he ought not to have been restored. The honour and prosperity of the Navy were at stake in a question of this nature.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he was very much in favour of supporting the Resolutions of Committees, and would call the attention of the House to the finding of this Committee. It was very well to say that there was only one case found; but we all knew that in Committees, generally, when one case was found, there was a
 874
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he had been much provoked by the attack made by the hon. Member for Mayo (Mr. G. H. Moore) on his Friend the Member for Carlow (Mr. J. Ball), and might have been tempted to reply to it at an earlier period, and to give the House the amusing but unprofitable spectacle of an Irish row, but that he was satisfied all such imputations would fall to the ground harmless. The hon. Member for Mayo had divided the Irish Members into two sections—the hopeful and the grateful; but he (Mr. Herbert) would add to them a third—the disappointed. As the hon. Member for Mayo had challenged them, he (Mr. Herbert) did not hesitate to say that he considered the propositions of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer as just, equitable, and statesmanlike, with respect to the tenant-farmers of Ireland. As the representative of an agricultural district, they appeared to him to convey a great boon to his constituents; and he was placed in an extraordinary position when he was called upon to vote against them and against the Government,
 827 "Whoe'er expects a faultless tax to see, Expects what never was, and ne'er shall be." 828 Cork Examiner "Your London correspondent, in his observations on the Chancellor's financial statement, omits a very important circumstance, which is, that the remission of the consolidated annuities will relieve a multitude of humble ratepayers, who will not he liable to the income tax. If we are to be taxed cither one way or the other, let us by all means have the income tax. It will necessarily fall on the persons best able to pay it, and, indeed, on a class that should, under any circumstances, be taxed rather than the working farmer. In an effort to improve the condition of the latter, we see adopted the desperate course of refusing support to a Liberal Ministry. The Irish representatives, therefore, who oppose a Budget by which the farmers would be relieved from the consolidated annuities, would, in the event of a speedy dissolution of Parliament, be re-elected by no agricultural constituency." 829
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he was disposed to agree with the hon. Member, but he thought the case of Chatham deserved most serious consideration. It appeared that a very large amount of Government influence was always used, and about one-third of the voters were under the direct influence of the Government—400 out of 1,300. Here was one case that came out: A working shipwright in Chatham voted against the wish of the Government in 1835, and from that time he had never been promoted, but had been carefully kept back and prevented from rising, in consequence of his conscientious discharge of his political duty. It was a case of which the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. H. Berkeley) might take advantage when he brought forward his Motion for the Ballot.
 MR. J. BALL  said, as the hon. Member who had last addressed the Committee had thought proper to attack him, and as he understood another hon. Gentleman intended to do so—[ Cries of
 MR. BRIGHT : I must be permitted to explain. The noble Lord assumes that I asked him a question about the proceedings that are pending with regard to Mr. Hale, whereas I asked him a question with regard to Kossuth, because I felt that he had been charged unjustly. If the charge before the magistrates had been against Kossuth, I should not have asked the question; but it was against Mr. Hale—and there is the distinction. Kossuth, who was entirely outside, was charged by a powerful Government newspaper with a great crime. I was, therefore, justified in asking the question, both by the practice of this House and the constitution.
 MR. BRIGHT : I observe, Sir, from the answer of the noble Lord on the former evening, as well as on this, that he wishes it to be assumed that this case is merely one of the ordinary cases which arise in a police office in London, where somebody goes before the magistrates and
 798 799
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, the immediate question before the Committee was the imposition of the income tax for a period ending in 1860. He agreed with his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer in regarding the income tax as an engine to work great effects; and, in his opinion, it had already done so. It enabled us to maintain our national credit in 1842, and to overcome the calamities consequent on bad harvests in 1845–1846; and he would say more, that if ever a country ought to be grateful for the benefits derived from the income tax, that country was Ireland. With respect to the manner in which the income tax was levied, he would say unhesitatingly that it was not so fairly and equitably levied as it ought to he. He had endeavoured, by various calculations, to arrive at a more equitable mode of assessing this tax; but he regretted to say that the more nearly
 820 l., l., l. l.; l. l., 821 l., 822 s. 823 824
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman, following the footsteps of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had drawn a rather flattering picture of the results which this particular tax had produced, and had told them that in times past it had carried the country through the revolutionary war, and that if they continued it for another eighteen years, dating from 1842, it would make another revolution. He (Mr. Henley) hoped it would not be a revolution in the true sense of the word. But a little candour might have suggested to the right hon. Gentleman that the question before them was not as to whether they should raise 5,500,000 l 859 d. d. s. s. d. 860 d., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 861 l. l. l. l., l., l. l., l., l.; recoup 862 d. l., 863 d.
 MR. COBDEN : I have yet to learn, Sir, whether, according to the constitutional practice of this House, it is not competent for any hon. Member of this House to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in his place, questions with regard to the conduct of the judicial or magisterial authorities of the country. I know nobody responsible to this House for the proceedings of magistrates but the Secretary of State for the Home Department; and certainly I have never heard this plea of constitutional rule set up before. I have heard a question put to the noble Lord with regard to an unfortunate female, and I heard from the noble Lord a not very grave or fitting answer in reply; but it was not said by the Home Secretary that it was unnecessary
 801 Cries of" addressing the Opposition 802
 MR. COLLIER  said, he now rose to move that a new writ be issued for the borough of Chatham. Nothing could be further from his intention than to prevent the infliction of a legitimate punishment in a borough where bribery and corruption prevailed; but writs ought not to be withheld except upon very strong and urgent grounds, and upon some definite and intelligible rule. Where a case was made out for a Commission, let a Commission issue by all means; but where no such case was made out, it seemed to him fair that a writ should issue, or otherwise a constituency must be said to be subjected to a penalty, not only without a conviction, but without a trial. In the present instance, only one case of bribery had been reported by the Committee to exist, and that was the case of an individual who had been bribed by a situation in the Post Office; so that there was no question of
 872
 MR. BRAMSTON , as the Chairman of the Committee who had investigated the case, said he was of opinion, that after
 873
 MR. PHINN  said, he believed that no evidence was adduced before the Committee. Some charges of a very serious nature were made in the petition; but he understood that the hon. Member who was petitioned against either did not appear, or that, as intimated, he had no defence to offer.
 MR. PHINN  said, that on the face of the hon. Gentleman's statement it was clear that this appointment must be prejudicial to the honour and discipline of the Navy. As regarded the other part of the question, the hon. Gentleman said that it would have been very bad political tactics to have refused the application of Lieutenant Engledue in the face of a general election; but they all knew that the labourer was not worthy of his hire until he had earned it. And no doubt it was for his services then rendered that the public considered his restoration due. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Stafford) said that Lieutenant Engledue had given an impartial vote—that he had voted for both sides. But the fact was that the vote that was not given to the Government candidate was given to the gentleman who had the control of the Peninsular and Oriental Company, in whoso service he was; that was, he gave one vote for his master and another for his political friends. Now, every one knew that the Liberal candidate, against whom the exertions of the Conservative party were mainly directed, was his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, and he wished to know whether the hon. Gentleman opposite was not aware that the Directors of the Peninsular and Oriental Company were exceedingly discontented with the exertions of Lieutenant Engledue against the Attorney General. [Mr. STAFFORD: I never heard of it.] In that case the hon. Gentleman was the only person who knew anything about Southampton, or was there shortly before the election, as the hon. Gentleman was, who did not hear of it. The circumstances of this case were certainly so suspicious that it had better at once go to the Committee. It had been stated that the two naval Lords at the Admiralty Board had protested against Lieutenant Engledue's appointment, and the hon. Gentleman opposite had not referred to that point. It appear-to him of vital importance to the service to know whether those who had its honour and interest at heart, and who had felt that it should not be prostituted to political purposes, did not on this occasion dissent from their political colleagues at the Board, and protest against the interest of the Navy being rendered subordinate to those of political party.
 MR. PHINN  said, he could not but regret the tone the discussion had taken. No man could know bettor than the noble Lord that a constitutional jealousy of foreign Powers interfering in this country was a feeling that must be permitted in either House of Parliament. When they found this circumstance following so closely on the renewed and reiterated remonstrances of Austria with reference to the Hungarian exiles in this country, Englishmen were necessarily touchy and jealous on the subject. If proceedings were to be taken in Courts of Law, no doubt reserve was justifiable; but this matter had now been before the public for a fortnight; it had been announced to them as though some great secret of State, of some frightful conspiracy, was to be brought before the public. Now it had dwindled down to a mere police information as to an improper quantity of gunpowder or rockets being found on certain premises. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether he intended to take proceedings against Kossuth. Charges of this kind ought not to hang over the head of any man without being brought to some speedy issue or determination; least of all over the head of an exile, who must and did receive much commiseration from a very large number of people in this country. If the proceedings had been instituted against Kossuth, the noble Lord's answer would have been a perfectly correct one. But they were initiatory proceedings against the Hales, who were to be brought to trial; and with regard to them, it was quite right that the information should be reserved. But an opportunity had been taken, unfairly, unjustly, and unnecessarily, to those proceedings, to introduce the name of Kossuth, when he had no opportunity of giving an answer; and on that ground the noble Lord was bound to intimate to the House whether or not it was his intention to institute proceedings against that illustrious refugee, towards whom so considerable a portion of the community felt strong sympathy and commiseration.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  hoped the Committee would bear with him while he stated the reasons which induced him to support the measure of the Government. He would leave the general merits of the question to be argued by abler speakers, and he would simply confine his remarks to the bearing of the scheme upon that portion of the United Kingdom with which he was more immediately connected. The great feature of the scheme of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was to remit the consolidated annuities to Ireland, and to extend the income tax to that country. These two propositions could not be considered apart. The highly-taxed people of England would not consider them apart. Their representatives would not do so. Now, taking these two portions of the Budget together, and balancing one against the other, it was his firm belief that Ireland would be a great gainer by this arrangement. The sum remitted amounted to about 4,000,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 841 s. 842
 MR. C. FORSTER  said, that though his conviction of the injustice of taxing equally incomes derived from realised property, and incomes proceeding from precarious sources, remained unchanged, yet the question assumed a different aspect, inasmuch as provisions were now proposed, first for the modification, and next for the final cessation of the tax in 1860. The charge of inconsistency brought forward by the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. French) against those hon. Gentlemen who voted against the continuance of the income tax in 1848, and for it now, was, therefore, a groundless one. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the speech in which he enunciated his financial scheme—a speech which would not soon fade from the memory of Members of that House—had spoken of the income tax as a subject upon which the feeling of the public ought to be met. He entirely agreed with that opinion. The remissions of taxation to the insurance offices would afford an additional incentive to men depending upon industry to make some provision for their families. There were also in other matters changes submitted to Parliament which mitigated the severity with which at present the income tax bore on intelligence and skill as compared with property. Consequently, he maintained that the principle for which he contended, in reference to the income tax, had been particularly recognised in the Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The main part of the Budget which reconciled him to the reimposition of the income tax in its present form was that great act of justice—the extension of the legacy duty to real property, and the large remission of taxation consequent thereon. It might be urged that in respect to the reduction of the tea duty, the Chancellor of the Exchequer was only following in the path of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli); but with that right hon. Gentleman's proposition for the reduction of the tea duty there was mixed up the delusion of a partial remission of the malt duty, against which there was to be set an extension of the house tax. But the benefit offered by the present Chancellor of the Exchequer had no such drawback, for he created no new tax, but only
 832
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the case of Lieutenant Engledue, R.N. This gentleman, who had attained great proficiency in the art of gunnery, some years ago left the service, and went into the merchant navy. In 1840, he being then a lieutenant in the Royal Navy, the Admiralty required him to hold himself in readiness to join a ship, and he having declined to take an appointment as lieutenant, and stated that he would only take that of captain, to which he thought himself entitled, he was formally appointed lieutenant of Her Majesty's ship  Calcutta, Calcutta, 877 "Your memorialist, therefore, respectfully begs your kind consideration of his case, and that you will be pleased to restore him to his honourable position of lieutenant in Her Majesty's Navy. He further hopes that your Lordships will, assured of his devotion, be of opinion that he can be instrumental in serving the Government at the port of Southampton; in which case he would humbly suggest that your Lordships would be pleased to appoint him, in conjunction with his present occupation, to watch or superintend the equipment of contract vessels suited to carry guns, to keep a register of men qualified to manage guns, to superintend the practical training of the various crews (which would entail no additional expense beyond that of having two seamen gunners from Her Majesty's ship  Excellent, "My Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty having had under their consideration your memorial, praying to be restored to your rank as a lieutenant in the Navy, I am commanded to acquaint you that you are at liberty to memorialise Her Majesty in Council for that boon." "That, in obedience to Your Majesty's commands, we have taken into our consideration the circumstances attending this officer's removal from the list of lieutenants, and his previous services in the Royal Navy, and beg leave most humbly to recommend to Your Majesty a compliance with the prayer of the memorialist," 878 "Her Majesty having been graciously pleased, by Her Order in Council of the 4th inst., to give directions for your restoration to your rank in the Royal Navy, I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you that you have been replaced accordingly in your former position, and to direct that you will hold yourself in readiness for an appointment. Your half-pay will commence on the 4th inst." 879 880
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he had no desire to monopolise for Ireland the discussion of this question; but he wished, as an Irish
 864 865 l. 866 l. l.; l. l., l., corpus l., 867 corpus. l. l. 868 869 dictum l. l. 870 871
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the Report of the Committee upon the Chatham Election, which went much further than the point alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth. After alluding to its having been proved that Joseph Greathead, an elector, was bribed by a situation as a letter carrier in the Post Office, the Report went on to add—
 "That it was proved before the Committee that a largo number of the electors are employed in Her Majesty's dockyard and other public departments at Chatham, and that they are under the influence of the Government for the time being; and it appears that there is no instance of a candidate being elected for this borough who has not had the support of the Government. Under these circumstances, it will be for the House to determine whether the right of returning a Member should not for the future be withdrawn from the borough of Chatham."
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY : Sir, I beg to ask a question of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department relative to the statements that have been made connecting the late Governor of Hungary, Louis Kossuth, with the seizure of warlike stores at Rotherhithe. It will be in the recollection of the House that when I asked a similar question about a fortnight since, I was informed that legal proceedings were then pending; and, in consequence of that answer, I read a letter or communication from M. Kossuth, in which he unequivocally stated
 797
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  moved that the Chairman report progress.
 VISOOUNT JOCELYN  said, he should not have intruded himself on the attention of the Committee, but for the proposition, on the preceding evening, of the right hon. President of the Board of Control, that there were only two classes of persons in that House who dissented from the proposition of the Government—the one party being those who spoke in behalf of the
 843 l. l., 844 845 l. l. l. 846 l., l. l. l. l. l., l., l. 847 l. l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the House is of course aware that one of the proceedings before the magistrates at the Bow Street police office in regard to the seizure of gunpowder is closed, and that a decision has been given, With regard to the other proceeding, upon the case of the rockets; the magistrate at Bow Street interrupted the proceedings, stating that he thought they ought to be pursued before another tribunal. The hon. Gentleman asks me what is the result of the latter proceedings, as regards certain imputations cast upon M. Kossuth? Really I cannot do more than say that that which has hitherto passed in the proceedings is before the public, and every man will form his own judgment upon that which has been stated in evidence. When the further proceedings, which have been pointed out by the magistrate, shall have taken place, and the case is entirely finished, then the public, of course, will have before them grounds for forming their own judgment. With regard to the second question, it is the duty of the police, according to their general and according to their special instructions, to watch the proceedings of any persons, whether Englishmen or foreigners, who may be supposed, rightly or wrongly, to be contemplating any breach of the laws of England; and neither the house of M. Kossuth, nor of any political refugee in this country, can be exempted from those ordinary precautions which may be taken with regard to any individual, whether he be a British subject or a foreigner.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I cannot help expressing my extreme surprise, Sir, at the ignorance of the hon. Gentleman as to those constitutional principles which ought to govern, not only a Minister of the Crown in this country, but every Member of this House. The hon. Gentleman takes me to task because I have not chosen to answer a question which no man had a right to put to me. The question which the hon. Gentleman asks is, what is my opinion as to the effect, and as to the possible or probable result, of the judicial proceedings which are not yet terminated? Sir, if I were to give an answer to that question, I should be very greatly departing from my duty. I should be doing that which neither I nor the hon. Gentleman himself has any right to do. Investigations and proceedings before a court of justice are going on; the result of those proceedings will explain themselves; and it is not for me nor for any other man to say what the effect will be upon any individual of those proceedings when they may be completed. So much for the constitutional knowledge of the hon. Gentleman. Then the hon. Gentleman asks me whether these proceedings
 800
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am sorry to trespass on the attention of the House again, but I think those Gentlemen who have spoken, especially the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), have entirely lost sight of the question which was put to me. I did not shrink from answering any question put to me with regard to my own conduct, and the question put to me on that subject I answered plainly and positively. But I was asked, in addition, what, in my opinion, would be the result with respect to one person of certain proceedings instituted against another? I declined answering that, but I said, "Wait till this is over, and then the investigation will answer itself." With regard to what was said by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Bath (Mr. Phinn), and by the Member for the West Riding, as to the proceedings instituted against Mr. Hale, I have only to say that those proceedings, in reference to the manufacture of rockets, are pending and will be continued. No proceedings have been instituted against M. Kossuth. I have brought no charge against M. Kossuth. I have never mentioned his name in this matter. I was asked questions for the purpose of inducing me to mention his name, but I did not. I have brought no charge against M. Kossuth, and I beg to add that I am not responsible for anything that may appear in any of the newspapers.
 MR. FITZROY  said, he should certainly very much deprecate the referring this Bill to a Select Committee, which would, in fact, be giving it up for the present Session. It was a Bill much required for the interests of the public, and he should be very sorry if he did not take every means in his power to advance it as speedily as possible.
 MR. FITZROY  said, he apprehended that there was no chance of going into Committee that night, and would therefore postpone it until to-morrow, but he hoped, to bring it on to-morrow after the notices of Motion were disposed of.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he begged to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer on what day he would introduce the Resolution for the reduction of the duties on tea, and whether, in the event of the House passing the Resolution, it would have immediate effect?
 LORD ADOLPHUSVANE  said he wished to ask the right hon. the Chancellor of
 912
 MR. LASCELLES  brought up the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the petition of Mr. Charles Barry Baldwin, complaining of an undue return for the borough of Totness. The Committee had determined—
 "That Thomas Mills, esquire, is duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Totnes."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, at this late hour of the night, and after four nights of debate, I can attempt to do little more than set before the Committee as clearly as I can the question upon which they are now about to divide. They have a Budget before them comprising propositions of very great importance to the finances of this country, and the question which they have to decide is, whether the advantages held out by those propositions are greater than the burdens which are to be imposed, and whether it is the duty and the interest of this House to adopt that Budget. Now, Sir, in the first place, the proposition of the Government is, that an endeavour should be made to settle the question of the income tax—the assessment and existence of which, as a part of our financial system, have been for a long time in debate, and have given rise to difficulties most perplexing even to the minds of those who are most conversant with these subjects—and to enable Parliament to come to a final decision upon the question. I say this because I think it must have been evident to any persons who have followed the course of events and of the debates upon this subject, that although the original proposition of Sir Robert Peel in 1842 to impose an income tax for three years might have been very wise, and well adapted to the situation of the country then, yet it is impossible now to continue the tax from three years to three years without exciting at every renewal doubts and differences as to the mode in which that tax should be imposed, and as to the parties to be subjected to its operation. Such discussions and such differences cannot take place without disturbing and shaking our whole system of finance; and yet no Government since 1842, no House of Commons since 1842, has seriously contemplated the termination of this tax. Every Chancellor of the Exchequer in the interval of the three years has proposed various reductions of the tax; and other reductions which he did not propose were pressed upon him by Members on every
 994 primâ facie, l. s. d. s. 995 d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. 996 997 d. d. 998 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 999 1000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1001 l. l. l. l. l. 1002 l. l. l. l. l. 1003 1004
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  brought up the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the petition of George Greenhalgh, complaining of an undue re-return for the borough of Bolton. The Committee had determined—
 "That Thomas Barnes, esquire, and Joseph Crook, esquire, were duly elected Burgesses to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Bolton." "That the Petition of George Greenhalgh was frivolous and vexatious."
 MR. DISRAELI : Although Sir, I believe there are several Gentlemen, Members for Ireland, who wish to address you, and are desirous, and I have no doubt capable, of answering the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken, still, as this debate has passed over a whole week, and as, perhaps, it is not presumptuous in me to take some part in the discussion, I think the time is come when I should express the opinions of some English Members on the question before us. And whether we divide to-night or not—and I hope we may divide to-night—it should be clearly understood that there will be many occasions on which hon. Gentlemen may offer their opinions on this subject, for at present we are only upon the threshold of the debate. Under these circumstances, Sir, I shall take the liberty of offering some observations to the Committee. After giving to the Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer all the consideration that so considerable a proposition deserves, I am bound to state that, to the general principles on which his financial policy is formed, I must give my entire approbation. I say that in no spirit of affected candour, and with no wish to obtain credit for a magnanimity which is not required by the occasion; but I say it because I find the principles on which he has formed his policy are identical with the principles which, only four months ago, on two occasions, on the other side of the table, I endeavoured to impress on the consideration of this House. Sir, I said, then, as the organ of the Government, that I thought the time had arrived when it was necessary to assimilate our financial policy to our now commercial system. [Lord J. RUSSELL, Hear, hear!] I do not know who it was said "Hear, hear;" I think it was the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell); but I remember that the noble Lord, four months since, when I gave expression to these opinions instead of crying "Hear, hear," rose in a spirit certainly of incredulity, if not of ridicule, and spoke of the idea of assimilating our financial policy to our new commercial policy as an absurdity, and a wild
 964 "All they had to do, "he said," was to continue going on as they had gone on hitherto—" "and that when the surplus should be disposed of by their making still further remissions of taxation, on the same principle as those remissions had been made which led to the wonderful extension of trade, commerce, and increasing revenue which all acknowledged, they would then have done all that a wise Government and a prudent Legislature could do under the circumstances."—[3  Hansard 965 "Mark how different was the basis on which this and former Governments proceeded. They proceeded on the basis of having first secured by a skilful management of the receipts and expenditure of the country a large available balance, out of which they could afford to make reductions. They did not, in the first place, create a deficiency and then call upon Parliament to make it by fresh taxation."—[3  Hansard 966 "The right hon. Gentleman"[my humble self]"had given them two Budgets to consider; one for] 853, the other for 1854. The wisest man would have enough to do in attempting to arrive at a correct view of the financial condition of a great country, even for a single year." 967 Economist "The Budget—its Great Political Features:"—"Nothing could be more disgraceful to a great nation, nor injurious to its best interests, than to permit its financial condition to be exposed to the serious uncertainty which has prevailed in this country, at least since the expiry of the Income Tax Act in 1851. Since then more than 5,000,000 l. l. 968 "I do not propose to vary in any respect the constitutional practice of leaving a large, a considerable, amount of revenue dependent on a yearly vote of this House, as hitherto has been the case. I shall therefore propose some other source of revenue, which I will state before these Resolutions are formed into the shape of a Bill, to be yearly income, and for which, previous to the 5th of July, the Minister of the Crown shall every year be obliged to ask the consent of Parliament. I think that it would be unfortunate that the duties on sugar should be made the annual subject of debate, and, without departing from a constitutional practice, I shall endeavour to find some other duty, which it will be less objectionable to take as an annual vote."—[3  Hansard 969 970 971 972 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 973 d. 974 d. 975 l. 976 977 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 978 979 l. 980 l. per se 981 l. l. l. l. 982 l. l. l. 983 Laughter 984 985 ad misericordiam 986 Laughter 987 988 989 l. 990 s. 991 s. s. 992 993
 MR. FREWEN  said, many of his constituents were anxious to have this case fully investigated; but after the statement of his right hon. Friend he would not divide the House on the subject.
 MR. PACKE  begged to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, having his assurance that the income tax shall cease at the end of seven years, whether he would have any objection to give an option to compound for the future payment of the tax, by payment in one sum, or by instalments?
 MR. ROCHE  said, he did not admire the income tax in itself, and felt sure it must he very uncomfortable to have to pay it; but he did not agree with hon. Gentlemen opposite, who said it was the most unjust and unequal tax that was ever imposed. He believed there were many more unjust and unequal taxes, and, indeed, al-
 960 l. l. l. l. 961 s. d. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. 962 l. s. d. l. s. l. 963
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he might well leave the address of the hon. Member who had just sat down to the argument of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth (Sir P. Baring) to whom he had referred; and at once call the attention of the Committee to that period of the debate when the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) became the worthy follower of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in a course, the consistency of which—however it might have escaped criticism in that House—must, he presumed, one day be vindicated at Oxford, and justified at Montrose. The right hon. Gentleman in that gigantic oration—the parent of all the financial discussions that had followed, had pointed out, most convincingly, that the owners of land under the income tax were made to pay no less than 9 d. d. arrectis auribus l. 918 l. l. 919 l. l. 920 921 922 l. 923 l. l. l. l. 924 l. l. d. l. l. l. l. l. l 925 926 l. l. l. l. l. l. 927 l. l. 928 l. l. 929
 MR. SERJEANT MURPHY  said, he must express the reluctance he felt on rising to address the Committee on a subject of finance; but the peculiar situation in which he stood as about to give a vote in opposition to that of his hon. Colleague (Mr. Fagan) rendered it necessary that he should offer some explanation as to the grounds on which he intended to support the Government. The real question which in his opinion they had to consider was, whether there was any reason to induce them to suppose that the present was the only Government which sought to impose the income tax upon Ireland, and whether they might hot conclude that another Government, if placed in a similar position, would not have done the same as the present. The hon. and learned Member for East Suffolk (Sir F. Kelly) maintained that it would be a great hardship to apply this income tax to Ireland under present circumstances; but he begged to remind the hon. and learned Gentleman that the right hon. Gentleman opposite, the late Chancellor of the Exchequer, had proposed to extend the income tax to certain classes in Ireland, namely, to the fundholders, and to persons in receipt of salaries. Nor was this the first occasion on which a proposition had been made to extend the tax to Ireland, for in the year 1848 a proposition had been brought forward by the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall) to extend it to Ireland; and the right hon. Gentleman the late Chancellor of the Exchequer had voted with him in that division. He was therefore justified in saying that it was not the present Ministry alone that sought to impose the income tax upon Ireland. If this were so, he saw no reason why, in May, 1853, he should endeavour to turn out the Government which he had assisted by his vote to bring into office in December, 1852. He did not regard this proposition merely as a matter of finance, for he thought they ought to look beyond the system of taxation. They ought to look to a future system of good government for the great mass of the community; and being con-
 956 l. 957
 MR. TUFNELL  said, he would now move that a new writ should be issued for the borough of Rye. The Committee presided over by the right hon. Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington), which inquired into the state of this borough, had reported that the existence of direct money bribery had been disproved, though it certainly appeared that an extensive system of corrupt loans prevailed. Now, although nothing could be more fatal than this to the independence of boroughs, still, as the Committee had not reported in favour of the issue of a Commission of Inquiry into the borough, he thought that the House could not take any further steps in the matter, and that they would not therefore be justified in longer withholding the writ.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he was anxious to justify the vote which he should give on the present occasion. The question before the House was, whether the income tax should be reimposed. He admitted it was impossible to look at that question without taking it in connexion with the general financial scheme of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Before they voted against the proposal of the income tax, they must look into the other portions of that scheme and see if there were anything in them to reconcile them to the reimposition of the income tax. He (Mr. Butt) would endeavour to meet the question fairly in reference to both these points of view. He (Mr. Butt) must say that nothing but the strongest necessity would reconcile him to the reimposition of the income tax. Let him remind the Committee of the question before them. That question was, whether they would now adopt as a portion of their financial policy an income tax—an income tax not as it might be altered to obviate or mitigate its inequalities—the question was, would they adopt it without any attempt to correct its admitted injustice—an income tax with all its evils—an income tax imposed upon a class hitherto exempted—and an income tax extending to all parts of the United Kingdom. This was the proposition before them; and, further, he would show the Committee that the question was, would they adopt such an income tax so extended to a new class and a new country—an income tax so unaltered—as a permanent instrument of finance? Unless by voting for the Resolution of the hon. Baronet, he saw no prospect either of mitigating its injustice, limiting its application, or making any provision for its termination. He (Mr. Butt) did not intend to argue with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down the question whether, if you reimposed this tax, it ought to be extended to Ireland. But he must say that the hon. Gentleman had done very little to settle that question when he told them that Ireland ought to bear her fair share of the burdens of the United Kingdom. Every one admitted that; but the question was, what was her fair share of these burdens? The hon. Member for Kidder-
 939 l. l. 940 941 l. 942 l. l. l. 943 l. l. s. d. s. l. 944 l. 945 l. l. 946 l. l. Hansard "Lay your tax upon—say windows or carriages, and you can take it off again. But once impose an income tax which is to produce you, as I imagine, 4,000,000 l. Hansard 947 "That the income tax, having been first imposed in a period of extreme emergency, and during a most perilous war, was repealed on the re-establishment of peace, and having been again imposed on the renewal of war, was again repealed in 1816, on the termination of hostilities. That, considering the various means of supplying the present deficiency, without enhancing the price of the necessaries of life, or embarrassing trade, it is the opinion of this House that the renewal of a tax inquisitorial in its character, unequal in its pressure, and which has hitherto been considered as the financial reserve of the nation in time of war, is not called for by public necessity, and is therefore not advisable."—[3  Hansard l. s. d. 948 l. l. l. 949 informâ pauperis; l. l. l. l. l. l. 950 l. d. l. d. l. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 951 l. s. s. s. l. s. l. l. l. 952 l. l. l. l. l. l. 953 l. l. l. l. 954 955
 MR. JAMES WILSON  said, the proposed changes with regard to import duties in the Isle of Man were in a state of great forwardness, and though he could not state what they were, he might assure the hon. Member that the increase of duty would be extremely small, the present anomalous system would be entirely abolished, and the re-
 909
 MR. BASS  said, he could not consent to the issuing of the writ, as it was proved that various sums of money had been lent for corrupt purposes, and there was no proof that that power had ceased. He would therefore move that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. LOWE  said, he presumed, considering the quarter of the House from which the speech just delivered had come, that it was to be looked upon as made in support of the Amendment before the Committee, though by what possible course of legal or logical ingenuity the hon. and learned Member for East Suffolk could persuade himself that his speech could support the Amendment, he (Mr. Lowe) was at a loss to discover. The purport of the Amendment was, that it was unjust and impolitic to renew the income tax for seven years, and extend it to classes not now paying it, without redressing its inequalities. That was the thesis in support of which it was to be supposed that the hon. and learned Member had made his speech. But, if he had proved anything, he had proved exactly the contrary. What he should have established, was inequality between the different schedules—that persons in one schedule were better off than
 930 d. d. 931 d. 932 per se; 933 934 d. 935 l. 936 l. 937 938
 MR. T. BARING  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty whether any or what measures had been adoped by Her Majesty's Government to protect British commerce against piratical proceedings on the coast of Borneo?
 MR. CONOLLY  said, the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay) had made an appeal to Irish Members, to which he had listened with attention, and should not lose sight of. He would speak of what must be of paramount importance to Ireland—the way the question affected Ireland. The hon. Gentleman opposite had fallen into a fallacy in arguing the question as a question of equality of taxation. If there was to be equality of taxation the
 958 l. l. l. l. 959 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was quite willing to promise to take this matter into consideration. He should be very glad if the arrangement suggested could be carried out; but he was afraid, with reference to so long a period as seven years, there would be considerable difficulty. He hoped, therefore, the hon. Gentleman would not interpret his reply into giving any pledge on the subject.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was not aware of any distinction with reference to property under settlement and property under trust. He meant to take away the exemption of property under settlement, and such property would have no preference over any other kind of property.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was quite aware of the importance of the question put by his hon. Friend, and he was desirous to answer it as far as the matter depended on himself. Of course his hon. Friend was aware that the House had it in their own discretion to prolong or curtail those discussions on which they were now engaged, and upon which the proceedings of the Government must depend. The course, however, which would be taken by the Government would be this. After the vote on the Income Tax Resolution they would propose the Legacy Duty Resolution; and after the vote on the Legacy Duty Resolution they would propose the second reading of the Income Tax Bill. After the second reading of the Income Tax Bill they would then propose the second reading of the Spirit Duties Bill; and it would then be competent for the hon. Gentleman, who he believed had given notice to that effect, to contest the principle of that Bill. After the second reading of the Spirit Duties Bill, they proposed to carry the Income Tax Bill into Committee, losing no time in carrying it through the successive steps he had detailed. After the Income Tax Bill had passed through Committee, all the Resolutions with reference to the remission of Customs duty would be proposed; and in the event of the Resolution with regard to the tea duty being agreed to, the remission would take effect from and after the day the Resolution was reported to the House.
 Mr. EWART  said, he begged to ask the hon. Secretary to the Treasury whether the measures proposed to be adopted in reference to the fiscal changes in the Isle of Man were yet prepared; and, if so, when the Government proposed to lay the same before the House? Also, whether it was intended that such measures should affect importations made under the licences ending the 30th day of June next; also, whether any and what measures had been adopted to promote a more frequent communication by mail with that island during the winter months?
 SIR HENRY HALFORD  said, he begged to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with reference to a petition from the justices of peace for the county of Leicester, in quarter-sessions assembled, whether it was in contemplation of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure for adaptation of the law regarding prisons to the system of the individual separation of prisoners, as applied to those under sentence of hard labour, and generally in order to carry out the recommendation of the Select Committee of this House on Prison Discipline, in 1850?
 Sir JAMES GRAHAM  said, representations had been made to Her Majesty's Government with respect to certain proceedings, said to be piratical, on the coast of Borneo, and in consequence of those representations the admiral commanding on he East India station had been instructed
 910
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that although he thought it was of the highest importance that the House should take steps to put an end to the system of corrupt loans which had prevailed in the borough of Rye, he did not think that, pending the adoption of such measures, they would be justified in withholding the issue of the writ.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, as Chairman of the General Committee on Election
 1009
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he had given the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department notice of the two questions he wished to put to him with reference to the Bill now before the House for the regulation of hackney carriages in the metropolis. He understood the parties most interested in a pecuniary point of view desired that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee; and the first question was, whether the hon. Gentleman was prepared to accept that proposition at such a time as might be proper to make it?
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : The second question was, at what time the hon. Gentleman would bring on the discussion? He trusted it would not be at a late hour, but on as early a day as was convenient. He also begged to remind the hon. Gentleman that great interests were involved in the operation of this Bill—capital amounting to 500.000 l.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he trusted it was not necessary that he should preface the observations he was about to address to the Committee by an assurance that he should not have moved the adjournment of the debate on Friday night merely from the wish to gain an opportunity of taking a part in it; but as it was clear the adjournment of the debate was inevitable, it occurred to him that it might not be altogether useless that he should state the sentiments not only of the great constituency he had the honour to represent, but also, he believed, of other portions of the metropolis, with respect to the important question now under consideration. He had reason to believe those sentiments to be decidedly in approval of the financial measures of the Government. He believed great disappointment and regret would be felt throughout the whole of the metropolis, and throughout the great towns of the Kingdom, if those measures were rejected by the Committee. In those sentiments he heartily concurred. After the most mature consideration, the impression he entertained on first hearing the statement of the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had been fully confirmed. He was of opinion that the financial scheme the right hon. Gentleman propounded was wise and expedient, as well as bold and comprehensive, and that it combined with the most important immediate relief in the articles of taxation, the prospect of laying a safe and solid foundation for our future fiscal system. In the remarks he was about to make he should confine himself wholly to the question immediately before the Committee, as to the question of the pro-
 913 l 914 l. l. l. 915 l. 916 917
 VISCOONT PALMERSTON  said the communication which he received from the magistrates of Leicester turned on this point. The visiting justices had established a rule in the prison, that persons sentenced to hard labour should be employed eight hours a day in turning a crank, and if they rejected or refused to do so, they were deprived of a certain portion of their daily meals. It appeared to his predecessor in the office of Secretary of State that that regulation was not borne out by law, and probably the opinion was well founded. If the hon. Baronet's question was whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in a Bill to legalise such an arrangement, his answer was that it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government so to do.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to make the franchise in counties in England and Wales the same as that in boroughs, by giving the right of voting to all occupiers of tenements of the annual value of 10 l 1046 1047 l l l l l l l 1048
 MR. HUME  said, his hon Friend the Member for East Surrey had done no more now than he had pledged himself last year to do. He was perfectly satisfied, unless the Government betrayed those who placed confidence in them, that they would have a fair and satisfactory Reform Bill introduced next Session. This being so, he advised his hon. Friend not to press his Motion to a division, because it would afford no indication whatever of the real feeling of the House.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he had no wish to incommode the Government, and, in compliance with the suggestions made, would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. PIGOTT  appealed to the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley) to withdraw his Motion, seeing that the feeling on both sides of the House was against it.
 MR. MASTERS SMITH  said, he did not intend to impute any improper motives to the hon. Baronet in bringing forward this Motion; but he really could not see what object was to be gained by it. The hon. Baronet was the self-elected champion of the British constitution; but if it was his object to secure for the subject a greater amount of constitutional freedom, or even to purify the present electoral system, he had taken a wrong method of going about the business. To persecute a single individual was not the way to effect a great constitutional change. He admitted that the case of Chatham called for a prosecution; but that prosecution, instead of being directed against Sir Frederick Smith, should be levelled against some of the witnesses who appeared and gave evidence before the Committee. Perjury of the grossest description had been committed by more than one of those witnesses, and the case called loudly for inquiry. [ Cries of"
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he must beg to explain that the right hon. and learned Member was mistaken. The law officers of the Crown, in giving the guarded opinion which the House had heard, had proceeded upon the general evidence in the case. He would warn the House against sitting in judgment upon the decision of its Committees.
 MR. HUME  said, he could not agree with the hon. Gentleman that this Motion was discreditable. The speech of the hon. Gentleman, indeed, was one of the most extraordinary he had ever heard. It was a speech that he could not have believed any Englishman would have stood up in
 1074 Loud cries of
 SIR JOHN FITZGERALD  then rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to provide, that the Act of Parliament which regulated the presence of soldiers in England during a Parliamentary election, be extended to Ireland. He was induced to make this Motion in consequence of the proceedings that had taken place at a recent election for the county of Clare, where a number of voters were seized upon by a military guard, and escorted by them to the polling station. It was the presence of soldiers at an election that had made standing armies unpopular in that country. The people were excited on that occasion, and naturally so under such circumstances. The late Government had brought a charge against the Roman Catholic clergy of having occasioned the lamentable sacrifice of six human lives on that occasion, but the verdict of the coroner's jury completely acquitted them. He wished to contrast
 1076
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he could have understood the line of argument of the noble Lord, if the House had had before it nothing but the Report of the Committee and the opinion now given by its Members; but he should remember that the evidence taken had been laid on the table, and, if there was any use in laying the evidence on the table, it surely was to enable the House to judge whether they
 1069
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  said, notwithstanding the denial of the hon. and learned Member, he must maintain that the tenor of the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech was such as he had represented it. However, to pass from that point, he held that the Report of an Election Committee was tantamount to the report of a grand jury, and that it was the duty of that House, in all cases where bribery had been proved, to submit the facts to the Attorney General, with a view to the prosecution of the parties implicated. Such, he thought, should be the course adopted in the present instance.
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  said, he hoped that due weight would be given to the Report of the Committee, and that the House would not permit itself to be led away by the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Stamford (Sir F. Thesiger), whom he must blame for having attempted to palliate the conduct of Sir Frederic Smith, by imputing bribery and corruption to every Member of that House.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I do not mean, Sir, at all to enter into a discussion on the question now before the House. It seems to me, and I think it will be admitted that it must appear generally to the House, that the question of extending the franchise, as is proposed by the hon. Member for East Surrey, which would make a very great change in the electoral system, is a question intimately connected with our whole system of representation. Now, that appears to me to be a question you cannot at present take up. Whether it is wise or unwise, right or wrong, to make this change, it is a change of very great importance, and one which must affect our representation to a very considerable extent. Such being the case, which, by the general consent, I believe, it must be admitted to be, it is impossible, with the important questions now before the House, properly to consider such a Bill as this proposed to-night, which must lead to dis-
 1049
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I own I did not think, Sir, that this was a case in which the opinion of the Government should be used to sway the House in the decision to which it might arrive. It appeared to me that the first course I had to pursue was to endeavour to obtain the best advice I could, in order that my Colleagues and myself might be prepared to say what were their views of the law respecting this case; and accordingly we have consulted the law officers of the Crown, and those law officers have stated their opinion founded upon the Report and the evidence taken before the Committee, that there is ground for the prosecution of Sir Frederic Smith; that although they will not answer for the success of that prosecution, they think there is evidence to go before a Court of Law to show that Sir Frederic Smith has been guilty of bribery. That is the first question which I thought it was my duty to inquire about. But the other question, which concerns this House much more closely, is a question as to what is the meaning of the Report of the Committee. I own that the Report appears to me to have some ambiguity in it, and I cannot say that that ambiguity has been entirely removed by the speeches which have been made this evening by the Members of the Committee. It would appear on the face of this Report that the Committee are of opinion that Sir Frederic Smith has been guilty of inducing a voter of Chatham to vote in his favour by procuring for his son a situation in the Post-office. The words will admit of another interpretation; but if that other interpretation was the right one—if Sir Frederick Smith has done no more than obtain a situation in the Post-office for the son of a person of the name of Greathead,
 1066 1067 "That if it shall appear that any person hath been elected or returned a Member of this House, or endeavoured so to be, by bribery, or any other c6rrupt practices, this House will proceed with the utmost severity against all such persons as shall have been wilfully concerned in such bribery, or other corrupt practices." 1068
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that as a Member of the Committee, he must say that, although he should like to see the Motion withdrawn, if it should be pressed he would feel bound, on abstract principles of justice, to vote in its favour. He thought the circumstances which had occurred at Chatham were of a trivial nature compared with the corruption which had existed in other places, and the House might impose an amount of punishment greater than the offence deserved. He considered that the House should deal broadly with the whole question, and punish both agents and the receivers of bribes. It was quite plain, however, that Sir Frederic Smith had laboured under the monomania that he might grant favours to voters during the election even without making himself liable to a prosecution for bribery. As the Committee entertained a doubt as to the state of the law, they had required the learned counsel to discuss that question; and they had come to the conclusion that it was a case coming within the operation of the Bribery Act.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the Report of the Committee, in which he concurred, was based upon the fact that there was no evidence to prove that Sir Frederic Smith had not intended to bribe the voter Greathead, but that Greathead's conduct had been influenced by the place which had been procured for him. That, therefore, Greathead was, according to the legal interpretation of the term "bribed," though Sir Frederic Smith did not intend to bribe him. He could not conceive a case in which it would be more improper for that House to order the prosecution of a candidate than the case then under their consideration. The Committee, feeling doubtful as to the law, had recourse to the learned counsel for information; if the House had the means of judging of all the circumstances of the case, he was convinced they would come to the same conclusion as the Committee. An hon. Member of the Committee
 1061
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that what he had meant to state was, that the voter had been corrupted, but that he had not understood that the candidate had meant to corrupt him.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that if the hon. Baronet had wished to take exception to any word spoken by the hon. Gentleman the Member for West Surrey, he ought to have done it at the time.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he must deny having made such a statement.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he had hoped that some Member of the Government would have expressed his opinion on the Motion just submitted to the House. The hon. Baronet who had brought it forward had disclaimed being actuated by any personal feeling in the matter. He (Sir F. Thesiger) felt satisfied that that was the fact; and he was sure the hon. Baronet would be gratified, as many other Members would be, to find that, upon considering the evidence in the case, the House would not be under the necessity of interfering in the way proposed. The hon. Baronet said, that as the Committee had reported against Mount, and as proceedings had been ordered against that witness, he thought it right that proceedings should also be adopted against Sir Frederic Smith. He wished to call the
 1052 "That it was proved to the Committee that Joseph Greathead, an Elector of Chatham, had been bribed by a situation as a letter-carrier in the Post-office, obtained for his son, Charles Greathead, by Sir John Mark Frederic Smith." 1053 1054 "In the conduct of your election did it occur to you, looking to the character of the voters of Chatham, that, whoever the man might have promised, he might not finally determine to give his vote until, in point of fact, he recorded it at the poll?—It did not; as I said yesterday, I believed those who promised me their votes would give me their votes. "Did it never occur to you that some of those who promised you their votes might have promised the other side?—I never suspected it. "Looking to the character of the voters, did it never occur to you, in a large constituency like Chatham, that it was possible many of them who promised their votes to you might have promised them on the other side?—I firmly believed that the promises given both to my opponent and to myself would be carried out." "I do not see the distinction; indeed I do not, because I consider the promise as good as the performance of it." 1055 "Upon your oath wore you induced to vote for Sir Frederic Smith in consequence of any promise or any expectation that he held out to you that you would get a place for your son in the Post Office or elsewhere?—I most solemnly declare I gave my vote to Sir Frederic Smith irrespective of anything. "Were you on Sir Frederic Smith's Committee?—No. "You utterly disavow any bargain or contract with Sir Frederic Smith?—Decidedly. "No conditions whatever?—Not any." 1056 Geo. "If any person, through himself, or by any person employed by him, should, by any gift or reward, or by any promise of a gift or reward, procure any person or persons to vote at any such election, such party shall for every such offence forfeit 500 l 1057 1058
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he was obliged to his hon. Friend (Mr. L. King) for having brought forward this Motion. The state of the representation of the country was most unsatisfactory. In a population of 27,000,000, the majority of the Members of that House were returned by 174,000 electors.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he was not one of those pigs that wanted a Government teat;
 1075
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, if he had used any words that were improper, he would at once withdraw them.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he was very sorry to interfere with any Gentleman s dinner hour, but he had still more reluctance to allow this debate to close without entering his protest, and giving his reasons for so doing, against the course now insisted upon by the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Shelley). He had waited during the whole course of the discussion, because he was unwilling to obtrude himself, and because he took a view wholly different from hon. Members. He entirely agreed with the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. W. J. Fox), when he said it was "a poor exhibition of
 1070 Edinburgh Review, lettres de cachet 1071 l s 1072 1073 s.
 MR. RICH  said, the hon. Gentleman the Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond) had done him the favour to make a joke at his expense. As to the expressions of the hon. Gentleman, he could laugh at them as well as his neighbours; for, having been nearly twenty years in that House, he believed he could say he had conducted himself both in public and in private life as a gentleman and a man of honour. Now, as far as the Motion of which he had given notice was concerned, no hostility was intended to the Government. The present Government he regarded with unfeigned respect. It was composed of many honourable and independent Gentlemen capable of carrying on the Government, and from him they would receive the most cordial support when his conscience would go with them.
 MR. HEYWOOD  was understood to express his hearty concurrence in the decision of the Committee, of which he was a member, and his desire that something should be done to suppress the system of bribery and corruption existing at Chatham.
 MR. BRAMSTON  said, he wished, as Chairman of the Committee upon whose Report Sir Frederic Smith had been unseated, to say a few words on this subject. At the same time, he doubted whether the House would think it right that he, as a Member of the Committee, should defend the course they had taken. The Committee upstairs was a judicial tribunal, and that House was not a Court of Appeal. It therefore appeared to him that, if he were to address himself to the House with respect to the reasons which induced the Committee to come to their decision, he would be speaking  coram non judice. 1060
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, the House ought, before it acceded to this Motion, to consider what a serious thing it was to undertake a criminal prosecution against an individual for bribery. It was not the decision of the Committee they had to look to, but whether there was evidence to go before a jury sufficient to induce them to convict Sir Frederic Smith. He (Mr. Duncombe) believed that there was not. In the Derby case a man named Morgan was prosecuted, and pleaded guilty—but what did the jury do? They said, in effect, "Really the House of Commons is so steeped to the chin in corruption and bribery that although we find Morgan
 1063 1064
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. PHINN  rose to put a question to the Secretary of State for the Home Department, of which he had given him notice, and which he was sure the noble Viscount would be very happy and ready to answer. He wished to ask whether any directions or instructions had been given, or any warrant issued by either of the Secretaries of State, authorising the Postmaster General to open the letters of foreign refugees?
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he apprehended that whether Sir Frederic Smith were prosecuted or not, could Signify very little, either to the character of the House, or to
 1062
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he was quite sure no Member of that House felt a greater abhorrence than he did of bribery and corruption being employed to obtain a seat there; but his difficulty in this case was, that it was a notorious fact that a vast mass of Members obtained their seats by means more objectionable and reprehen-
 1059
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he did not think that his hon. Friend (Mr. L. King) had had any option but to submit his Motion this year, as he had done in former years; but he trusted that it was not his intention to divide the House, though, if he did, he should of course vote for him.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to draw the attention of the House to the Sessional Order with reference to Elections, and would move that it be read by the Clerk at the table.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  would now advert to the Report which had emanated from the Chatham Election Committee, and observed, that, upon that Report being presented, the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. L. King) brought forward a Motion to the effect, that the Attorney General be directed to prosecute Stephen Mount for perjury; and the result was, that in a tolerably full House, without a dissentient voice, the Attorney General was instructed, upon the strength of the Report of the Committee, to prosecute Stephen Mount accordingly. He (Sir J. Shelley) thought it incumbent upon them, however, to proceed further upon that Report, for if it were good with respect to the perjury of Stephen Mount, it was equally good with regard to the bribery carried on by Sir Frederic Smith. But in order to allow hon. Members full time to consider the evidence, and to determine what course their duty to themselves and to the House required of them, he had asked leave to postpone the whole subject till after Easter; and this was the first opportunity he had had since of bringing the subject forward. He would not go into the evidence, which was in every hon. Member's hand, but assuming that they were familiar with that evidence, he would urge upon them to stand by the Report. He contended that it was the duty of that House to strengthen the hands of their Committees, and certainly the way in which they had discharged their duties hitherto entitled their decisions to every possible respect. By the kind attention of the officers of the House he had been enabled to refer to the precedents upon this subject, and, so far as he could discover, after a careful perusal, there was no instance of a Member having been reported as guilty of bribery in which he had not been prosecuted by the Attorney General. In 1803 there was the Winchester case. Subsequently Sir C. Hawkins was prosecuted. In 1819, in the Barnstaple case, Sir Manasseh Lopez was prosecuted by the Attorney General. In the same year, in the Penryn case, Mr. Swann was prosecuted; and in 1831, in Dublin city, in 1835, in Ipswich, and in the same year in Great Yarmouth, the parties implicated in bribery were prose-
 1051 l
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that the hon. and learned Member (Sir F. Thesiger) had said that the House should look especially to the honour and integrity of its Members. That was his (Sir J. Shelley's) object in making his Motion. As to the observations about the Report of the Committee, he had stated before that he made the Motion without reading the evidence, being satisfied that the Report was sufficient. Looking at the case of the man Mount, he thought it would not be fair if the House did not take notice of the rest of the Report also, and therefore he had brought this case before the House. The hon. and learned Member had also appealed to the law officers of the Crown; and he (Sir J. Shelley) would add that if the noble Lord who represented the Government in that House felt strongly on the subject of reform, an opinion might have been fairly expected from him also. He (Sir J. Shelley) would venture to say, that the people out of doors would be much
 1065
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that after the speech of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) he should certainly go to a division.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  believed, and hoped, there was no man in the House less quarrelsome than he was; but words had been let drop by the hon. Gentleman near him (Mr. Drummond) which, for the credit of that House, required some explanation.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY : You said the Motion was disgraceful and discreditable to the House.
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  said, an appeal had been made to the House by his hon. Friend who had just sat down on account of what the public would say of these matters. Now, he gave his vote on a question of personal justice and character, as if he were giving his vote on an indictment before the grand jury, and not from any regard whatever to what should be said of his conduct out of doors.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  had no hesitation whatever in stating that no such instructions or orders had been given, and, as far as his own knowledge extended, no letter addressed to the individual person to whom the question more particularly referred had been dealt with, nor had any letter addressed to any foreign refugee, as far as he was informed, been interfered with in transmission through the Post-office. Certainly, nothing of the kind had taken place while he had been in office, and he was not aware of any such case during the tenure of office by his predecessor.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that when, a month ago, he made a statement on this subject, he hoped that he should shortly be able to introduce a Bill. Considerable progress had since been made in the preparation of that Bill, and it was now nearly ready to be brought in; but, in
 1077
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  hoped the Bill would be withdrawn, as the Government had already prepared a more comprehensive measure.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he very much objected to this tinkering kind of legislation, which would not remove the evils which existed. The Bill extended to Ireland, but some of the provisions were very objectionable; and if he had not received the assurance of Her Majesty's Government that it was their intention to bring in a measure for regulating the Ecclesiastical Courts in that country, he should have felt it his duty to bring in such a Bill as a private Member.
 MR. HUME  said, he could not estimate the talents of hon. Gentlemen opposite at so low a rate as to suppose they believed what they said as to the effect of this Bill. They were the greatest enemies of the working men, and were doing mischief by these attempts to legislate—attempting to do that which no legislation could accomplish. He objected altogether to the harsh language used by hon. Gentlemen opposite towards the masters in regard to the working men. Persons who talked in such a tone were the greatest enemies to the working classes, whom they led astray by misquotations from Adam Smith, and taught to believe themselves tyrannically used, when, in fact, they received for their labour all that it was worth to those who employed it. The masters were necessarily subjected to those necessities which competition entailed upon all. They were compelled to get their work done at the lowest rate of wages, and to introduce now machinery to meet that competition by which they were opposed by the Saxon and other foreign manufacturers. Since 1824 the men bad been free to meet and arrange with their masters as to the rate of wages, hours of labour, and other matters affecting them; but this Bill would put an end to that freedom of masters and men to make agreements between them for their mutual advantage. He fully admitted and regretted the suffering to which the working classes were at times subject; but it was not to be prevented or remedied by legislation of this nature. He should move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, it had not been his intention to trouble the House with any observations upon the measure under their consideration; but as he had been alluded to in the course of the debate, he should shortly state the reasons why his name appeared upon the back of the Bill. There were two questions to be considered in connexion with the subject which they were then engaged in discussing. The first of those questions was, whether the manufacturing labourers were suffering to the
 1100 1101
 MR. TATTON EGERTON  said, that there were many other trades besides that of the framework knitters which would be affected by the proposed Bill. It would affect the silk trade, and affect it most prejudicially, as he believed. In the small villages around Manchester many persons were employed in the making of silk goods; and when the work was badly done, deductions were made from the wages of those people. But if that Bill were passed, the silk manufacturers would no doubt renounce a practice under which they would be liable to be brought at any moment before a County Court Judge; they would cease to give employment to people at their own homes, and thus a large number of workmen would very severely suffer. Again, it appeared that the silk manufacturers often paid for the gas used by operatives working at looms, and afterwards deducted from their wages the amount of that payment; but under the Bill then before the House that amount could no longer be recovered. The measure would also have a very injurious effect on persons employed in the cotton trade. Many of the cotton manufacturers built houses for the use of their workmen, and deducted from their wages the amount of their rent. But, according to the Bill, that mode of receiving the rent of those houses would be illegal. To meet the particular case, the hon. Member for South Leicestershire (Sir H. Halford) ought to bring in the Bill as a local Bill, but it ought not to be applied to Lancashire, Yorkshire, and the whole country. He could not help thinking that the Bill, as it stood, would have a very prejudicial effect on the condition of many of. the workmen themselves. He believed that in the silk trade and the cotton trade,
 1108
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  begged to state the reasons why he should oppose the measure. When the Bill was last before the House, its object wa3 stated to be only to declare what was the law; and if that had really been the case, he should not have felt much objection to it But he found that it had been so worded as to lead to an entirely different result, for it would completely change the existing law. By the 6th of  Geo. eo nomine,
 MR. WHALLEY  begged to say, in reference to the noble Lord's statement that if Members voted against this Bill they were opposing themselves to the whole system of truck legislation, that experience of the utter failure of that legislation would induce him to refuse to go on in that suicidal track. The masters could deal with the workmen in these matters more advantageously than strangers, having in their hands that security, the absence of which in the hands of others would lead to a higher charge to protect them against loss. It was chiefly on account of the folly of an attempt, in defiance of experience, to carry further the interference between masters and workmen, that he should vote against the second reading of this Bill.
 MR. HUME  said, he was anxious that the House should act with due consideration of the great interests involved in the present measure. The noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) had truly said that the Bill affected the whole of the working classes. The opinions of the Judges were adverse and inconsistent; and, as there appeared to be doubts entertained on the subject, he would suggest to the noble Lord that he should not reject the application of the working classes, who were anxious to obey the law, if they could but know what it was. He would further suggest, whether it would not be better that the debate
 1124
 MR. HUME : I beg to move that the debate be now adjourned.
 COLONEL BLAIR  said, he did not entirely approve of the Bill, but, thinking it a step in the right direction, he would vote with the hon. Baronet (Sir H. Halford).
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would implore the House to give this Bill a second reading. No man could have listened to the debate without making three observations:—First, that those who felt them-selves defeated in argument had attempted to resort to something like vituperation; secondly, that the arguments of right hon. Gentlemen opposite as to the probable effect of this measure were precisely those which were urged against interference with labour in coal mines and factories—a diminution of wages and so forth—forebodings which hon. Gentlemen from Lancashire and the West Riding well knew had not been realised; and, thirdly, that if the House on principle rejected this Bill, they would assert the impropriety of the principle upon which all anti truck legislation had been founded. The hon. Member for Newport (Mr. Biggs) had attributed the distress of these operatives to other causes than the withholding of a great portion of their wages; but surely this must be a most grievous aggravation of their distress. With what justice could the House refuse a second reading to a Bill like this, which was supported by the unanimous prayer of the whole body of the working people whom it affected, by a number of master manufacturers of Leicester (though opposed by a number at Nottingham), by every county Member connected with Leicester, by one of the Members representing the manufacturing industry of Leicester itself, and which its opponents asked the House to reject on prophecies over and over again refuted? The hon. Member (Mr. Biggs) himself no doubt connected with the working people of this country, raised to wealth and power by the labour, the industry, and the sweat of a great portion of those working people, did not think it beneath him to characterise the 20,000 or 30,000 working men of the midland counties, who asked the House to sanction this Bill, as the rabble of the great towns. Whatever might be the hon. Member's opinion of "the Tory country gentlemen," he (Lord J. Manners) hoped there was not a Tory gentleman representing a county constituency who would not blush so to characterise such a body of his fellow countrymen. So far from feeling the taunt thrown out, that the Tory country gentlemen of England sympathised with "the rabble of the great towns," he
 1115
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that in agreeing to adjourn the debate, he begged to state that he did so for the reason assigned by his hon. Friend (Mr. Wilson), and not for the reasons stated by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) and the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Duncombe), as he did not wish in any way to be understood as pledging himself to support the Bill.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he saw no distinct reason for rejecting this Bill today. The House had not before it the plan of his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, which he was prepared to put in the form of a Bill, and that plan might be modified by the Report of the Commissioners appointed specially to consider this subject. On some future day the House might be called on to give their ultimate decision; and such being the case, they ought not to reject the present Bill, or refuse every information and suggestion which could be brought under their notice. He should object to going into Committee on this Bill, feeling that it only dealt with one part of the subject; but he thought it would be wrong, at this stage, to reject it. Whether it was now read a second time, or whether the second reading was postponed, was of very little consequence; but on the part of the Government, he should object to the House going into Committee on this Bill until all the propositions of the Solicitor General were laid on the table of the House.
 MR. GEACH  said, no man had a greater interest than he had in having labour uninterrupted; at the same time, he felt that the workmen were not placed in a right position. The law ought not to prevent any combination of workmen to promote their own interests, provided they combined peaceably, and did not interfere with the rights of others. He knew well that it was the practice of the employers, by combination and other ways, to seek to do that which they, by law, denied the right of the workmen to do. For his part, he was of opinion that combinations never led to good; but that was not the question. The question was, whether by law both parties—masters and men—ought not to be upon equal terms? He should support the Motion for adjourning the debate, in order that the subject might receive more deliberate consideration than the House had yet given to it.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the object of the Bill was, to make the principle of the Truck Act applicable to the case then under their consideration. Now, the principle of the Truck Act was, that every labourer should be paid in full and in the current coin of the realm; and the framework knitters asked that they should be entitled to the full benefit of that Act, and that they should be allowed to receive the gross amount of their wages. He would endeavour to give the House an idea of the extent of the evil of which those poor people complained. He held in his hand a statement of the objections which had been made to the Bill by the manufacturers of Nottingham. It was therein assumed that each frame must be hired at a percentage on the work done by means of it. That was a gratuitous assumption, for the rent might be paid by the day or week; but it afforded evidence of the manufacturers' estimate of the profits on the frames in the shape of rent; from that statement it appeared that a framework knitter earning 10 s. l. l. s. d. l.; l.; l. 1112 1113
 MR. PACKE  said, he also knew something of the situation of the unfortunate persons whom this Bill was intended to relieve, and he would say that a more degrading system of tyranny and slavery than that to which they were exposed did not exist in Her Majesty's dominions. The simple object of the Bill was to give these people "a fair day's wages for a fair day's
 1094 s. d. s. d. l. l.,
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he rose with great pleasure, in answer to the appeal of the hon. Member for North Cheshire (Mr. T. Egerton). So far from acquiescing in the remarks that had been made as to the want of sympathy which existed between hon. Gentlemen opposite and the working classes, he thought it was satisfactory to observe that, when any subject affecting the interest of those classes was brought forward, it was not only sure to obtain the full and earnest consideration of that House, but there was a tendency on the part of many hon. Gentlemen to deal with it in a spirit of kindness and humanity, and from a feeling that it was the duty of the House, if possible, to remove all the evils of which the labouring classes complained. At the same time he could not help saying that the tendency was a dangerous one, and he trusted they would not yield to it on the present occasion, because they were dealing with a subject in which, if they made a mistake, the recoil would be on the very persons whose condition they desired to ameliorate. If he believed that the complaints made by the framework knitters of Leicestershire and Nottinghamshire would be met by the adoption of this Bill, he should certainly advise the House to adopt it, subject to such limitations and amendments as might be agreed to in Committee; but he believed that the direct opposite would be the effect of the measure, and consequently he should give his vote for the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume). In the great manufacturing staples of this country, we enjoyed a vast superiority over all other countries in the world, by reason of our great mechanical power, and our valuable natural advantages; but in those branches of trade with which this Bill was designed to interfere, we were obliged to complete in the open markets of America as well as in those of various Continental countries where labour was cheaper, and we consequently could
 1109 1110 1111
 MR. STRUTT  said, that as he represented a large manufacturing town, the interests of which would be a materially affected by this Bill, fee wished to state his opinion upon the subject. He had resided during his whole life in the neighbour-
 1095 1096 1097 1098 1099
 MR. G. M. BUTT  seconded the Amendment. He said that the Bill had been introduced to reverse the decision to which
 1118 v. Geo. 1119
 MR. HADFIELD , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, he was quite willing that the further consideration of it should be postponed until after the Bill announced by the hon. and learned Solicitor General should be before the House.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he believed this was one of those questions which were never understood in that House, because the number of practical men in it was very few. No man had done more to benefit the working classes, in every way that he could devise, than he had. [ Laughter.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he thought, if the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken had been in the House when the Bill was last discussed, it would have been impossible for him to maintain that there was no doubt upon the state of the law; seeing that the hon. and learned Attorney General and the hon. and learned Solicitor General entertained very contradictory opinions upon it. He (Mr. Drummond) had not brought in the Bill because the state of the law had given rise to considerable discussions on the bench. He did not care a button about that. He had brought it in because half-a-dozen people had been put in prison, and had had to pay 3,000 l.,
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, the Bill as it now stood did not provide for those reforms in Scotland which were desirable; but his hon. Friend (Mr. Hadfield) had agreed to take such clauses as he might propose in Committee for that purpose.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he wished to point out to the House another reason why it was desirable that the debate should either be closed or adjourned. It was absolutely necessary that the Exchequer-bills Bill should be advanced a stage this day, otherwise the House would be required to meet on Saturday.
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, that you might find distress existing in any employment; the difficulty was how to relieve it; and that House was about the last body to attempt to regulate the details of a business. The particular trade was one which had made slower progress in improvement than most others; but the hosiery trade was now in prosperity. The Bill proposed to prohibit an employer deducting any part of wages for rent. Now, throughout South Lancashire, the West Riding of Yorkshire, and a great part of North Cheshire, the cottages in which the workmen lived were built generally with the mill, and the rent was deducted when the wages were paid. That, it was proposed by the Bill not to permit; and it seemed that the employer would not be able to sue for the rent. There was not an employer of labour in the cotton, woollen, silk, or iron trades, who would not be disturbed by the measure, if it passed.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the House ought not to read the Bill a second time. The Government had a Bill already prepared, and the hon. and learned Solicitor General said he would never consent to a measure which was only a partial reform of these Courts. This Bill would be an obstruction rather than an assistance to the prosecution of the more comprehensive reforms sketched by the hon. and learned Gentleman on a former occasion; and he should, therefore, move that it be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, that, if it were right to prevent the owners of stocking frames from receiving rent for their use, they ought also to take the same course with respect to the proprietors of land—that great machine by which the different articles of agricultural manufacture were produced. Indeed, there were far more stringent reasons for the confiscation of the soil than of machinery, to which the proposition would amount. In truth, it was impossible to meddle either with frame-rent or with wages without giving rise to incalculable mischiefs; but they might in an indirect way benefit the framework knitters—namely, by passing such measures as would tend to alleviate the condition of the working classes generally. They must go on in the glorious course in which they had already made such progress; they must make trade free, and remit indirect taxation. That this would prove the most effectual way of attaining the end sought by the Bill, their past experience would show. When he had visited the framework knitters of Derby, five years ago, he found their position the most deplorable that could be conceived; but their present condition was infinitely better.
 1117
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he could not admit of the House proceeding to a division without expressing his astonishment at the course which was now being taken. When the Bill was first introduced it was opposed upon the ground that it was absolutely unnecessary—that the law of the country enabled persons to do exactly what was provided for by this Bill. But they were now told that, instead of its being a Bill which declared the law to be what everybody knew it to be, it was a Bill which was introducing a total alteration in the law; an inconsistency so striking that he could not avoid noticing it. His hon. and learned Friend (Mr. G. M. Butt) had urged the same arguments against the Bill as were used by the hon. and learned Attorney General on a former occasion—namely, that the Bill was unnecessary. The noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), however, had said that in point of fact it would, if passed, be a repealing statute. He (Mr. Chambers) begged to submit that it would not be a repealing statute, but that, in point of fact, the recital in the Bill was true—that doubts had arisen as to the construction of the 6th  Geo. 1121 "The question was, whether persons combining together to obstruct and molest a given manufacturer, in order to force him to alter his mode of carrying on his business, and in pursuance of that conspiracy persuading free men to leave him, that being an overt act, is an indictable offence. I have an opinion upon the subject, and I will tell the jury that in my opinion that constitutes an indictable offence." "That masters, employers, workmen, or other persons who shall enter into any combination to advance or to lower or to fix the rate of their wages, or to lessen or alter the hours or duration of the time of their working, or to peaceably persuade or induce others to abstain from work in order to obtain the rates of wages or the altered hours of labour so fixed or agreed upon, shall not be deemed or taken to be guilty of 'molestation' or 'obstruction' within the meaning of the said Act [that is, the Act of the 6th of  Geo. 1122
 MR. KENDALL  was understood to say that in his county (Cornwall), on one occasion 6,000 men were out of employ, and in great difficulties. Some two or three "peaceable persuaders" came among them and kept up such a state of excitement as very materially to aggravate the painfulness
 1125
 MR. GARDNER  said, he very much doubted whether this was a case in which the interference of the Legislature was justifiable. He would admit that there were a great many abuses and hardships under the present system, but he very much doubted whether they would be practically abated by the destruction of the existing machinery, so long as the supply of labour was in such excess of the demand. The hon. Baronet (Sir H. Halford) would better employ his talents in endeavouring to persuade these operatives to betake themselves to more profitable occupations, or, at all events, not to bring up their children to such occupations; and, in the intervals of leisure between these annual empiricisms, he might well consider whether a tendency to contract the market for our manufactures was consistent with the interests of a community which had suffered, perhaps, more than any other from the baneful effects of protection. The general feeling of the employers of Leicester with respect to this Bill was not so much one of alarm as of indifference—or, if he might say so without appearing rude,—contempt. For this was not the first time that the hon. Baronet had "tried his 'prentice hand" upon the employers of labour; and, as the former Bill was found to be inoperative, so their feeling was, that though this Bill might cause the parties trouble, it also would be inoperative, from the impossibility of complying with its conditions, and at the same time profitably carrying on the trade. A very numerous portion of his (Mr. Gardner's) constituents, however, were most decidedly in favour of the Bill; and their poverty and distress entitled them to the most indulgent consideration on the part of the House, and particularly of their representatives. All that he had heard during the course of debate had only confirmed his own suspicion that the Bill was founded upon a false principle, and would tend to exaggerate the mischiefs it was designed to cure. He must, with very great reluctance to go counter
 1114
 MR. COLLIER  said, the Bill was, no
 1079
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he must be allowed to say, that the promoters. of the Bill had great reason to complain of the course which had been pursued on this occasion. Until the Bill had reached its present stage, no objection was made to it, and then, just when it was about to pass, and when nobody expected an opposition, up got the hon. and learned Solicitor General, and opposed it. If there was a doubt in the mind of any man as to the state of the law—and no one could deny that the law was ambiguous on the Subject—it was proper that that doubt should be removed.
 1123
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, as the noble Lord had given no hope whatever that the Government would bring in any measure upon the subject, he wished the House to go to a division upon the principle of the Bill, and not upon the question of adjournment.
 MR. BIGGS  said, that being himself a manufacturer and an employer to a considerable extent of that class of persons on whose behalf this Bill was ostensibly brought forward, and being consequently in possession of a considerable amount of information on the subject, which was likely to be useful to the House in forming its decision, he was anxious to say a few words at the present stage of the proposed measure. He considered the Bill of the hon. Member for South Leicestershire (Sir H. Halford) utterly useless, and in some of its provisions it would be even mischievous; at the same time, should it pass, he, as a manufacturer, would conform to it. The distress of the stocking-knitters, which he admitted, was by no means attributable to the cause stated by hon. Gentlemen. There were 50,000 stocking frames in Leicester, Nottingham, and the other districts where this manufacture was carried on, employed in making stockings; 40,000 of which were what were called narrow frames, by which only one stocking could be made at a time. These were the frames which were in use forty years ago; but since that time great improvements had been made in machinery, and a new description of frame had been introduced into the trade, by which twelve stockings could be made in the same time that with the old-fashioned frame it would take to make two; and one strong boy or girl, with one of the improved frames, could turn out as much work as six men with the old frames. In his own neighbourhood, at Leicester, a man might earn 12 s. s. s. 1091 1092 l. 1093 Morning Post Northern Star
 SIR HENRY HALFORD ,* in moving the Second Reading of the Bill, claimed the fullest measure of the indulgence of the House, as well on account of its importance as deeply affecting the condition of large classes of workmen, as from a sense of his own deficient power to do justice to the object he had in view. For a long period of years the payment of wages to workmen and artificers, otherwise than in the current coin of the realm, had been prohibited by law. The ancient laws on this subject had been consolidated and confirmed by the Act of William IV., commonly called the Truck Act; and he believed the policy of that Act, and the principle on which it was founded, was scarcely questioned by any, although corn-plaints were frequently heard of its imperfection, and the evasions of which it admitted. In consequence of such complaints, a Government Commissioner had been instructed by the right hon. Baronet, the Member for Morpeth (Sir G. Grey), when Secretary of State, to inquire into the operation of the Act, and to suggest amendments; and the same instruction had been continued by the right hon. Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole), when he succeeded to office. That Commissioner (Mr. Tremenhere), in his report now before the House, bore testimony to the great and manifest advantages of the Act, notwith-
 1080 "very powerfully influenced and encouraged by the system of frame rents, and the long-recognised custom of heavy deductions, on one pretext or another, from the wages of the workpeople,
 1081 "The evidence," says the Commissioner, "both of masters and men is perfectly conclusive and coincident on one point, namely, that the amount of this deduction is regulated by no fixed rule or principle whatever; that it is not dependent on the value of the frame, on the amount of money earned in it, or on the extent of the work made; that it has differed in amount at different times, and now does so in different places." d. s. d., l. s. l. s. d. s. s. d. 1082 "a shop of sixty glove frames will net to the undertaker of his own property 575 l. l., l. l. d. s.; s. s. d., Nottingham Review, s. d. s. d. d. s. d.; s. d., d., s. 1083 "that there are frames not the property of the hosier; has this circumstance anything to do with the depression of wages?—These frames (he answers) are ordinarily first stopped in bad times, and last set on in a revival of trade. The effort to get even partial employment for them has often been so great as to induce the middle masters, in whose hands many of them are, to take out work at gradually decreasing rates; or, if not taken out at less prices, to give it out in scanty amounts, and for less than the regular wages. In fact, by working this lever in any state of the trade, when labour is not absolutely scarce, there need be no limit to the depression of wages, except the good feeling of the employer, and the incapacity or unwillingness of the employed to approach nearer to the point, where to work is not more gainful than to be idle." 1084
 SIR HENRY HALFORD  said, he could assure the House that a great many manufacturers were favourable to the Bill, and desired to see it pass, in order that it might put an end to a system of which they were thoroughly ashamed. With regard to the proposition of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Muntz) for the suggestion of referring the Bill to a Select Committee, he (Sir H. Halford) should be perfectly ready to agree to it, if the House would consent to the second reading.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, that there was no man in that House whose opinions he regarded with more respect than those of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose; and he believed that there was no man in that House, or out of it, more disposed than was his hon. Friend to promote the welfare of the producing classes. It was, therefore, with the greatest reluctance that he differed from him on this occasion. He certainly agreed with him in the remark he (Mr. Hume) had made, that it was exceedingly unfortunate that on this occasion any attacks should have been made on the country gentlemen as country gentlemen, and that a question which greatly interested a large class of people should have been irrelevantly and mischievously mixed up with the old controversy about town and country. He (Sir J. Walmsley) trusted, however, that the House would give to the real matter before it all the attention which its importance deserved, and that it would not allow its
 1102 s. s. s. s. s. s. l. l.; 1103 1104 "Leicester, March 14, 1853. "Sir—As we have heard that misrepresentations have been made in reference to the Bill now before the House of Commons, entitled 'A Bill to Secure the Payment of Wages without Stoppages,' we feel it a duty we owe to ourselves on behalf of the trade to put you (as our representative) in possession of our own views relative to the said Bill. First, as respects the question of the abolition of rent; we do not desire, as has been circulated, to use the machinery of any person, whether manufacturer or not, without the owner being enabled to secure to himself the same rights and advantages for the capital invested as is secured by law to the owners of all other descriptions of property; but we do object that excessive rents and numerous other deductions on account of work being given should be made from wages, irrespective of the quantity of material delivered out to be manufactured, the value of the machine, or in the absence of any mutual contract. The Legislature passed an Act in 1831 prohibiting the payment of wages in goods or otherwise, but they did not prevent a master selling goods on the same conditions as other people, providing they did not deduct, or bargan to deduct, such debt from the wages earned. With respect to the Bill before the House, we say there is nothing therein contained to prevent a manufacturer or other persons from letting for hire any frame; nor is there anything to prevent a workman from hiring a frame from whom he can agree with, on the same conditions as all other property is let, or hired, or leased. The word 'house,' inserted in line 4, clause 1, we think is clearly indicative of our true meaning of all the terms referred to in the Bill. No Gentleman can suppose for a moment that we desire to reside in houses, whether the property of hosiers or others, without paying rent; nor do we desire to force, directly or indirectly, any other principle in respect to frame property, or refuse to pay for any work which may actually be performed by any other person on their behalf; but we do object to power being invested in the hands of any person to deduct what they please under custom alone from the earnings of labour without any court of appeal accessible to them on account of heavy law expenses. Second, in respect of defective work, we think all questions which may arise under that term are already provided for under the Act 5  Geo. Vict., 1105 "GEORGE BUCKBY, "JOSEPH ELLIOTT, "On behalf of the Committee of Framework Knitters. "Sir J. Walmsley, M. P." 1106 "Dear Sir—With reference to the Bill now before Parliament, of Sir H. Halford's, to secure the payment of wages without stoppages, I beg to say that the firm with which I am connected have carried on their business without 'charges' for seven years, and have found it beneficial and satisfactory to all parties concerned." "But we do not desire, nor does the Bill, in our opinion, intend, to interfere with frame property in any way whatever; but simply that rent shall not be deducted from wages, but that wages shall be paid in full in the, current coin of the realm." 1107
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  said, he could not permit the Bill to be read a second time, even  pro formâ, pro formâ,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he also objected to the Bill. His hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General had inadvertently omitted, when it was discussed on the former occasion, to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months; but it was quite clear then that the sense of the House was in complete negation of the Bill. His great objection to the Bill of the hon. Member for West Surrey was, that it was not a declaratory but a repealing Bill. It would tend substantially to repeal those provisions of the 3rd section of the 6th  Geo. 1120
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he certainly was surprised at the course the hon. Gentleman had taken; for if his object was to prevent the infliction of the income tax on Ireland, he had unfortunately taken care to miss the only opportunity of carrying out his professed object by voting the other night in the majority, and had now taken a course in which he must be aware he could scarcely succeed. The result of the late division had been caused by those who, like the hon. Member, had voted against the conclusions to which their own reasoning led them. For his own part, he (Colonel Dunne) objected to the whole Budget, and should have voted against it, whether it had contained the income tax or not; but those who, like the hon. Member, only objected to the extension of the income tax to Ireland should surely have felt themselves especially bound to vote against the tax when the question was directly brought before them. Had all the Members connected with Ireland united together in opposition to the Government on that Motion, he was of opinion they would have beaten the Budget, and prevented its infliction upon their country. But now he thought the Motion of the hon. Gentleman was really futile, though of course if pressed to a division he should vote for it; but for his part he was inclined to walk out of the House without recording his vote at all, but that he knew his conduct would be exposed to misconstruction. People out of doors did not understand these manoeuvres, and, therefore, if the hon. Gentleman divided the House, he would divide with him,
 1172 l 1173 l l l
 COLONEL DUNNE : I did not vote on that Motion.
 The CHAIRMAN : Does the hon. Member for Carlow mean to press his Motion that the words of the hon. Member for New Ross be taken down?
 The CHAIRMAN : What, then, are the words?
 The CHAIRMAN  said, he apprehended the House only, and not the Committee, could take notice of the language which had been used by the hon. Member for New Ross; and if the words in question were taken down, it would be his (the Chairman's) duty to report them to the House.
 The CHAIRMAN : I shall put the question, that the words used by the hon. Member for New Ross be taken down. Is it the opinion of this Committee that these words be taken down by the Clerk? [ Loud cries of and
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, amidst considerable confusion, that he was an Irish Member, and felt that the aspersions mad "by the hon. Member for New Ross seriously affected the honour of the body to whom both of them belonged: he would, therefore, appeal to the hon. Member to withdraw the words which had given offence, and which, to 3ay the least, were neither Parliamentary nor in good taste,
 The CHAIRMAN : Do I understand from the hon. Member for New Ross that these were the words he used:—
 "That the grossest corruption ever practised in the days of Walpole and the Pelhams has been practised under my own eyes upon Irish Members in this House?"
 The CHAIRMAN : Will the hon. Member for Carlow furnish me with the words said to have been used by the hon. Member for New Ross?
 The CHAIRMAN : I must ask the indulgence of the Committee in this matter, having no precedent to guide me. As I understand the state of the case, I am now to put the question, that the words, as suggested by the hon. Member for Carlow, to have been used by the hon. Member for New Ross, be taken down by the clerk; and that then the proper course, if that Motion be agreed to, and the words are taken down, will be to report progress in order to report the words to the House. I say it is my decided opinion that the language itself was disorderly. The general rule being that words imputing improper motives to a Member of this House are disorderly, the language of the hon. Member for New Ross appears to come clearly under that definition. I will now, therefore, put the question, "That these words, 'that the grossest corruption ever practised in the days of Walpole and the Pelhams has been practised, under my own eyes, upon Irish Members in this House,' be taken down."
 COL. J. M. CAULFIELD  said, whether the words used by the hon. Member for New Ross were or were not disorderly, or whether they escaped in the heat of debate, or with deliberate intention to give the impression, they certainly were offensive to a great number, perhaps to the whole House; and he could only say for himself and his hon. Friend who sat near him, that they considered them as insulting. He, therefore, begged to oppose the adjournment of the debate, and cordially agreed with the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli), who had suggested that they should call the hon. Member for New Ross to his place, and if he then refused to retract the expressions, or to name the persons against whom he made them, the House should proceed accordingly.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  approved of the course recommended by the noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman who had last addressed the House, and trusted, after a few hours' reflection, the hon. Member for New Ross, who, no doubt, had been acting
 1218
 MR. KNOX : The Committee had given no opinion upon the question of the issue of the writ.
 MR. CRAUPURD  said, he objected to the constitution of the Committee, and expressed his hope that the nomination would be postponed.
 MR. CRAUPURD  then moved that the Committee should have power to send for persons, papers, and records. It might be said that further evidence was not requisite; but he believed that the great preponderating feeling in Scotland was decidedly opposed to the system of double sheriffs, and was in favour of the change in the constitution of appeal which he had suggested. He would press his Motion at present, and he would divide the House upon it.
 MR. LAWLESS  moved by way of Amendment, that the words "Great Britain" be substituted for "United Kingdom," with the view of exempting Ireland from the income tax. He regarded many parts of the Budget of the right hon. Gentleman as perfectly unobjectionable, and particularly the extension of the probate duty to succession to real property. If therefore he were asked why he did not vote in the minority the other night on the Amendment of the hon. Baronet the Member for Herts (Sir E. Lytton Bulwer), he would reply that he was not only Member for Clonmel, but had an interest in the Budget, as a question for the kingdom at large, and regarded the principle of it as a step in the right direction. The present Chancellor of the Exchequer was the first who had had the courage to leap over the park-wall of the privileged classes, and place on their shoulders, in the shape of a legacy duty, a fair share of the burdens which they had hitherto escaped. He regarded the Amendment of the hon. Baronet as nothing more than an attempt to keep up those fences and park-walls, and to bring back the late Government to power, and he had therefore voted against it; but that vote would not prevent his resisting the extension of the income tax to Ireland, and, whatever might be the result, he would most certainly press his Motion to a division. He desired to prevent the late Government being restored to power for many reasons. First, he remembered that they were the first Government that had actually proposed to extend the income tax to funded property and salaries in Ireland —although certainly the form of the impost had been greatly mitigated in the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli)—and he understood that they would
 1169 Cries of 1170 s. d. s. d. s. d. l 1171
 MR. BOUVERIE  said: Sir, I have to report to the House, by direction of the Committee, that Mr. Duffy, Member for New Ross, has used the following expressions:—
 "That the grossest corruption ever practised in the days of Walpole and the Pelhams has been practised under my own eyes upon Irish Members in this House."
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, that the feeling in Scotland was unanimous in favour of some change in the present system. The only effect of enabling the Committee to take evidence would be to prolong the inquiry to the end of the Session. He would recommend his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Craufurd), who had a Bill on the same subject as this Bill, which stood for a second reading on Wednesday next, to withdraw his present Motion, and allow the question as to whether there should be one or two sheriffs to be discussed on that day.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY : Sir, I am one of those who have been anxiously waiting in hopes that the hon. Member for New Ross would take some course which would have relieved the House from its
 1209
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  moved, as an addition to the Motion already before the House, that the hon. Member for New Ross be required to attend in his place at four o'clock this day.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he had heard with a great deal of pleasure what had fallen from the noble Lord the Secretary of State. He understood the noble Lord to have stated to the House, and through the House to the world at large, that there was no evidence whatsoever implicating any person except Mr. Hale, who was under prosecution; and therefore it followed that all the statements that had been made to implicate M. Kossuth in this proceeding, as if he had been abusing the hospitality of this country by entering into unlawful conspiracies, and attempting or preparing to levy war with some country with which we were in amity, turned out to be baseless fabrications and unfounded calumnies. The public had been told—the statement went forth all over the world—and we knew, when a statement went forth, how difficult it was to contradict it, and make the contradiction reach all those quarters where the calumny had proceeded—that large stores of ammunition, and of some kind of weapons of war, had been discovered in a house in the occupation of M. Kossuth, and the whole world was called upon to execrate a man who, after having received the hospitality of this country—after being delivered from the dangers to which he had been exposed mainly by the interposition of the Government of this country, could so disgrace himself. It turned out now that all this was altogether an imagination—a vile imagination of some persons animated with some rancour against M. Kossuth, and who had always shown themselves to be in the interest of Austria and of Russia, and to have persecuted this man by all the means in their power, in consequence of his opposition to those Governments, in bravely and nobly defending the constitution of his country. There was nothing omitted that could be said to held him up to the reprehension and to the execration of the public; and instead of waiting, under the supposition that his conduct, whatever it was, was to form the subject of some judicial proceeding, which was usual in such cases—instead of waiting to see what the verdict might be after these judicial proceedings—those persons hastened in their malignant spite to condemn him unheard, and, in order to hold him up to detestation, they assumed at once that he was guilty, and, referring to
 1154 1155
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, before I answer the question which the hon. Gentleman has just put, I must advert to the former part of his speech, because it is certainly of importance that we should have some clear and distinct notion of what is the policy of this country in respect to M. Kossuth and to other refugees. I quite agree with what the hon. Gentleman has said—namely, that we ought to observe the same rule with regard to all refugees, without reference to their station, their rank, or their political opinions. I care little for that: they may be princes of high lineage, holding the most extreme doctrines of absolute monarchy, or they may be persons of the most lowly condition, entertaining the most ultra-republican notions. I care not what their opinions may be—I think the rule should be the same for all. But what should be that rule? It is not so very clear, in regard, at least, to its general principle. It is founded, in the first place, upon the law of England; and, in the next place, it is incorporated with the great international code of the law of nations. The law of England, as we all know, allows any of these persons—any of these refugees, whatever may be the cause in which they have suffered—whatever may be the power by which they may have been proscribed—to come here and live undisturbed in this country. That is the general law
 1163 1164 1165 1166
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The right hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Buckinghamshire, is perfectly right when he says the Government is at all times, open to charges of this nature—to charges
 1206
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I beg to call to the recollection of the House the circumstances under which the hon. Member used these words, and the manner in which he followed them up. The words, as they have been taken down, appear to me, and I believe to the hon. Gentleman himself, as nearly as possible the words that he used. There was immediately, on this side of the House, a loud cry of "Name, name!" Now, it appears to me that if the hon. Gentleman had meant to make a vague assertion, which he had not the least means of proving, he might have been justified in passing on to other matter; but if, on the contrary, he meant to make an assertion affecting the honour and the integrity of Irish Members of this House, when he said the corruption which had been practised under his view upon those Members, was unequalled since the days of Walpole and the Pelhams, I think he ought to be ready to establish that assertion. But, instead of that, the hon. Gentleman took the first opportunity of saying, "Now, I will immediately pass to another part of the subject." ["No, no!" "Yes, yes!"] If I am wrong in this, the hon. Member will correct mo. I understood him to say, immediately afterwards, when there was a cry of "Name, name!" that if the Chairman, by the desire of the Committee, called upon him to name, he would do so; but of course that is not in the power of the Chairman; and then the hon. Gentleman immediately said he was going to pass to another part of the subject. Such being the case, I own it appears to me that the Committee in general, and the Irish Members in particular, may consider these words as general words used in debate, which the hon. Member is totally unable to prove, for the purpose of fixing a stigma on Irish Members which they do not deserve, and that he is utterly unable to prove one single word of what he has uttered. If, however, the hon. Gentleman is ready to give the Speaker in the Chair an assurance that he is ready to proceed to charge Irish Members individually with that corruption with which he has charged them generally, I then certainly should not refuse my vote for the Motion that the words in question should be taken down; but as the matter now stands, unless the hon. Gentleman goes into that statement, I consider it will be better for the Committee to treat these words with contempt, and not to notice them.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I stated to the House before that I did not think it would be becoming in me to point out what course it ought to pursue. Since then two courses have been suggested, one by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks, the other by the right hon. Gentleman the Recorder of London. The right hon. Member for Bucks suggests that if the hon. Member for New Ross will state certain names of Gentlemen he alluded to, a Committee shall thereupon be appointed
 1213
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I rise, Sir, only to say that the words used by the hon. Member contain a general charge against the Government, and certain Irish Members not named. Being in the situation of a Member of the Government, I do not think it would become me to advise the House as to the course that they should pursue; but I hope some experienced Member, well acquainted with the forms and precedents of the House, will offer that advice, and make a Motion on the subject.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman. He found that, in the case of the borough of Lyme Regis, similar corrupt practices prevailed. He understood from the Chairman of the Committee in this case that the reason for not issuing a Commission was, that all the corruption which could be proved before it had been already ascertained by the Committee. If that was a good reason for not issuing a Commission, it was also a strong reason for postponing the issue of the writ. He (Lord J. Russell) had his doubts whether, in fact, any writ should again issue for the borough of Rye.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he should also support the Motion; he felt convinced, that, if the measure were carried without deliberate inquiry, it would only unsettle and disturb, and prove in no manner satisfactory.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  hoped that the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate would accede to the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Craufurd).
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not pretend, Sir, to be a very experienced Member, but I hope I may be allowed to express the general feeling of those who wish to take a fair and unimpasssioned view of what has taken place. I do not think the House ought to appoint a Committee to inquire into a charge of so grave a character on so vague a statement. At the same time that statement is of so substantial a nature that I do not think we ought to treat it with contempt. I think the hon. Gentleman the Member for New Ross ought to be summoned to his seat; and that you, Sir, should address him and require him to state the names of the individuals on whom he thinks the Government have practised these corrupt influences. I think it would be unreasonable to expect hon. Members, certainly at an unexpected moment, to enter into minute details; but I think he ought to be called upon, in his place, to name the Members against whom the imputation is made; and there will then be sufficient foundation for the next step, which will be to appoint a Committee to inquire into the subject.
 MR. DISRAELI : I understand the Chairman to say, that he considered the words complained of were disorderly, because they impute corrupt motives. There appears to be some doubt as to the exact words. [ Cries of" and 1199
 MR. COWAN  said, he must suggest that it was too late to proceed with the nomination to-night; and he would also suggest that one of the Members for Edinburgh, which was the seat of the Law Courts in Scotland, should be added to the Committee.
 MR. COWAN  thought it was not desirable this discussion should take place in the present state of the House. He should move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member asks to be informed of the course which the House expects him to pursue. It having been reported to the House that the hon. Member has used expressions in the Committee which have been considered offensive to other hon. Members, it becomes my duty to call upon the hon. Member to explain or retract the words which I have read to him, and which had been taken down by order of the Committee. When the hon. Member has made either his explanation or retractation, he will withdraw, and it will be for the House then to say what further course they will pursue.
 MR. SPEAKER  having taken the chair,
 MR. SPEAKER : It has been reported to the House that the hon. Member for New Ross has used the following words:—"That the grossest corruption ever practised in the days of Walpole or the Pelhams has been practised, under my own eyes, upon Irish Members in this House." Has the hon. Member anything to say in explanation or retractation of these words?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton had already spoken twice, and was not entitled to speak again on this question.
 MR. ROCHE  rose to state that he had said quite the reverse. He stated that he found certain merchants of Cork taking advantage of their being free from taxation, and asking too high a price from him for the transport of goods from Cork to London. How was he to bring that down except by competition, and where was he to get that competition except amongst the shipowners of London and Liverpool? And if he asked them not to tax the shipowner of Cork, and to tax the shipowner of London and Liverpool, he was cutting a stick to lay over his own shoulders.
 MR. E. BALL : I must state my conviction that the hon. Member for Meath has given a correct interpretation of the words used by the hon. Member for New Ross. If the words did not bear that meaning, they could have none whatever. It was a parallel between the Walpoles and Pelhams, of a former period, and the present Government, and unless the charge is understood as brought against the Government there would be no application in the words. As a charge against Irish Members it would not be applicable; but it would be so if brought against the Government. Sitting here, upon this side of the House, and hearing perfectly well, as I did, I am
 1198
 MR. F. SCULLY : Sir, I wish to correct the statement made by the hon. Member for Mayo. It must be in the recollection of the House that it was not until after the speech of the hon. Member who used the language was concluded, that the Motion was made that the words should be taken down; and I remember that the Speaker declared, that had the hon. Member who made the Motion made it at the time the words were spoken, it would have been competent for the House to entertain it, but not otherwise.
 MR. LUCAS : I apprehend, that, when words of this kind are used—if they ever were used—it is quite possible, that, if the hon. Gentleman chooses to go into the proof of them, he might prove to the moral satisfaction of every Gentleman who heard him a great deal that might be unpleasant to state or repeat. But I must say, I understood the words of my hon. Friend differently from what they have been described. I understood him to say—what his ulterior meaning may have been lies in his own breast—I understood him to say that the grossest corruption, or whatever the words were in that part of the sentence, had been practised towards the Irish Members. ["No, no!"] I appeal to the recollection of the House whether that is not the precise form of the sentence used by the hon. Member? and I conceive that when the House is asked to adopt a strict proceeding of this kind, they must take the exact words used, and not put a gloss upon them. The words, as I understood them, constituted an accusation against the Government; and might or might not imply an imputation on Irish Members. The words were, that "the grossest corruption had been practised"— upon whom?—"towards Irish Members."["No, no!" and a copy of the words placed in the hands of the Chairman was given to the hon. Member.]—"That the grossest corruption ever practised since the days of the Walpoles and the Pelhams, has been practised under my own eyes upon Irish Members of this House." By whom, then, has this corruption been practised? Not by the Irish Members on the Government; no one pretends that Irish Members have corrupted the Government—or that any bribery had proceeded from any of the hon. Gentlemen opposite to the occupiers of the Treasury bench; but a comparison has been drawn between the right hon. Gentlemen opposite, and the Walpoles and the Pelhams of an earlier generation, and it was asserted that the grossest corruption of the days of the Walpoles and Pelhams has been practised by them. That is the accusation. If, therefore, those right hon. Gentlemen, out of a regard for their own dignity and character, think it necessary to have those words taken down, and require some ulterior proceeding to be taken that is all very well; but, at all events, let it he understood that the accusation was made against them. It is only in this sense, and coming from them, that any complaint of the kind can be entertained. If the words are taken down, let them be taken down accurately,
 1197
 MR. LUCAS  [who rose amid great confusion]: I rise merely to protest against its being taken for granted, in the manner in which the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department has taken it, that those words which were taken down, and which have a most distinct meaning, have the meaning which the noble Lord appears to attach to them. I maintain there is no meaning of that kind in those words. The words which have been taken down contain an imputation against Her Majesty's Ministers, and do not necessarily convey any imputation upon other hon. Members, and do not necessarily convey any imputation whatever upon the honour and character of Irish Members. If I may venture to offer any advice to my hon. Friend, it would be that he should stand upon his right and on the words he has used, and leave the House to determine—which I believe it never will do -that the words bear the sense which I am persuaded no rational man can deduce from them, namely, that they contain any imputation upon any person except Her Majesty's Ministers.
 MR. LUCAS : I beg pardon, I did not deny [ great confusion renewed confusion].
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he would not have presumed to have interposed between the House and the hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Ker Seymers) with any remarks of his as to what had passed before the Committee; but the House would observe that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Bath (Mr. Phinn) had made statements which involved serious imputations upon a gentle, man who had been for many years a Member of that House. And he thought the House would feel that, in fairness and justice, this gentleman should have an opportunity of stating to the House what were the circumstances connected with this petition against the late sitting Members, in order to remove, as far as he could, the impression which must necessarily be produced by an article which had appeared in the  Times, Times, "The practice to which we would call attention is as follows:—There is to be an election for a borough; one, two, or more  bonâ fide 1135 l. l. l. 1136 1137 Times Times "The petitioner called upon the sitting Member's son and offered to withdraw the petition upon certain conditions. He offered to make such a bet with the young man as must terminate in his own favour, so that, if the transaction should ever be called in question, there might be a colourable answer." l. and 1138 Times "It was only, however, after consultation with my political friends in the borough, and under the conviction that the fullest inquiry cannot jeopardise the privilege enjoyed by Berwick of sending future representatives to Parliament, that I deter mined to nullify the last election. In this resolution I only vindicate the right of that large section of the electors, who concur with my political opinions, to their due share of representation. At the same time, I shall test the soundness of that opinion held by myself in common (I believe) with nine-tenths of the inhabitants, and not excluding either of the sitting Members, that on equal terms, namely, in a contest, either on the part of the candidates, entirely pure or universally corrupt, my election was a matter of certainty up to the eve of the poll. I disclaim altogether any right to justify the presentation of my petition by the imputation of motives or acts on your part, subsequent to the election, affecting myself personally. In fact, the question is not personal; and, as far as I am concerned, shall be tried with patience and perseverance, but without loss of temper…… I say with the utmost sincerity that it would have been more gratifying to me that the object in view had been attained without the presentation or prosecution of a petition; but it was incompetent in me to make any overture, except that a new election should take place by consent of all parties; and I had no reason to believe that this would have been accepted. In conclusion, I must, in candour, inform you that, in looking to the utter impossibility of a successful defence against the petition, my counsel will, at the opening of the case, lodge his claim for expenses incurred in its establishment, on the ground that opposition, under the circumstances, cannot be otherwise than frivolous and unfounded. Having stated this, I have only further to say, that I am
 1139 1140 Vict., 1141
 MR. G. H. MOORE : I merely wish to state, that in the debates on the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill a similar Motion was made:—that certain words used by an hon. Member should be taken down—and the
 1194
 MR. G. H. MOORE  said, if the House were disposed to deal justly and generously with the hon. Gentleman who had made such grave charges against the House, he thought a reasonable time ought to be given. Whether they ought to be substantiated, or ought to be retracted, it was only fair and just to give a reasonable time to the hon. Member to consider the course he would pursue.
 MR. H. HERBERT : Sir, as an Irish Member who has listened to this most
 1202
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, he had been anxious to hear on what grounds the hon. and learned Member for Bath, in the absence of any special report from the Committee, and not having himself moved that the minutes of evidence taken before the Committee should be laid before the House, justified the suspension of the writ. The hon. and learned Gentleman's speech had removed his anxiety. He could perfectly understand, now, why the hon. and learned Gentleman had not moved for the production of the minutes of evidence, because he depended, not upon that evidence, but on articles in the  Times, Daily flews, Berwick Advertiser. 1132 Times, 1133 l. 1134
 MR. TUFNELL  said, he bad been entrusted with another petition on the same subject, with a different prayer. For himself, he cared not which way the House decided the matter, but he thought they must adopt a decision for inquiry.
 MR. TUFNELL  thought it was too late to proceed with this discussion.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would now propose to nominate the Select Committee on this Bill.
 The LORD ADVOCATE : Whatever decision the House might come to, it was desirable, in so peculiar a case as this, that the evidence should be printed. One of the peculiarities of the case was this, that the corrupt loans, upon which the investigation proceeded, and upon which the Report turned, were absolutely made as far back as 1832.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had announced, on a former occasion, that it was not his intention to take evidence before a Committee. Further evidence was unnecessary. There had been the strongest feeling expressed in favour of the Bill from all classes in Scotland, and he would not consent to hang up the Bill until August upon a merely abstract question. He would, therefore, oppose the Motion.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that he had applied, unsuccessfully, to several Scotch Members to serve.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the evidence of all the attorneys who had been examined before the Committee went to show that there had been no compromise.
 MR. J. BALL : Sir, I move that the words, used by the hon. Member for New Ross be taken down. ["Hear, hear!" "Oh, oh!" "Name, name!" and general confusion.
 MR. J. BALL : It is not for me to judge how far this House may tolerate on the part of any of its Members direct imputations of corruption between the Government of the day and other Members of the House. At all events I, for one, as an individual Member, am desirous to vindicate not only my own personal honour, but the honour, also, of those Members with whom I am in daily communication; and if there is corruption going on in the House, I desire it may be manifested, that I may disconnect myself from it, and from those who have been; guilty of it. I shall not, therefore, withdraw my Motion unless I hear some more satisfactory explanation than I have yet heard. Corruption, Sir, is a very plain thing. The meaning of the hon. Member for New Ross I take to be this—that some hon. Members from Ireland have been induced, by pecuniary considerations— [ Cries of
 MR. J. BALL : If the hon. Member for New Ross repeats the words they can be taken down. I understood the hon. Member to say that grosser corruption than was over known since the days of Walpole and the Pelhams had been practised upon Irish Members under his own eyes.
 MR. J. BALL : I believe, Sir, I am strictly within the rules of the House when I move that the words of the hon. Member for New Ross be taken down. Those words must be fresh in the recollection of hon. Members; and I apprehend that, according to precedent, the clerk at the table should take down those words, on a Motion, being made that he should do so.
 MR. J. BALL : Certainly, I do.
 MR. J. BALL , having handed a written paper to the Chairman, the words attributed to the hon. Member for New Rosa were these: "That the grossest corruption ever practised in the days of Walpole and the Pelhams has been practised, under my own eyes, upon Irish Members in this House."
 MR. J. BALL : As I have been personally alluded to by some hon. Members, I beg to say that I should be the last to wish to put the hon. Member for New Ross in a position where he might be tempted to utter things which it would be difficult to retract. At the same time, with reference to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Cork, that the hon. Member should either at present or to-morrow adopt the construction which had been put upon his words by the hon. Member for Meath, I have to say that that would neither be creditable to himself nor to the House; and, therefore, in expressing my concurrence in the views of hon. Members who have suggested an adjournment of the debate, I do so in the hope that the House at its reassembling will see that the charge which has been made is met in a proper way—in a way, I mean, in which such a serious charge should be met. I beg to say, at the same time, that I did not understand that the hon. Member looked at me when he made the charge. It never entered my head that he did; and, if it had, I do not say that I should have been so forward to move in the matter. But the hon. Member having cast—I will not say a slur—but one of the heaviest imputations possible on a large body of hon. Members who sat behind me, I cannot
 1214
 MR. BRIGHT  thought the hon. Gentle-man who had just spoken had used the very strongest argument for the House to take the course recommended by the right hon. Gentleman the Recorder of London; and considering the position he held, his advice upon a question of this nature was particularly valuable. The hon. Gentleman said the words were offensive to the House; and to the Irish Members, he might say, insulting. He (Mr. Bright) did not blame the hon. Member for being actuated by those feelings; but being actuated by them, he asked the House to come to a conclusion on this question at once—["No, no!"]—so far to come to a conclusion, as to require the hon. Member for New Ross 'to come in and give the names of those against whom he was prepared to bring charges— ["Retract, retract!"] The hon. Gentleman had already told the House he was not going to retract. That being the case, it appeared to him, however much the hon. Member had transgressed the Orders of the House, however much he bad offended any Members of the House, they would
 1211
 MR. BRIGHT : I think the Committee will have discovered a considerable difference between the explanation of the hon. Gentleman, and the impressions made upon the Committee by his original statement. ["Oh, oh!"] Well, that is my opinion. I think the statement now stands thus: The hon. Gentleman is of opinion, and declares it openly, that the Government has taken measures somewhat analogous to those taken by former Governments for the purpose of influencing the votes of Irish Members in this House. I should be very sorry to have to defend any Government from
 1204 1205
 MR. BRIGHT : I want to repeat my question. The noble Lord has merely told us what everybody knows. Now, I want to ask the noble Lord this question: has he, in his office, or has he, by directions through his office, caused any police magistrate or commissioner to give any special directions that policemen shall watch the house and proceedings of M. Kossuth in this metropolis?
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, it would appear from the noble Lord's statement that in the very undignified attempt in which he had been engaged to discover a mare's nest, he has signally failed. The agitation of foreign Governments on finding "Palmer and Son," inscribed on the daggers, must have been somewhat akin to the feeling of the noble Lord when he discovered this gunpowder plot. I agree with the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) as to the extreme paltriness —I should say shabbiness—which has characterised the whole of this prosecution against Mr. Hale; but that the case as regards M. Kossuth is not of the same character, and cannot be so regarded by this House. In the one case it was a mischievous police business, which turns out to be nothing; and though it has occasioned all this temporary annoyance and expense to Mr. Hale, for which I am sorry, it is altogether of a different character to that which has induced me on one or two former occasions to advert to this subject. The noble Lord now says that he has no evidence on which to found any charge against any person except Mr. Hale; and as to that transaction, he intimates he would be glad to get out of the mess he has been led into, but that he thinks it
 1156 Times Times; Times Times Times. Times Times Times Times 1157 "The Turkish Government undertook to remove the Hungarians—not to put them in prison, as my noble Friend has stated—but to remove them to a distance from the Austrian territories, and there detain them under that description of observation of which, happily, no English word conveys the meaning—under  surveillance Hansard, 1158
 MR. BASS  presented a petition from certain inhabitants of Rye, which stated, that, as it was proved before the Committee, which sat lately to inquire into the election proceedings at Rye, some sixty of the electors were under the immediate control of one Jeremiah Smith, by means of lending them various sums of money, they begged the House would not issue the writ for a new election for Rye without further inquiry, and praying the House to provide some remedy for this corrupt state of things. He also begged to move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. COBDEN : I suppose, Sir, you are the authority without appeal on all points of order; but if it be the rule of this House that the Minister for the Home Department can only be allowed to answer one question on such an occasion and on such a subject as we have been discussing, I think it would he well to consider whether it might not be well to relax it in order to promote the despatch of business. If, however, the noble Lord the Home Secretary cannot answer the question I wish to put, probably the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord John Russell) can. I wish to impress upon the House that we are not here dealing with the ordinary case of an ordinary person. We are dealing with the case of the ex-Governor of Hungary—a man who was long engaged in maintaining in his own country the legality of the constitution of that country, and he was supported by the whole body, not of the poorer classes merely, but of the whole of the aristrocracy of that country. I say that when such a man comes to this country, having held that distinguished post of honour, his case is not that of an ordinary refugee, but it is that of a man placed under the safeguard of this country, the incidents of whose life are minutely watched by the world, and will be as minutely recorded in the history of the times; and as he is treated by us, will honour or discredit attach to us in reference to him. I have little personal knowledge of M. Kossuth; but when I first read of this matter, and when I first read the statement in the  Times, 1161 1162
 MR. COBDEN  then rose to address some further question to the Home Secretary, but
 MR. WALPOLE  said, it was true the Committee had made a Report on the subject, but as the evidence was in the hands of the House, they had no means of knowing on what grounds the Report was made, nor the circumstances of the borough, except from what took place during the last discussion in that House. Now in that discussion it appeared that no less than 15,000 l 1219 l
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he was most happy to say he was not in the House when— as he collected from what had fallen from hon. Members—some disgraceful scene must have occurred; but he must submit that the course indicated by the right hon. Gentleman the Recorder of London seemed to him at least the most desirable to adopt. He would suggest that, if offensive expressions had been used, time should be given to the hon. Gentleman to reflect maturely upon them, and he doubted not not that he would then come down calmly, like a man of honour and a gentleman, either to apologise and retract, or to adhere to and to substantiate, the charges he had made.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he thought the noble Lord seemed to suppose that he (Mr. Duncombe) charged him with being the tool and instrument of Austria. He wished to explain that he did no such thing; he merely quoted the words of the  Times. A cry of 1153
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  rose and said: Sir, in pursuance of the notice which appears on the journals of the House, I have now to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether, in consequence of two informations of a political character having been laid against William Hale, inventor and manufacturer of the patent war-rocket, and the first of such informations having terminated in the said patentee (William Hale) being adjudged to pay certain penalties to the Crown, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to advise the Crown to proceed with the second information, laid under the provisions of a law passed during the reign of William III., 1697, intituled "Air Act to prevent the throwing or firing of squibs, serpents, and other fireworks." Now, Sir, in asking this question I will state, as shortly as possible, not only my reasons for asking it, but exactly how the case stands at the present moment as regards the defendant Hale; and I think I shall be able to prove to the House that so absurd and ridiculous a prosecution as the present was never instituted by any British Government on political grounds. That this prosecution has been instituted for political reasons and on political grounds, I think the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department has already admitted in his place in this House; but if there be any doubt about it, you have only to look at the leading articles which have appeared in the organ of the Government, certain extracts from which I will take the liberty of reading to the' House. The first seizure of Mr. William Hale's property was made on the 14th of last month, and on the following day, the 15th, an article on the subject appeared in; the  Times. "The British Government has not waited long for an opportunity of proving to all the world the sincerity of its resolution to put the law rigorously in force against such foreign refugees re-
 1143 Times. Times Times Times "Mr. Bodkin observed in his address to the Court, that 'there were other reasons besides the mere punishment of Halo that had induced the Government to take the present proceedings; but
 1144 Geo. s. "It would be absurd to suppose that the active and energetic measures taken in this case, under the immediate direction of the Government, and by the Solicitor to the Treasury, are solely intended to recover this paltry penalty. We are confident that there is considerably more to be disclosed than is yet before the public. If we are not strangely misinformed, there are still important witnesses who have not been examined on this charge against Mr. Hale, for he only figures in the capacity of agent and manufacturer of rockets for other parties." Times; Geo. s. s. 1145 Encyclopœdia Britannica, Encyclopœdia Britannica l. s. "That there was another information to which the attention of the magistrates would be by-and-by directed, and as to which circumstances would be detailed which he would not now anticipate, but which would impart a character to these transactions." "that it would be better to try the question before them first. He was satisfied the mind of the magistrate would not be affected by what was to follow." "Whereas much mischief hath lately happened
 1146 1147 s. Encyclopœdia Britannica, 1148 "It is now confirmed that the Prussian police were most efficiently assisted in the late political arrests at Berlin and elsewhere by repeated communications from the police at London, without which many of their disclosures might not have been made; and we see a proof of the good faith of the British Government when, through Lord Westmoreland, it assures the Cabinet of Vienna that it will watch over the conduct of the refugees; and we learn from other sources that the London police have for some time kept a list of all the fugitives residing there, and watch over their communications with the Continent." Augsburg Gazette, Augsburg Gazette. Times 1149 l. s.
 MR. PHINN  said, he was very desirous to call the attention of the House to the necessity of adopting some settled and uniform principle with reference to the issuing of writs in cases where Committees had reported bribery to have existed. He thought that the present was a convenient time, because the Berwick-upon-Tweed case afforded a strong exemplification of some of the abuses which had crept into the practice of Committees, and showed how before that tribunal justice might be prostituted to private purposes. It was obvious, from the course of proceeding prescribed by various recent Acts of Parliament, that the House had not in any way abdicated its common-law jurisdiction, and that it was still within the power of the House, as the grand inquest of the nation to institute any further inquiry, which, com the facts brought under its cogni-
 1126 1127 1128 Times "Surely the Members of an Election Committee would be not a little astonished if they discovered that the original purpose and ultimate end of the inquiry they were conducting was to put a large sum of money into the hands of a sharper—of a man who, in point of fact, is little better than one of those scoundrels who attempt to extort money by threatening prosecutions and exposure where no legitimate subject of exposure exists. The practice to which we would call attention is as follows:—There is to be an election for a borough; one, two, or more  bonâ fide l. l. l. 1129 Times, Daily News 1130
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said: Sir, I shall endeavour to imitate the example of the hon. and gallant Member who has just sat down, and to discuss this question upon the figures, with a view to determine which is the best course to adopt for the benefit of our common country. But, Sir, I will not, as he has done, narrow the question before us to a mere consideration of the principle of an income tax, and shall en-
 1174 Hansard, "That an auxiliary fund, for the relief of the extraordinary distress in Ireland, be raised by a rate, not exceeding sixpence in the pound, to be levied upon all property and income in Ireland, above the annual value of 150 l Hansard,
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY : Sir, I rise to order, and- ask you, as Chairman, whether such language as that which has been used by the hon. Member for New Ross is to be tolerated in this House?
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY : Of course the hon. Member is the best judge as to his own vote. In the division list upon that Motion, I find also, in favour of it the names of Mr. Napier, Messrs. Spooner and Newdegate, Lord Bernard, Mr. Conolly, Sir F. Thesiger, and of several hon. Members of the Conservative party. Their votes upon that Motion prove that, in their opinions, the occasion might arise when it would be for the general benefit of Ireland to accept the imposition of an income tax. Again, I find that a similar Motion was brought forward by the hon. Member for Kerry (Mr. Herbert), in April, 1849. Upon that occasion also, it will be found that in consideration of the miserable sum of 100,000 l "In the difficult position in which we are placed, I feel that the income tax will not press on the small farmers, and that a rate in aid will do so.
 1175 Hansard, 1176 s s d. l l l l 1177 1178 1179 l l 1180 l l 1181 l d. s d. d. s. d.; s d. d. s. d. 1182 s d. s. d.; s. Cork Examiner, s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 1183 l l l s. s. d. s. d. 1184 d d l 1185 1186 bonâ fide, popularis aura 1187 l l l "Venit summa dies et ineluctabile tempus." 1188
 MR. V. SCULLY : I would object to any Motion which could take any hon. Member by surprise. I regret very much that any Irish Member should have placed himself in this position, and have refused to accept either the advice which was tendered by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, or the construction given by his own Friend the hon. Member for Meath. As an Irish Member myself—as one who voted not for the Government nor for an income tax, but for a remission of the consolidated annuities, I think the sooner this charge is brought to an issue the better. No hon. Member has a right to assert anything like a libel upon his brother Members without being able to substantiate it; and, notwithstanding the advice of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), who has not in his keeping the personal honour of the Members for Ireland, and who, I trust, has not been "operated on" by his relative the Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas), I do hope that an immediate conclusion will be arrived at. I beg to call to the minds of hon. Members what occurred. I had spoken on the question of the consolidated annuities, and I had stated that there were English Gentlemen representing Irish constituencies who took a different view of that question from me, and who were not interested in the land of Ireland. The hon. Member for New Ross, in noticing this point of my speech, turned to me and,
 1212
 MR. EWART  said, he should support the Motion. He would take the sense of the House, on a future occasion, as to single or double sheriffs.
 MR. KIRK  said, that as one of the Irish Members resting under this ban, he felt that under the peculiar circumstances, and at the peculiar hoar at which this debate
 1210
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE : I am not in the position of the hon. Member for Donegal (Mr. Conolly) for I have heard the whole of this unpleasant discussion; and I must acknowledge that I am not at all surprised that hon. Gentlemen opposite, my colleagues in the Irish representation, should have taken offence at the words of the hon. Member for New Ross. At the same time I confess I did not understand them, nor do I think that they, upon deliberation, can understand them in the offensive sense which has been put upon them in this House. [ Dissent. Confusion. and 1215 Laughter Confusion. Great laughter. 1216 1217
 MR. OTWAY  said, he regretted that the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) had not, when the subject was brought under discussion before, taken the same course he had to-night, instead of attempting to justify the proceedings of the police in setting spies on the movements of M. Kossuth, and twitting the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) for not knowing that it was the duty of the Home Secretary to take the steps complained of in regard to foreign refugees. [Viscount PALMERSTON: No, no!] He had certainly understood the noble Lord to say that if not only any foreigner, but any Englishman, was suspected of being engaged in practices hostile to any foreign country with which we were on terms of amity, the police were justified in dogging his footsteps, and setting spies on all his actions. That was not always the opinion of the noble Lord, for it was not very long since the noble Lord received a deputation from Islington, and the answer he gave excited so much ill-feeling on the part of his Colleagues, that he was obliged to retire from the Cabinet; and for the noble Lord now to turn round, and speak of M. Kossuth and the other refugees in the tone he did the other day, was what could scarcely have been expected by those who had been led by the noble Lord's previous conduct to respect him and his policy. It might be satisfactory to the House if the hon. and learned Attorney General would enlighten them as to whether such proceed-
 1159
 MR. OTWAY : The hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas) has given a wrong explanation of the words now complained of. The House should recollect what preceded the words in question. The hon. Member for New Ross had stated that a few of the Irish Members had acted conscientiously; and then proceeded, in the course of his remarks, to make an accusation of gross corruption, such as had not existed since the days of Walpole and the Pelhams, which had been practised upon Irish Members under his own eyes. The Committee has itself heard the words; and I put it to every hon. Member whether the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas) has not given a very incorrect statement respecting the words actually used? [ Great confusion.
 MR. DUFFY : I should have hoped, Mr. Bouverie, that, under the circumstances in which I now stand—assailed as I have been—[ Cries of and Laughter. to 1203 Cries of Renewed cries of and and confusion. Confusion.
 MR. GAVAN DUFFY : I desire to say I am not acquainted with the forms of the House, and do not know what is aimed at in this proceeding. Will Mr. Speaker tell me what is the course I am expected to take?
 MR. GAVAN DUFFY : They are not identically the words, but they are so
 1195
 MR. GAVAN DUFFY  said, he had the same objection to take part in the present debate as that stated by the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington (Colonel Dunne), and for precisely the same reason —that he detested sham battles. If the hon. Member for Clonmel (Mr. Lawless) had come down to the House on Monday night in opposition to the Government, when this identical question was raised, he (Mr. Duffy) would have been most happy to have joined him in giving effect to the opinions he now expressed. He confessed that his only motive for supporting the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman on the present occasion was the apprehension of his conduct being misunderstood outside of the House. The hon. Member, in stating the grounds of his vote on Monday night, said, first, that he could not think of going into the same lobby with men who had slandered the convents and nunneries of Ireland. Did the hon. Gentleman think that they, on his (Mr. Duffy's) side of the House were blind, and could not see that he who made this objection sat within one of the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond), and voted in the same lobby with that hon. Gentleman—the only man in the House who spoke offensively of nunneries. The next reason given for the hon. Member's vote was his unwillingness to divide with a party who were in favour of Coercion Bills for Ireland. The hon. Member had, however, forgotten that he was supporting that political party who were, on a memorable occasion, styled "base, bloody, and brutal," because they were the authors of a ruthless Coercion Bill for his country. Another reason relied on by the hon. Member was, his unwillingness to vote on the same side as those who had encouraged the Stockport rioters; but it appears he was quite content to give his support to the authors of the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill. But the hon. Member assured the House he was afraid of taking a course that might have the effect of restoring the late Ministers to office. What did this amount to? Why, to this—that his present Motion was a
 1189
 MR. DUFFY  did not think that he had much misunderstood the hon. Gentleman, for in fact he would put an income tax on the shipowners of Cork, in order to enable them to compete, with the shipowners of
 1190 1191 "The whole of the objections of the Government to the formation of a regular militia are founded upon a radical distrust of the people of the United Kingdom. I, Sir, on the contrary, am disposed to confide in the people. But if things have come to this pass—if we have so mean an opinion of our population that we cannot trust our fellow-subjects to defend themselves—it is much better to give up the Bill altogether. But as there is no foundation for this distrust, there is no reason to believe that the people of England would not rally round the national standard. It will not be for the first time that the people of Scotland will have risen up in arms, and have fought the enemies of the United Kingdom. And if it be that we cannot trust the people of Ireland, why, Sir, let us send at once for a Russian force to defend us, or let us have an Austrian force and garrison in London." eau de Cologne, 1192 1193 Loud cries of during which the hon. Member made several attempts to proceed with his observations.
 MR. GAVAN DUFFY  again essayed to speak, but was met with loud cries of "Name, name!" The hon. Gentleman then repeated what he had before said. If. the Chairman calls upon me to do so, I will name, [ Cries of and great confusion.
 MR. GAVAN DUFFY : It will be in the recollection of the House that the statement I made was this—that though I had been only a short time in this House, I believed I had observed corruption practised towards Irish Members by the present Government of a character with that corruption which had, for similar purposes, been practised by Ministers whose names are familiar to the House. I am called upon for an explanation or retractation of that statement. If this House thinks pro-
 1208
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am anxious to call the attention of the House to the question before it. The only question proposed from the Chair is that submitted by the Recorder of London, that the consideration of the subject be adjourned to this day. No other course has been recommended in the shape of a Motion by any other hon. Member. Now, I think the House will act wisely in agreeing to that proposition. I think a few hours' deliberation will induce the hon. Member for New Ross to take that course, which, after having uttered the words which I think were uttered in the heat of debate, and not with deliberation— I think the hon. Member will be induced to take that course which any other hon. Member would take under such circumstances. I think it most desirable that we should allow the interval asked for by the hon. Member, and that it should not be alleged that he is taken by surprise, and called upon to come to an immediate decision. In recommending that course, I beg it to be understood that I should not feel justified in recommending it if I thought the slightest imputation rested on any hon. Member to whom that language was justly offensive. I think in granting the request for delay, we are best consulting the dignity of the House, while we do not leave a stain of imputation on any hon. Member. I trust, therefore, that as no other proposition has been submitted, the House will agree to the Motion now before it. If the House does agree to that proposition, I trust the House will deprecate the discussion of topics like those introduced by the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I certainly understood the hon. Member for Meath to deny the accuracy of the words taken down, and to deny that the hon. Member for New Ross had said that under his own eyes the grossest corruption had been practised upon Irish Members since the days of Walpole and Pelham. It is true that afterwards, admitting the substantial accuracy of the words, the hon. Member denied the correctness of the construction that had been attached to them. He did that with the hon. Member for New Ross sitting beside him, and that hon. Member confirmed his statement. I had hoped that in answer to the appeal of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and hearing the construction which had been placed upon these words, the hon. Member would have hastened to relieve the House from the painful position in which it is now placed, by at once denying that he intended to cast either upon the Government or upon Irish Members, without intending to prove it, an accusation which is equally disgraceful either to the one or the other. Not being able to prove what he stated with respect to this disgraceful conduct, I trust he will, even now, upon reflection, be induced—I will not say to retract the words, but, at least, to explain the meaning in which he used them, or proceed at once to give substantial proof of the accuracy of the charges brought by him as well against the Irish Members as against Her Majesty's Government.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  [who spoke amidst continued confusion], said: If these words which have been made the subject of complaints do not contain the meaning which has been affixed to them, it would be satisfactory to the Committee to hear that such was the case from the hon. Member for New Ross himself. It seems to me that we have been engaged in a very fruitless discussion as to the accuracy of the words taken down. The Chairman has, with great consideration, appealed to the hon. Member for New Ross to know whether the words had been handed to him correctly; he appealed to the hon. Member to admit their substantial accuracy; and after the hon. Member had done so, and when the
 1201
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  asked whether it was possible for a Commission to issue where no Report had been made of excessive bribery having taken place. What had been gained by the postponement of this writ? He understood, that, with regard to Berwick, the House had decided to issue a writ without waiting for the evidence taken before the Committee. The House agreed to the issue of the writ on the mere statement by the Chairman of the Committee that they were in favour of the issue. He (Sir J. Shelley) understood that the Rye Committee had taken a similar view of that case. [ Cries of
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY : But the House had.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he rejoiced that the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department had stated, and that the noble Lord the Member for the City of London had confirmed that statement, that there was no accusation against the illustrious exile in question. But the noble Lord had made another statement, blaming M. Kossuth for a proclamation which he had issued in this country. So far from that being the case, that proclamation was written at Kutayah, and not in this country, and therefore so far M. Kossuth was free from the accusation of the noble Lord. But the most serious part of this matter—and the question which had been put with regard to it had
 1167
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE : I have paid, Sir, the greatest attention to what has taken place on this subject; and I think that the words used by the hon. Member have been correctly taken down. The explanation of the hon. Member for Meath, so far from mitigating, has, I think, increased the offence. The explanation is, that the hon. Member has seen, with his own eyes, the grossest corruption practised towards Irish Members by the Government. I say this, as an independent Member, that it concerns the honour of this House to know what Member of Her Majesty's Government has practised this "gross corruption towards any Irish Member" under the eyes of the hon. Member, in order to influence his vote in the debates in this House. It is a matter which concerns the honour of the House, and a charge which demands immediate explanation.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am perfectly ready to admit the accuracy of the statement of the right hon. Member for Bucks opposite, that it is competent for any hon. Member in the House to impugn the conduct of any Member of the Government of the day in any way in which it may appear to him that he has grounds for stating the accusation; and so far as the charge of the hon. Member for New Ross against Her Majesty's present Government goes, I challenge him to the proof. I want no taking down of the words used, or reporting them to the Speaker. The charge has been made, and I defy him to prove it. So far, however, as the charge goes against Irish Members of this House, the matter stands upon a different footing. The hon. Member for New Ross has made a charge which, whatever may be the particular words used, implies necessarily an imputation upon the honour and conduct of his Irish colleagues in the House. Now, we all know that men are led away by the course of an argument, frequently to make assertions which, in clearer and calmer moments, we should feel we had no good ground for making; and I would put it to the hon. Member—he is a young Member of this House, and will excuse me, who has been a Member longer than he has, if I suggest a course to follow which I think would redound to his credit—whether it would not be wise to cut short the difficulty in which he is likely to involve us, by saying—what I am sure must be passing in his inmost mind—that he regrets that, in the warmth of debate, he has cast reflections upon the conduct of hon. Members, which he had no good ground for maintaining, and which, speaking deliberately, he
 1200
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the hon. Member has really misunderstood what I said on a former evening. My observations the other evening applied to what I conceived to be the endeavour of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) to extort from me an opinion as to the possible or probable results of the proceedings at law then in progress. I considered him to ask what would be the effect on M. Kossuth of the proceedings then going on; and I stated that it would be very unconstitutional to give an opinion on that subject. With regard to whether our police is paid by the Austrian or the English Government, I am afraid that, whatever burden the police may cause, it is one which will have to be borne by the finances of this country alone. First of all, the hon. Member for Manchester states that I have on a former occasion said that surveillance is a thing from which we have altogether escaped, and that it is entirely unknown to this country. Now, a state of surveillance is this—an individual is not allowed to go beyond certain limits, and he is watched by competent authorities to pre-vent him from doing so. Undoubtedly, it is one of the duties of the police to ascertain whether the laws are infringed; and if they have reason to believe that any individual is engaged in a proceeding contrary to law, it is the duty of the police to take such measures as may be fitting and proper for the purpose of preventing a violation of the law. If the police have reason to believe that M. Kossuth or anybody else was engaged in a proceeding contrary to law, the police were bound to use such proper measeres as might be necessary to ascertain whether or not there was any ground for the suspicions which they entertained.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have given no special directions with regard to M. Kossuth; but it is the general duty of the police, if they have any suspicion
 1160
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, my hon. Friend has treated this matter with his usual mixture of jocularity and argument, and certainly, if there was any Statute which touched moral squibs and crackers, I think my hon. Friend would come under its operation. Now, Sir, my hon. Friend charges me with being the organ and instrument of foreign Powers for the purpose of exercising a watch over persons in this country, and in support of that accusation he quotes passages which he has found from foreign newspapers as well as newspapers in England. Now, I beg, in the first place, to disclaim any responsibility as to anything that may be said of me in any newspaper, either British or foreign. If my hon. Friend had had his attention directed as much as mine has happened to be from time to time to passages in foreign newspapers, in which my name is mentioned, I think he would have found that the weight of accusation and calumny was very much of a different
 1150 1151 1152
 MR. HEADLAM  appeared at the bar, and read the following Report from the Harwich Election Committee. The Committee had determined—
 "That George Montagu Warren Peacocke, esquire, is not duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Harwich. "That David Waddington, esquire, is duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Harwich. "That the last Election for the said Borough, so far as regards the Return of the said George Montagu Warren Peacocke, esquire, is a void Election."
 SIR JOHN BULLER : Sir, you have been appealed to on a point of order, and having given that opinion, I think we ought not to enter into the discussion of another matter, keeping you in the chair. I think the House ought at once to permit you to leave the chair, and that the proceedings of the Committee ought to be at once resumed.
 The CHAIRMAN  having read the Re-solution,
 MR. HUME : I wish to say a word on behalf of the hon. Member for Clonmel (Mr. Lawless) who has not been able to obtain a hearing. He rose to request that words made use of by the hon. Member for Westmeath (Captain Magan), accusing him of a "guilty conscience" should be taken down. The hon. Gentleman [who addressed the House amid continued confusion] was understood to contend that Mr. Lawless was entitled by the rules of the House to have the words referred to taken down if he considered them to reflect upon him.
 The CHAIRMAN : I understood that the hon. Member for Clonmel interrupted the hon. Member for Westmeath to speak to order; but I did not hear the hon. Member for Clonmel make any Motion as to any words used by the hon. Member for Westmeath. To the best of my judgment, the hon. Member for Clonmel was travelling beyond the point of order, and therefore I thought it my duty to call him to order. Since then I understand the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lawless) has moved that certain words spoken by the hon. Member for Westmeath be taken down. I confess that I did not myself hear any disorderly words from the hon. Member for West-
 1248
 The CHAIRMAN  then called upon
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, a great many accusations had been bandied about on both sides of the House with regard to the conduct of hon. Members. Hon. Members on the other side of the House ought not to be so exceedingly thin-skinned and nice with reference to any remarks on their conduct, seeing that they were not so particularly sparing in their comments upon the conduct of others. With reference to what passed on a certain occasion, it was rumoured that if the Gentlemen who had been in opposition should come into power, the income tax would not be extended to Ireland. His vote was not at all influenced by any such motive. But it was very generally rumoured that such a contract had been entered into; and that was in some degree confirmed by the statement of the President of the Board of Control, who said he thought Ireland was not in a fit state to bear the income tax, and that when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer he had always refused to impose that tax on Ireland, in consequence
 1250 l l l
 The CHAIRMAN  interposed and said, that as the hon. Baronet had not made any Motion or Amendment, there was nothing before the Committee, unless he was allowed to proceed with the Resolution, which had been partly read already. The hon. Gentleman then read the continuation of the Resolution.
 Mr. J. D. FITZGERALD  moved as an Amendment, after the words "stipends or" to insert the words "to any person or persons whatsoever resident in Great Britain." This Amendment, if carried, would exempt from the tax all incomes derived from trades and professions in Ireland. He felt that, in the present temper of the House, and after the scenes which had recently taken place, it was somewhat imprudent to introduce an Irish question; but he believed that the ob-
 1255 l l l l l l l 1256 1257 l l l 1258
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer said he would have an opportunity of renewing his Amendment when he had more materials on which to form a judgment, and as he understood he was to have to have no support from hon. Gentlemen opposite, he did not think he would be warranted in taking up the time of the House further. ["Oh, oh!"] He was not disappointed at hearing these exclamations from the other side, and he hoped the House would allow him to say something personal to himself. The hon. Member for Mayo, and the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny, had both used expressions in the course of the debate which ought to have been replied to, but he had hitherto abstained from
 1273 1274
 MR. MILES  hoped the Committee would not attempt to proceed to a discussion on the Amendment of his hon. Friend (Mr. Palmer) to night. It was a proposal which required full consideration, and it was impossible that a discussion on
 1284
 MR. LAWLESS : Really I must rise to order. [ Renewed interruption.
 MR. LAWLESS : Sir, I rise to order. When a division has already taken place on the Motion, I wish to ask you whether it is usual for a Member who did not speak during the discussion to get up and impute motives to the Member who proposed the Motion.
 MR. BOUVERIE : Sir, I am exceedingly anxious to set myself right with the House, and I can assure hon. Members that if I have made any mistake it was altogether unintentional. I have no desire but to act according to the rules of the House. The question was put that you, Sir, leave the Chair. When you did leave the Chair, many hon. Members were about to leave the House. I went into the Chair. I do not recollect having called "Order, order;" but I put the ques-
 1242
 LORD A. VANE  hoped the hon. Gentleman would carry his Amendment to a division. He had heard hon. Gentlemen opposite give-up principles to which they pledged themselves. The basis of the income tax was an extension for seven years; and as it was a broad principle that the man who earned his bread by hard labour should not be compelled to pay in the same proportion as the man who sat in his easy chair and did nothing, he (Lord A. Vane) should not recede from it on this occasion. As long, therefore, as he had a vote in that House, he would record it in favour of that principle. He had heard every point of the financial scheme objected to, and yet hon. Members professed to vote for the whole Budget. The whole was composed of all its parts; and as he objected to the chief part, he should vote against the continuance of the income tax as it stood. Without pledging himself to the terms of the Amendment, he would vote for the principle to which he had given his assent, in case of a division. He would not accept the whole when he objected to the chief part.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  admitted the importance of the proposition, which was, he believed, exactly the reverse of that made by the hon. Member for Buckinghamshire; but he regretted that they would not be able to make further progress in the discussion of the Resolutions to-night. He would propose, however, that they should proceed with the consideration of the Resolutions in Committee on Monday.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  hoped that if the hon. Member would not consent to postpone his Amendment until the Income Tax Bill, founded upon these Resolutions, was before the House, he would now proceed with the Amendment.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would allow the Bill to proceed. If it was thought desirable to extend the law of Scotland, it should be done, as had been suggested, by a separate measure. He would submit that the Bill ought not to be defeated by such an Amendment as was then before them.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I think, with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), it is absolutely necessary that if any point of order arises, the Committee should, in the first place, maintain silence; and, in the next place, that the Chairman should be heard, and that hon. Members should not rise in opposition to him.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it would be better, if the hon. Gentleman had a charge to make against his right hon. Friend—that he could not honestly and honourably vote for the Government proposal of the extension of the income tax to Ireland, which he had declared his intention to vote for—if the hon. Gentleman had such a charge to make, it would be better that he should make it when his right hon. Friend was in the House, that he might have the opportunity of meeting it.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : His right hon.
 1252
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said: Sir, a point of order having been raised in the Committee, and the hon. Gentleman who was in the Chair not having long occupied that situation, it has been thought right by some Members of the House that your opinion, Sir, should be appealed to as to that point of order. The hon. Member for Mayo, who raised the point, will perhaps state to you what it is.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The rules of the House having been clearly stated, I beg to move that you, Sir, do now leave the chair.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : After the statement of the hon. Gentleman, that I interrupted him in such a manner as to prevent his offering the explanations he is now ready to offer—
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The hon. Member having alleged that corruption had been practised upon Irish Members of this House by the Government, in a manner that exceeded the corruptions of the time of Walpole and Pelham; and the debate upon that subject having gone on for some time, as to the character of the words used, I was about to state that if I took any part in that debate, I could not do otherwise, believing there was no truth in these imputations, than deny, on the part of the Government, that there was any truth in them, or any foundation for his assertions. Had I not taken that course, it would have been taken -as an admission of their truth. The accusation, or rather the imputation, came, it must be remembered, not from Members of the Government, but from the hon. Member for New Ross; he having made a general statement, I made a general denial. I think I could hardly have done otherwise, without confessing that there was some foundation for his charges. I certainly understood the charges the hon. Member made yesterday evening in a very different manner from what he explains their intended meaning to have been. Now, to prevent any misunderstanding, I wish to be understood that I do not at all mean to imply that the hon. Member did not himself mean yesterday exactly what he has to-day explained
 1238 1239
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  quite concurred with his right hon. Friend. He thought that the question having been raised, and the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) having not long occupied the situation of Chairman of Committees, it was desirable that the Speaker should be appealed to on the point.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that all he sought to do was to extend to one class of entails, which had been excluded from the Act of 1848, the provisions which this Bill proposed to make as to another class.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that he had an Amendment to propose to this Bill, which was in all respects an excellent Bill. The entail of an estate held in his family was executed after the 1st of August, 1848. The next heir was the eldest son, born a year before the execution of the entail, and until his eldest son was twenty-five years old, no lease for building a dwelling-house could be granted. That must be a period in all probability of half a century. The estate was near a village; and the labourers employed in improving the estate had to be kept in hovels, owing to the want of power to grant leases. To meet this state of things, he begged to propose to leave out certain words, for the purpose of introducing others, so as to give additional powers to the Court of Session.
 MR. DISRAELI  observed, that, as there had been considerable discussion upon the Resolutions to-night, and as it was now nearly twelve o'clock, he thought it too late to commence a debate upon the question raised by the Amendment of the hon. Member for Berkshire.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the noble Lord might find that the discussion on the Amendment of the hon. Member for Berkshire would be longer than he anticipated, because the noble Lord was mistaken in supposing that the Amendment of that hon. Gentleman was a counter-proposition to that which he (Mr. Disraeli) had made, and therefore some discussion might be necessary to show the noble Lord that he was in error.
 MR. DISRAELI : I rise for the purpose of asking a question. I understand the right hon. Gentleman to say that the Committee have misapprehended him, supposing that he offered an estimate of the ultimate amount of the tax on successions to real
 1270 l l
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he thought the better course would be for the hon. Gentleman to bring in a separate Bill to effect the object he was desirous of attaining. The present Bill was simply a measure to facilitate the procedure under Lord Rutherfurd's Act of 1848. He (Mr. C. Bruce) had sent the Bill to his constituents, and they had informed him that they highly approved of it. The Amendment now proposed had nothing whatever to do with the object of the Bill.
 MR. SPEAKER  having taken the Chair,
 MR. SPEAKER  then put the Question, "That the House do now proceed to the Other Orders of the Day."
 MR. SPEAKER : I have to remind the hon. Member of the proceedings which took place last night. The House was informed by the Chairman of Ways and Means that exception had been taken to certain words spoken by the hon. Member. These words were as follows—"The grossest corruption ever practised in the days of Walpole and the Pelhams has been practised under my own eyes upon Irish Members in this House." I have now to state to the hon. Member that if he has any explanation to make, this is the time to offer it. It is scarcely necessary for me to inform the hon. Member, that this House is always willing to extend a large share of its indulgence to any hon. Member, who, in the heat of debate, has allowed expressions to escape him which are calculated to offend either individual Members of the House, or the House at large. I hope, therefore, that the hon. Member will now be prepared to offer such an explanation or apology to the House as the House will be satisfied with.
 MR. SPEAKER : Is the hon. Member for New Ross in his place?
 MR. SPEAKER : I must remind the hon. Member that there is no question before the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : I have no doubt whatever that the hon. Member cannot now raise a question in the House with reference to a matter which has passed in a Committee of the House; because, until that Committee has made its report, the House is not in possession of information on the. subject. It is quite clear that all allusion to anything which has passed in a Committee of the House, except with reference to the point of order, is decidedly irregular.
 MR. SPEAKER : The question put to me, as I understand it, is this:—whether the hon. Member for New Ross, not having risen in his place to address the Committee, the Chairman ought to have called upon him by name before he put the question. Now, unless the hon. Member for New-Ross rose in his place and addressed the Chairman, the Chairman was at perfect liberty to put the question. According to the practice of the House, when any hon. Member moves the adjournment of a debate, he is said to be in possession of the House; but it is not on that account that the Speaker calls on that hon. Member, when the question is put on the resumption of the debate, because unless he rises and addresses the Chair, it is not the duty of the Speaker to call upon him. It often happens, indeed, when a Member moves the adjournment of a debate, he does not take advantage of his privilege of opening the debate on the following night. The Speaker does not call upon that Member to address the House merely because he moved the adjournment, unless he rises in his place when the question is put. If, however, he rises in his place when the question is put, and another Member rises at the same time he is entitled to precedence; but that depends upon the hon. Member himself,
 1244
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : I hope I have never been ashamed of expressing my opinion and voting conscientiously. I must say that on this occasion, amidst the confusion which prevailed, it was impossible for any Member to go out of the House at all; at least I could not. I would not vote with Her Majesty's Government, because I have always been apposed to the income tax in every shape. But I do say, that, although I do not sanction the income tax at all in any shape or in any
 1245
 MR. E. BALL  was astonished that no reply had been given to the statement made by the hon. Member for Westmeath (Captain Magan), that an accredited agent of the Whig and Peelite parties had waited upon the representatives for Ireland, and stated to them that if they would assist in turning out the Government of Lord Derby, Ireland should not be saddled with the property and income tax. He was not familiarly acquainted with the forms of that House, but he could not help expressing his belief that, if the statement of the hon. Member was correct, the conduct pursued on the occasion referred to amounted to a gross violation of good faith and patriotic feeling. The subject was not one which could be allowed to pass without explanation. He did not know who the "accredited agent" might be; possibly he was one of the Secretaries of the Treasury; and if so, it was desirable that some explanation should be given to the Committee, in order that what what might be called a discreditable reflection might be wiped away from a large and important party in that House.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he would refer to the title of the Bill for the purpose of showing that it proposed to do more than regulate procedure; and the Amendment only gave a power which the Bill of Lord Rutherfurd did not give. He trusted his hon. Friend (Mr. Dunlop) would divide the House on the subject, and ascertain whether they were sitting under a Government who were willing to improve the laws of the country or not.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he had to charge the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax (Sir Charles Wood) with not carrying out the promise inferred from the declaration he made to the Irish Members in that House in reference to the
 1251
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  did not know when he spoke that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax was not in the House. Did the noble Lord mean to impute to him that he had made
 1253
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH : I did not know the right hon. Gentleman was not in the House.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH : Sir, the statement which the hon. Gentleman the Chairman of the Committee has made as to what occurred, is to me completely new. I was not aware of one-third of what has been stated' by the hon. Member. I had turned to the hon. Member for New Ross, stating that the question was about to be put, and that as soon as the hon. Gentleman had ceased reading he would call upon him, which I understood would be the case. But we did not hear one single word from the hon. Gentleman. We were perfectly unaware of the question being put, until we heard him call "aye" and "no." It was under these circumstances that I entered my protest. Feeling that it was a surprise on the House, we felt it our duty to leave without giving a vote.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, that he believed they were out of order in proceeding to a division when an hon. Member was clearly in possession of the House—he meant the hon. Member for New Ross (Mr. G. Duffy), who had been interrupted in his speech upon the previous evening.
 MR. F. SCULLY  was anxious to explain the grounds on which he had given his vote in the recent division. A speech had been made by a right hon. Gentleman on the Ministerial side of the House (Sir Francis Baring) which went entirely against the extension of the income tax to Ireland; and yet he voted on the main question in favour of the proposition contained in the first part of the Resolution, that is, for the Budget as a whole; and that evening again he had voted in the same lobby with him (Mr. Scully) against its extension to Ireland. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Enniskillen said of Irish Gentlemen on that side of the House, what he would not venture to say of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth. He (Mr. Scully) gave his vote solely on the question, whether this Budget as a whole should be adopted or not, and whether there should be an income tax for England or not. The question relating to Ireland, did not arise till a great part of the Resolution was disposed of; and then the hon. Member for Clonmel moved his Amendment, for which he (Mr. Scully) had voted. He (Mr. Scully) asked the Chairman whether by voting for the entire Resolution, he was voting on the main question only; and he replied that he was, and that he was not precluded from voting for any Amendment. The imputation of inconsistency which had been cast on him, then, was not fair. With regard to the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Ennis, he thought that, after the result of the division that evening with regard to the extension of the income tax to Ireland, it was the duty of every Member, and particularly of Irish Members, to propose Amendments calculated to render the tax less objectionable in Ireland. He (Mr. Scully) had taken time to make up his
 1261 l l l s. d., 1262 l l d. l s. d. l s d l l s. l l s. l l l l s. l s. l l l s. d. l l s. d. 1263 s. d. d. l l l l l l 1264 l d. 1265 l l. l
 MR. F. SCULLY : I said that the remission of the consolidated annuities would confer a great boon upon the farming classes of Ireland.
 MR. G. H. MOORE  complained that the Chairman of the Committee had put the question before calling upon the hon. Member for New Ross to speak—that hon. Member being, according to usage, in possession of the Committee. In order to have this point settled, he begged to move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. G. H. MOORE : Sir, when the
 1241
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he would not have taken any part in the debate, had he
 1277
 MR. LABOUCHERE  thought, that as the point of order had been raised, and as there seemed to be a difference of opinion on the subject, it was desirable that the point of order should be discussed before the Speaker, and not before the Chairman of the Committees.
 MR. M'CANN  said, it had been stated by several Members on the opposite side that Irish Members who opposed the imposition of the income tax on Ireland wished to flinch from the payment of taxes which they ought to pay. He begged to say that he was not one of those. He believed that Ireland was already taxed beyond what she ought to bear; and he was willing to lay that point before a fairly selected Committee of English Gentlemen, and to abide by their verdict.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said the House was doubtless aware that till 1848 entails were in perpetuity, except under the Montgomery Act and another Statute. The question was then carefully considered;
 1285
 MR. WHITESIDE : I am anxious to state why we Members from Ireland on this side of the House, desire to take no notice of the arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, without meaning him any personal discourtesy whatever. The hon. and learned Gentleman has stated that we acted under a delusion. It may be so; but we acted conscientiously and sincerely. No less than forty-two of us, Irish Conservative Gentlemen, voted with our brethren of England—as we will always do in support of a fair and just Amendment It was the only chance Ireland had left of being saved from a tax described by every hon. Gentleman on the Ministerial bench—the Chancellor of the Exchequer excepted—as iniquitous, partial, unjust, and inquisitorial. The hon. and learned Gentleman, who spoke so confidently, and who expects, no doubt, to have his Amendment triumphantly carried, has in my humble opinion, following out his own misguided judgment, as also the hon. Member for Clonmel, taken the shortest, the best, and most decisive course to defeat the interests of their country, as also have those hon. Gentlemen who acted with them on the late occasion. If, therefore, the hon. and learned Gentleman thinks that hon. Members on these benches could enter into a discussion of this proposal, he was mistaken; they would be no party to it, for they would not discuss a proposition which they believed to be a "sham." The Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman to exempt trades and profes-
 1260
 MR. J. BALL  rose to address the House amidst cries of "Divide!" He said he entirely sympathised with the feelings of many English Members, who naturally shrunk from the infliction of another night's debate on this question, and he should endeavour not to prolong their sufferings. But he wished to recall to their minds the position in which the question then stood. It could not be doubted that the question was one which was calculated to excite the deepest interest in Ireland, and one upon which no great difference of opinion existed. [Mr. M'CANN: No, no!] The hon. Member for Drogheda would have an opportunity of replying on that point, if he wished. It was very important that erroneous statements made in that House should not go forth to Ireland, and that the question should be put before the people on its merits as clearly and distinctly as possible. [ Interruption. 1280
 MR. J. BALL : As I understood the expressions of the hon. Member for New Ross, they were especially directed to the division of Friday last, and I understood him to state that it had been influenced by gross corruption. He now states that those expressions were directed exclusively to transactions which took place four months ago.
 MR. J. BALL : I should be the last person to press anything disagreeable. As regards any personal feeling, I can assure him that I entertain not one particle of hostility. In another place, and in another capacity, however, he has made statements of a peculiar description. Still, if what he said last night had no reference to what occurred upon Friday night, I do not feel called upon, either on my own behalf or on that of hon. Members behind me, to continue this discussion.
 MR. VANCE : I move that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. VANCE : I am about; to move that this House do now adjourn. There is no Member who would have recorded his vote on the main question with regard to the extension of the income tax to Ireland more readily than myself. But I left the House under the impression that the hon. Member for New Ross would be called upon to speak. I was aware, also, that not less than twenty Irish Members intended to address the House on the subject. I could not for one moment imagine that the question would have been put without giving ample time for discussion. I merely wish to set myself right with my friends in Ireland, and more particularly with my constituents, who are more interested in the subject than any other constituency in Ireland. [ Much confusion and interruption prevailed throughout, the discussion.
 MR. VANCE  considered the Motion now before the House, like that of the hon. Member for Clonmel last night (Mr. Lawless), a mockery and a delusion; not intended for, and not brought forward with, any hope of success. There had been a Motion brought forward on a former occasion which would have included both those propositions, and against which the movers of those two propositions had voted. It was pretty plain that these two Motions were designed to cover the unpatriotic votes which their movers had given on the previous occasion. The Resolution proposed had been, "that the continuance of the income tax for seven years, and the extension of it to parties hitherto exempted from its operation, without any mitigation of its inequality of assessment, is unjust and impolitic." The
 1271 l l 1272 l
 MR. MAURICE O'CONNELL  said, the hon. Member for Cashel (Sir T. O'Brien) had spoken of a certain deputation as a clique; he begged to say that it represented as much landed property and as large a proportion of the Irish constituency as could be made the subject of boast by some hon. Gentlemen who were often very loud in that House. As chairman of the deputation he performed only a ministerial duty, and he begged to say that the hon. Member for Cashel might have been present. To impugn the proceedings of that deputation, would be to impugn his private character and honour.
 MR. M'MAHON  trusted that the hon. and learned Member would not withdraw his Amendment, but press it to a division, and by that means procure the resignation of Her Majesty's Ministers. His constituents, composed of the agricultural and commercial classes, were of opinion that they would derive the greatest relief from the remission of the consolidated annuities; but they would prefer the continuance of that charge to the imposition of the income tax in any shape. One gentleman with whom he had been in correspondence described the Budget as a "tricky, delusive, and infamous" affair. It was, he believed, the universal opinion of every class in Ireland that the Budget was intended entirely for the benefit of England. Successive Governments had been for a long time taking off duties from the raw material for the benefit of England; and the present Government were about to remit the soap duties, which applied peculiarly to this country, and impose an equivalent tax upon Ireland. Upon a recent occasion thirty-one Irish Members had supported Her Majesty's Government; but could any of those hon. Members rise in his place and say that in so acting he followed the wishes of his constituents? The whole of those constituencies would be found against their representatives with respect to this vote—indeed, all classes in Ireland were averse to the tax. Had a single county or borough meeting been held in its favour? He was anxious that the Budget should be carried in such a way that the people of Ireland could feel convinced that they were not being cheated or robbed in order that England might be relieved of those taxes which it was her peculiar duty to bear. A high financial authority in the House had established that, as the Budget was at present framed, Ireland would be essentially a loser by it. When the Chancellor of the Exchequer on a former occasion remarked that the consolidated annuities were not to be considered as a mere question of money, he (Mr. M'Mahon) had not been prepared to find that more was to be imposed on Ireland than was remitted. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Portsmouth, who had himself
 1275 l l l l l l l 1276 l l l l l l
 MR. R. M. FOX  hoped the Amendment would be withdrawn. He hoped, also, that along with that there would be a withdrawal for ever from that House of all acerbity of feeling of one class of Irishmen against another. He thought that, having never himself been guilty since he entered
 1279
 MR. SPOONER  suggested that the hon. Member for Bodmin should modify his Amendment. To impose a tax upon 100 l l
 MR. ROBERT PALMER , who had given notice of an Amendment, providing that the income tax should be levied on the net annual value of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, after due allowance made for repairs, insurance, and management, said, that as it was now so late, he would not proceed to move his Amendment, but would move that the Chairman report progress.
 Mr. WALPOLE : Sir, I rise to order. I think that the decision of the Chairman, whether we are in Committee or whether the House be sitting with the Speaker in the chair, should be implicitly obeyed; and I may inform the hon. Gentleman who has twice risen to interrupt the hon. Member for Westmeath, that he is not entitled to do so while the hon. Member for Westmeath is speaking, unless upon a point of order. The hon. Member for Clommel
 1247
 SIR TIMOTHY O'BRIEN  would like to know if the hon. Gentleman had ever taken a walk from Cashel to Tipperary, from Cashel to Clonmel, or Cashel to Thurles; for if he had he would have seen nothing but ruins of the dwellings of tenant-farmers. It was all very well to talk of the tenant-farmers being benefited by the remission of the annuities, but they had never paid them—the only rates paid by Irish farmers were on account of writs. The fact was, the remission was no sufficient equivalent for the sacrifice they were called upon to make. He had never given a selfish vote—he came there neither for nor against the Government. But he must protest against the system pursued by Irish
 1278
 SIR TIMOTHY O'BRIEN  was not going to annoy the House with quoting figures, which were often calculated to confuse rather than to inform. He rose merely to say, that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer was anxious to make any changes in the Irish part of the Budget, he must not take it for granted that the tenant-farmers of that country would derive all the advantage from his scheme which had been described. He must say that he was perfectly amazed at the picture drawn by his excellent Friend the Member for Tipperary of the advantage to accrue to that class.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose, but
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I certainly, Sir, feel the same anxiety which the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken may naturally have felt, to explain at large his views with regard to the extension of the income tax to Ireland, which he has done with great clearness, and also with great fairness. But I do not think it my duty to avail myself in the same manner of the indulgence of the House. I should be abusing that indulgence if I were to do that which he has done in a different position from that occupied by myself. But although I, like others, am so far a loser by the rapidity of the division on the question of extending the income tax to Ireland, that I lost the opportunity of discussing that subject at large, I think I shall best discharge my duty to the House by only discussing the matter immediately embraced in the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman—especially after the distinct announcement of the learned Member opposite, that
 1266 1267 1268 1269 l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for giving me an opportunity of clearing up this misunderstanding. I estimated that the proceeds from the legacy duties would be 2,000,000 l l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said the Amendment as it at present stood would go to exempt all the different descriptions of rating in the previous part of the Resolutions. The correction which had been made in it confined it to trades, professions, or vocations. It was not necessary for him to state at any length his reasons for not acceding to the Motion. They rested on two grounds. In the first place, the Motion, although intended by the hon. Gentleman in all sincerity to facilitate and improve the working of the tax, involved principles most inconvenient and even dangerous. It involved all the difficulties that arose at a former period, of different rates on different classes; and another set of difficulties—namely, those which related to a graduated income tax. It was quite true that Mr. Pitt proposed what in some sense might be called a graduated income tax. He proposed a tax graduated below 200 l l l 1282 l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the hon. Member for Berkshire would consent to state his views, because it was a matter of great importance that they should proceed as rapidly as possible with the Income Tax Resolutions. He must remind the Committee that the proposed remissions of the Customs duties could not be effected until they got through the Committee on the income tax.
 MR. MAGAN  believed the hon. Gentleman's Motion was a perfectly sincere Motion. The hon. Gentleman was engaged in the same task as he was—namely, to avoid the imposition of the income tax on Ireland. There was one mistake made by the hon. and learned Gentleman, which mischievous minds like his own (Mr. Magan's) would be ready to suspect—he had too long delayed making an apology for the observations he had made. He would say no more, as he wished to leave the hon. and learned Gentleman "all alone in his glory."
 CAPTAIN MAGAN  rose amid great confusion, to proceed with his address; but was again interrupted by Mr. Lawless, who said, "I move that these words be taken down."
 CAPTAIN MAGAN  said, I wish to avoid saying what I feel. The Irish Members have been taunted with reference to this income tax. [ Interruption. Cries of Great confusion
 CAPTAIN MAGAN , who said: I think, Sir, that a Member whose words have been taken down is so likely to come off with flying colours, that I should be rather ambitious of having my words taken down. At the same time, I may say that I am not, perhaps, so obstinate as the hon. Member whose words were taken down yesterday, for if I have used language which has offended either the Committee or the hon. Member for Clonmel, I am most desirous to withdraw it. I am afraid, however, that the hon. Member for Clonmel won't allow a Member of this House the necessary liberty in stating naked facts. I wished simply to state why I did not vote for his Motion—why I went out of the House—and I should not have done that if the hon. Member for Roscommon had not used the word "we." I have said I am very sore as to the manner in which the Government have behaved with regard to this income tax; but I leave that matter entirely in the hands of the House. I do not think it necessary to name the Members who made the statements to which I have referred; but certainly persons who had a connexion with the Whigs and Peelites, by creating confusion, and making statements, did directly procure the defeat of Lord Derby. The same parties accuse us of wanting to obtain from one Government what we required from another, and of wanting to bring back Lord Derby. I, for one, tell you very plainly, that I do want to bring back Lord Derby; and I want to bring him back for the purpose of putting him out again. Now, as to those hon. Gentlemen on the other (the Ministerial) side, who call themselves independent Members, and talk about their consciences,
 1249
 CAPTAIN MAGAN : I quite agree with what has just fallen from the hon. Baronet. It was the noble Lord himself who broke the contract, because he jumped up when I was in the act of addressing the House. I merely wish to explain why I went outside the House. I went because I did not choose to vote on the Motion of the hon. Member for Clonmel. I think that the hon. Member—
 CAPTAIN MAGAN : In consequence of what has fallen from the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. F. French), I wish to say one word. The hon. Member made use of the word ',we," and said the reason we left the House was that the question was not put. Now, whether the question was put or not, makes no difference to me. I knew what the question was whenever it might be put, and I wish to state in my place that I left the House, and I believe I was the first Irish Member outside the House, because I did not believe the Motion of the hon. Member for Clonmel to be one worthy of any notice whatever.
 MR. MICHELL  said, his object was to get rid of exemptions altogether.
 MR. MICHELL  did not bring this Amendment forward to damage the Ministry, but because he thought justice required the alteration should be made. He was not opposed to the Budget; he thought it was a fair Budget, and that it would be impossible to get a Budget to please every one. His constituents rather liked the Budget than otherwise. Government proposed to remit taxation on the industrious classes. The right hon. Gentleman had taken off the taxes on knowledge, and had placed them on the compositors and reporters. By this arrangement the man who earned only 1 l s l s. l l l s. d., d. d.
 MR. DUFFY : I beg pardon. I did not mean to connect last night my statement with the division of Friday.
 Mr. DUFFY  rose and bowed.
 MR. DUFFY : I thank you, Sir. I wish in the first instance to set myself right with
 1235 1236 1237
 MR. DUFFY : I must he pardoned while I state that I certainly did not say the noble Lord interrupted me. What I did say, was, that after his statement that there was not a word of my observations which could be proved—after an imputation of that kind from a Minister of the Crown, it would not have been becoming in me, as a man of honour, to withdraw the language against which the noble Lord had thrown out such an imputation.
 SIR GEORGE GOODMAN  wished to make one remark in reply to an observation of the hon. Member for the city of Dublin (Mr. Vance). That hon. Member was one of his (Sir G. Goodman's) constituents at Leeds, and had also extensive property in the town; but, in reply to his remark that the manufacturers of Yorkshire would be very loth to have the income tax extended to Ireland, he begged to say, that neither from the borough of Leeds, nor of the county of York, generally, had he heard a single objection to it. He believed the inhabitants of Yorkshire considered it a step in the right direction. Speaking of the Budget generally, he believed it would prove very beneficial both to this country and to Ireland.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, in consequence of what has just fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman on the subject of some compact, which he has stated to exist between hon. Friends with whom I act, and a certain portion of Irish representatives, I am anxious to say a few words. So long as such rumours were merely confined to the pages of a hostile press, I took no notice of them; but now as they have been repeated by two hon. Gentlemen in their place in Parliament, I wish to state most distinctly that any such compact, negotiation, treaty, or understanding between my hon. Friends and
 1259
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, as the hon. Member has alluded to me, perhaps I may venture to address the House for a moment; and I rise because it appears to me that another question of practice, well worthy of your attention, arises from what has occurred. I am sure the noble Lord and the Government will admit, as well as any hon. Gentleman present, that it is very much to be regretted that a question so deeply affecting the interests of the Irish people as this does should be decided by anything like a surprise. In saying this I am imputing no censure to the hon Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie), who, I am sure, intended only to do his duty in the chair. But he has not long occupied the chair of our Committees, and I therefore venture to submit, with great humility, to him and to the House, that on all occasions that rule should be observed which I think, Sir, is invariably your rule, namely, that no question ought to be put until silence and order have been obtained. It is quite essential that when questions involving such great interests are put from the chair, every hon. Member within these walls should know what is the question submitted to him. Upon the occasion in
 1243
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he was ready to concede to Irish Members the utmost liberty of debate, and to give them every reasonable opportunity of addressing the House, especially upon questions which more particularly affected Ireland; but he would respectfully remind them that there was such a country as England. He had no objection to a large and liberal allowance of eloquence and even of time to hon. Members from the other side of St. George's Channel, but he hoped that English Members would now be allowed to proceed with the business of the country. The greater part of the income tax must, under any circumstances, be paid by the people of England; and he hoped, therefore, he might be allowed to bring before the Committee a view of the question in which a large portion of the people of this country were deeply interested. He would again call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the proposition he had been endeavouring, ever since 1842, to impress upon the Government of the day. Every Chancellor of the Exchequer, since the tax upon property and income had been revived, had agreed that there was a limit of income beneath which all incomes should be exempt from the tax. Now, under the pre-sent system, every man who paid the tax paid it on the whole of his taxable income—and he would submit again that that was a system which operated very unfairly. A person in the annual receipt of 150 l l s. d., l s. d. l l s. d. l l l l l 1254 l l
 MR. HUME  said, he must also complain that there was no tribunal by which these matters could be investigated, without going before Parliament. As he was always favourable to inquiry, he should support the Motion.
 MR. HEAD LAM  said, that in this case Mr. Peacocke had been unseated under a special statute, which enacted that any candidate entering into a contract with any person whatever for the purpose of procuring the influence or interest at an election of the person with whom such contract was made, should be incapacitated from holding a seat, and should be subject to legal penalties. He believed that the word "bribery" did not occur in the Statute to which he referred, and a question might arise as to whether the offence reported upon by the Harwich Committee came within the legal limits of the word "bribery." He had had no intention himself of opposing the issue of a writ for Harwich, but he thought it was a question whether it might not be better that the Motion of the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Tyrell) should be postponed, that the House might have an opportunity of considering the subject. He might add that it was his intention to move that the evidence taken before the Committee be laid upon the table.
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought such a scene as this was not very creditable to the House of Commons. As an Irish Member, he must say that he had felt deeply the observations which had been made in the newspapers on the conduct of the Irish re-representatives; and he confessed that he thought if the Irish Members had made such a bargain, as it was said they had made, it was not in any way dishonourable to them. For his own part he would say, that if he had been asked to support a Government, he certainly should have required a statement of terms; and therefore, if he had been a party to such an agreement, he would not shrink from avowing the fact. But it was well known in that House, and all over town, that a certain Member of the present Government was usually employed in matters of this kind, and, therefore, he thought it would be much better if, instead of shuffling off the question, that hon. Gentleman would rise and state what he knew about it. He (Colonel Dunne) had no knowledge of the matter himself; but he did not think that Irish
 1327
 MR. KNOX  had understood that three Irish Members had waited upon the Irish Members from the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hayter) by way of deputation, and stated that they were authorised by him to make the statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he wished to put a question to his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) with reference to a Bill of which he had given notice to move for leave to bring in, to disable persons employed in Her Majesty's Dockyards, and other civil establishments of the Admiralty and Ordnance, from voting at elections for Members of Parliament for certain boroughs. A Committee was now sitting and inquiring into the question of patron-
 1331
 MR. MILES  said, he must express his astonishment that the hon. Member who had last addressed the Committee had not made any observations bearing upon the Motion, but instead of doing so, had favoured them with a Budget of his own. He could not agree with the hon. Gentleman as to the supposed readiness of the working classes to accept the income tax, because it happened that he had, at the last election, mentioned the proposition on the hustings in Somersetshire, accompanying it with the reduction of all other taxes. It was all very well when he spoke of reducing it to incomes of 100 l., 1. 1339 d. d.: l l l l. ,l 1340 l. l. l.
 COLONEL HARCOURT  said, he could not give a silent vote on this occasion, for he could not forget that the whole party on that (the Opposition) side of the House, had been asked by the right hon. Gentleman the late Chancellor of the Exchequer to vote, on the 16th of December last, the continuance of the income tax for three years, without holding out any hope that at the expiration of that period the tax should cease. The tax then contained precisely the same incidences with regard to houses and lands as it did by the proposition of the present Chancellor of the Exchequer; and, having due regard to his own feelings, he could not in May vote that unjust and inequitable which in December he had voted to be just and equitable. In May last they were asked not only to continue the income tax upon land and houses, but they were asked to increase its burden by diminishing the rates at which it was to be levied on incomes derived from trades and professions. He could not understand the virtuous indignation now exhibited by hon. Members, seeing that by the Amendment they now proposed to impose a still heavier burden on trades and professions by diminishing the tax to be levied on the land. He thought it due to his own honour, and to his constituents, to state his reasons why he could not vote for the Amendment of his hon. Friend (Mr. Palmer), however much he might agree with it as an abstract Resolution.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he had given notice
 1381
 MR. STUART WORTLEY : I think the House ought to feel much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for the explanation he has given, and I do trust we have now done with this unworthy matter. I think every Gentleman who has a regard for the character of this House can entertain but one opinion as to this story, which, as it turns out, is utterly unfounded. I hope the question will now be put an end to.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE  begged to remind the House that the hon. Member for Westmeath had distinctly stated that a party of Irish Members had been waited upon by an accredited emissary of the present Government, who had offered certain terms to them on condition that they would join the Whig party in turning out Lord Derby's Government. As this statement had been openly made, and as it had been reported in and commented upon by all the public prints, he (Lord A. Vane) would venture to submit to the House whether in justice to the hon. Member for Westmeath,
 1326
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE : Will the hon. Member name the accredited agent to whom he has referred; and if he has no objection, will he state the grounds on which his assertion was founded?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : So enamoured is the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) with; the height of financial injustice, that he cannot even comprehend how hon. Gentlemen; should be anxious to render an income tax more consonant with justice on one Monday night in one respect, because on another Monday night they attempted to render it more consonant with justice in another respect. The noble Lord asks us to inform the country how it is that in one week we could invite the House of Commons to rectify some of the injustice of the income) tax, which presses upon trades and professions, and how, in another, we can ask it, to do something like justice to the landed interest of this country. Why, Sir, I say for myself that it is because I was most
 1375
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I think, Sir, it requires no splitting of hairs in order to understand the purport of this question, and the difference between the position now taken by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) and that which he took not only last December, but no longer ago than Monday last. The principle which the right hon. Gentleman stated with respect to the property and income tax in December last, when the Budget was brought forward, was this:—"I have to state another principle which Her Majesty's Government are prepared to assert, and that is, to acknowledge a difference between permanent and precarious incomes." The right hon. Gentleman further declared, after laying down his first principle with reference to direct taxation, "secondly, that a difference should be recognised by the Legislature between realised and precarious incomes." That was a very intelligible principle—the principle that they would endeavour, at least, to
 1372 1373 l. d. 1374
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it would be a quite sufficient answer to the argument of the right hon. Gentleman, that the debate was reserved for the Committee on the Bill; because, if the Committee decided as the hon. Gentleman wished, of course his Amendment would be adopted just as if it were agreed to now. With regard to reporting progress, he felt that the responsibility of delaying the trade of the country for a purpose quite unnecessary was so great, that he refused to take it upon himself. If the Committee decided upon reporting progress, the responsibility must rest with them.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that certainly was a very late hour to go into the discussion of such a question, but he
 1378
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he thought it could not take very long to discuss an Amendment of that nature. He certainly hoped the Resolution would be taken that night—that any further Amendments would be postponed—and that they might proceed with the legacy duties, in order that there might be no undue suspense with regard to the tea and other duties.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : After what the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ball) has stated, and in consequence of the impression which appears to be on his mind, I think it right to say a few words. The hon. Gentleman seems to think that some person was authorised by the Whig party, before the late Government left power, to make some sort of contract with the Irish Members, to the effect that they would not be parties to the imposition of an income tax on Ireland if those Members would vote against the late Government. That, I think, is the statement of the hon. Gentleman. I have only to say, that, according to my knowledge and belief, there was no person so authorised, and there never was any such proposition made to the Irish party.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it did not appear to him that the Resolution of the House read by the Clerk at the table had, strictly speaking, anything to do with the present case. As the Report of the Harwich Election Committee was a very unusual one, it was in his opinion desirable that the writ should not issue until the evidence was printed.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that in the first place the Bill he proposed to bring in was not at all founded on the inquiry now going on before the Committee to which his right hon. Friend had alluded but on the Report of the Committee which sat on the election for the borough of Chatham. When that Report was brought before the House, there was some question made as to the issuing of the writ, and it was asked if it was not issued what remedy was to be adopted. Any objection that was now made that had the effect of postponing the Bill, would postpone the issuing of the writs for boroughs affected by the Bill. The Bill, in question applied to Chatham, Rochester, Sandwich, Portsmouth, Plymouth, Harwich, and Pembroke; and if a writ was moved for any of these places, it must be suspended till the Bill was passed. But as some of the questions which were now before the Dockyard Committee must come before the House, he would postpone the introduction of the Bill until Friday se'nnight, but not for any longer time.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that in answer to the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire (MR, E. Ball) he had stated that, to the beset of his knowledge and belief, no person had been accredited by the Whig party to make such a proposal as that which had been referred to. He would now ask the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down whether he believed his word, or whether he did not believe it? Did the hon. Member mean to say, after the statement which he (Lord J. Russell) had made, that the Whig party had entered into such an agreement? If he did not, let the hon. Gentleman say what he did mean.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought that they would be led into very great embarrassment in those cases if they were not guided as much as possible by general rules. He thought it would be rash upon their parts to decide that the writ should not be issued for another fortnight; and he should, therefore, propose that the debate should be adjourned till Friday next.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Berkshire (Mr. Vansittart) was really one of very great interest; it affected the farmers very greatly; and he did not think they could have a fair discussion at that hour of the question, which involved accounts and matters of great detail.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he wished to inquire whether the right hon. Gentleman would in that case object to leave out the schedule altogether? The matter was not so small as the right hon. Gentleman seemed to think, and there certainly must be some limit to his general argument, because he would not assent, because the Government had an answer to make to the proposition, that, therefore, they should accept the view of Government.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, this was a question which had never before been properly discussed in that House, and he, therefore, must press on the noble Lord the propriety of reporting progress.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the question which we have to decide is one, no doubt, of great importance, and which cannot be settled by the assertion of a general proposition. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has entered into a criticism of the financial statement of the late Government. I shall not shrink from vindicating the policy which I recommended, though it is not from any feeling of egotism that I discuss the subject. The right hon. Gentleman has given a description of the plan which the late Government offered to the attention of the Committee for continuing the income tax. The right hon. Gentleman has said that there was, in that project, the asertion of a distinction between assessments of real and of precarious incomes, and has asked whether that distinction was favourable to the landed interest? The right hon. Gentleman has said that we proposed to extend the tax on real property down to 50 1. 1365 l l 1366 d. l l 1367 1368 Laughter. Hansard Ironical cheers. Hansard 1369 1370 1371
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would now suggest to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer the propriety of the Chairman reporting progress, on the ground that they could not at that hour (half-past twelve) fairly discuss the Amendment of his hon. Friend the Member for Berkshire (Mr. Vansittart) to leave out the word "moiety" and insert "third part" in the second Resolution on the income tax.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, if the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) persisted, he should be under the disagreeable necessity of moving that the Chairman report progress. If he stood alone, he must do so. They had been the whole night discussing a schedule which interested landowners. Now, here was a question which interested farmers very much. Would it not be said, very properly and with justice, "You can pass a whole evening discussing questions which affect yourselves, but when there is one that affects us, you pass it in a hasty and shuffling manner, without discussion?" If he stood alone, he should move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. OLIVEIRA , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, stated that this was a claim amounting to something like 48,000 l 1315
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, to see his right hon. relative, who was once Chancellor of the Exchequer (Sir C. Wood) coming to the rescue of the present Chancellor, was like one political sinner attempting to defend another. The present Chancellor of the Exchequer said that delay would cause great inconvenience to the trade of the country; but if the Government were bringing in bad measures, it was not the fault of hon. Members on his (Colonel Sibthorp's) side of the House. He stood up there as the guardian of the public interest. Because delay would be attended with great inconvenience to the trade of the country, the House was called upon by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to inflict an injury on a large and respectable body of Her Majesty's subjects. Such a course was exceedingly unbecoming a Chancellor of the Exchequer; and then, forsooth, that he should have been supported in that course by the noble Lord the Member for the City of London.  Par nobile fratrum, 1380
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he conceived it would equally answer the purpose of the hon. Gentleman who proposed the Amendment to discuss it in the Committee. When he was in office, and a proposal was made to enable the farmer to appeal, if ha felt aggrieved, under the Bill, he acceded
 1379
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe) having omitted to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, he had risen to supply the deficiency. Upon what ground they were now asked to tax the people of England to pay this debt, he was at a loss to understand. He did not believe that the ex-Rajah had been fairly indebted to Mr. Hutchinson at all; and the East India Company had merely advised him not to pay unless he were satisfied that it was a just debt. Upon the evidence in the case, there was the strongest possible reason for supposing that it was a fraudulent and collusive claim altogether. That was clear enough to
 1317
 MR. E. BALL  said, he wished, before the Speaker left the chair, to repeat the question which he took the liberty on Friday night last of putting to the Government generally. He was not successful on that occasion in obtaining an answer; though the question was of so much importance, and involved the respectability of so many Gentlemen opposite, that he thought they would esteem it a kindness and favour on his part to give them an op-
 1323 1324
 MR. E. BALL  was sorry if he had been guilty of any discourtesy towards the hon. Member. He had asked an hon. Member if he ought not to give notice of his intention of asking the question, and he had been told in reply that the hon. Gentleman (Captain Magan) was already aware that the question would be asked.
 MR. E. BALL : I beg to say that I did put the question fully and fairly on Friday night last, and I do not understand the right hon. Gentleman's saying I never did put it. In the next place, I beg to say that if the right hon. Gentleman thought he was the person on whom the imputation rested, he ought to have been too eager to deny it to require notice of the question.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Head-lam) was mistaken in supposing that bribery was not mentioned in the Statute to which he had referred. He (Sir F. Kelly) had no objection to delaying the issue of the writ until the whole of the evidence was printed. Mr. Peacocke desired nothing so much as that the whole of the evidence relating to the last election should be printed.
 MR. G. H. MOORE  would go to the point of the matter forthwith. He himself knew nothing about this transaction; but as he and every one else was well aware who was the "accredited agent" alluded to, he thought he might as well ask the hon. Member for Wells (Mr. Hayter) whether he could give the House any information on this subject?
 MR. G. H. MOORE  wished to explain that in putting the question he had to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wells (Mr. Hayter) he did not wish to point him out as the person indicated, but he had heard everywhere that he was so indicated, and he thought it fair and right to terminate a matter which must have been exceedingly annoying to the right hon. Gentleman. That was his sole reason for putting the question.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, if the mild proposal of a Motion could win anything from a Chancellor of the Exchequer, he was sure that now before the Committee ought to be assented to. He could not, however, agree with the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, that there had been no remissions since 1849 to the owners of real property, because he believed that the poor-rates, and all similar charges, had been considerably reduced since that period; and he believed that that was the leading reason given by the late Chancellor of the Exchequer for not more directly relieving the landed interest by his Budget. In fact, the right hon. Gentleman showed, by his figures at the time, that the land had been much eased. Of course, when on the hustings they were all Chancellors of the Exchequer, and he had certainly given it as his opinion, without pledging himself, that no income tax should pass which did not distinguish between fixed and precarious incomes. Though he reserved to himself the right of being convinced by argument, he at that time stated his determination to recognise no other income tax than that which he had described. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had perfectly convinced him that the land did pay more than 7 d. d. d. 1341 l
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he could not consent to go on with his Amendment tonight for the convenience of the noble Lord opposite.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that it seemed to be thought that any landowner who supported the proposition of the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Palmer) must necessarily be opposed to the Budget; and it had been said that the measure must either be taken or rejected as a whole. He, however, never heard that because a measure was accepted as a whole, hon. Members were not to attempt to amend its provisions. On the contrary, he thought it was their duty to endeavour to do so. He should have thought if the proposition of the hon. Member for Berkshire had stood alone, nothing could be more fair than that the duty should be paid on all real property—both land and houses—according to its annual value or amount. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that he conceived some distinction should be made between land and houses. But he (Mr. Aglionby) did not see why that should be, as it would increase the injustice. The hon. and gallant Member for Bath (Capt. Scobell) said that the income tax was to be accepted as a "principle of equivalents." Now, to that he could not accede, when it turned out that by this it was meant that because you were compelled to do injustice to one class, you should therefore do injustice to another. He thought that it was not just that no distinction should be made between the taxation of fixed and precarious incomes. He understood that it was the intention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to allow a deduction for assurance from annuities. Why, then, should not a similar allowance for insurance be allowed from the rent of land and houses? The allowance would in both cases rest upon the same principle—that it was an allowance for a reduction in the means of living. It had been said that as this was a temporary tax, some injustice in its working must be tolerated. But he could not regard it as a temporary tax; nor did he, as at present advised, hope that it would he; for he believed, that if properly regulated, it was as good a tax as could be. He had no fear that the owners of houses and lands would be held up in an invidious light as seeking exemption from taxes, if, as in the present case, they only asked what was just and right. His feeling was now and always had been in favour of taking off in-
 1346
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he believed his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury was totally mistaken in his interpretation of the Act to which he had referred. He (Mr. Aglionby) believed there was no clause
 1321
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, the question before the Committee was, not the income tax as an abstract question, but a particular modification of that tax. It was admitted upon all hands that land bore more burdens than any other kind of property. [Mr. BRIGHT: NO, no!] Everybody then, except the hon. Gentleman, admitted such to be the case. The consequence was, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed that certain deductions and modifications should be made with respect to management. He felt sorry they were not discussing the matters rather in Committee upon the Bill itself with all the details before them, than in separate Resolutions, for much depended upon the machinery with which the measure was to be worked out. There was a class in which he felt deeply interested, namely, the small freeholders—the small landed proprietors, to whom no deduction was to be allowed on account of management. As to the question of the continuance of the income tax, he entertained the same opinion as he had ever done—that it would be perpetual—
 1348
 MR. GOULBURN  said, he would suggest to the hon. Member for North Essex (Sir J. Tyrell) that it would be better that the Motion should be withdrawn for the present, and that they should take no step in the matter until the evidence should have been printed.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that ever since he had sat in Parliament its attention had been mainly directed to diminishing certain privileges which the land had formerly possessed, and, now that those privileges were almost entirely abolished, he found the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was once considered the advocate of hon. Gentlemen opposite, while he acknowledged the burden of the income tax on land, was at the same time asking them to impose the legacy duty on real property. He applauded the right hon. Gentleman for so doing. In his opinion it was a proof of candour. Having discovered that the course he had taken when a young man was erroneous, the right hon. Gentleman was not ashamed to avow it, and, having become convinced of the truth of what he now believed to be sound principles, the right hon. Gentleman was prepared to carry them out. But the Chancellor of the Exchequer had got himself rather into a difficulty with regard to the Motion now before the Committee. If he had understood the able speech of the right hon. Gentleman right, when he introduced his Budget, he argued that the land paid on its gross income 9 d. d. 1349 l 1., l., l. l l l 1350 d. d. 1351 d. d.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, it was quite clear that the income tax in its main features was perfectly safe; and he thought the proposition that was about to be made by the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Vansittart) would be less dangerous than any that was likely to come from that side of the House. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) said he had never had an opportunity of defending the proposal involved in the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Vansittart)—a circumstance which he (Mr. Bright) thought fortunate for the right hon. Gentleman. He congratulated him upon the near prospect of such an opportunity being presented to him. He (Mr. Bright) thought the proposition to report progress was an exceedingly reasonable one at that time of night.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he did not exactly see how it could be brought as a charge against the Rajah that he had engaged in a kind of pepper monopoly, because that was a course which had been followed to a considerable extent by the Company in the matter of opium. He had risen merely to observe that this was a question, like many others, between private individuals and the East India Company, and that there was no proper tribunal for its adjudication. The late Sir Robert Peel, in 1833, admitted that it was a great grievance that no such tribunal existed, and recommended that they should be provided. Without regard to the particular claim before the House, he should vote for the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. PHILIPPS  said, that being intimately connected with land, and his whole sympathies being with the landed interest, he owned that the Amendment presented a very inviting aspect to him; but he could not help remembering the exact position in which the Committee were placed. Wisely or unwisely, the Government had committed themselves strongly, and he believed irrevocably, to the opinion that the income tax was incapable of graduation; and, therefore, although as far as mere sentiment went he was in favour of graduation, it appeared to him that to affirm any Resolution expressive of the necessity of
 1342 d. d.
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, it appeared to him that the wisdom and policy of the original imposition of the present income tax had reconciled the people to its continuance. Through the medium of the income tax, yielding 5,000,000 l. l. l. l. 1343 1344
 MR. BUCK  said, that he was induced to offer a few observations on this occasion, in consequence of the remarks which had been made as to the alleged unfairness of the Motion of his hon. Friend (Mr. Palmer). An hon. Member below him (Mr. Philipps) had said that because the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not proposed a graduated scale on incomes derived from different sources, he must oppose the present Motion, because he could not conceive it just that the landowners should receive an advantage denied to persons in towns. But the owners of houses in towns would benefit almost more than any one else from the Motion of the hon. Member for Berkshire. He wished the Committee to consider the case of one of the most industrious classes in the country, and one which was perhaps more numerous than was supposed—the small freeholders, of which the county (Devon) which he represented contained, according to the last return, no fewer than 4,000. They were men who had acquired land by their industry, and who now, perhaps, felt more deeply than any other class of the community the burdens which pressed on land. The hon. and gallant Member for Bath (Captain Scobell) said that that class had been much relieved in consequence of recent changes. He (Mr. Buck) would merely mention these facts. In 1845, when the corn laws were repealed, the poor-rate amounted to 6,765,445 l., l., 1345
 MR. MALINS  said, that any statement Of the noble Lord would certainly be believed by him. The noble Lord had said that he had not authorised any agent to
 1328
 MR. MALINS  had understood the hon. Member for Westmeath to state, that a party of the Irish Members had been waited upon by an accredited agent of the Whig and Peelite parties, and that he had made this proposal to them, "Do you vote for turning out Lord Derby, and we will protect you against the income tax being extended to Ireland." Now, that was either an accurate or it was an inaccurate statement. If it was an inaccurate statement, it was a duty the hon. Member for Westmeath owed to the House to state his reasons for making it. But if the statement was accurate, it was certainly a grave imputation upon the great party which was now in power. At a time when they were hearing so much about purity of elections, and when they had so many discussions as to whether writs should issue for places where bribery had been carried on, he would ask whether it was decent that an hon. Member should rise in that House and make so grave a charge against the party who now held the Government of the country in their hands, and that that imputation should be allowed to pass altogether unnoticed? Everybody knew who was meant by the term "accredited agent;" and surely a charge of this kind ought to receive from that agent, or from those agents, an instant denial or explanation.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he was not aware that the Committee had come to any such vote on the 16th of December last (in favour of the income tax) as the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Col. Harcourt) had alluded to. He had himself stated on that occasion that he only voted for going into Committee on the house tax, and had moved that the words "not exceeding" be inserted; and stated that although he was prepared to take the proposition into consideration, he was not prepared to vote for doubling the house lax. He thought
 1347
 MR. COLLIER  said, he thought the House could do nothing less than send the Bill before a Committee; he would also state, by way of answer to the argument from lapse of time raised by the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe), that the affairs of the family, including the subject of this Bill, had been all that time in Chancery.
 MR. LOWE  said, he must oppose the Bill, on the ground that the claimants had no title whatever to compensation. The late Mr. Hutchinson, while in his capacity of Agent for the East India Company at the Court of the Rajah of Travancore, had thought proper to mix himself up with the Rajah in transactions of a very questionable nature—questionable enough in their ostensible character of a trade in pepper, Mr. Hutchinson favouring the monopoly in that article established by the Rajah, to the detriment of the East India Company—and still more questionable in relation to various loans for which these transactions in reality served as a cover. Colonel Munro, the Resident, had investigated the nature of all debts said to be due from the Rajah of Travancore to the different claimants, and he understood that the representatives of Mr. Hutchinson had not ventured to appear before that well-informed gentleman. In 1831, a Committee of that House was appointed to investigate the claim under notice, the renewal of the Charter then about to expire being thought, he supposed, a convenient opportunity for such an investigation. The Committee consisted of twenty-one Members, of whom six only, in addition to the Chairman, thought it worth their while to vote upon the Report; and the result of that inquiry was, that three voted against the
 1316
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. He said, that after the discussions that had taken place during the last week,
 1332 s. 1333 d. d, 1334 d. d. 1335 l. l. 1336 d. d.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, that having already voted for the present Budget, it was scarcely necessary for him to say that he approved generally of the Government scheme. At the same time, although he was anxious to see justice done to all classes, he could not say that he was satisfied with the Amendment now brought forward. Some thought the Budget went too far; but, for his part, he did not think it went far enough, and he had suggested an Amendment to the effect that the present income tax of 7 d. l. s. s. l., l. l l l l 1337 s. s. s. s. s. s. 1. s. s. s. l l. 1338
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to state, in reply to his hon. Friend the Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby), that he believed he had correctly interpreted the clause in the Act to which he had referred. It was the eighth clause, and it provided that the majority of voices in a Committee should decide, not only whether a sitting Member had been duly elected, or whether an election had been void, but also whether a new writ ought to be issued.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he thought the difficulty in which the House was placed on these questions, arose mainly from the fact, that the Election Committees did not comply with the provisions of the Controverted Elections Act, which required them to report their opinion as to whether new writs should be issued. Not more than one or two Election Committees had, he believed, reported upon that point, but if the Committees did report whether they considered writs should be issued or not, the House would be relieved from considerable difficulty. With regard to this old offender, Harwich, he was little disposed to allow the borough ever to have another writ. He thought the Motion the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Sir D. L. Evans) had intimated his intention of bringing forward for the appointment of a Commission to inquire into the occurrences which had taken place in Harwich, was alone a sufficient reason for suspending the writ. It was evident that at the present moment Harwich was a complete nomination borough, with regard to one seat if not both, in the hands of Mr. Attwood, and he thought the writ ought therefore not to be issued.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he was one of the Members of the Committee which
 1318
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he would now move for a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances attending the prosecution of the petition against the last return for the borough of Berwick-upon-Tweed. In doing so he wished to refer to a speech delivered by the late Attorney General (Sir F. Thesiger) on a recent occasion, for the purpose of correcting certain statements which the hon. and learned Gentleman had made, no doubt upon the information of others. At the late election Mr. Forster defeated Mr. Hodgson by a majority of 412 to 210. A short time after the election, Mr. Hodgson met Mr. Forster in the lobby of the House of Commons, and being about to present, or having just presented, a petition against him, said, "I have got a very clear case against you and your Colleague, and I should be very glad if the matter could be settled." Mr. Forster having referred Mr. Hodgson to his son, he had an interview with that gentleman. The late Attorney General said that Mr. Hodgson at this interview said that what he was then about to say must be considered as being in confidence. Now he (Mr. Mitchell) was not prepared to deny that Mr. Hodgson made use of such an expression; but he was prepared to deny that Mr. Forster, jun., assented to Mr. Hodg-
 1382 "I have no hesitation in saying that Mr. Hodg son Hinde asked me to call upon you to negotiate the withdrawal of the Berwick petition, so far as you were concerned, on consideration of your paying the costs of the proceedings against the other Member, not to exceed 2,000 l. l, l. 1383 l. 1384
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was not a question of convenience to any noble Lord; it was a question in which the trade of the country was deeply concerned. He begged to assure the hon. Member he could have no conception of the amount of inconvenience to which the whole of the mercantile community were daily put by these protracted discussions, or even of the serious amount of loss to which they were exposed. He had heard a statement of the amount of entries at the Custom-house for applications for a change of duties, which he was almost afraid to repeat. He would undertake to say that the answer of the Government, whether the Amendment of the hon. Member was good or bad, would be contained in one sentence—namely, if the farmer did not like the rate at which he was assessed under Schedule B, he had by law the right of going into Schedule D. That was the whole and entire case of the Government. He repeated that this was not a question of the convenience of Government, but of the suspension of the trade of the country.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, before the Committee proceeds to a division upon this most important question, I am very anxious to state the views which my Colleagues and myself entertain with regard to it. The hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Palmer), who made the Motion now before us, commenced his very temperate speech by disclaiming, on his part, everything like factious or party motives. Sir, I give the hon. Gentleman the most entire credit in that respect. I am convinced there is no man less likely to make a Motion of such a character, and, above all, there is no man in this House less likely, if he did make a Motion of such a character, to fix upon that Motion any other character than that of truth. But, with respect to the importance of this Amendment, I think the hon. Gentleman greatly undervalues it. I shall not endeavour to entangle hon. Gentlemen by the discussion of details. It would be very easy for me to enter upon many matters of that description, and to show that, by the adoption of this Motion, you would be involved in many great anomalies; and you would introduce difficulties amounting to confusion into the working of a tax which, unless you fix its detail within certain bounds, would become absolutely unmanageable. A great deal might be said on subjects like that, but there is more important matter before us. There is a stronger, at all events a much higher and broader, ground, on which it is my duty to object to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman. It is not because his Motion is devoid of plausibility, or even is devoid of equity, if it stood as a naked, abstract proposition. It is when we view it in con-
 1354 l s. l 1355 9d. d., "We have not neglected carefully to examine the question of the stamp duties and the probate duties; and we think it not impossible to bring forward, on the right occasion, a duty on successions that will reconcile contending interests, and terminate the system now so much complained of."—[3  Hansard, 1356 l. 1357 1358 1359 l. l. l 1360 l bonâ fide l l 1361 d. d., d. d., 1362 "We sympathise with the feeling that the in-come tax bears more hardly on trades and professions, on industry and skill, than it bears upon property; but we feel, at the same time, an entire conviction that this sympathy could not be practically carried out, in a reconstruction of the tax, without producing evils far greater than any good which could be effected by the change." "We find the income tax defective in some points, but we find also it has achieved great things for the country; we find it accepted to a certain extent by the nation, no doubt calling for amendment in some parts, but on the whole productive of good far beyond the hardships and grievances that attend it." 1363 "There is nothing in life, especially in public life, more important than to have a principle to guide you. Whatever the perplexity, a principle simplifies everything. However extraordinary the Gordian knot, a principle would almost instantly cut it." 1364
 MR. HAYTER : I wish the hon. Gentleman who introduced this subject had mentioned what has now just been stated by the hon. Member for Marlow, that I might have answered it. I will answer it now, and say that no such circumstance ever occurred
 MR. HAYTER : I am extremely obliged to the hon. Gentleman for bringing this question to an issue. I certainly have some reason to complain of the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire. I saw him as I entered the House. I asked him if he was going to put any question on this matter. He told me that he had submitted a notice, that there was an informality, and therefore he was unable to ask the question in the form and the terms in which he originally designed to ask it. I begged him then to put the question in a formal manner, so that I might be enabled to give a plain answer to a plain question; and if the hon. Gentleman had had the courtesy to comply with that request, much of that which has painfully passed in this House, would have been altogether spared. The hon. Gentleman, when I was not present, took occasion to refer to that matter, although I had informed the hon. Member of my wish to be present, and I trust the House will not for a moment believe that I in the slightest degree shrink from giving a positive answer. The hon. Member for the county of Wicklow also came this evening and said he was about to ask me the same question; I told him I should be obliged to him if he would defer it till to-morrow, because then I should know what the distinct charge was, which up to this moment I don't know. I told him also that I was desirous of communicating with another hon. Member, before giving an answer to a charge apparently involving some question relating to him. No arrangement seems to have been made between those two hon. Gentlemen. I never yet have had a positive, distinct question put to me. But I now understand the hon. Member for Cambridge-
 1329
 CAPTAIN MAGAN : The mistake which has been made is in taking it for granted that I meant the right hon. Gentleman opposite. The words I used were these—(I spoke in the plural number, and the right hon. Gentleman is not in the plural number)—I said certain persons, accredited agents, and using the word "accredited," made this communication. They were three private Irish Members. ["Name!"] I will not name them till a notice is put on the paper, so that they may be in the House to hear me. I believe some of them are not now in the House.
 CAPTAIN MAGAN : I believe, Sir, the hon. Gentleman has no strict right to put this question to me at all. According to the rule of the House, the question should
 1325
 CAPTAIN MAGAN : I did not mean to offend the hon. Gentleman by anything which has fallen from me in reply to his observations. With reference to what he has said as to notice having been given to me of an intention to ask a question of me to-night, I have only to observe that I did hear a rumour that there was such an intention; but I also heard a very distinct rumour that the question would he openly placed upon the paper. It has not been so placed, and I am now called upon to name a man; but as the notice has not been put on the paper, I might have to name some one who may be absent. If you could have found me stupid enough to strike a man behind his back—[ Interruption
 MR. MARSHALL  said, he had also been one of the Members of the Committee of 1831, and his impression of the case, from the evidence then submitted to him, was, that the accounts produced by the petitioner were on the face of them so monstrous that he wondered any person could have brought them before that or any other tribunal. He hoped, therefore, the House would pause before they allowed another Committee to sit upon them.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he would now beg to move that an Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying for the issue of a Commission to inquire into the corrupt practices which took place at the late election for the borough of Tynemouth; Commissioners' names that he proposed were, Henry Davison, esq., James Vaughan, esq., and John Hurrell, esq. In making this Motion he was but performing a ministerial act, and obeying the wishes of the Committee, who were unanimous on the subject. The House would probably be of opinion that under these circumstances the decision of the Committee was worthy of some attention. After evidence had been heard for two days, and after agency had been proved, the sitting Member immediately withdrew, and thus it was impossible for the Committee to go into all the cases at first submitted to it. One man was proved to have been bribed by a refreshment ticket, and it was also proved that these tickets were issued by both the candidates. The Committee unanimously decided that there was reason to believe that corrupt practices extensively prevailed at the last election for Tynemouth, and that not only extensive treating but extensive bribery had also taken place.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he had understood that there was an order of the House which provided that no Motion should be made for the issue of a New Writ without seven days' notice, and he hoped the hon. Baronet would consent to postpone his Motion. He (Sir De L. Evans) intended to move an Address to the Crown for the appointment of a Commission to inquire into the corrupt practices which were alleged to have taken place in the borough of Harwich.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought
 1319
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought that when a Committee reported that a corrupt contract had been made between a sitting Member, when a candidate, and another person, the result of which was that sixty or seventy votes were transferred to the candidate, there could be no doubt whatever that, although this might not be legal bribery, it was a corrupt prac-
 1322
 SIR JAMES HOGG  said, that the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) and the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had both declared they knew nothing about this matter, and yet they were going to support the second reading of the Bill. That there was some equitable ground for this claim was the truth, but it was not the whole truth. Hon. Gentlemen wanted inquiry; but there had been an inquiry already before the House, and the House rejected the claim. That claim was brought forward in 1831, when the renewal of the Indian Charter was under discussion, and nothing had been heard of it ever since till the charter was about to expire, when all kinds of birds of prey were hovering over the carcase of the East India Company. The Report of the Committee had been carried by the casting vote of the Chairman only, and yet with that Report there were only six Members of the House of Commons who supported the second reading of the Bill in 1832. He held in his hand a report of Mr. Hutchinson to the Government, stating that the Rajah was fraudulently cheating the Government, by not giving up the pepper; whereas at that very time he was preventing him from doing so. The items contained in the account against this unfortunate ex-Rajah were of the most absurd and preposterous description, such as a lac of rupees, or 10,000 l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought that none of the reasons which usually induced that House to suspend writs applied to this case. It had been admitted that this was a case which did not come within the regulation relating to the seven days' notice. It was not a case of bribery; but the Member had been unseated because he had transgressed a particular Statute by entering into a certain agreement with Mr. Attwood.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  had hoped, after what had already occurred, these bickerings among hon. Gentlemen would have ceased. As regarded the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire he was not surprised at the sensitiveness that hon. Gen-
 1330
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, he thought the House knew quite enough of the case to divide now as well as on Friday next, or that day fortnight, or any other day. There would be no advantage that he could see resulting from postponement. He did not believe the vote of a single Member would be influenced by the printed evidence, whatever it was. The rules of the House would not be infringed upon by the issue of the writ. If those rules were inefficient, or childish, or foolish, let them be abolished. They were threatened with a new Reform Bill, which was to sweep all the Tories into the dust, and a Bill of indictment was in course of preparation for the present House of Commons. But, whilst they lasted, let them at least observe their own rules, and not deprive a constituency of its privileges upon light grounds.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, he would beg to move that a new writ be issued for the election of a Member for the borough of Harwich, in the room of Mr. G. M. W. Peacocke.
 SIR J. TYRELL  said, that the law of elections was so obscure and uncertain, that the House was nightly in a state of disorder. The Chairman of the Harwich Election Committee had not laid down the law, though the hon. Gentleman was one of that class who entered the House without any particular or obvious motives. The fact was, that all sorts of suggestions were made, and every possible kind of suspicion excited; they went beating about
 1320
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  said, that the object of the Amendment under the consideration of the Committee was merely to remedy one of the many inequalities of the income tax, while it would leave a vast number of others in full force. He could not, therefore, approve of the policy on which that proposal was founded, and he was consequently unable to vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Palmer). In his opinion his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer pursued a fairer as well as a bolder course when he declared that he despaired of being able to untie the many knots of those difficulties, and that he,
 1352
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he believed no one could dispute that land was already subject to peculiar and very considerable burdens. It had been admitted by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer himself, that the income tax fell more heavily upon land than upon any other description of property. The right hon. Gentleman had told them that land contributed to the tax to the amount of 9 d. d. l. 1353
 MR. HUME  said, he would not oppose the Motion, as all returns of this kind could only tend to perfect freedom in all commercial transactions. He regretted, however, to see that the hon. Gentleman, who was himself a merchant of the City of London, should come forward and endeavour to put any shackles upon commerce. He thought the Order in Council, of the 25th of February last, was a wise order. If a tradesman committed a fraud, the law of the land was able to punish him; and, if people wanted to use pure coffee, they could buy a mill and grind it themselves. Every attempt of that kind was in contravention of the great principles which should govern the proceedings of this country.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would now move for a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances under which the petitions against the return of Mr. William Atherton and Mr. Thomas Grainger, for the City of Durham, had been withdrawn, and that the petition of certain electors of the City of Durham, presented to the House on the 20th of April, be referred to the said Committee. The circumstances of this case were as follows:—At the last general election, in July, 1852, Mr. Grainger, Mr. Atherton, and Lord Adolphus Vane, were candidates for the representation of Durham. The numbers at the close of the poll were:—Grainger, 576; Atherton, 510; Vane, 506. The two former were accordingly declared duly elected. Mr. Grainger died on the 5th of August subsequent to the election. On the 23rd of November two of the electors in the interest of Lord Adolphus Vane presented a petition complaining of the return of Mr. Atherton. At a late hour of the 25th of the same month, the last day for presenting election petitions, a petition, signed by two electors of Durham residing in London, and who voted for Messrs. Grainger and Atherton, was presented to the House complaining of the return of Mr. Grainger, who had died in the present August, and craving the scat for Lord Adolphus Vane. For this petition Mr. Davidson, who also voted for Messrs. Grainger and Atherton, was the sole security, and Mr. Coppock the sole agent. On the following day, the 26th, Mr. Coppock withdrew this petition, and the writ for a new election in the room of Mr. Grainger was issued. It might fairly be assumed that the petition was brought forward by Mr. Coppock, as the agent of
 138
 MR. MILES  said, he thought that the conduct of the agents on both sides required to be looked into. He did not much care whether the appointment of the Select Committee was postponed till after the petition against the return of the sitting Member had been disposed of, or not; but the hon. Member for West Norfolk had made one statement, which assuredly deserved to be considered. It was to the effect that on the 25th of November, the last day for presenting election petitions, a petition, signed by two electors of Durham, residing in London, who voted for Messrs. Grainger and Atherton, was actually presented to the House, complaining of the return of Mr. Grainger, who had died in the previous August, and claiming the seat for Lord Adolphus Vane, without the slightest authority from the noble Lord. Surely this was a case full of suspicion, and one that demanded investigation. Their whole system needed revision, and he thought an inquiry should be made into the agency through which election petitions were presented to that House.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that if the House appointed a Committee on this subject, they must appoint a Committee to consider the withdrawal of every petition. The best way of checking the evil was by making the parties pay the costs. These petitions had been withdrawn with the consent of both parties, and he hoped that the present
 140
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, that the reason he had not brought forward his Motion was, that he was told that there were so many Committees sitting, that it would be impossible to do so with effect, and that it would be opposed; but if the House was prepared to agree to it, he would move it now if he could do so.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he must express his regret that the discussion had taken a party tone. He thought there was a strong case against certain parties for a breach of the rules of that House, and an infringement of the rights of the electors of Durham. He must adhere to the opinion
 147 bonâ fide
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  seconded the Motion. He said he was at a loss to understand why this country should stand alone, with the exception of Spain and Italy, as regarded the present subject. The law of this country in reference to nunneries was the same at the present moment as it was at the time of the Council of Trent. What was the order issued by the
 96
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he thought that the less the House went back to rediscuss past and settled cases, and the less, likewise, that any attempt was made by any one portion of the House to fix a greater amount of guilt upon any other portion, the better it would be for the order of their proceedings. Since this question had been brought forward, Members representing the different sections of that House had spoken upon it, and they almost all concurred in this one opinion, that the subject to which his hon. Friend the Member for West Norfolk had called attention, was well worthy of the consideration of the House and of a Committee; but that there were suspicious circumstances attending,
 145
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  said, he very much doubted whether the House was in earnest in their proceedings against corruption. There was a Sessional Order on the books which stated that "if any one was elected or returned to that House by means of bribery and corrupt practices, the House would proceed with severity against the persons concerned." He had already given notice of his intention to call attention to circumstances which tended to criminate a late Member of that House. Three cases of bribery by Members had been reported to the House during the Session, and one was reported to-night stronger than any of them. Would the House notice such a flagrant case? During the discussions in this Session on the subject of corruption, attempts had been made to palliate it, saying that both sides of the House were equally bad. He might perhaps be allowed to doubt if they were equally bad on both sides. ["Oh, oh!"] Constituencies were not corrupt in themselves, but if Gentlemen drew large sums from their bankers, and gave them to their
 144
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  said, he wished to explain that he had not accused one side of the House of greater corruption than the other.
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  said, he rose to move an Address to Her Majesty for the appointment of a Commission to inquire into corrupt practices which took place at the late election for the Borough of Barnstaple. It had been proved before the Committee that there were eight cases of bribery at the last election, and that the Gentlemen who were returned were directly implicated in those corrupt practices. One of the unseated Members was for a long series of years a solicitor in the borough, was a noted electioneering agent, and, together with his partner, had been mainly instrumental in returning representatives to Parliament. It had also been proved that a long course of treating took place at the last election, beginning as early as February, and that many of the electors were corrupted by such treating. The evidence likewise showed that a considerable number of the freemen banded together at the time of the election, and would not allow themselves to be brought to the poll until they had received satisfaction for their votes. According to the system proved at Barnstaple, "satisfaction" meant either remuneration for what was called loss of time, or pecuniary contributions for charitable considerations. By referring to the evidence taken in 1819, with regard to the borough of Barnstaple, it would be seen that the very same system of corruption was practised at that period; and he hoped, therefore, that no opposition would be offered to his Motion.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he thought it was to be regretted that the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Pagan) did not make his statement of that evening with regard to the Blackrock convent at the time when the question was before the courts—because the whole of the press throughout the United Kingdom had dwelt upon the remarkable case to which the hon. Member had referred, at considerable length, and every particular in connexion with it had been fully canvassed. Had the honourable Member, at the time, made the statement he had now reserved for several years, he could have been cross-examined, and the matter thoroughly sifted. After a long public trial, the universal opinion was, that a case of oppression and coercion was fully established. And what brought the case before the public? The trial was certainly not a Protestant conspiracy; for it was the Roman Catholic relatives of the young ladies who complained of a breach of civil liberty. And there was no ground for supposing that it had its origin in feelings of religious hostility. He should, however, pass from the hon. Member for Cork to the observations which had fallen that evening from the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Russell). He regretted extremely that the noble Lord should have felt it his duty to state that he would not concede to the hon. and learned Gentleman who had made the Motion upon which they were then speaking, the privilege of being allowed to push this measure through even its earliest stages, so that it might be printed and placed in the hands of hon. Members without delay. He regretted the course which the noble Lord had deemed it advisable to take; the more because he felt that the question under discussion related to a subject which had taken hold of the public
 128 129
 LORD E. HOWARD  said, he was not aware that any correspondence had appeared in the newspapers to that effect. Certainly he (Lord E. Howard) was by no means a bad authority, and he said that she had not been detained there against her will; and she had frequently referred not only to the period of her own experience, but also to the peace of mind and happiness which she had witnessed in those who live in such an abode; and so little did she regret her connexion with it, that she still carried on—oh it is disgraceful in English gentlemen to bring forward these private matters. I say it is disgraceful that I am obliged to bring forward the personal affairs of my own household to rebut these false accusations I was going to say that she still carries on communication with many dear and esteemed inmates of that place. So far, he (Lord Edward Howard) thought, he had taken away a portion of the ground upon which hon. Gentlemen had based their arguments to show the necessity for this Bill. For the sake of these Gentlemen themselves, he wished they had stronger ground than that which he had been dealing with. A few other cases had been introduced by other hon. Members, who, if he might say so, ought to take great care to investigate the truth of the story, in each case, before they
 116 par nobile fratrum, 117
 LORD EDWARD F. HOWARD  said, he was so much at a loss to conceive the object of the hon. Gentleman who had introduced this Motion, that he believed hardly any but themselves and those who happened to be in the secret with them, could have conceived that a Bill of this nature was about to be introduced. His reason, however, for obtruding himself at that time on the attention of the House, was to be found in the allusion which had been made by several hon. Members. One of them had quoted the case of a near and dear relation of his own—a much nearer and dearer relation was she of his (Lord E.
 115
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I greatly regret that this question has been brought before the House. A Bill on this same subject was introduced about two years ago, I think, and the House, having then considered the subject, thought proper to reject the Bill. It appears to me that there ought to be very strong grounds indeed for introducing a new Bill on the same subject; for, in the first place, we must consider that this is a country in which we boast of our personal liberty—in which we believe that we have provisions by law by which that personal liberty is secured—and secured, not only against the Government, not only against those who by means of authority would attempt to confine persons illegally, but secured against those who, by any forcible means, would detain a British subject against his will. Well, then, the real question is, whether there is a certain class of persons with respect to whom we should say that these securities of personal liberty are not sufficient—that the law of  habeas corpus, 109 110 111 112 113 114
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman was mistaken in supposing that he had referred to the laws of other European countries with regard to conventual establishments.
 MR. FREWEN  said, he could instance a case that had recently come under his own observation, where a person had been confined against her will in a convent. She had called upon him, and he told her he was a Protestant magistrate. She said she had escaped from a convent, and was a Protestant. It appeared that her father was a Roman Catholic; but she went to reside with her aunt, who was a Protestant, and had become one, having had an opportunity of seeing the errors of her former religion. Her father had placed her in the convent, but she resolved to take the earliest opportunity of escaping, and had succeeded, after having been there a short time, in doing so. He mentioned the fact to show that these things did sometimes occur, and because he did not think the authorities of that convent had any right to detain persons against their will. For these reasons, he thought there ought to be a law to enable properly appointed persons to visit these convents from time to time, and ascertain who the inmates were.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he could not help admiring the extreme dexterity with which hon. Gentlemen interested in the promotion of the interests of the Papacy had conducted the debate. No one could have managed the debate with more ability or authority than the hon. Member for Dundalk, who, during the Papal aggression discussions had acted as Cardinal Wiseman's secretary—
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he must apologise for having attributed to the hon.
 104 "I add; grant that what you state is true; now that you are professed in a convent, and that it is impossible for you to leave it, tell me what do you wish to do? If you have entered religion against your inclinations, you must now remain with cheerfulness. If you abandon yourself to melancholy, you shall lead a life of misery, and will expose yourself to great danger and suffering—a hell here, and another hereafter. You must then make a virtue of necessity. "I have been accustomed to say that a religious in her convent enjoys a foretaste of Paradise, or suffers an anticipation of hell. To endure the pains of hell, is to be separated from God; to be forced, against the inclinations of nature, to do the will of others; to be distrusted, despised, reproved, and chastised by those with whom we live; to be shut up in a place of confinement, from which it is impossible to escape; in a word, it is to be in continual torture without a moment's peace. Such is the miserable condition of a bad religious; and, therefore, she suffers on earth an anticipation of the torments of hell," 105 v. l l 106 107 "By the authority of Almighty God, and his holy Apostles Peter and Paul, we solemnly forbid, under pain of anathema, that any one draw away these present virgins or holy nuns from the Divine service to which they have devoted themselves under the banner of chastity; or that anyone purloin their goods, or hinder their possessing them unmolested; but if any one shall dare to attempt such a thing, let him be accursed at home and abroad; accursed in the city and in the field; accursed in waking and sleeping; accursed in eating and drinking; accursed in walking and sitting; cursed be his flesh and his bones, and from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head let him have no soundness. Let come upon him the malediction, which by Moses, in the law, the Lord hath laid on the sons of iniquity. Let his name be blotted out from the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous. Let his portion and inheritance be with Cain, the fratricide; with Dathan and Abiram, with Ananias and Sapphira, with Simon, the sorcerer; and with Judas, the traitor; and with those who have said to God, 'Depart from us, we desire not the knowledge of thy ways.' Let him perish in the day of judgment, and let everlasting fire devour him, with the devil and his angels, unless he make restitution, and come to amendment." 108
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I would not have said such a thing for the world. I relied upon the statements of the hon. Member for Cheltenham, and upon the correspondence which appeared in the newspapers.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that as notice of the Motion was given for a particular day, it could not be made before that day.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, if they were to proceed in matters of this sort with anything like judicial harmony, they ought to avoid the tone taken by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, and who had chosen to make a personal attack on his (Sir C. Wood's) hon. Friend the Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley), simply to create a party feeling; and that was not the tone and temper in which the House ought to proceed in these matters. With regard to what had fallen from the hon. Member for East Somersetshire (Mr. Miles), and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for South Lincolnshire (Sir J. Trollope), it would meet with no opposition from that side of the House. The system of presenting petitions and counter-petitions, for the purpose of pairing them off, was admitted by both sides of the House to be a gross abuse. He would not defend that side of the House, who had their share of Mr. Coppock's, as the other side had their share of Mr. Brown's, proceedings, which were not creditable to either side. In the case before the House,
 141 bonâ fide,
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that what he had stated was, that it would be unfair to bring forward this particular question on the eve of the appointment of the Election Committee to which the petition against the return of the sitting Member for Durham was to be referred. With regard to the Motion of the Member for East Surrey, he had another Motion on
 142
 MR. E. C. EGERTON  said, that after the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed them, the sooner the House got rid of the discussion of these matters the better; for when an hon. Gentleman, in the position of a Judge, told them that corruption on one side of the House was greater than on the other, he said, for the dignity of the House, and the good consideration in which it should be held in the country, the sooner they had Judges who laid aside violent language like that, the better for all parties. He was not there to justify any corruption; he only wished that all cases should be considered fairly and impartially, and he thought the subject brought forward by the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) ought to be considered, for the proceedings of the last six months had tended to lower Committees of that House in the eyes of the country. He only rose to say that if Judges were to sit on those matters, their language should be of a different kind.
 MR. SERJEANT MURPHY  said, he believed that the hon. and learned Gentleman who introduced the Motion had done so in perfect sincerity; but if he reflected, he would find that the popular opinion out of doors on the subject of convents was not gleaned from facts, but was based upon idle rumours, unsupported calumnies, and testimony upon which men could place no credence in a court of justice. He had been much pained to find the extent of misrepresentation which was made with reference to this subject. He had heard a clergyman of the Church of England at Liverpool addressing a meeting, composed for the most part of ladies of the upper classes, make use of the most flippant observations with reference to the conduct of nunneries, stating that they were places
 101 l 102 habeas corpus. History of Maria Monk, 103
 MR. LUCAS  said, he wished to express his acknowledgments to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) for his extremely generous and able speech, which he thought must have perfectly settled the question in the minds of every impartial and rational person in that House. The case had completely fallen through; they had been asked to legislate, and no ground had been shown for legislation; no case had been proved, no attempt had been made to prove one, to warrant their interposition. Nay, the hon. and learned Gentleman who brought forward the Motion had told them he was destitute of proof, and that it was because he was destitute of proof that he wanted Commissioners to be appointed to go into the convents and obtain evidence. Where were the pretended, the imagined, the supposed facts that had been laid before thorn? There was the case given by the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr. Frewen) of a young lady put to the school of a convent by her own father, who ran away from school. Ran away from school! A case that did certainly sometimes happen in the world, but did not seem to him to require special legislation There were other cases mentioned "in another place"—one that of a boy, the other that of a young lady living in the world, and there was that mentioned by the Bishop of Norwich, which, however, bore no relation to this question. As to the statements made by the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond), the hon. Member had read them, and they only
 122
 COLONEL FORESTER : No Committee sat at the Carlton Club. I was the sole and responsible person.
 COLONEL FORESTER  said, as the hon. Gentleman had personally alluded to him, he wished to say a few words in explanation. The hon. Member stated that Mr. Brown was his legal adviser, and that questions as to the withdrawal of petitions were decided by him (Colonel Forester). It was unfair in the hon. Member, who sat on the Norwich Committee of Inquiry, to bring his name before the House, considering that he had nothing to do with the withdrawal of the Norwich petition until after it had taken place. The hon. Member now stated that he had given directions to Mr. Brown about it—[Mr. DUNCOMBE: No, I did not say so]—and that Mr. Brown consulted with him on the withdrawal of petitions. He had nothing to do with it. Mr. Brown was employed as an electioneering agent, and he received his orders from his client, and acted on those orders. With regard to Mr. Brown, he had certainly acted with him (Colonel Forester), and helped him with regard to elections previous to the presenting of petitions; but he (Colonel Forester) had nothing to do with petitions to the House; he denied having anything to do with them, and the charge made by the hon. Member was not what it ought to have been, considering that he had sat on the Norwich Committee of Inquiry, which he (Colonel Forester) attended.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, his chief objection to this Bill was, that it would be, like the Bill introduced two years ago, utterly inefficacious. He did not believe in the power of any legislation by that House to make any amelioration of the system against which this measure was directed, or to separate that which was good from that which was bad in monastic institutions. He could not go the whole length many hon. Gentlemen did in blaming them,
 118 Dublin Review Laughter. 119 "I had been a curate officiating in the Roman Catholic chapel of—My niece was a hoarder or pensioner in the school of the nunnery of—from the age of four years to that of eighteen. As her personal guardian under her father's will, the duty devolved on me to ascertain from that young lady her intentions relative to her future state of life. I accordingly invited her to breakfast at my lodging in the chapel-house of that chapel, and put the question to her, 'Do you intend retiring into a nunnery or living in the world?' 'Nunneries,' she replied, 'are not such good places as you imagine. I would not pass my life in one of them for any consideration. As to the nuns, they are continually in a state of strife with each other; and the crimes committed by the young ladies, the boarders, are too shocking to relate. I assure you that such things are frequent among them.' I accordingly, with her approbation, placed her at a boarding school of high reputation in Dublin, where she remained until she married." 120 "Some time after the death of our young friend in Martinique we received a letter from an old and esteemed correspondent there, informing us that he had received a letter from the lady in the convent, expressing her gratitude to him for all that he had done for her and various members of his deceased partner's family, and further stating that there was a sum of 300 l 121
 MR. WHITMORE  said, that the agent who conducted the petition against his own return for Bridgnorth had confessed that there was no case against him; so that he (Mr. Whitmore) had been made the butt of Mr. Coppock, but not his victim. He should be glad to support this Motion if it were carried to a division. He believed that there was as much party feeling on the other side of the House (the Ministerial) as upon that.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had expressed himself in a very manly and frank manner, and that he (Mr. Whiteside) would treat the question as an enlightened Roman Catholic, as that hon. Gentleman had treated it as a Protestant. He objected to the Bill, that it treated in a very narrow way a very large subject. There were, however, two main questions to be considered: one as to how the system affected the transmission of property; the other as it regarded personal liberty. The hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas) said there was no case. He admitted that there was no strong case put before them. But was the House aware that the predecessor of the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Pagan) had been obliged to bring before the courts in Ireland the whole history of the interior of a convent in Cork, in reference to the obtaining from a young lady of a most respectable Roman Catholic family a deed against her will? That was a case which went to the question of property, as affected by these institutions; and he, who had read the whole of the depositions, said that it was impossible for any man in a free assembly to tell them that a greater act of tyranny ever was practised, or could be practised, on a young woman than had been in that case. Well, that which was not to be exceeded by any records of the law, took place in the family of the late Member for Cork, Mr. M'Carthy. The young lady signed a deed against her will; and the late Lord Chancellor said she, having so signed, must be considered as a corpse, and that her hand must be considered as that of a corpse moved by a will which was not its own. Her affections were with her family, and she wished to transfer a considerable sum to her brothers and sisters; but the bishop and the sisters of the convent interfered, and she was made to give up her property to that institution. He wished to ask the hon. Member for Meath, and the noble Lord the Member for Arundel (Lord E. Howard), whether that was right? A married man, by the law of England, was not allowed to obtain from his wife the assignment of her property without her being examined apart by Commissioners for that purpose, from fear that the influence of the husband, or her affection, might make her do that which was contrary to her real interest. Could hon. Gentlemen then maintain that deeds of assignment, attested by nuns and priests, and lady abbesses, ought to be tolerated by
 124 Code Napoleon "As Leopold the Reformer discovered that parents sacrificed the happiness of their children to get rid of them, he ordained that girls should not be placed in the public schools till ten years of age, and that they should not be clothed in the dress of any convent before twenty, and not professed until liberated from the convent for sis months; and even then not until after strict examination to ascertain their real inclination." "Leopold suppressed more than fifty convents. In those which remained, a female was not henceforward allowed to take the veil till she had reached thirty years of age. Inspectors of convents were appointed, their libraries were examined, and the monks were forbidden to read in their refectories any other books than the sacred Scriptures in the vulgar tongue; and they were bound to study theology in books sanctioned by the Government. Priests were submitted to a severe examination, not in forms, but in learning, and their income was increased." 125
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he did not rise to oppose, but would suggest a modification of, the terms of the Motion, in order to render it more effectual for its purpose. When the question was under the consideration of the Government, it bestowed every care for the interests of trade; and had arrived at the conclusion that it felt it necessary to carry out the regulations it had laid down, and insist upon the law being no longer a dead letter, as had been the case. It was suspected that the Government did not intend to prosecute, but he had a paper which would show the contrary. It was now two months since the Treasury order came into operation, and in that time there had been 1,864 inspections of dealers' stocks, and no fewer than ninety-four convictions, besides 135 punishments of a minor character; and, only yesterday, no less than thirty-three convictions were obtained against dealers for mixing up the words chicory and coffee with other matter upon the covers of their packages. He thought he had said enough to show that the Government were in earnest; and
 136 l. l., l.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he must oppose the Motion, on the ground that it would be a greater breach of privilege than that which it professed to correct. The hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck), while stating that the petition against the return of Mr. Grainger was withdrawn on the 26th of November, forgot to add that the petition against the return of Mr. Atherton was withdrawn on the same day by Mr. Brown, the agent for the other party. Nothing was done between the 26th of November and the election on the 2nd of December, when Lord Adolphus Vane was returned; but immediately thereafter a petition was presented against the return of the sitting Member, and it was not until that petition had gone so far as to be on the eve of having a Select Committee appointed to try it that anything was heard of the present Motion. He believed that the Motion had been brought forward for the purpose of inducing the parties to compromise the petition that had been presented against the return of the sitting Member. It could have no other object, for they could not now go back upon the
 139
 MR. MALINS  said, it was absolutely necessary that the Parliamentary agents should be kept in proper order, and that they should be taught to treat that House with proper respect. Every Court required that the practitioners in it should conduct themselves with fairness and propriety; and the House was bound to see that Mr. Coppock and Mr. Brown did not trifle with it. This matter was of the greatest importance, for it concerned the dignity of the House and the privileges of the electors, and, therefore, if hon. Gentlemen opposite were sincere in their desires to promote purity of election, he hoped that an inquiry would take place. The present was by no means a frivolous case, and he contended that it was time the House took the matter into its own hands, and taught these Parliamentary agents that it was not to be insulted with impunity. He was surprised that the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster had not risen in his place to support the Motion. What had become of all his professions? But no doubt it was with him as with other persons in the community—there was one rule for his friends, and another for his enemies. If the hon. Member could sit quietly by and tolerate such practices as these, he (Mr. Malins) could only draw a conclusion against his love of purity of election.
 MR. GREGSON , in reply, said, that all he asked was, that coffee might be sold as coffee, and chicory as chicory, and he hoped to induce the Government to adopt the very proper arrangement of the late Government upon this matter.
 MR. GREGSON  said, he begged to move for a return, up to the present time, of the number of seizures or prosecutions made or authorised by the Commissioners of Excise, for the adulteration of tea, tobacco, pepper, and coffee; distinguishing the seizures or prosecutions for adulteration of coffee under the Treasury order of the 3rd day of August, 1852; and, any seizures or prosecutions under the Treasury order of the 25th day of February, 1853, for sales of mixtures of chicory and coffee without the required labels, in continuation of Parliamentary paper, No. 647, of Session 1851; and to call the attention of the I House to the subject of the last-mentioned
 135 caveat emptor
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had quite understood the right hon. Baronet. He did not object to the withdrawal of the present Motion until after the Election Committee had tried the petition against the return for Durham; but he meant to say that the hon. Member for East Surrey ought to have brought forward his Motion for a Committee of Inquiry on an earlier day. It was clear from what had occurred tonight that there would be no opposition to such a Committee of Inquriy, and he would suggest to the hon. Member for East Surrey to move at once for the Committee, so that they might inquire without delay into the withdrawal of all petitions, and the compromises which had been made. He would press on his hon. Friend the Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) to withdraw his Motion, on the understanding that the whole matter should be inquired into.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the last observation of the right hon. Baronet was well worthy of consideration, for there could be but one opinion on both sides of the House with regard to the abuse which existed of the right to petition, and its having been made the means of discreditable compromises. He regretted that the hon. Member for East Surrey had not persevered in his Motion for inquiring into all the petitions and counter-petitions which had been presented. [An Hon. MEMBER: It stands.] He was aware of that, but it stood on the paper night after night. He was not sure that that was advisable, for the presentation of petitions might go on until the end of the Session.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he did not think there was anything worthy of consideration in the Motion of the hon. Member for West Norfolk. It amounted to this, that, on 25th November, a petition was presented against the return of a dead Member, and that was complained of; then it was withdrawn, and that was complained of. It was not alleged that it was withdrawn without the consent of the petitioners, as in the case of Norwich, and that made all the difference. He would ask, had there been no petition now against the sitting Member for Durham, would this Motion have ever been heard of? If everything that was alleged was proved, what would be done to Mr. Brown and Mr. Coppock, who had only acted within the letter of the law? When the inquiry went further, and it was asked who instructed the agents, it would be found that it was a little coterie at the Carlton Club, presided over by the hon. and gallant Colonel opposite, who regulated the proceedings, and directed the agents whether they were to withdraw the petitions or not; and so Mr. Brown and Mr. Coppock were not so much to blame. In the Norwich inquiry, Mr. Brown was described as the legal adviser of the Carlton Club—that he was in the habit of sitting in one of the washing rooms there, or in some pigeon-hole, as the adviser
 146
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman had misunderstood him. He did not say that the hon. Gentleman directed Mr. Brown to withdraw the Norwich petition, but that he was the legal advisor of the Carlton Club, and that he had recommended the withdrawal of the Norwich petition.
 MR. FAGAN  said, he had not intended to address the House on this most painful question, but as he had been pointedly alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen. (Mr. Whiteside) in reference to a subject nearly connected with some relatives of his own, he could not refrain from making a few observations. The hon. and learned Gentleman had alluded to the case of the Macarthys, which had been brought before the Court of Chancery in Ireland. As the parties in that suit were near relatives of his own, he was intimately acquainted with all the facts of the case. A near relative of his, being possessed of a large personal estate, died intestate, leaving a large family, two being daughters in a convent, and, as such, entitled to share in their father's personal effects. Their rights formed the subject of investigation before the Court of Chancery in Ireland, and the Lord Chancellor decided, inasmuch as those daughters were nuns in a convent, and as the law of England in Catholic times did not permit such to inherit, that notwithstanding the difference in the law, the law in Catholic times was the law which would regulate his conduct and influence his decision. He had had communication with those two ladies subsequently to that decision, and he could assure the House that nothing like coercion had been brought to hear on them in their anxiety to obtain a fair share of their father's property, and to which he considered they were justly entitled. He had held communication with
 126 127
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BOWYER : No; I beg to say I never was Cardinal Wiseman's secretary.
 MR. BOWYER  said, he would not follow the hon. Gentleman who had just re-
 97 98 99 100
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, having been so pointedly alluded to by the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins), he wished to say a few words in reply. It was a most unwarrantable attack made on him by the hon. and learned Gentleman when he was sitting by listening to what was said by Gentlemen opposite, and it required great powers of credence on his part to convince him that Gentlemen opposite were sincere in their desire for purity of election. It seemed to him that a miserable attack had been made on Messrs. Brown and Coppock, after their having refused to prosecute a
 143
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that the appointment of the whole of the Election Committees would be finished by the last day of this month, for, unless any other petitions were presented, at this moment there were only eight to be provided for.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he, as Chairman of the General Committee of Petitions, had seen with pain the privilege of petitioning abused in the present Session in a grosser manner than he ever remembered before. The Committee over which he had presided had been made a complete stalking horse for every kind of abuse by the agents on both sides. Petitions had been withdrawn or paired off, and the labours of the Committee of Selection had been set completely at naught. It would only be becoming the dignity of the House to take some notice of these transactions; but he questioned whether the present was a very fitting opportunity, inasmuch as a petition in it was now pending. He thought, however, that the House should take the first opportunity of marking its displeasure at these practices.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, he should support the Bill. He confessed he could see no reasonable objection to the measure. His father had for many years visited the convent of Newall, under a provision in a will, which left to that establishment a certain annuity on condition that a neighbouring magistrate should certify that a number of nuns resided in it. In compliance with that provision the ladies of the convent had annually passed before his father, and no complaints had ever been made of that arrangement. The noble Lord the Member for the City of London had pronounced a high panegyric on those establishments; and the impression on his (Sir J. Tyrell's) mind was, that the noble Lord wished his speech of that evening to be put as a set-off against his introduction of the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill. The noble Lord had, in fact, seemed to have been anxious to regain the favour of the Roman Catholic portion of the Irish Members, which he had lost to so great an extent during the last few years.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he entertained too sincere a respect for the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Fagan) to pursue further that portion of the subject in which the hon. Member took a personal interest; but he must be allowed to advert for a few moments to the observations 'of the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas). The hon. Member had assured the House that this Bill would be rejected by the union of all the candid. honest, and disinterested Members of which it was com-
 130
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  then replied. He
 131 habeas corpus. Cries of
 MR. T. CHAMBERS : In rising to move for leave to bring in the Bill of which I have given notice, I can assure the House that I feel inconveniently and even painfully the difficulties under the pressure of which I proceed to discharge the duty which I have undertaken. Some of those difficulties attach to myself personally—some are inherent in the subject to be brought under discussion. It is a serious though an incidental aggravation of the difficulties in my way that, with an exception too inconsiderable to be mentioned, I rise now for the first time to claim the attention and indulgence of the House, oppressed as every novice must be, and embarrassed by the novelty of my position; but as far as these circumstances are concerned, I am very sensible that hon. Members will listen with forbearance to what I shall say, and that in trusting to their patience and kindness, I shall only share the common experience of all my predecessors, every one of whom has had the same ordeal to pass, and every one of whom has felt that the irksomeness of his task has been diminished by the consideration and indulgence accorded him by the House. Sir, the subject I rise to discuss is one not only of the gravest importance to the people of this country, but one which touches incidentally their most serious convictions and feelings. I am, and I say it unfeignedly, most anxious so to introduce this topic into debate that it may be discussed without sectarian and polemical rancour. I desire that no man's religious sensibilities should be wounded, or even his prejudices rudely and wantonly assailed, but, reserving to myself always that freedom in the expression of my own views which the purposes of debate demand, and the rules of it permit, I would abstain as far as possible from everything that could be deemed offensive or even distasteful to any Gentleman in any quarter of this House. 80 81 Cries of 82 and ironical laughter. 83 84 85 86 Roman Catholic Directory 87 Cries of from Irish Members. chevaux de frise 88 89 90 "He would take the liberty of mentioning a case which had come within his own knowledge, and for the accuracy of which he could vouch. There was a boy in the service of a certain institution in Dublin, who resided in the institution. He fortunately had a father and mother alive, and occasionally went home to see his parents. Not having visited them, however, for some time, they became alarmed, and inquired for him at the institution, but they were put off with evasive answers. At last, becoming very much alarmed, they demanded him at the head of a body of police, when he was reluctantly produced, but in so frightfully emaciated a state that it made one's blood curdle to hear of the cruelties which had been inflicted on the poor boy. If be had not had a father and mother alive, he would leave their Lordships to guess what chance he would ever have had of being released." "There was a Protestant lady in Dublin, most of whose relatives were Roman Catholics, and she had formerly been of that Church; she had, however, for many years been a member of the Protestant Church, and was bringing up her children as Protestants. She was frequently assailed, and offers of pecuniary assistance (she being in narrow circumstances) were made to her if she
 91 and cries of from the Roman Catholic Members. "He would mention a case which came under his observation two years ago. He was residing in the neighbourhood of Dublin when an application was made to him by a Roman Catholic mother, who asked him to obtain information as to the particular nunnery to which her child had been removed, She thought him to be a Roman Catholic priest, and he felt bound at once to undeceive her, or he might have heard more of her story he advised her to apply to the late Dr. Murray, then Roman Catholic Archbishop of Dunlin." Christian Times. 92 93 94 habeas corpus, habeas corpus. 95
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had hoped the hon. Gentleman would have agreed to the postponement of a decision on this point. He did not deny that this might be a fit subject for inquiry, though he thought the inquiry ought more to have been directed to the causes which led to the presentation, rather than to those which led to the withdrawal of the petition. But he thought the proper moment had not been chosen for the proposition, considering, in the first place, the long delay in making the Motion after the presentation of the petition, and its subsequent withdrawal; and considering, also, that the Motion was made so immediately before the sitting of an Election Committee to inquire into circumstances intimately connected with the subject which the House had now been discussing. Apart from all this, however, he
 148
 MR. GUMMING BRUCE  said, that the reason which induced the hon. Gentleman who had last addressed them to support the Bill—that it would do away with the double Sheriffs, was the very reason which induced him to oppose it, because he thought if they got rid of the appeal Sheriffs, they had got rid of by far the most important legal judicature in Scotland. The hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart) had suggested that both Bills should be referred to a Select Committee, and that evidence should be taken upon them. If that were done, he was satisfied the people of Scotland might bid good-bye to any Bill this year. What would be the consequence of such a step? The Committee would have a great deal of evidence brought before them from all parts of Scotland, and the witnesses would repeat over again all the articles that had appeared in the Scotch newspapers, and all the pamphlets that had already driven the Scotch Members nearly out of their wits; and, after all, he believed that they were just as competent to decide without witnesses
 162 163 164 l l 165
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, he could not agree with either of his hon. Friends who had spoken last, for he believed that in Scotland the universal opinion was, that lengthened delay would be deprecated on all sides. The main point in dispute was, not the details of the Bill, which, he was happy to hear, might be satisfactorily adjusted; but the point was, the appointment of the Sheriffs; and on that he believed that, after a mass of evidence was taken on one side and the other, the result arrived at by the Committee would be the same as that arrived at by the Royal Commission—recommending the House to proceed with the double Sheriffship. At all events, he had no doubt that, rather than sacrifice legislation during the present Session, the people of Scotland would be willing to abandon any opinions they might have formed on the subject. ["No, no!"] Assuming that the appointment of the Sheriffs was the great point, he would ask hon. Gentlemen what would be the effect of the change? The Crown had now, he believed, the appointment of some thirty-one or thirty-two Sheriffs Depute in Scotland, and behind these officers were fifty-two Sheriffs Substitute. He thought, however, that, although by abolishing the office of Sheriff Depute they might reduce the total number of Sheriffs to a certain extent, it would yet he necessary to maintain a larger number of these officers than the present number of Sheriffs Substitute, and therefore the Crown would have the direct appointment in Scotland of sixty-four or sixty-five Sheriffs. The patronage of the Crown would thus, of course, be materially increased. In the appointment of Sheriffs Depute at present, although political connexions had some influence in the choice, regard was generally had to the ability of the gentlemen selected; but he did not think it would be contended that politics had anything whatever to do with the appointment of Sheriffs Substitute. The Sheriffs Depute, being responsible for the manner in which the Sheriffs Substitute
 169 l 170
 MR. HUME  said, he must complain that the returns relating to this question, which he had moved for five months ago, were not yet on the table of the House, so that although his right hon. and learned Friend had used them, no other Member could do so. He believed there was a general demand for amelioration in the administration of justice in Scotland. He admitted that before the establishment of County Courts in England, the Courts in Scotland were superior, but now that the County Courts had been established—and it had been proposed by the late Solicitor General for Ireland (Mr. Whiteside) to extend law reform to Ireland far surpassing the law reform effected in England—he did say the people of Scotland ought not to be left with their present inadequate system of administering justice. If the Returns which had been ordered were upon the table of the House, it would be seen there were many instances of the officers having little or nothing to do. With regard to many eminent men who had risen from these offices to become Judges, it was not their holding sinecures which made them Judges. Such an argument was in direct opposition to common sense and common experience. It was their individual talent, practice, and knowledge of law which elevated them to the
 184 l l 185 l 186
 MR. MILES  said, he wished to move an Amendment, to the effect that the justices forming part of the boards should be selected by the quarter-sessions in each county, instead of being elected by the guardians. He did not propose to alter the number of the boards at all. He understood that the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department (Viscount Palmerston) intended to propose a clause making the Bill a permissive one.
 MR. FITZROY  said, that no distinct notice to that effect had been given by the noble Lord; he merely threw out the suggestion for the consideration of the promoters of the Bill.
 MR. MILES  said, that, in that case, he would deal with the Bill as a compulsory measure, and it would be his object to make it as good a measure as possible. He objected to the boards of guardians having the power of electing the members of the financial board, as they were merely an elected body themselves. Seeing the number of Amendments on the paper, he thought it hopeless that the measure could pass this Session.
 MR. HUME  said, he would submit, that they had better either give up the Bill, or determine to go on with it. Numerous Amendments were proposed, incompatible with each other, and some at variance with the principle of the Bill, which the House had affirmed. He would refer to the provisions of his original Bill introduced in 1835, and he considered that the present measure, though not so complete as he wished it, would prove highly beneficial. He hoped it would pass in its present form. The ratepayers were disatisfied. They imagined they were robbed, and it was important to give them the means of looking into their own affairs. He hoped the Government would either take up the Bill and enforce it, or let it be dropped at once.
 COLONEL HUNTER BLAIR  said, he believed that public feeling in Scotland was not decidedly pronounced in favour of either of these Bills; and he did not see how they could get at the preponderance of the feeling without taking evidence before a Select Committee. With regard to the county which he had the honour to represent, he had to state that at the meeting of commissioners of supply the opinion was against the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord; and hon. Gentlemen should recollect that these meetings in Scotland did not consist of commissioners of supply only, but that they were attended by all the gentlemen in the county, from the Lord Lieutenant down to the justice of the peace. For his part, he thought the question they ought now to discuss was, not that of a single or double Sheriff, but whether evidence should be taken before the Select Committee. A great deal had been said about the evidence that was taken before the Royal Commissioners in 1834; and he allowed that some persons of great eminence were examined before that Commission; but that was twenty years ago, and great changes had taken place in public opinion since that time. Then, again, others said that public opinion was so strong that there was no occasion for taking evidence now. But, as he said at first, he was ready to admit that great diversity of opinion existed; and the only way to get at the real state of the case was to take evidence before a Select Committee on the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord. If the right hon. and learned Lord would now say that he would admit evidence to be taken before his Committee, he would vote against the present Bill, as he was not particularly in its favour; but if he would not, then he (Col. Blair) would vote for the second reading of the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Ayr, though he would not pledge himself to support a single Sheriff. He had heard it said that if evidence were
 168
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he wanted to direct the attention of the House to the strange inconsistency of which they would be guilty if they affirmed the second reading of this Bill. There were two Bills before the House, one introduced by the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate, and the other by his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Craufurd). The Bill of the Lord Advocate had passed the second reading, and was referred to a Select Committee. They were asked now to assent to the second reading of the Bill of his hon. and learned Friend. Those Bills differed either in principle, or only in detail. If the difference were in principle, the House had already affirmed the principle of the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord; and they were now called upon, in contradiction to that affirmation, to affirm the principle of the Bill of his hon. and learned Friend. It was upon the second reading, and not before a Select Committee, that principles were discussed; and until this Parliament, he never knew an instance in which Bills of different principles, and the same subject, were referred to a Select Committee. If, on the other hand, it was a mere difference of clauses, there was no occasion for this Bill whatsoever. The details which his hon. and learned Friend wished to have considered in a Bill, as distinct from the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord, could be considered without having a Bill for the purpose; and after the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord came from the Select Committee, it would be quite competent for his hon. and learned Friend in Committee on that Bill, to bring those details under the consideration of the House. Supposing the Bills to be of opposite principles, he protested against their being referred to a Select Committee, because it was a most inconvenient course, and was throwing upon a Select Committee the proper function of that House, namely, upon a second reading deciding the principle of a measure. With regard to the question of double Sheriffs, like the right hon. and learned Recorder of London, he was undecided. A great deal might be said both ways. The County Court Judges were not the same as the Sheriffs in Scotland. The latter possessed unlimited jurisdiction, and were high administrative officers of the law, and he was inclined to think all those functions and duties should be cast upon a
 192
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, he differed from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, and who appeared to think that the question under discussion was not whether there should be an amendment in the forms of procedure in the Sheriff Courts, and whether there should be one or two Sheriffs, but whether evidence should be taken be-
 171 Legal Examiner, l l 172 173 l l Campbeltown Journal 174 viva voce
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he hoped he was even then not too late in appealing to the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate to ask him to consider the course he was about to take. Nothing could have demonstrated more clearly than the speeches they had heard that day that there was a strong feeling on this subject in Scotland, although he admitted there was a considerable difference of opinion. He would ask the right hon. and learned Lord in what instance of proposed reform of the most important institutions of the nation, and where great difference of opinion existed, had that reform been attempted without some preliminary or contemporaneous inquiry? Really, there was no occasion when that course had not been adopted. He believed if his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Craufurd) had not persisted in bringing in his own particular measure, the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate would have consented to that inquiry; but were the national interests to be sacrificed to a mere matter of private feeling? It was said they might risk losing this measure for a year; but was it not better to do that, if by doing it they could meet the strong feeling which existed in Scotland in favour of an inquiry which would perhaps settle the question. It was said that the inquiry in 1835 settled the question. He admitted that it did put down the question at that time; but he himself at one time thought it would be injurious if in any instance a Judge was resident in the district where he administered justice. With regard to England, he had seen reason to change that opinion. The County Courts system had been successful, and circumstances had greatly altered. He would not attempt to go into details, but it was argued in favour of the double Judges that there were no less than 120 appeals from Perthshire. There were not 120 appeals from the County Court Judges of Yorkshire; and he saw no reason why the number of appeals from Perthshire should not be reduced by a change of system. Still he was divided in opinion upon that change. If it were a question simply between one or two Judges, he should be strongly of
 188
 MR. ELLIOT  said, as the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had thought proper to tax the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate with an intention to pack the Committee appointed for the purpose of considering his Bill, he wished to repeat the explanation which was given on a former occasion, that the Lord Advocate had endeavoured to obtain the consent of other Members opposed to his opinion to sit on that Committee, and they had all refused. The hon. Member for Dundee (Mr. Duncan), and the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart), and other hon. Members, had been applied to, and had declined; and it was only then that the Committee had been filled up with the names which now stood upon it. He thought, therefore, no hon. Member had a right to attack the Lord Advocate for packing this Committee. Now, whilst he was on his legs, he desired to say a word about the double Sheriffs. He had a strong opinion on that point. He believed it a most difficult, if not an impossible thing, that the Sheriff should be resident in a county without being infused to an injurious degree with local feelings and prejudices belonging to the county. At any rate he was sure of this, whether that consequence followed or not, undoubtedly the Sheriff, under such circumstances, was open to imputations of a most disagreeable description, arising from a belief that such was the case. He happened to live in a county where there was a resident Sheriff; and he must say that a very large portion of the inhabitants of that county would be very glad if the system were no longer pursued in that county. He did not wish to tax the Sheriff of the county with anything improper, but he said it so happened the Sheriff was a person entertaining strong political opinions. He was a person who had resided many years in the county, who had been mixed up with local affairs in the county, and unfortunately—he did not say deservedly, but unfortunately—the opinion in the county was, that his position was injurious to the proper administration of justice in the county. He knew him to be a most amiable and excellent man, against whom he would not wish to make any imputation; but he merely stated that was the feeling of the county; and he was
 187
 MR. DUNLOP  who rose amid cries of "Divide, Divide!" said, he would not detain the House more than two minutes. In his opinion the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord would do by degrees that which the Bill of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Craufurd) would do at once. The whole body of Sheriffs, and a large proportion of the Bar of Scotland, were of opinion that, if the Bill of the Lord Advocate passed, the Sheriff Principal would be reduced to such comparative insignificance, that it could not last more than five or ten years at the utmost. The Lord Advocate had not adopted the recommendations of the Law Courts; he had given no indication of doing that which was essential to retain the Sheriff Principal, and to make it more efficient by reducing the number of actual. or semi-sinecurists. Under these circumstances, he did not think the question of the Sheriff Principal was properly raised by these two Bills. If they thought the Sheriffs ought to be done away with, he would do away with them at once, and not by degrees; but he was for maintaining them. The ground upon which he should support the second reading of the Bill of his hon. and learned Friend was this, that, however divided the state of
 190
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE : The hon. Gentleman had stated that the lawyers of Edinburgh, and other parts of the country, were more able to decide on this question than town councils; but he (Mr. Hastie) would undertake to say that, whether they were able to decide on the question or not, the town councils were better acquainted with the feelings of the public, than any lawyers could pretend to be. The hon. Gentleman seemed to attach great importance to the fact that the Faculty of Advocates in Edinburgh were in favour of the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate. Why, it would have been astonishing if it had been otherwise, because the members of that body all expected to be made Sheriffs of counties. But what was the case with respect to the lawyers who had no such expectations? The Procurators of Glasgow had unanimously pronounced in favour of a single Sheriff; the Society of Writers in Dundee, and the Society of Writers in Paisley had done the same. Now Glasgow, Dundee, and Paisley were the great
 166 status l l 167
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, no question had of late years excited more interest in Scotland than that which they now had under discussion. The city which he had the honour to represent was unanimous in favour of abolishing the double Sheriffships. Though the hon. Member who had just sat down had not spoken with any degree of respect as regarded town councils, he was proud to say that the town council of Glasgow, as well as the town council of Edinburgh, comprising men who were quite as eminent as the members of any other body, had pronounced in favour of his hon. and learned Friend's Bill.
 MR. COWAN  said, he must beg to explain that he did no such thing.
 MR. COWAN  said, he was anxious to make a few observations to the House on this important question, from the fact that when the controversy, which was exciting so much attention in Scotland, first began,
 157 Humanum est errare. Encyclopædia Britannica, l 158 l. 159
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  begged to say, that he had said nothing disrespectful of town councils. What he said was, that the Report of the Law Commission was more entitled to weight than the opinions either of town councils or commissioners of supply.
 MR. CRAUFURD , after presenting a petition from the Solicitors practising in the Sheriff Courts of Roxburgh in favour of the objects of his measure, rose to move that the Bill should be read a second time. He was anxious, he said, to take that opportunity of making a few observations, because he thought that a good deal of misapprehension of the views which he entertained upon the subject existed both in the House and in Scotland, and also because there was no small amount of misapprehension as to what were the objects of the Bill. The points at issue as between this Bill and that which was promoted by his right hon. Friend the Lord Advocate lay in a very small compass. These questions principally were the constitution of the Courts with regard to the conduct of causes, the subject of appeals, and the Judges to whom the conduct of causes should be entrusted. The House would be aware, from the several statements made and discussions taken, that in Scotland the Sheriff Courts were something akin to our County Courts in England, in so far as they were local courts; but it was necessary to add that in the Scotch courts there was no distinction admitted of law and equity, and that there was no limitation of amount in their civil jurisdiction, so that they could try causes of any amount. The Judge of the Court was in fact the Sheriff; he resided in Edinburgh, and was known by the title of Sheriff Depute. Originally it was he that did all the business of the office. And as he was the judge who tried the causes, he
 150 locum tenens l s d. 151 locum tenens, alter ego 152 avizandum 153 154 155 s. d., s. d, d. sic volo sic jubeo fiat voluntas.
 MR. CRAUFURD  continued to read the names of the public bodies which had
 156
 MR. CRAUFURD , in reply, said, he hoped the House would not throw out the Bill to stifle inquiry, because it did not suit the views of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate. He did not ask them, by voting for the second reading, to approve of the principle of the Bill, but to send it upstairs, where it could be fairly and freely discussed. He had not entered into the details of the Lord Advocate's Bill, because that could be better done in the Select Committee. He disapproved of it, and he could show the House that, as had been stated by the hon. and learned Member for Greenock (Mr. Dunlop), the Bill of the Lord Advocate did, by a lingering death, extinguish the system which he proposed to cut down root and branch at once. The provisions of the amended Bill went still further that way, and the amendments introduced tacitly acknowledged the soundness of the principle of this Bill, because the Lord Advocate had adopted some of its provisions in form, if not in detail. If the hon. Member for the county of Haddington (Mr. Charteris) had known the circumstances connected with the  Campbeltown Journal, Campbeltown Journal Ayr Advertiser Ayr Observer— 191
 MR. CRAUFURD : I beg my right hon. Friend's pardon. I referred to the remarks of a noble Lord, and not to anything that fell from him.
 MR. CRAUFURD : No, only on questions of law, as may be seen in Clause 31.
 MR. G. BUTT , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, stated that its object was to diminish the expense of elections, particularly in counties. The House was aware that the law, as it at present stood, was fixed in 1785, by the 25  Geo Vict., 149
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he hoped he should be excused, as the representative of a large constituency, for occupying the attention of the House for a few moments. The Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate was somewhat mixed up with the Bill immdiately before the House, and unless those measures were laid before a Select Committee, with power to take evidence, he thought the people of Scotland would not be satisfied. As to the measure No. 2, he could not go the length it proposed, but on one point it was so accordant with the feelings of Scotland generally, as between one and two Sheriffs, that he had no hesitation in voting for the Bill in its present shape, for the purpose of going into Committee upon it. As to the feelings of the town council of Dundee, they were unanimous—and he believed, taking the whole county of For far, the people were quite unanimous— for a single Sheriff. He would tell the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate, that whatever might be the result of his measure, and whatever the finding of the Committee, if he refused to consider this Bill, he would raise a giant of petitions not so easily to be knocked down again next year as he might imagine; and he would further tell the House, if they passed the Bill of the right hon. and learned Lord, it would require to be amended in less than six months.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he wished to propose an Amendment on the Amendment of the hon. Member for East Somersetshire (Mr. Miles), if it were adopted, to the effect that not more than one of the justices elected should be resident in the
 193
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he rose in consequence of the appeal just made to
 189
 The LORD ADVOCATE : Well, those questions would come before the House again when the Bill was in Committee. He would now conclude by appealing to the House not to shake a venerable and most useful institution, which every man of experience in Scotland was of opinion ought not to be touched by the rude hand of modern legislation. They deprecated this movement, believing that nothing but injury would result from it. On the other hand, it was not only his belief, but of all those whom he had consulted, that the Bill which he had the honour of introducing, would not only confer a benefit on the country, but that the changes it would make would be both salutary and safe.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that he had never thrown out anything of the kind; on the contrary, the hon. Gentleman de-
 178 l 179 180 181 l l l l l l l 182 l l l l l l l 183
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, after the long discussion that had taken place on the principles of the Bill, he hoped the House would indulge him for a very short time in stating the course which he meant to pursue, and in laying down the reasons which induced him to pursue it. Any other proceedings on his part at that moment would scarcely be respectful to the opinions expressed out of doors. His hon. and learned Friend said that he had complained of him as being only an English lawyer, and as trespassing on the manor of Scotch law, dealing strictly with a question which he did not understand—
 The LORD ADVOCATE : Of course, abolish the appeal upon facts, and another system of procedure became necessary.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he regretted exceedingly that he should have the misfortune to differ from his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate. He regretted also that the Scotch Members had not been able to agree, as they usually did, among themselves whether they would take the one Bill or the other. He had no hesitation in saying that the great majority of the people of Scotland —the industrial and mercantile classes— were decidedly opposed to the continuance of the double Sheriffs. The hon. Gentleman who had last spoken had made some injudicious observations as to local influence over the decisions of a local judge. No one suspected the Chairman of the Quarter Sessions in England of being influenced by the local influences that surrounded him; and why should they suppose that that would happen to the resident Sheriff in Scotland? He wanted to do away with the absurdity of double Sheriffs. There was no country in Europe that maintained such an absurd jurisdiction. Why should they not allow an appeal from the local Judge to the Court at Edinburgh, and thus place the Sheriff Courts on the same footing as the County Courts, which had given so much satisfaction in England? He must say, though the Bill of his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate had found a majority in its favour in the Committee and in the House, yet the question of the Sheriffs Courts would not he in the slightest degree advanced towards a settlement. The people of Scotland had taken up this question with the determination that they would have their local Courts put upon a satisfactory footing, and, though small constituencies and counties might be in favour of the double system, the great majority of the people were decidedly opposed to it. He wished his right hon. and learned Friend had brought in a Bill which would have long borne the impress of his name, and gone down to posterity as a monument of his legislative fame. But he would say with
 177
 MR. MACKIE  said, he agreed with the hon. and gallant Member for Ayrshire (Colonel Blair), and the hon. Member for Stirlingshire (Mr. Forbes), and if the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate would agree, as he understood he did at a private meeting, that his Bill should be submitted to a Select Committee, where evidence would be taken, he would at once vote against the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Ayr. But if the right hon. and learned Lord opposed that, he must vote for the present Bill. There was no person for whom he had a higher respect than for the right hon. and learned Lord, not only as an eminent lawyer, but as a distinguished politician; but he felt constrained and obliged to say that he had framed this measure rather with a view to consult the wishes and feelings of gentlemen at the bar, than the wants and desires
 175 l l
 MR. COLLIER  said, he thought the Bill ought to be read a second time, because it was preferable to that of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate. He did not doubt that the latter Bill would make some improvement in the law, but it was chargeable with very grave omissions, while it also retained the anomalous system of giving an appeal from a Judge who had heard the evidence to one who had not. That was opposed to all the true principles of law reform, which recognised the importance of  viva voce vied voce 176
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he was willing to believe that the various Amendments had been proposed in the hope of improving the Bill. He regretted that the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) still threatened opposition to the whole Bill, in which he hoped the Committee would not join him. As the present question was between the hon. Member for East Somersetshire (Mr. Miles) and the hon. and gallant Member for Bath (Captain Scobell) as to the precise form of the Amendment, he would suggest that they should meet and settle it in private. Meantime, for the convenience of the other business to come before the House, he would now
 194
 MR. EWART  said, he certainly did not rise to second the Amendment of his hon. Friend. He must apologise for venturing, as an Englishman, to give an opinion upon a question of Scoth law; but, having listened with great attention to the arguments on both sides, he had formed a clear opinion in favour of the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Ayr. The hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Cowan) said there were abuses in other Courts, and he seemed
 160
 MR. EWART  said, all the inference he wished to draw from the stories that had been cited on both sides was, that because one man acted badly, that would not justify the bad acts of another. Be that as it might, he was not sure that what his hon. Friend had stated superseded their consideration of the question of a single Sheriff for Scotland. He could not conceive why one Sheriff, if he were properly appointed, should not do the business that was now performed by two. It was not the fact that the single Sheriff was proposed to have a final decision, because there was an appeal to the Court of Session; and, in fact, every appeal that existed against the decision of a County Court Judge in England was given there. He did not find that, by the ancient law of Scotland, double Sheriffs were necessary. On the abolition of hereditary jurisdictions, in 1747, only a single Sheriff was appointed; he therefore thought that there was no provision in the origin of the institution for a double sheriffship. But he altogether denied that they were bound by what already existed in Scotland. If a single Judge was found sufficient for the duties in England and Ireland, he did not see why two were required in Scotland. The hon. and learned Member for Ayr, indeed, had consented to waive the question of the single Sheriff; but his plan necessarily led to that conclusion, for if they agreed to abolish the appeal on the facts, there would be no necessity for a double Sheriff. Indeed the whole question came to this, whether there should be one or two Sheriffs? Considering the question as well as he could, he confessed he was not one of those who were generally in favour of resident Judges —first, because they might be in danger of being influenced by some prejudices; and, next, because it was almost certain that after a little time they would lose their knowledge of law. He had known resident Judges sitting as coroner, for in stance, who had not retained that knowledge of the law which they possessed when they practised before the Superior Courts of England. The best course ap-
 161
 MR. FORBES  said, he did not think that the House of Commons, which was chiefly composed of English Members, was competent to deal with this question, and he should, therefore, give his vote on the principle of having it finally and satisfactorily settled. He took it for granted that the House of Commons did not wish to have this question discussed year by year —and yet, sure he was, that unless evidence was taken before the right hon. and learned Lord's Committee, and the matter fully and fairly discussed in all its details, they would have to continue the struggle month by month, and year by year. On that ground he would press the right hon. and learned Lord, and he hoped he would consent, to allow evidence to be taken before the Select Committee, otherwise he (Mr. Forbes) would be compelled, however reluctantly, to vote for the second reading of the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Ayr (Mr. Craufurd). If the right hon. and learned Lord consented to this, then he would beg the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Craufurd) to withdraw his Bill, and he thought he would do so; but if not, then he would be justified in voting against him. He had only to say farther, that he had the utmost respect for the present Sheriffs Depute; a more learned, useful, and honourable body of men was nowhere to be found, and he had the honour of numbering many among them as his personal friends.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the amount of rates over which these Boards would have control, was comparatively small, and it was not worth while to create the complicated and expensive machinery which this Bill provided. He could not avoid charging the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) with obstructing the progress of the Bill, by making an irrelevant speech just as the Committee were entering on the consideration of an important Amendment. He (Sir John Pakington) disapproved of the Bill as it stood, and should give it all the opposition in his power. At this period of the Session he thought it hopeless to attempt to pass a Bill of 135 clauses, and would suggest to the right hon. Member for Manchester whether it was worth his while to come down Wednesday after Wednesday in the vain hope of progress being made with the Bill.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, there were no less than seven Amendments on this particular clause; and if the one now proposed were adopted, it would prevent discussion on the others, which involved some of the most important parts of the measure.
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG , Controller of the Household, appeared at the bar, and presented Her Majesty's Answer to the Address of the House of Commons upon the subject of Kilmainham Hospital. It was in the following terms:—
 "I have received your Address on the subject of the admission of maimed and worn-out soldiers into the Royal Hospital of Kilmainham; and having taken into consideration the representations you have made, I have directed that immediate inquiry shall be instituted into the state of that Hospital."
 The MARQUESS of CHANDOS  said, he begged to ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the petition of the civil servants of the Crown (presented on the 3rd December, 1852) had been yet under the notice of the Government, and whether any and what stops had been taken to inquire into the allegations and the prayer thereof?
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Resolution relating to the Excise duties had been passed by the House in the usual manner, for the purpose of enabling the duties to be charged, and also for the purpose of preventing any confusion that might take place with reference to the transaction upon the part of the producer and of the consumer. It was understood, however, that the final judgment of the House in regard to those duties would remain entirely unaffected by that Resolution. The next question which arose was, whether that judgment should be given upon the second reading of the Bill, or when the House went into Committee upon it? The hon. and gallant Member for Londonderry (Captain Jones) had stated his intention of taking the sense of the House upon that part of the measure which had reference to Ireland, but had omitted to mention at what stage of the proceedings he would do so. His (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) duty would be, if the hon. and gallant Gentleman should decide upon taking the sense of the House upon going into Committee upon the Bill, to move that the second reading should take place that evening. If, however, the hon. Member should prefer entering upon the discussion when the Bill was being read a second time, of course the second reading must be postponed, and he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would make such arrangements as would secure a full opportunity for its being canvassed. He was of
 217 pro formâ,
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, he thought the discussion with respect to this Bill had assumed such a form, that it would be impossible for him to take the sense of the House upon it upon the second reading, and that he would do so when the Bill went into Committee.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  begged to say that a prosecution was at present pending, and would come on to-morrow before the Court of Exchequer, against Mr. Collett, on the subject of newspaper stamps. That prosecution, he might add, had been commenced at the express instance of the hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent (Mr. Ricardo) himself, who, having stated that Mr. Collett was anxious to have the question settled, and would discontinue his newspaper until the question was settled, he (the Attorney General) thought it but just towards Mr. Collett to institute the prosecution.
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would inquire into the matter,
 COLONEL GREVILLE : Sir, I merely wish to say one word; and certainly I should not have ventured to do so, or to trespass for a single moment upon the attention of the House, if there had not been some difference of opinion as to what took place at a meeting of the Irish Members. Having been present upon that occasion, and the statement of my hon. Friend the Member for Heath as to what occurred having been called in question, I hope I may be permitted to state what my recollection is of what took place. As far as I understood the hon. Member for Tralee, who occupied the chair on the occasion in question, he distinctly said that he had authority—he did not say from whom—to make this statement, that if the effect of our votes would be to throw out Lord Derby's Government, and to reinstate the Whig party in power, the income tax would not be extended to Ireland. I have the most distinct recollection of those words having been used.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he took that opportunity of entering his most solemn protest against the reimposition of the income tax, though he approved generally of the Budget. The income tax was not on the pockets but on the morality of the middle classes; it touched the very life-blood of their principle and honour, and though the tax had existed according to law since the establishment of the poor-law, it had never been carried out in the various parishes in assessing property for the poor, on account of its mischievous effects. He must say, the mere fact of giving the farmers a fixed amount, to be ascertained by a certain standard, was an inestimable boon, and did much to place them in an advantageous position. He should oppose the Motion of the hon. Member for Berkshire.
 MR. HUME  said, that he could not agree with the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby), or the hon. Member who had just sat down, in thinking that any man was entitled to begin farming or any other business without capital. He believed that the statement of the Members for Manchester and Cockermouth were quite reconcilable, and that while, according to the former hon. Gentleman, farmers who had adequate capital were now doing well, those, on the contrary, who had not were suffering. He thought that the assessment of the farmers to the income tax proceeded upon an unsound principle; that they ought to be assessed upon their exact profits—neither more nor less—and not upon any assumed proportion of their rent, which must necessarily be too much in some cases, and too little in others. It had, however, been always contended that it was in vain to expect from farmers a satisfactory account of their profits, because they did not keep sufficient accounts, and that therefore it was, upon the whole, better to fix a certain sum. He believed that this was yielding to a bad principle—no one should be tolerated in business who did not keep accounts. It was the only way in which a trader, which a farmer was, could be made to keep right. He had no doubt that the sufferings of farmers
 253 l.
 MR. HUME  suggested that a schedule, or some analogous measure, if it could be prepared, showing the various ways in which it was proposed to assess property on successions would better enable the Committee to judge of the merits of the question, than the explanations they had just heard.
 MR. HUME  had then no hesitation in saying that, under such circumstances, the sooner the Resolution was passed the better, because then the country would be in possession of the actual details of the measure,
 288
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  said, that the evidence taken before the Committee was only delivered to Members yesterday; there had not, therefore, been time to give so important a subject the consideration which it deserved. Under these circumstances, he should take the liberty of moving that the issuing of the writ for Rye be postponed to that day fortnight. It appeared that the franchise in that borough had, to a great extent, been brought under the control of one individual.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that being Chairman of the Rye Election Committee, the House would probably expect him to make some statement after what had fallen from the hon. Member for Shore; ham. He understood him to rest his Motion on the fact that the evidence was not delivered to Members till yesterday morning, and that the House consequently had not had time to become masters of it. That was a fair question for the House to consider, and he would leave the House to
 291
 MR. BASS  said, that having moved the adjournment of the debate when the writ was moved for, he wished to state his reason for doing so. He happened to be acquainted with many circumstances connected with the borough of Rye, and he knew many of the parties concerned in it, and having attended the Committee, he found that at least it was a case deserving consideration. But since then he had heard the opinions of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) and of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) on the subject, and it seemed to him that it would be unfitting for him (Mr. Bass) in his position in that House to resist the authority of such men. He had felt that it was his duty to confer with the noble Lord on the subject, and he asked the noble Lord to grant him an interview upon it. He had had an interview with the noble Lord, who went through the Report of the Committee, and, after very mature consideration, the noble Lord came to the conclusion that the writ for Rye ought not to issue without further consideration. The noble Lord authorised him (Mr. Bass) to communicate that as his view to the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Tufnell). As many hon. Gentlemen might not be acquainted with the circumstances of the case, it might not be an improper
 292 l.;
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he understood that the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, now absent, would reserve his opinion until after he had read the evidence. He begged to suggest that questions of this nature, deeply affecting the rights of electors, should be discussed early in the evening, and not at one or two o'clock in the morning. It was hardly decorous to be legislating on such a subject at such an hour.
 MR. TUFNELL  said, that the argument of the hon. Member for Derby (Mr. Bass) went to prove that the borough ought to be disfranchised, which was not the conclusion
 293
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he consented to the adjournment of the debate until to-morrow, when he trusted his noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) would be sufficiently recovered to attend.
 MR. FREWEN  said, he thought time ought to be given to enable Members to consider the evidence. But he wished more particularly to call the attention of the House to a concise statement published in the shape of a pamphlet by Major Curteis, which he thought hon. Members would do well to possess themselves of. In his concluding paragraph Major Curteis said—
 "There is no doubt, whatever, that a great many of the respectable and independent electors of the borough would rather see it disfranchised than that the system originated by Mr. Smith should be continued or transferred by him to another. It is to be regretted that the Committee did not prosecute their inquiries further, as the fullest disclosures would have been made of a system of corruption established by one person."
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that an hon. Member behind him (Mr. Freshfield) had given notice of an Amendment upon that part of the Resolution at which the Chairman had just arrived; and he (Mr. Disraeli) wished to know whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to make any general statement on the subject, because, if so, it might be advisable that the Committee should hear him before they proceeded to consider that Amendment.
 MR. DISRAELI : You make your estimate on the income-tax returns; but you have not taken the returns on the assessments under 150 l
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it appeared to him that the course proposed was a reasonable one, but the House would expect that the right hon. Gentleman should redeem
 218
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was the fact that, while English newspapers paid one penny, Irish newspapers paid only three farthings for their stamps?
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I do not understand whether the right hon. Gentleman has stated how the several percentages are to be charged in reference to consanguinity. Perhaps he will have the goodness to explain his views on this point.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Gentleman has made use of words which cannot be
 228
 SIR C. WOOD : Sir, I am glad that this
 225 Hansard,
 MR. E. BALL  said, there were various successions on death, which he thought should come under some principle. A man might settle property upon his widow while she remained unmarried; which property, upon the second marriage, would go to the children of the first. There were various other successions of the like nature. How did the Chancellor of the Exchequer mean to tax them?
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he was anxious to know what course the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to pursue with respect to this Bill?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, if the hon. Member would make a Motion exempting mechanics, artisans, and small tradesmen from the income tax to the extent of one-sixth of their income, he would give him his cordial support.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he rose to join the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Vansittart) in making a last earnest appeal on behalf of the farmers of England, than whom no class of the whole community was more justly entitled to the sympathy of that House, for they were placed in a most disadvantageous position by the present arrangement. When Gentlemen on that side of the House objected one by one to schedule after schedule of this measure on the ground of its injustice, the only argument used in answer to these objections was, that the same objections would equally apply to every schedule. When it was objected to Schedule A that while it pro-
 243 d. d. 244 s.; s., 245 l.; l.; l.; l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 246 l. l.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said that, if he was wrong, he should be happy to be corrected; but the figures he had given showed the proportion charged upon land.
 MR. FRENCH : I am sure, after the statement which has been made by my hon. Friend the Member for Westmeath (Captain Magan), the House will think it right that I should say something, either to contradict the statement which he has made, or to confirm it. I have to say, then, that I have no contradiction to offer to the statement of my hon. Friend, except this much—that I think he gave the House to understand that there had been some secret negotiation on the subject; whereas there was no secret negotiation whatever. Everything that did happen was open and aboveboard. There was nothing to conceal, nor any attempt made to conceal anything. If the House will allow me, I will state exactly, so far as I am aware, what was done. There was a meeting of the Irish Members held to consider what course it would be advisable to take in respect to the Budget which was brought forward by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks (Mr. Disraeli). At that meeting a good deal of dissatisfaction was expressed at the proposed partial extension of the income tax to Ireland; but it was said by some Members present that, in the event of the Government of Lord Derby being turned out upon the Budget, what reason had we to suppose that an income tax, limited in extent, or probable in its entirety, might not be imposed upon Ireland by the Government which succeeded them? The debate was going on when I left the room upstairs, and, on coming down, in the course of the evening I met the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wells (Mr. Hayter). I stated to him what objections were being urged; and I rather think I asked him whether there was any foundation for supposing that a change of policy was likely to be adopted by the leading Whigs; and whether or not it was likely that, should they again come in to power, they would introduce the income tax into Ireland? The right hon. Gentleman told me, if my memory serves me rightly, that he had spoken to some—and I think he mentioned the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax (Sir C. Wood) as one of them—and he believed that it was not the intention of the leading Whigs, if they again returned to power, to depart from the policy which they formerly pursued. After this the meeting adjourned. I went up to the next meeting, and at that meeting the chairman, the hon. Member for Tralee (Mr. M. O'Connell) stated, as well as I
 222
 MR. LUCAS : Sir, I do not wish to prolong the discussion; but as my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Dundalk has thrown some doubt upon the fact of a communication having been made to the Irish Members, I will take the liberty of stating the main facts, which I recollect as distinctly as any facts that have come under my observation. There had been such a discussion as the hon. Member speaks of at a previous meeting of the Irish Members; but at the adjourned meeting the hon. Member for Tralee, who occupied the chair, told us that he had a communication to make by authority from a leading Member of the Whig party. I do not know that "authority" was the exact word he used, but the effect of his communication was, that he was authorised to state to us, that if by our votes Lord Derby's Government was ejected from office, the Whig Government that succeeded to Lord Derby would not put an income tax upon Ireland. I have not been a party to bring this subject in any way, either directly or indirectly, before the House. I have nothing whatever to do with the question which has been raised, except in so far as a doubt has been expressed as to a matter of fact; but I thought it my duty to state to the House what was my own clear and distinct recollection of the circumstances in dispute. I am perfectly certain of this, that a statement was made to us, which I have no doubt was intended with a view to the course we might take on the Budget of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire. There can be no question it was made to us to influence our votes. Now, Sir, when a Gentleman has to make up his mind as to a particular course, and when a number of considerations of various kinds equally influence him, it is impossible for him to say which has most influence in determining his conduct; yet, Sir, as a matter of fact, there can be no doubt that the communication referred to—authorised as we were entitled to consider it, and as we did consider it—followed up by the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Halifax, who warned us not to be gulled—I am repeating the very words in the re-
 230 Hansard
 MR. BANKES  said, if the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had attended to the speech either of the hon. and learned Member for East Suffolk (Sir P. Kelly), or of the hon. Member for Berk-
 250
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he begged to
 236 237 l l. l; 238 l. 239
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, though he in-
 251 sub silen-tio, 252
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, it had been admitted that there were inequalities between rateable and unrateable property in the assessments for local purposes. He, therefore, wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether it should not come under the consideration of the Government to devise some scheme for the more equitable assessment of such property for local purposes?
 MR. FRESHFIELD  suggested that when the Committee next sat he should be allowed to propose the Amendment of which he had given notice, and that the debate might then proceed upon it.
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, after what had fallen from the hon. Member who last addressed the Committee, about' the profitable returns of farming, he had no hesitation in saying that, in Lincolnshire, where farming was quite as high as in the county where the hon. Member farmed, taking the last three or four years, the farmer had not only been making no profit, but actually had been living upon capital. As to the boasted advantages of free trade, he was prepared to admit that there had been a change; but if he considered in what way that change operated on those who held those farms at the time, he would find that they had reaped but a very doubtful advantage. If hon. Gentlemen imagined that farming was conducted during the last few years at a cheaper rate, he must explain to them that it only arose from the fact that implements and machinery were much cheaper than what they previously had been. At the same time, however, it should be remem-
 257 s. l. l. l.; l. l. l s. l. l. l., l. 258 ad mise-ricordiam,
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman a question with regard to a very important description of property, on which I think he has not given the Committee sufficient information. He proposes to draw a new line between rateable property and property not rateable. Now, I want to know upon which side of that line he intends to put railway property, which is a property as hon. Gentleman know, very great in amount? Railway property already pays rates to a very large amount; it will be seen how large, when a return which I have moved for shall be laid upon the table, as it will be in two or three weeks. I should like, if the right hon. Gentleman has considered the point, that he should state to the Committee upon which side of the line he intends to place railway property.
 MR. BRIGHT : That might be, but if other property was equally charged for these taxes, where was the special case for demanding relief for the land? Therefore that argument entirely failed. But what was the proposition of the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Vansittart)? Why, in a simple form it appeared to be this, that farmers who paid 300 l. l. l.; l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l.; 248 l., l. l. l. 249
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down had been speaking from what he should call "a Suffolk brief." He had been badly advised, for the facts were not precisely as he had represented them to the Committee. Now, first of all, with regard to the string of local taxes which he said' the farmer had to pay, it must be within his recollection that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), when he sat upon the Treasury bench, disposed of all those taxes in one of his able speeches in a very summary manner, and satisfied the House that all the arguments on which he had formerly based his Motions for the redress of the grievances of this class were utterly fallacious; and, in fact, that this category of peculiar burdens was to be included among the obsolete matters henceforth not
 247
 MR. HEATHCOAT  inquired who was to give the rental in succession? Was the
 290
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, that although the prosecution in question had been undertaken at his suggestion, yet he was under the impression that a Bill would have been laid upon the table of the House in compliance with the promise made upon the 6th December. His desire was that the prosecution should have been transferred from Bow Street to the Court of Exchequer, which was, he believed, the proper tribunal.
 MR. J. L. RICARDO  said, he wished to know when the promised Bill with regard to newspaper stamp duties would be laid on the table of the House. The reason that he put the question was, that several prosecutions for an infringement of the law were now going on, and it was important to know what the Government intended to do in the matter.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL : Sir, the hon. Member for Meath has asserted, in seeming contradiction of what I stated to the House, that an authorised communication was made by me to the Irish representatives. Sir, I never made such a statement. My recollection is perfectly distinct upon the question, and I repeat, I never stated that I was authorised to make the communication which I did make. I could not have stated anything of the kind. 231
 MR. O'CONNELL : Sir, as my name has so frequently been alluded to in the course of this debate, I think it right to offer a few observations to the House in corroboration of what has just fallen from my hon. Friend the Member for Roscommon (Mr. F. French). There were no secret negotiations whatever between myself
 223
 MR. KENDALL  said, he was sure the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) could never have travelled through the district which he had the honour to represent (Cornwall), or he would not have made the statement he had done. It was true the price of wool had risen of late, but the farmer had been obliged to sell his fleeces before the rise took place. It was true, also, mutton had risen; but they had been constrained years ago to reduce the amount of stock on their farms. It was not the fact that they were in a state of prosperity: all that could be said for them was, that they were now in a state of existence. And now another difficulty had come upon the farmers, for the price of labour had risen by one-third what it was a few years ago. He thought it due to the farmers to make these observations; but at the same time he must say he regretted the present Motion was brought forward, though, if it were pressed to a division, he would vote for it.
 MR. KENDALL  said, he must explain that he had said they were so hardly pressed for the last two years, that the moment they had any wool they sold it,
 256
 MR. MALINS  said, there was one point which the hon. Member for Cockermouth (Mr. Aglionby) had made clear to his mind, and, as he thought, clear also to the mind of the House, and that was that the hon. Member was a Protectionist, and that as a Protectionist he ought to have voted with hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House. It was another of the proofs they received how frequently men's better judgment and experience were influenced by party considerations; for the hon. Member depicted in glowing colours the great distress which the agricultural interest had suffered for many years past, and was still suffering, and yet he would take the present and every other opportunity of voting against that interest. And then came the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) with one of those disquisitions which he gave the House so frequently on political economy, and laid down the principle that no man ought to hold a farm who could not put down 10 l. 254 Cries of l. l 255 l. l. s. d. l, l. s. d.; l., l. s. d.
 MR. MALINS : I think what has passed ought to be a caution to some Members of this House as to the manner in which they make statements purporting to be matters of fact. Correctness and accuracy are still more incumbent upon them when they state matters of fact with the declara-
 226
 MR. MALINS : It now appears that the "accredited agent," whom I ventured the other night to say we know as well as if his name had been mentioned—for the House could not have understood the words to refer to any one else—was not a party to any compact whatever; but that, so far as he was concerned, the whole thing from beginning to end, was one of those numerous conferences to which the right hon. Gentleman was a party—and I suppose no one is a party to a greater number of conferences than my right hon. Friend—it was one of those loose conversations in the lobby—one of those loose conversations in the lobby, the library, or on the steps—in which I suppose every Member of the House from time to time, takes a part. I admit that I do. Although politically opposed to the right hon. Gentleman, I have known him for twenty years; he is a member of the same profession as myself, and I must say it always affords me pleasure to converse with him. But when an hon. Member, on the strength of one of those "loose conversations," gets up and makes
 227
 MR. MALINS  observed, that the succession to property was dependent on many other events than death. For instance, a man settled property on his widow as long as she remained unmarried. In the event of her contracting a fresh marriage, would the person to whom the property would pass, be called on to pay the duty?
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  inquired whether it was intended to introduce one Bill only, and to make it applicable to the whole of the United Kingdom, or a separate Bill for each part?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, a question had been put in the early part of the evening relative to a measure closely connected with the succession tax, namely, the registration of settlements. He wished to ask what was the right hon. Gentleman's answer, as he did not exactly comprehend it? He understood there was to be no provision for the registration of settlements in this Bill, and he wished to know whether there was to be a measure to bring about a compulsory registration of settlements?
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY : I am sure every hon. Member must feel with me the extreme inconvenience of having such lobby conversations made the subject of serious discussion in this House. I have a very clear recollection of all that passed at the meeting of Irish Members, to which so much reference has been made; and having taken rather a prominent part at that meeting, I shall at once clear up all mystery about it, by putting the House in possession of what actually did occur. That meeting was held on Friday, the 10th of last December; the day after the Irish Tenant Right Bill of Mr. Sharman Crawford had, along with other Irish Land Bills, been referred, with the consent of Lord Derby's Government, to a Select Committee. We, the Irish Liberal Members, had assembled, not secretly but in an open and straightforward manner, after the example of the Scotch representatives, and as it was our clear right and duty to do, in order to consider together the course that we ought conjointly to pursue for the benefit of our country. It was stated at that meeting by the hon. Member for Meath, that we had obtained from the Government
 232 233 234 235
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had listened with great satisfaction, so far as he was personally concerned, to the speech of the hon. Gentleman, and although he could not assent to his proposal, he admitted that no one could have presented his case in a more favourable and intelligent manner. He begged to assure the hon. Member that he had not the slightest intention of making any charge against him for not having gone on with his Motion on a former night. It was the duty of Members of the Government to press forward public business as far as they could; but it was no doubt also the duty of others to bring forward what they considered they might in justice propose. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was very glad to hear the hon. Gentleman refer to the succession or legacy duty, because he hoped the Committee would soon arrive at the discussion of that question. He would not expend the time of the Committee by noticing the remarks which the hon. Gentleman had made upon his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) conduct in imposing various taxes upon the farmers, notwithstanding the comments he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had made upon the taxes intended to be put upon them by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) in December last. But the taxes which fell upon yeomen—men who cultivated their own land—were not peculiar to that class of persons; they applied to all other owners of land. It should be borne in mind, however, that there was no house tax put upon them (as was the case with the Budget of December last), and that there was no income tax put upon them where their income was under 100 l. 240 241 242 l. l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : If so, then that will be a certain addition, and that addition can be very easily ascertained, because the income tax gives it to us. But I think, on reflection, that I have included it in the 49,000,000 l l 283 l l l l., l. l., 284 bonâ fide 285
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I entirely concur in the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman. Considering the great importance of this question—considering that I have only had an oppor-
 259 260 261 262 263 bonâ fide 264 s. s. s., l., l., l. 265 266 267 bonâ fide l.; 268 ——"extrema per illos Justitia excedens terris vestigia fecit." 269 l., 270 hiatus 271 272 l. l.; l., l. 273 274 275 276 277 l., l. l. l. l.; l., l. l. l. l. 278 l. l. 279 l. l. l. 280 d. d. 281 l., l. 282 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General was better informed than he could possibly be with respect to the prosecutions in connexion with newspapers which were now baing carried on. With respect to the general question, he should observe that the hon. Member did not seem to be aware of what had fallen from him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) a few clays before with respect to the Bill in question. He had then stated that a Bill upon the subject of newspapers had been prepared, and was about to be submitted to the House; but that there were some provisions in that Bill which bore upon other subjects, namely, the questions of the repeal and the modification of advertisement duties, and that, therefore, it would be for the public convenience that the introduction of the Bill should be post-
 219
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he should consult the convenience of the House, therefore, as far as possible in the matter.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he should propose the second reading of the Bill after the Resolutions upon the subject of the legacy duties should have been disposed of.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he should take care that ample time was given.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was obliged to the noble Lord for giving him this opportunity of answering the question, because he thought it appeared from the anxiety on the subject that the answer which he had given to a former question on the same subject could not have been fully apprehended. What he had intended then to say, and what he very gladly restated now, was, that the subject of the petition of the civil servants of the Crown had been and was
 216
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That is a question, Sir, of some difficulty.  Primâ facie,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the right hon. Gentleman had, in point of fact, asked two questions: one, whether a Bill for the registration of settlements was to go forward; and another, whether the Bill he was about to introduce, if the Resolution were passed, was to include or imply a provision for the registration of such documents. The Committee would judge for themselves, when they saw
 289
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In the first place, I do not feel, in my position as Chancellor of the Exchequer, that I have any strength to spare at this moment in order to deal with the subject suggested by the hon. and learned Gentleman; and, in the second place, neither am I authorised on the part of the Government to enter into it. It is a subject of immense importance, which muse be considered upon its own merits.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The necessary process will be, that the party coming into possession will be called upon to give his own statement of the gross rental upon which he is taxable, together with the deductions which he claims; and those deductions will have to be settled according to general rules.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That subject has not escaped my attention, but I thought it was one which must necessarily be reserved until we had the Bill before us. It is not a subject altogether new. The present Legacy Duties Act embraces it of necessity. All visible property, which is not real property, is already subject to all these considerations; and I think the machinery now proposed will be found adequate to the disposal of the question as affecting real property. I will only remind the hon. Baronet that there is no question of valuation of property, so called. With capital values in regard to real property we shall have, generally speaking, nothing to do. The whole basis of the proceeding will be the net annual value.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : One Bill for the whole.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have said that the tax was always to accrue in consequence of a death; but I did not say it was always to accrue in consequence of a death that had immediately preceded the succession. In this principle of the measure I think the learned Gentleman will find the key to his question.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : What I stated was this—that I could not represent the maintenance of the existing scale of consanguinity as being absolutely vital to the measure; but I wished to put it to the Committee that it was vital either to maintain the existing scale of consanguinity, or, if they think fit to reduce the tax now charged upon the succession of strangers, then in the last case they must be prepared materially to increase the tax upon direct successions. The preference of the Government is most decidedly in favour of the former course; and their proposal will be to maintain the existing scale of consanguinity.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied that there was no option in this respect for the Committee. They must pass the Resolution, and the Bill would contain the information required by his hon. Friend.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The view that the Government take, and that which I think the House approves, is, that there is a necessity for passing the Legacy Duties Resolution, and for getting the Income Tax Resolution through Committee before we proceed to
 287
 MR. HAYTER : Sir, I trust, now that this matter has been more fully explained, that I may be permitted to say a few words as to the share I had in the conversation which took place between the hon. Members for Roscommon and Tralee and myself. I dare say that the statement of the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. F. French) is perfectly true in substance, but I have no recollection of it. I do not at all dispute the facts. I have no doubt that he had a communication with me in the hurried
 224
 CAPTAIN MAGAN : I did not—I deny it. ["Order, order!"]
 CAPTAIN MAGAN : Sir, I must be allowed a word in explanation. The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has thought proper to state, in plain English, that I have not told the truth. He has fastened upon an expression which I made use of—"an accredited agent." Now, Sir, I considered the hon. Members who communicated with the Irish representatives—and I maintain I have a right to consider any hon. Member in whatever light I may think proper—I considered those hon. Gentlemen who were favouring a change of Government, as acting in the capacity of. accredited agents, and I believe I was fairly entitled to regard them in that light, from the circumstance of their being generally favourable, one to the Whig party and the other to the Peelites, and from the fact also of their being strongly in favour of a change of Administration. But I did not state that they were accredited agents.—I merely stated that they were considered as such; and I contend that I had a right to consider them as such, in the same manner as I have now a right to consider the hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House as the accredited agent of Lord Derby. Sir, I certainly dispute the statement which that hon. Gentleman has made with respect to what fell from me on the present occasion. I suppose, Sir, I must speak to him strictly in a Parliamentary sense, but, nevertheless, I will say that his statement was both malicious and untrue.
 CAPTAIN MAGAN : Sir, I have no objection to withdraw the epithets, but the sense remains.
 CAPTAIN MAGAN said : Sir, I perhaps ought to apologise for again bringing before the House a subject which has been so frequently alluded to; but as it is one in which I am personally concerned, I hope
 220
 MR. BOWYER : Sir, I am anxious to say a few words upon this subject, especially because I was present at all the meetings held by the Irish Members in the early part of the Session; and, because, as I have voted very frequently against Her Majesty's present Government, I cannot be supposed to have any bias in their favour. Now, Sir, I can only say that at not one of those meetings did I hear any communication, either by an accredited agent or by any other person, as to the intentions of the Gentlemen who now occupy the Treasury benches with respect to the extension of the income tax to Ireland. No doubt, as we have been told, conversations were held on the subject, in some of which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wells stated his impression of what he believed would be done in the event of Her Majesty's Opposition becoming Her Majesty's Ministers; but, Sir, I am quite sure that nothing more took place than that, I may say, that I knew nothing of this matter till two or three days ago, when it was mentioned by the hon. and gallant Member for Westmeath; but as a circumstance which corroborates my impression of what took place, I may mention that at the meeting of Irish Members held immediately before the debate which resulted in the expulsion from power of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire and his Friends, there was a feeling among some of us that some communication ought to take place between those right hon. Gentlemen who now constitute Her Majesty's Government and ourselves, before we should resolve to give a vote which would in all probability produce a change in the Administration. There was also an opinion among us—an opinion entertained by myself and others—that such a course was not desirable upon the whole; but if communications had already taken place, through means of an accredited agent, or any other authorised person, as to the intentions of the Whig party with respect to the imposition of an income tax upon Ireland, I think the discussion to which I have referred would not have taken place among us; and I submit that the mere fact of a difference of opinion among us must show that no communication by an
 229
 MR. BOWYER : Sir, with reference to what has fallen from my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Meath, I have only to say, that I do not for one moment deny that there had been conversations as to what the Whig party would do, or would probably do, in the event of their coming again into power; but I still assert, that I, for one, did not understand that any statement was made to the Irish Members by an accredited agent, or other authorised person, and that, in short, I did not understand that anything occurred beyond the conversations I have mentioned.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, it would be impossible, at this hour of the night (a quarter to twelve), to proceed satisfactorily with the discussion. He would therefore move that the Chairman do report progress.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, from what had fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Malins), he seemed to be the schoolmaster of the agriculturists and landowners, to teach them their business; but he could only say, after hearing his opinion about capital employed in farming, he should be very sorry to be his client. What he had understood his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) to say was, that which every landowner knew very well—that the great distress among the agriculturists had arisen from persons taking farms without considering what amount of capital they had to cultivate them with. Formerly 10 l. l. l.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY : It did appear; then, that the landowners got their rents!. It was rather a quiet proceeding on the part of the landowners to ask them to put their hand into the public purse in order to make these rents last a little longer. He believed that in all these cases there was growing up a feeling among the tenant-farmers, which would tend ultimately to the benefit of all. They were looking to the question of what capital was required before they took a farm, instead of that absurd competition which took place at one time for farms, when a man who was doing tolerably well with a farm of 300 or 400 or 500 acres was anxious to rise in the scale of farmers, and, without looking to the capital required to carry on his business, went and borrowed a certain amount of capital to enable him to take a larger farm. But there was another thing they were looking too, and that was, tenant-right; and if landowners would let their farms at an honest profit, they need not be afraid about finding men with capital enough to carry on their business. As to the Motion before the House, he thought that, having agreed to the income tax when agriculture was not so prosperous as it was at present, hon. Gentleman opposite had brought it forward at the wrong moment, and he should therefore vote against it.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : Sir, whether the practice of the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down corresponds with his professions—whether or not he has introduced the authority of lobby conversations—whether this discussion has been raised on sufficient grounds—whether it is calculated to elevate this House in the public estimation—whether representative institutions though out Europe may not be prejudiced by the manner in which this first of all representative assemblies has latterly permitted its proceedings to be interrupted, it is not for me to determine. But I do hope that the good sense and good feeling of the House, looking to the mass of public business that is, before us, will consider that sufficient space has been allowed to hon. Gentlemen to sot themselves right in the judgments of each other out of the House, and that we may at last be permitted to resume the business for which we were sent here. I do not allude to any particular Members—I cautiously abstain from saying any one word that can give offence to hon. Gentlemen on either side; but I do respectfully submit to them that we have had enough, and perhaps more than enough, of this discussion: and when you, Sir, called the Serjeant at Arms to introduce the Messenger from the House of Lords, I must say that I had hoped that proceeding would have interrupted the conversation, and would have induced hon. Gentlemen to think that its continuation was unnecessary.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had not in his statement touched upon the manner in which the valuation and appraisement of estates should be made on succession. The expense of such valuations at present was enormous; and he wished to know whether any allowance would be made for that charge?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he was desirous of taking the earliest opportunity of expressing the views which he entertained upon this subject. He entirely agreed in that part of the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer last night, in which the right hon. Gentleman expressed his sense of the immense importance of the question before the Committee. He (Sir J. Pakington) considered that proposal to be, not only the most important feature in the Budget of the right hon. Gentleman, but he considered it to be one of the most important financial proposals that for a long series of years had been submitted to the Legislature of this country by any Finance Minister. But further than that, he could not agree with the right hon. Gentleman. He entertained the strongest disapprobation of the proposals which the right hon. Gentleman had submitted to the Committee.
 326 327 328 329 d. 330 l. l., l l. l.; l. l. l.; l., l. l. 331 l., l. l. l. l. l., l. d., d., l. l. l. l.; l., l. l. 332 333 "All taxes upon the transference of property of every kind, so far as they diminish the capital value of that property, tend to diminish the funds destined for the maintenance of productive labour. They are all more or less unthrifty taxes that increase the revenue of the Sovereign…at the expense of the capital of the people." 334 "The question was a most extensive and complicated one. No just conclusion could be drawn without looking to the whole of the stamp duties and taxes on conveyances. Any modification of the probate or legacy duties, or extension of them to other property, could not take place without a change in other burdens that bear in different ways on different kinds of property." 335 l. "The death of a father to such of his children
 336 l. l., l., l. 337 Times l. l. l. 338
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, it had been remarked that walls had cars, and therefore he would not object to address the House, although there was scarcely a House to address—a circumstance which certainly was not symptomatic of very great alarm being entertained by the country on the subject of this tax—at any rate there seemed to be very little interest taken in it on this occasion. It was said of Dean Swift, that, finding himself and his clerk the only worshippers in his church, be began, "Dearly beloved Roger, the Scripture moveth you and me in sundry places." So he (Mr. Drummond) thought he might say, "This question moveth you and me, Mr. Chairman." With respect to the alleged hardship which this tax would inflict upon the daughters in great families, it would inflict such hardship no doubt; but they must arise  ex necessitate rei, 342 343 344
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the state of the House showed the interest which was taken in a question which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Freshfield) called a war upon property. With the permission of the select party present, he (Mr. Williams) would endeavour to fill up some of the time which must elapse before the division took place at twelve or one o'clock. He was sorry the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington) was not in his place. He should have liked, had the right hon. Gentleman been present, to have observed on the long speech he had made in opposition to the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In one part of that speech he (Mr. Williams) entirely agreed, where it was said that the legacy duty as at present imposed was most partial and unjust. The right hon. Gentleman, after that, went on to argue that there should be no extension of the tax to real property, and gave as a reason that the tax in its present form had existed for nearly sixty years. It was fifty-seven years since the landlords imposed a legacy duty on the savings of the whole mass of the community, and on every one who might receive a legacy of 20 l. l 345 346 l. l. l., l. l., l., l. l.; l., l. l., l. l. 347 l. l.; 348 l. l.; Progress of the Nation, par excellence
 MR. AGLIONBY  observed, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, throughout his address last night, had admitted the inequalities existing between the duties
 349 l. l. 350
 MR. LIDDELL  said, it was the circumstances under which the tax had been brought forward, and recommended to their notice, rather than exemption from the tax, which would influence his vote that evening. He was surprised to hear that a large remission of taxation was to be made to classes other than the proprietary, and that then the deficit so created was to be supplied by an increase of taxation on that burdened class. For his part, he was decidedly opposed to the addition of any new burdens to the already heavily burdened landed interests of the country. He looked upon the retention of the income tax as a great injustice. The tax was originally imposed to enable the country to bear unrestricted foreign competition, and for the benefit of the labouring classes.' Those remissions of indirect taxation, no doubt, had fulfilled the object for which they were proposed; but the landed interest had derived no benefit whatever from them; and it was a great injustice to make still further remissions now, and to call upon the real property of the country to make good the deficit so created. There was a limit to direct taxation, because if, by the imposition of direct taxes, you crippled the employers, whence would come the revenue anticipated from the employed? He had heard the Chancellor of the Exchequer a few nights ago, plead with great pathos the cause of the orphan daughter and the desolate widow with regard to the income tax. That tax would be paid for the long period of seven years upon their usually small fortunes or jointures—in most cases very small; but in addition to that the right hon. Gentleman now proposed to tax them with an additional burden, in the shape of a tax upon their succession. He could not understand how the right hon.
 351 l; A laugh. 352
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, the chief ground of objection which had been taken to the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was, that the proposed tax bore with injustice upon the landed interests. He must, however, say that the interests of no hon. Gentleman on the other side of the House could be more entirely bound up with the land than his were, and this being the case, he was anxious to take that opportunity of stating the reasons which induced him to support the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Hon. Gentlemen on the other side had admitted that in
 353 354 355 356
 MR. CAYLEY  said, he had heard with great satisfaction the speech which had been made by the noble Lord (Viscount Goderich) who had just sat down—a speech full of promise and ability, and doing honour even to the distinguished name of the noble Lord. The noble Lord seemed to imagine that the landed interest was desirous of shielding itself against its fair share of taxation; but if the noble Lord had reflected for a moment he must have seen that the landed interest possessed property of a kind which it was utterly impossible to shield from taxation. That was one of the difficulties which land had to contend with as opposed to personalty, for the latter being evanescent and invisible, often escaped contributing its fair share of taxation. The very case quoted by the right hon. Gentleman in his Budget speech proved this, for he showed instances of shopkeepers who had not paid more than a sixth of what they ought to have done. The right hon. Gentleman had also clearly shown in that celebrated speech that land paid 2 d. 357 s. l. l. 358 d. d. d. l. d. l. d. l. l. l. l. 359
 MR. PETO  said, since he had had the honour of a scat in that House there were certain terms which he had often heard, but had never had the pleasure of hearing explained. He had heard, for example, of "peculiar burdens on land;" but never had he been told what those peculiar burdens were. Again, with regard to the phrase, "financial justice," he had never
 360 361
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, it was evident that the hon. Member for Norwich (Mr. Peto) had been a very short time in the House, for he had said that he had never heard that land was subject to any peculiar burdens of local or general taxation; that he had never heard this taxation described, or its incidence explained. If so, he could not have been in the House when the right hon. Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) opened the debate that evening; and although he was anxious to support the Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he could not be aware of the, for him, unfortunate circumstance, that the right hon. Gentleman had admitted that rateable property, including land, was subject to a large amount of peculiar and exclusive taxation. Then the hon. Member for Norwich (Mr. Peto) said, that land had risen in value by five years' purchase, subsequent to, and, if he (MR. Newdegate) understood him rightly, in consequence of the repeal of the corn laws; the hon. Member seemed to speak of this with disappointment; he must view the rise in the price of land with the eye of a purchaser. But he (Mr. Newdegate) would ask the hon. Member whether there was no circumstance to account for the recent rise of prices, but the free-trade legislation? That legislation could not raise the prices of articles to which it
 362 363 1. d. d. 364 365 d. d.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the hon. Member for the North Riding (Mr. Cayley) had made a somewhat pathetic appeal to him on the question of the excise taxes. But the hon. Member ought to bear in mind that the Budget made great remissions of the excise duties, and surely nobody expected that these duties would all be taken off at once. The time might come when there would be surplus sufficient to allow for the remission of the tax in which the hon. Member took so great an interest. But the hon. Member was one whose opinion ought to be taken with a great deal of suspicion on a matter like that before the House, for he had held very heterodox opinions on the subject of land, and what ought to be done for the land by that House. The hon. Member had himself furnished to Mr. Dodd—a gentleman who supplied some very valuable information to Members of that House—a statement which showed the opinions with which he had come to Parliament. He (Mr. Bright) believed that the hon. Member stated himself to have come to that House with opinions of this nature—that he wished so to legislate for agricultural protection, as to keep wheat fluctuating between 56 s. 366 s. 367 s. 368 369 370
 MR. DISRAELI  rose, and cries of "Divide, divide!" and recommended his Friends on that side of the House not to offer any opposition to the Resolution in that stage, in order that the Government might introduce their Bill, and that the sense of the House might be taken on the second reading, when they had the details of the plan fully before them.
 The CHAIRMAN  then read the Resolutions on the Assessed Taxes.
 MR. MILES  said, the House must recollect that this was the second Committee which had sat upon the question; and that consequently the matter had been fully investigated. As the Committee had not recommended the postponement of the writ, he thought it ought to issue.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he regretted that he felt compelled to come to a different conclusion. If they issued the writ in this case, it would render their proceedings on election petitions a perfect farce. This was a very flagrant instance, for in addition to a most vicious system of loans, it was notorious that the grossest treating had been resorted to. Yet it was only the other day that they refused the writ for Harwich, where there was hardly a tittle of evidence. Here was a case in which the hon. Gentleman who had been unseated had deposited 2,000 l.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY,  in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, there was no objection to the principle; on the contrary, he had received every assurance of support on both sides of the House. He would appoint an early day for going into Committee; and if Gentlemen would do him the favour to express their opinions as to any alterations, he should be happy to consider them.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY : Sir, perhaps the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer will have the kindness to explain what appears to be a matter of doubt with regard to packs of hounds. I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether masters of hounds are to be assessed at 12 s.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE  said, the country would look with astonishment upon the course adopted by the House, with regard to the issuing of writs. The hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley) set himself up as a kind of public prosecutor; but a person who assumed such a character, he thought, should be a little more consistent. He was continually getting up making statements, and moving resolutions, either for the delay of writs, or for the prosecution of men. A great many of these party debates, he (Lord A. Vane) would suggest, might be avoided, if some Government would bring forward some uniform rule for the guidance of the House,
 377
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, seeing the hon. Member for Westbury in his place, he wished to ask him whether it were true that the new regulation with respect to the sale of coffee and chicory had been evaded; and, if so, whether it was the intention of the Government to make any alteration?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he did not exactly understand what business was to be proceeded with on Thursday.
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR  said, he would submit to the hon. and learned Member that it was not desirable that a new writ should issue for Maldon at a time when an Address from that House to the Throne for a commission of inquiry into the practices at elections for that borough, had been sent up to the other House for the consideration of their Lordships. He understood that a Motion would be made, after the Whitsuntide recess, by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, that their Lordships should concur in that Address.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, perhaps the noble Lord would inform the House as to the course of public business next week. It would be very convenient if they could know what business was to be taken on Thursday and Friday next.
 MR. DISRAELI : As the order is somewhat changed, I think it would be extremely inconvenient that we should have the second reading of the Income and Property Tax Bill on Thursday next. I should remind Her Majesty's Ministers that the noble Lord the Member for the City of London promised that before the Whitsuntide holidays he would announce the day upon which the statement would be made with reference to the future administration of the Indian Empire. It would be convenient that we should be informed of that, especially as the promise has been made.
 MR. DISRAELI : I think, if the right hon. Gentleman could fix the second reading of the Income Tax Bill for Monday, and could fill up the interval with other business, it would be much the more convenient course.
 MR. COWAN  said, he begged to ask the Chief Commissioner of Works whether an arbitration has been offered to Dr. Reid, on the part of the Government, in reference to the course pursued towards him at
 324
 MR. FREWEN  said, the evidence taken before the Committee was very voluminous, and hon. Members had not yet had an opportunity of reading it. He was therefore in favour of the postponement of the writ.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, if the hon. Gentleman had already spoken in this debate, he could not address the House again.
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Gentleman having been good enough to give me notice of his question, I will endeavour to state precisely what has been the usage of the House in this respect. The order is as the right hon. Gentleman has quoted it, and there is nothing in that order which states that the Government business shall have precedence. On Thursdays I can, therefore, only interpret the Order by the usage and practice of the House in this respect. The rule was first made in 1848, since which it has been renewed every Session until last Session, when, from being a Sessional Order, it was converted into a Standing Order. In 1850 I find there were several Motions made giving Orders of the Day precedence upon alternate Thursdays, without giving priority to the Bills introduced by the Government. The Government have been in the habit of claiming precedence for their own orders on Thursdays whenever the Orders of the Day have precedence, except in cases where the contrary has been expressed to be the intention of the House. Under these circumstances, merely inter-
 321
 MR. SPEAKER : I beg to remind the right hon. Gentleman, that, long before the rule was enacted to which I have referred, Wednesday was always considered a Supply day; and it has been only of late years that it has been given up to the consideration of Bills brought in by Members unconnected with the Government.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he felt it his duty to oppose the second reading of this Bill. He did not want to have any election in which he was concerned a sort of mourning or funeral party, with scarfs and hatbands, mortcloths and tapers. He wished to see more expense and more merriment at elections. He was not one of those scurvy candidates who, while they professed to have the deepest anxiety for the welfare of constituencies, conducted all their proceedings upon a cheap, dirty, mean, and nasty system. Some people were afraid to spend a sixpence at elections—they had not the heart to do it; but for his part he liked to see his constituents enjoy themselves; and he would never strive to curtail their innocent pleasures. It was an old and established maxim,  In vino Veritas.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had a suggestion to offer to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer for a new tax, from which a large sum of money might be realised, at the same time that it would tend to the relief of native industry, a thing for which he would always stand up. His suggestion was, that the right hon. Gentleman should impose a tax—and a heavy one too—on the lamentable influx of foreigners into this country. [ Laughter.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he could only tell the right hon. Gentleman then, that he should state the matter again on a future occasion; it should not be forgotten.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he should support the issuing of the writ. He thought it was neither constitutional nor just to suspend issuing a writ unless with the view to some ulterior proceedings which it was expected would terminate in the disfranchisement of the borough. The first Committee on the Rye election recommended the suspension of the writ in order that a further investigation should take place. Accordingly, another Committee was appointed, and the result of their inquiry was now before the House; but the Chairman of that Committee had expressed himself favourable to the issuing of the writ. Under those circumstances—though he was the last man to defend the practices which had taken place—he should vote in favour of the writ being issued.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that the answer which the noble Lord had just given only expressed the general sentiment which was pervading the House on the subject. At the same time, if there was no important Government business coming on on Thursday next, it would only be an act of justice to the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson), as well as some convenience to the House, to enable the County Rate Bill to come on that evening.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he hoped it would be distinctly understood by the Committee that the Resolutions were assented to  pro formâ,
 MR. GOULBURN  said, the hon. Gentleman, having seconded the Motion, could not speak again upon it.
 MR. TUFNELL  said, he considered that the only safe course was to go by the opinion of the Committee. The majority of the constituency of Rye appeared to be as pure as any constituency could be, and as it was idle to suppose that there was any chance of passing a Bill for disfranchising the borough, he was decidedly of opinion that it was the bounden duty of the House not to keep the constituency any longer from the exercise of their electoral privileges.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, as a Member of the Committee, that if they thought there was a case made out for the disfranchisement of the borough, they would certainly have recommended the suspension of the writ, and it was because they considered there was no such case that they had not adopted that course.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that frauds on a very large scale were committed in effecting the sale of packages containing a mixture of chicory and coffee. If the letter of the law were not exactly violated, its spirit was most decidedly broken through.
 325
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he thought that the hon. Baronet would agree with him in thinking that it was not desirable that the correspondence in question should be laid upon the table of the House until the communications between Her Majesty's Ministers and the Governor of the Isle of Man had been brought to a close. He (Mr. J. Wilson) thought he should be able, immediately after the recess, to lay the Bill upon the subject of the Customs Duties upon the table.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he would suggest to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, before he brought in his Bill, he would not consider the propriety of getting rid of those absurd taxes on armorial bearings and hair powder. Hon. Gentlemen cheered when the question of the hounds was under discussion, from a sympathy, he supposed, with that class of subjects in the realm. With regard to these taxes, he could not be suspected of any personal interest; but he knew there were a great many cases in which men who had happened to seal a letter with the impression of some animal, not to be found on
 372 l. l.,
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  said, he entirely concurred with the hon. and gallant Mem-
 376
 MR. BASS,  who was again received with loud cries of "Spoke!" said, he only desired to state, in answer to what he
 375
 MR. BASS  then rose, but was received with loud cries of "Spoke!" which obliged him to resume his seat.
 MR. BASS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BASS  said, the Committee stated in their Report that the remedy for the corruption existed at Rye should be provided for by future legislation. What was the good of the Committee making such a Report if another man was to be elected by similar corrupt means? He was informed by a gentleman who had long represented the borough, and who had authorised him to make the statement, that not only was the borough of Rye under the control of Mr. Jeremiah Smith, but that he had actually offered it for sale. That was not a mere rumour, for there were gentlemen who could prove that he had offered to enter into negotiations with them for the sale of his influence. It would be an absolute farce to issue the writ, when it was well known that the electors could not exercise their freedom of choice.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he must beg to ask a question in reference to the Orders of the House, relative to the course
 320
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that inasmuch as there was great doubt what public business would come on on Thursday, and inasmuch as he had a strong  primâ facie
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he would beg to remark, with all respect, that if the Government were entitled to priority on Thursdays, unless shut out by special enactment, they would by the same rule be entitled to priority on Wednesdays. He, of course, knew what the understanding on the matter was, and he had no wish to interfere with any understanding that had been come to; but he respectfully submitted that if the House intended, not only that Orders of the Day should have precedence over Motions, but that Government should also have precedence, they had better say so by a distinct Resolution, in order that there might be no mistake; because, if the doctrine were to be held, that unless they barred the claim of Government to priority, the Government would necessarily have precedence, the result would be that Government would practically have the priority on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays, and there would actually be left no possible day for an independent Member to conduct a Bill through the House.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am extremely sorry that, in the state of the public business, it will be impossible for the Government to accede to that proposition.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In what I said with respect to the second reading of the Income Tax Bill and the Spirit Duties Bill, I proceeded upon the assumption that it was doubtful whether the second reading of the Spirit Duties Bill would occupy the whole evening. As to the Income Tax Bill, if hon. Gentlemen prefer Friday in next week to Thursday, I have no objection to accede to that. But I am in the hope and expectation that there will be no objection to go into Committee upon the Income Tax Bill upon the following Monday, provided it be, as I have promised that it shall be, printed and circulated at once.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That, of course, must in some degree depend upon the progress made tonight. The House should understand that the great object of the Government at the present moment is to press forward the financial business; not, of course, without due consideration, but so as not to allow other business to interfere with its progress. Among the financial business, that which is the most important is the Bill for the renewal of the income tax up to the point of passing through the Committee on the Bill. What I propose is, to report the Resolution to which the Committee of Ways and Means came with reference to the income tax immediately. An hon. and learned Gentleman has given notice of a Motion with reference to exemptions from the income tax under a certain rate; but I have received an intimation from him that he will be disposed to make that Motion where, in point of fact, it would be most properly and regularly made—in Committee on the Bill. That being so, it will be perfectly practicable for me to bring in the Bill this evening, and to circulate it to-morrow morning. Under these circumstances, I hope that the House will be disposed to take the second reading of that Bill upon
 319
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was understood that the second reading of the Income Tax Bill stood fixed for this day week. They were now in this condition: they had to-night and next Thursday to dispose of. The right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) asked for a night to enable him to proceed with the County Rates Expenditure Bill. [Mr. M. GIBSON: Part of a night.] It really would be tantalising the right hon. Gentleman to give him only part of a night. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Kelly) that there was an abundant supply of Government business in immediate connexion with the public service to occupy both Thursday and Friday next. In the first place, there would be the report on the Legacy Duty Resolution—supposing them to get it passed this evening—and then there was the second reading of the Spirit Duties Bill; and then, if they disposed of those two subjects, it was most desirable for the public service that the Secretary of the Treasury should have an opportunity of asking the House to go into a Committee of Supply.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was impossible to give an absolute pledge until he knew the result of to-night's discussion. Could the noble Lord tell him what was going to take place to-night? If so, it would be very handsome on the part of the noble Lord, and he should have no difficulty in describing the course of business on Thursday. Assuming that the debate on the Legacy Duty to-night should finish in time for other business, he would proceed with the Spirit Duties Bill on Thursday. He would move that first, unless there should be a discussion on the Report of the Legacy Duty Resolutions. After the Spirit Duties, he should propose that the House go into Committee of Supply. He understood some hon. Gentleman imagined that the Hackney Carriages Bill would come on on that day, and that would be the case if a convenient arrangement could be made for that purpose.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would lay on the table of the House an amended copy of the Customs Resolutions, containing certain modifications which the Government had thought right to make, which would be printed and circulated with the Votes tomorrow morning.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The question which is just put to me affords an apt illustration of the utility of the course which the Committee have been kind enough to allow me to adopt—of passing the Resolutions in a general form. When the Bill is introduced, the hon. Member will see it is not proposed to interfere with the system which at present prevails with respect to packs of hounds.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to explain that the reason why he had proposed that the House should go into Committee was to give effect to the intention which he announced last night, of passing the Resolutions on the assessed taxes in a general form in Committee, so that he might be able to found
 371
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had understood he had the permission of the House to go into Committee for a merely formal purpose, in order that the Resolutions might be passed as the foundation of a Bill, and not to en-
 373
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he hoped the noble Lord would not press his Amendment. He trusted the House would endeavour to divest these questions of party politics, and to decide upon them judicially. He looked upon the present question as one of justice. In his conscience he was convinced that there was no ground for the disfranchisement of the borough, and he must therefore vote for the issuing of the writ.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY : In order that fair play may take place with regard to the borough, I am anxious to hear what the hon. Gentleman the Member for Derby, who has taken the question into his hands with reference to the postponement of the writ, has to say on the subject. To enable him to make his statement, I move that the House do now adjourn.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would withdraw his Motion by leave of the House. [ Loud cries of and
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he would take that opportunity to put to the hon. Secretary of the Treasury in public a question which he had before put to him in private. The House would recollect that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to alter the Customs duties with respect to the Isle of Man. Now, communications had taken place between Her Majesty's Ministers and the Governor of that island upon the subject in question. He wished to know what the intentions of Her Majesty's Government upon the subject really were, and also to ask if there was any objection to lay the correspondence to which he referred upon the table of the House? About nine years ago
 323
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he would now move that Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to make out a new writ for the electing of two burgesses to serve in the present Parliament for the borough of Maldon.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he would withdraw the Motion.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, in reply to the first question, he had to state that Dr. Reid was removed from his office, in charge of the ventilation of the Houses of Parliament, by the late Government; that, in consequence of his removal, Dr. Reid claimed compensation; that the Government agreed with him that the claim should be submitted to arbitration; that a claim was prepared, and signed by the Government and Dr. Reid, the Government appointing Mr. Forsyth as their arbiter, and the two arbiters appointing the Hon. George Denman as the umpire. With regard to the second question, he had to state that Dr. Reid claimed 10,280 l. l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I beg to remind the House that when my noble Friend (Lord John Russell) moved that Orders of the Day should have precedence on Thursdays, he stated distinctly that his object was to give an opportunity to the Government for carrying on the business of the country, and I do not conceive that in the House at large there was any misunderstanding with respect to that point. With regard to the question of my right
 322
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  having moved that the House on its rising should adjourn till Thursday next,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, bethought that, under the circumstances, it was impossible for the House to agree to the Motion for 'the issuing of a writ, there being an Address to Her Majesty at this moment before the other House of Parliament on the subject of the election at this borough.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had been misunderstood in what had fallen from him on the subject of the writ. What he had said was, that, on the part of the Government, he was not prepared to oppose the issue of the writ. He had stated, that in the general course of proceeding, writs were not postponed, except with a view to ulterior proceedings; but the House would recollect that all the members of the Committee stated there was no ground for disfranchisement. There appeared, therefore, no ground for postponing the writ.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had no objection, on the part of the Government, to urge to the issuing of the writ; but at the same time he was disposed to leave the question entirely in the hands of the House. It did not appear there was any strong ground for suspending the writ; and the general practice was, that if the issue of the writ was postponed, it would only be with the view of bringing in a measure bearing upon the place for which the writ was to issue. He understood it was the intention of an hon. Member to give notice of such a Bill; but, as far as the Government was concerned, no opposition would be offered to the issue of the writ.
 VISCOUNT SEAHAM  said, he had always made it a point on divisions for the issuing of writs to vote in the same lobby with the Chairman of the Committee. He regretted to say that in the present instance he could not vote with the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington, because he believed there was a necessity for further inquiry.
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had informed him when he intended to propose his Resolution for the imposition of an additional duty of 8 d. 381 s. 8d.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was sure the estimate would not nearly cover the expense. It was supposed by some persons that Holyhead would not answer as a harbour of refuge, and that the original plan had been deviated from. It was a subject very interesting to Irishmen, and he should be glad to know whether the plan was likely to answer.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to knowupon which of the Channel Islands
 397
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that the hon. Gentleman would not be prevented from putting questions on that subject.
 MR. CORRY  said, the object of Sir Robert Peel in introducing the Maynooth Endowment Act was to avoid the annual recurrence of irritating discussions on this subject; but that object would be quite defeated by a vote of this nature. He had
 401 26,3601. l. l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he thought that the answer of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer was excessively unsatisfactory. Whatever the hon. Member for Westminster might say, the expression of opinion was strong in Ireland upon this subject. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had not given the frank denial which they should have expected from any member of the Government. The right hon. Gentleman had, however, no hesitation in adding to the taxation of Ireland. Now
 409
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would accept the challenge given him by the right hon. Gentleman, and he now begged to ask him whether he was aware of any intention on the part of the Government to abolish the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland?
 COLONEL DUNNE : I am satisfied with that answer.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he thought the financial reformers of that House would fall into contempt if they took away such paltry votes as these. They had now voted the money for the plates in Scotland, and he protested against a measure of this kind being allowed to one country which they would not allow to another. Considering the heavy calamity with which Ireland had been visited, and the spirit of oppression under which the people suffered, he thought the present moment would be an unfortunate one for depriving them of the opportunity of enjoying the exhilarating sport of racing.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the estimates, expense, and results of the different drainages executed under the orders of that Board, and the various complaints of persons interested in these drainages. There were two Committees appointed to inquire into the subject of drainage. The
 411
 MR. FITZROY  said, the hon. Gentleman was not aware, perhaps, that in the country a great deal of the insolvent business was done in the County Courts.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the generality of prosecutions in Ireland were carried on at the expense of individuals, and not by the Crown. But if the system of taxation was to be equalised between the two countries, he thought the same alleviation in regard to the expenses of prosecutions should be extended to Ireland as now prevailed in England. Another point to which he desired to call the attention of the Government was, that in England the schoolmasters under the poor-law were paid out of the Consolidated Fund, whereas in Ireland it was not so.
 COLONEL DUNNE  would have no objec-
 414
 MR, LUCAS  moved that the Chairman do report progress.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  thought the proposition of the hon. Gentleman very unreasonable; but if he was really determined to persevere with it, he (Mr. Smith) begged to submit to the noble Lord the leader of the House whether, with a view to the expedition of business, it would not be better at once to postpone the present vote, and proceed with others to which there was less objection. He begged at the same time to express a hope that the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department would take an early opportunity of giving the House some explanation on the kindred subject of transportation? He found that there was an enormous increase proposed under this head, and it was mentioned that 120,000 l.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he wished to take that opportunity of putting a question to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London. In a discussion which took place some weeks ago, the noble Lord, in speaking of the improvement which might be introduced into the Universities, used language to this effect—namely, that he should not invite the assistance of Parliament, unless the Universities should show themselves to be unwilling to propose certain reforms themselves; and he believed the noble Lord used the expression of "within the space of either one, two, or three years." Now, there was a very unhappy vagueness about this statement; and he put it to the noble Lord, whether, in the interest of the Universities themselves, and in order especially to give the University of Oxford a fair notion of what he intended, it would not be better to fix some definite period within which, if the Universities did not bring forward some satisfactory measures of reform, he would think it his duty to invite the assistance of Parliament.
 The CHAIRMAN  asked if the hon. Member for Rochdale proposed to divide?
 MR. FITZROY  said, that he hoped the House would agree with him in thinking that the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R, H. Inglis) had not adduced reasons sufficiently strong to justify him in acceding to the proposition for referring the measure before them to a Select Committee. The hon. Baronet and the noble Lord who had seconded his Motion, stated, that they wished to have certain Amendments introduced in the Bill. Now he had no hesitation whatever in saying that those Amendments should meet with his most respectful consideration, and should—if such a proceeding were not inconsistent with his duty—be readily adopted. If the Bill were referred to a Select Committee, the evidence which would be laid before that Committee would be the testimony of the omnibus and the cab proprietors themselves, while the public would be almost altogether excluded from placing their views and opinions before the Members who would compose that tribunal. On the contrary, the course which he (Mr. Fitzroy) proposed to take would enable hon. Members in a Committee of the whole House to consider impartially the measure before them, to bring their experience to bear upon it, and to suggest such Amendments as they deemed desirable for the advantage of the public, and the proper regulation of those conveyances with which the Bill proposed to deal. The hon. Baronet was not quite correct in stating that the last Act on the subject was passed eighteen or nineteen years ago. He had forgotten that the 6th & 7th of Victoria, by which the licensing of cabs and stage-carriages was at present regulated, had been passed long since the 1st & 2nd of William IV. As to the arbitrary powers conferred on the Chief Commissioner of Police by the Bill, the only addition to those he already possessed was, that of inspecting carriages and horses, and granting the owners a certificate, or giving them notice, in case they were unfit for public use, and then suspending their licences. He considered that power essential to the working of the Bill. If appeal was given against his decision, was it not plain that the Bill must be useless? for, when the Chief Commissioner decided that a cab or horse was unfit for use, and the owner appealed, the public might have to go on for three months using it till the appeal was heard. He was perfectly ready to admit that there was an immense amount of property at stake; but on the other hand, there ought to be some
 427
 MR. BECKET DENISON  said, he was of opinion that the Bill ought to be sent before a Select Committee. If that course were not adopted, the proprietors of stage and hackney coaches would not have an opportunity of stating their case; and, with all respect to the House, he thought it was not a competent tribunal to decide upon this matter without bearing the other side of the question.
 COLONEL BLAIR  said, there was a probability of a railway being made from Dumfries to Portpatrick which would render the harbour more useful.
 MR. KINNAIRD  begged to suggest, that a carriage-road should be made to cross the park from Victoria-gate to Albert-gate. At present it was very inconvenient for persons to go a considerable distance round in order to get from Paddington to Kensington.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he would call the attention of the Committee to a passage in the speech of Sir Robert Peel, when he put the establishment of Maynooth on its present footing, in which he proposed that the Board of Works should undertake the repairs of the College, as they undertook the repairs of other public buildings, and that the costs for its repairs should be included in the annual estimate of the public works. He, therefore, considered that the right hon. Member for Tyrone (Mr. Corry) had misapprehended the purport of that speech.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, there was no vote granted by the House of Commons which the public looked upon with greater suspicion, not to say dislike, than this Vote for secret service; and that feeling was not likely to decrease in consequence of certain suspicions which had lately spread throughout the country with regard to secret services, and the watching and inquiring about the proceedings of various individuals, whose names it was not necessary for him then to mention. He wished to know if the sum now asked for was the same in amount as that which was voted last year?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  seconded the Amendment. He hoped they would give the subject a calm consideration. He knew that there was a general feeling of dissatisfaction towards persons connected with hackney carriages, because there was hardly any gentleman who had not at some time of his life been in altercation with some of these persons. Still, they ought to look carefully into this Bill, and take such steps as would give an opportunity for all its provisions to be thoroughly sifted. That could not be done so well in the House as in a Select Committee. He was not opposed to the principle of the Bill; he wished to see the public carriages of the metropolis made better, cheaper, and more convenient; but he wished to do justice, at the same time, to the drivers and owners of the carriages. The Bill concerned cabs and metropolitan stage carriages. His hon. Friend, in introducing the Bill, made a long speech in which he spoke of cabs only, and did not mention the metropolitan stage carriages, so that those concerned in those vehicles had no knowledge at first that the Bill would extend to them, nor could they have discovered it from the title of the Bill. The first objection he had to the Bill was, that it gave no power of appeal, but it gave to the Chief Commissioner of Police power to grant licences and take them away. He might be told that to send the Bill before a Select Committee would occasion delay; but the old adage was true—"most haste, worst speed," If the hon. Gentleman had adopted his advice, and had consented to the Select Committee when he first suggested it, they would already have had the Report on the table, or at least the Committee would have made considerable progress with its inquiries. There could, however, be no pretence for saying that the proposal would lead to delay, for the Bill was not to come into operation until the 1st of October, and, therefore, there was plenty of time. For Sir Richard Mayne he had the highest esteem, but they might not always have such a chief commissioner, and, at all events, the power was too much for one man. He could not conceive what objection there could be to refer the Bill as proposed.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he was extremely happy to find that such was the case. He had gone there the Sunday before, and the gardens were not then open. There was another part of the gardens, called the pleasure grounds. That was opened only from Midsummer to Michaelmas; he hoped his right hon. Friend would give directions that those grounds should be thrown open every Sunday in the year. He would now call the attention of his right hon. Friend to Richmond Park. There was a considerable part of that park not open to the public. He meant that portion which lay between Roehampton and Robinhood-gates, and extending up to Lord Bessborough's villa. It was on a slope, and had no trees upon it, but if the people were allowed to go there they would witness a beautiful scene. It would be a great advantage to throw that into Richmond Park.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished to call the attention of his right hon. Friend the First Commissioner of Works (Sir W. Molesworth) to the Royal Botanical Gardens and Pleasure-grounds at Kew. The number of visitors to these gardens in 1841 had been only 9,134; in 1851 they had been 327,900; and last year they were 231,000. Very few of the working classes, however, were able to take advantage of the gardens; and the reason was this—that they were not open on Sundays. He thought it peculiarly desirable that hardworking men, who were shut up in close alleys and unwholesome dwellings during the whole of the week, should have an opportunity afforded them of visiting so delightful a place of recreation on a Sunday. Why were these gardens shut on Sundays? It could not be contended that they were kept closed out of respect to a due observance of the Sunday.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he had to state, in the first place, that he did not think this question could be settled by leaving it as it stood at present. In his opinion it was much more probable that it would be settled by a Bill which should make a general alteration in the oaths to be taken by Members of Parliament, than by recurring to a Bill of the nature of that lately rejected by the House of Lords; but at what time such an alteration might be proposed, he could not at present undertake to say. He, however, might observe that a Bill had been introduced into the other House of Parliament for an alteration of the oaths. He had not seen that Bill, but it was possible that it might be sent down in a short time, and in such a shape as to remove the difficulty which now existed.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  was understood to say, that the proceeds of the sales would be brought into the public accounts. With
 389
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he wished to give notice that on Friday the 3rd of June, his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Control would state the views of Her Majesty's Government respecting the future government of India.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  replied, that there were various expenses connected with
 393 l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he must beg to be allowed to mention, in the first place, with reference to the Vote then under discussion, that it had been stated several times on behalf of the Universities that they felt aggrieved that certain stamp duties should be levied upon them, especially upon taking degrees, and that they considered, on the whole, that they were more burdened by public taxation than benefited by the votes annually accorded them by the House of Commons. This statement he had certainly heard from quarters entitled to respect, and so far he might say that the whole question of this Vote combined with the burdens laid upon the Universities, was being considered by Government, and that if any arrangement could be made so as to render it unnecessary to ask for this Vote, they would be glad to adopt it; but at present, especially considering that the grant to those ancient institutions was the result of an engagement with reference to the civil list between that House and the Sovereign, he could not consent to withdraw the Vote. With respect to the question which had been put to him by the hon. Member for Newcastle-upon-Tyne (Mr. Blackett), he did not think he had stated any specific time—either one, two, or three years—beyond which he should consider the Government were free to propose any enactment which they might think necessary for the
 419
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he had no objection to the course proposed by his
 417
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he trusted the Committee would not agree to the proposal. There was certainly no reason for reporting progress so early as eleven o'clock.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he had no objection to take the discussion on the bringing up the Report; but he could not consent to stop the progress of the Committee now, merely because the hon. Gentleman was not ready to make his statement.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, in reply to the noble Lord (Lord D. Stuart's) question, that it was the same sum as was voted last year; and to the question of the hon. Member for Southwark, that no part of it was appropriated to the detective police.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thought the question was one which could hardly be dealt with on the estimates.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the Amendment of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, if carried, would merely have this effect, that the doors and windows of the College of Maynooth would not be repaired; that the rooms would not be properly lighted, and so forth; but he wished to put it to those hon. Members who had voted in the last division on the principle of opposing all religious endowments, whether the question stood now in the same position as it did before the Amendment of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams). That Amendment tested the feeling of the Committee on the question of religious endowments; and as the Committee had refused to take away all votes for religious purposes, and as the question of principle was thus decided, he wished to put it to hon. Members whether they would single out one endowment belonging to that denomination in Ireland which obtained the least of public support, and deprive it alone of its share of the public money? He hoped hon. Members would sec that the question was totally altered now, and that the question was not whether they would vote against religious endowments generally, but whether they would single out one denomination for refusal.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he must reiterate his conclusion that those who were about to vote against the grant would be merely singling out the Roman Catholics of Ireland, on whom alone to visit the exercise of their principle.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, he wished to call attention to another part of our coast very much in want of protection of this kind. He referred to the harbour of Aberdeen, where the  Duchess of Sutherland
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he wished to ask in what time the works at Alderney would be completed, and what would be the expense?
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he should vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), on the ground that he objected to all religious endowments whatever. He had visited Maynooth, and had found that both the old and the new buildings were kept up; and that no fewer than 400 students were accommodated in them—a number far too large, he thought, for the market. He wished to know whether voting on this Motion would preclude his asking questions as to any other part of the vote, because he thought the proposed charge of 5,790 l. s.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that if there was to be a division against the Queen's plates in the next Vote, it would be inconsistent to allow a similar item to pass unobjected to in the present Vote. He therefore moved that it be reduced 200 l.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he wished to know whether the Government were aware that a considerable saving might be effected by transferring the business of the Insolvent Debtors Courts either to the Courts of Bankruptcy, or to the County Courts, or to both?
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  begged to ask if any portion of the Vote was applied to the support of the detective police?
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he agreed that the University of London was on a very different footing from the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. The latter not only excluded those who could not conform to the established religion of the country, but prevented any divulgement of facts with regard to finances and endowments, by the imposition of oaths. They ought to look with great jealousy on societies that would not give the slightest information as to what were their incomes, or how they were derived. They must assume that their resources were abundant, and, therefore, a contribution from the State unnecessary. He was a great friend to education, and was glad to see the system of instruction by professors extended; but he thought the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge had money enough of their own, and should oppose the vote.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, the great objection of the Nonconformists was to any allowance of the State for the teaching of religion, and, therefore, he should join in voting against this sum.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that he did not know why money should be laid out on this harbour more than another.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he should support the proposal for referring the Bill to a Select Committee. They ought to afford a hearing to the parties most interested in the question, before they determined on requiring a better description of vehicles than those at present in use, and on effecting, at the same time, a considerable reduction of fares.
 MR. BARING WALL  begged to ask the right hon. Baronet the Chief Commissioner of Works (Sir W. Molesworth), whether the bronze statues in the metropolis are ever inspected, or the rust cleared off, and whether they are under the control of any Government office, and whether it is intended, before the scaffolding is removed from the statue of Charles I. at Charing-cross, to repair it?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he fully concurred in the statement of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Rich), that he was actuated alone by a desire for the welfare of that extended Empire in bringing forward his present Motion. But he could not agree with the hon. Gentleman that the course he had taken was the one best calculated at the present moment to accomplish the desired object. The subject was to be legislated upon in the course of the present Session, and it was most desirable it should be so. He therefore hoped the hon. Gentleman would not consider it discourteous of him that he did not then enter on the question. His noble Friend (Lord J. Russell) had already fixed a day on which the subject would be taken, and on that day it would be his (Sir C. Wood's) duty to explain the views of Her Majesty's Ministers on the subject. It would clearly be of disadvantage to press on the question sooner, and he therefore abstained from saying more on the subject.
 MR. HENCHY  said, that representing the county in which the races were principally run, he could safely say the people of Ireland attached very great value to
 410
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that through the agency of the constabulary, information such as the hon. Gentleman desired with reference to agriculture had already, so far as Ireland was concerned, been laid upon the table of the House. With respect to Scotland he had to state that the Highland Agricultural Society were taking considerable pains to furnish information of a similar character. The inquiry which had been instituted by that body, however, did not embrace the whole of Scotland, but was limited to Sutherland and a few other counties. In England an inquiry into the state of agriculture had been also set on foot, and would be prosecuted during the present year in Hertfordshire and Devonshire. The experiment in both Scotland and England was upon a limited scale; but he hoped that arrangements would be made for a more comprehensive scheme of inquiry in connexion with the subject of agriculture in the United Kingdom than at present existed.
 MR. MIALL  would only say, in reply to the noble Lord, that hitherto those who had taken the view that he (Mr. Miall) did with regard to this question, had entered into combination with hon. Gentlemen opposite in order to carry out their object wholesale. The decision of the Committee, however, prevented that object from being carried out, but that should not prevent them now from endeavouring to effect their purpose in detail.
 MR. MIALL  said, he should take the same course, because he should have opposed any similar vote, whatever the religious body might be that was to have been benefited by it. One characteristic all these ecclesiastical items appeared to possess in common, namely, that when once put in the estimates they remained there until the Committee thrust them out.
 MR. MIALL  said, he should certainly divide the Committee upon the whole of his class of votes.
 MR. MIALL  said, he understood this Vote would be given for the purpose of religious teaching in Belfast. A majority of the Committee had objected to a vote of a similar character with regard to Maynooth College, in Ireland. The principle laid down was, not that they objected to the Roman Catholic religion as such, but to public money being given for religious teaching of any kind. In consistency, therefore, they were bound to refuse this Vote.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he thought the aged gentleman at present filling the office of Crown prosecutor in Ireland, should be got rid of, and by that means the system of public prosecutions could be amended.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he had a Motion in connexion with this Vote to bring before the House, which would create discussion, as it referred to the treatment of Roman Catholic prisoners. It was, he thought, too late to discuss it then, and he considered that it would be better that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. LUCAS  said, the noble Lord had put the case as if he (Mr. Lucas) was not prepared to bring on the question. He had not put it on that ground, but upon the ground that it would lead to a longer debate than there was time for this evening, and because several hon. Gentlemen who wished to take part in the discussion were now absent. In the details appended to the Vote be found several sums, amounting to 4,520 l. 416
 MR. LUCAS  said, he was quite prepared to vote against all endowments whatever; but he wished to draw attention to the fact that in this very Vote there were several other items of a similar character. There were sums of 38 l l l. l. s. d. l. s. l. s. l. l l. s, 1. l. s. 1.
 MR. LUCAS  said, that in reply to the appeal which had been made to him, he had only to observe that the hon. Member for Mayo (Mr. G. H. Moore) had given notice of a Motion which was to come on upon the 31st of this month, for a Select Committee to inquire into the whole question of religious equality in Ireland; and it was on that account that he objected to nibbling Motions like these. With respect to the statement of the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Hadfield), he had only to say that he had received a circular begging of him, in pathetic terms, to support the Irish  Megium Donum,
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he hoped the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas) would himself move the addition of the items he had mentioned. Personally there was nothing that he (Mr. Hadfield) would so strongly oppose as the endowment of the denomination to which he himself belonged. Indeed they had struggled against the  Begium Donum,
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he also begged to enter his strong protest against this grant to the Universities. Those Universities excluded the majority of the people from the benefits which they yielded, and it was a piece of effrontery to tax this same majority of the people for the support of institutions from which they were excluded.
 MR. SANDARS  said, he wished to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, what course Her Majesty's Government intended to adopt this Session of Parliament with the view of introducing a system of agricultural statistics into the United. Kingdom; and in putting this question to the right hon. Gentleman, he begged to inform him that in the month of December last he put a similar question to the right hon. Gentleman's predecessor, who inform-
 379
 MR. BAILLIE  said, no answer had been given to the question as to whether the expenditure of the Houses of Parliament was under the control of the Treasury or the Board of Works.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that it had always appeared to him that public works were carried on at a much greater cost than similar works executed for private individuals. The fact was, that persons made enormous profits out of Government contracts. This was a subject to which the attention of Parliament ought to be in an especial manner called, for there did not appear at present to be a sufficient control exercised over these matters.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he thought the argument of the hon. Baronet the Member
 421
 MR. RICH  said, notwithstanding the
 382 383 by 384 l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l., l. 385 l. l. l. 386 s. d. s. d. 387 8d. d. 1. 1. l. l. l. 388
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he must admit the unsatisfactory state of the expenditure on the Houses of Parliament. The subject had occupied the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and himself, who had called on Sir Charles Barry to render such accounts as would enable them to ascertain the state they were in, and he hoped shortly to lay before the House full accounts of all that had been done.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he could not exactly promise a new estimate. What was being done was this:—that the Treasury was determined to know exactly the condition in which the expenditure was, and when that information was gained they would turn their attention to the cheapest mode of finishing the building. They were clearly of opinion that things could not go on as they were.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he was afraid there was very little; but better care would be taken in future.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the hon. Gentleman was quite mistaken in supposing that the duties of the County Court Judges were light. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that it had recently been found necessary to provide additional accommodation on account of the increase of business.
 MR. J. WILSON  was bound to say that the sum in question would not be sufficient
 395 l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, if he had not heard from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Fitzroy) an expression of great willingness to receive suggestions upon points of detail from both sides of the House, he would have rather seen the Bill referred to a Select Committee. He thought that, as most hon. Members were great cab riders, and experienced personally, therefore, the inconveniences of the present system, they ought to be careful not to allow their individual annoyances to influence them in legislating upon this subject. In his opinion, the unfortunate condition of cabs in the metropolis was to be attributed very much to the want of a proper municipal government in London. At present the drivers were exposed in our
 429
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, he also would refer to the privations to which the cabmen were subject, and the temptations to which they were exposed. They admitted that many improvements were capable of being effected by legislation; and those who had good cabs would readily submit to the inspection. He was in favour of the Bill being referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. WISE  said, in England the Queen's plates were provided out of the Queen's private property, and he thought the Votes for Ireland and Scotland were for purposes that ought to be supported by private individuals.
 MR. WISE  said, he wished to direct attention to the item for Queen's plates in Scotland under this Vote. He was not sufficiently learned to define the reasons which had originally suggested such grants of public money; but he supposed it was to encourage the breeding of horses. He did not object to racing, but he thought that to support it by public money was a mal-appropriation of the public funds.
 MR. WISE  said, he could not conceive for what purpose this secret service money was required.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he would admit that the present mode of assessing the county rates in Ireland was defective, and he recommended that the attention of Irish Gentlemen should be directed to the subject. He thought it was a fair matter for inquiry, and it was one to which he was ready to devote his best attention. With reference to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Wexford (Mr. M'Mahon) he was not at all disposed to substitute the English system for the present mode of carrying on Crown prosecutions. At the same time he was far from saying that the Irish system was perfect, and he believed that means might be taken, by a different organisation in the localities, for collecting the evidence in a more perfect shape previous to the trial. The subject had already engaged the attention of the Irish Judges, and in the course of another year he hoped that some satisfactory conclusion would be arrived at.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he wished to know if the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington (Colonel Dunne) would wish to see equality between the two countries carried out so as to include the payment of the constabulary in Ireland from local rates, as in this country, rather than be borne as at present by the Consolidated Fund?
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he agreed with those who thought it desirable to establish public parks about this great city; but, as it certainly was the richest city in the world, the inhabitants ought really to put their hands in their pockets, as they did in the provinces and country towns, to provide parks for themselves. In Manchester the people had subscribed 30,000 l.
 MR. LOCKE  said, the cab owners ought not to be precluded from a hearing before a Select Committee. Had such a course been proposed with reference to any larger interest, it would at once have been acceded to as a matter of justice. While much improvement was required in the cabs, and a Bill for that purpose might be necessary, they ought not at the same time to insist on a reduction of the fares, which would be an interference with the rights of property and commercial enterprise.
 MR. BUCK  said, he wished to call the right hon. Baronet's attention to the necessity of a harbour of refuge which should afford shelter to shipping on the coast of Wales and the northern part of Devonshire,
 ME. J. WILSON  said, with regard to a work of such magnitude, he could not say that the estimate in question would cover the expense.
 MR. KENDALL  said, he was much obliged to the hon. Member for bringing forward the question, in which he represented an overwhelming amount of public opinion in this country.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he trusted that some alteration would be made in the present system with regard to the appointment of Crown prosecutors. He believed that at present the failure of justice was in too many instances to be traced to the fact of effete nominees of the Attorney General having to contend with young, active, and more experienced men than themselves.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, it was impossible to have justice in Ireland unless the English system were adopted in respect to the prosecution of criminals.
 MR. MALINS  said, it was a desecration of the name to speak of the four-wheeled things that went about London as "property." Those nailed-together boards which were called cabs, and in which ladies and gentlemen were put to be driven about, were a disgrace to the metropolis. As to springs, there were no springs at all, and you were shaken to death in them. Then, again, the drivers were the most ignorant men in the world, and frequently did not know the difference between the east and the west end of town—the north and the south side of a square; so that, he thought, there ought to be an examination into the qualification of the cab driver before he was appointed. He differed from his hon. Friends around him, in approving most cordially of the principle of this Bill, and in thinking there was no need of referring it to a Committee upstairs.
 MR. MALINS  said, he would suggest that it would be a matter of great convenience to the public if there were two gates at Kensington-gardens, one for per-
 390
 MR. SPOONER  said, there was an item on account of carcase walls and ordinary finishing of the building, including warming and ventilating works, 91,700 l. l.
 MR. SPOONER : Was the whole expenditure under Sir Charles Barry's control, without any control from the Treasury or the Board of Works?
 MR. SPOONER  said, he rose to move the omission of a sum of 1,2352 l. s. l. 399 l. s. l. l. l l. 55;
 MR. SPOONER  said, he must protest against the supposition that his vote had been registered against State endowments in general for religious purposes. His vote had been given without any reference to those other items alluded to by the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas), and of which, let him add, he could find no account in the estimates. Three times had he asked for an explanation of the vote they were going to take, but all explanation had been denied him, and he was now wholly unable to say what they had voted upon.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, of which he had received notice previous to the recess. A Bill had passed that House for the purpose of relieving the Jews from certain disabilities, and had been rejected by the other House of Parliament. The City of London had returned a Jew to represent it, but that Gentleman was unable to discharge his duties. The seat was full, and a new writ could not issue. Holding the noble Lord responsible for the arrangement of business in that House, and in reference to the very peculiar position of the City of London, he wished to ask him what course he would advise the House to take, and also whether it was the intention of the Government to make any further effort during the present Session, or at any future time, to settle this important question.
 MR. THORNELY  said, that this was the seventh year in which there had been a vote for the improvement of Holyhead harbour. The original estimate was 628,000 l.,
 MR. THORNELY  said, that a note was appended in the estimates, stating that the particulars of the expenditure for each harbour, accompanied by reports of the engineers in charge of the works for the year to 31st March, will be found in a return to be presented to the House of Commons as a separate paper in the present Session. He thought they ought to have these particulars before they gave the vote, and not afterwards.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was not able to say that since the formation of the present Government the question of continuing the existence of the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland had been formally under the consideration of the Government. At the same time, the hon. Baronet should understand that the Vote was necessary for its present continuance.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was not aware how the answer he gave to the question of the hon. Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley) failed in point of practice. If, however, the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington (Col. Dunne) would put to him another question, he would endeavour to improve upon his answer. The question asked by the hon. Member for Westminster was evidently intended to be put to some other Member of the Government; and out of courtesy to that hon. Member, in the absence of the Member of the Government to whose department the subject more properly belonged, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) answered it. The question was to the effect, whether the Government had any plan before them for the abolition of the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland? In reply, he stated that no plan of the kind was brought under the consideration of the present Government since it was formed. Now, there might be a great evasion in his answer, but he confessed he could not see any.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not understand it to be the wish of the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Dunne) that the Committee should at that moment enter fully into the important question he had referred to. He would, therefore, content himself with assuring the hon. and gallant Member that it was a subject which had not escaped the attention of Her Majesty's Government, and that they would take the earliest opportunity of going into the consideration of the whole question.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am not aware of any such intention.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had confounded the Nonconformists of England with the Presbyterians of Ireland. English Nonconformists were not inconsistent upon this question. They had last Session, after repeated efforts, succeeded in abolishing the payment made to certain Nonconformist ministers. They had also opposed the Irish Presbyterian  Regium Donum,
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  said, he must beg to call attention to the oath that was taken by Roman Catholic priests educated in the College of Maynooth before they were appointed to parishes. He thought it was the duty of the Government to institute an inquiry into that oath. It was endeavoured to be set aside on more occasions than one, even by the prelates of the Roman Catholic Church, who gave evidence before Parliamentary Committees. They endeavoured to make it appear that there was no such oath taken by the Roman Catholic clergy except the oath of allegiance. That was perfectly right; it was an oath of allegiance, but to whom? To the Pope of Rome, and not to Queen Victoria, to support the canons and councils, and to put aside altogether the Scriptures. When they transported Ribbonmen for taking an illegal oath, why should they allow Roman Catholic priests to take the same oath to all intents and purposes? He maintained that the oath taken by the Ribbonmen in Ireland was the oath taken by the Roman Catholic priests. Were those proper persons to have the management of the education of the children of the country? He said that the person who took that oath
 402
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that there were three or four other items in the votes that were open to the same objection, and he begged to add them to the proposition of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. There was for Irishtown church a sum of 37 l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. 8d. l. s. l. s. d. l. s. d.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had heard with great gratification the statements of the right hon. Baronet, that these works would be completed within the estimated expense. When they were commenced, there was a great difference of opinion among the engineers as to the expense, and some of the most eminent made estimates, the lowest of which was upwards of 1,000,000 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that he also should support the proposition of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) on the ground that when the grant was obtained, in 1845, Sir Robert Peel promised that not a single farthing more should be asked from Parliament for this college.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to know when the works at this harbour were to be finished? An assurance was given some years ago that it should not appear in the estimates again.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he saw the amount for Dovor harbour was only 34,000 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, as the gas was cheaper than oil and candles, it would be better to use that more generally.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, there were two items in the present Vote to which he objected—the one was 184 l. s. d. l. s. d.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that he objected to the people of England and Ireland being taxed for the purpose of horse-racing, for it led to a system of gambling, worse, perhaps, than almost any other that existed.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had opposed the Vote for a number of years, and was glad to find that latterly there was a considerable diminution in the amount asked for. He hoped that next year it would be still further reduced.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the duties performed by the Commissioners of the Insolvent Debtors Courts were exceedingly light; and as the salaries of the County
 413
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had objected for several years to these plates being granted out of the public money. The amount for Scotland was very small as compared with the sum in the next Vote devoted to a similar object in Ireland, against the granting of which he should certainly divide the Committee.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he felt it his duty to take the sense of the Committee on this Vote. He thought that the revenues of the Church were quite sufficient to maintain all charges on account of the Commission, without calling upon the general taxpayers of the country to meet an expenditure undertaken for the sole benefit of one Church.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had always objected to the maintenance of such officers as Her Majesty's "Limner," Her Majesty's "Clockmaker," and Her Majesty's "Historiographer," included under this Vote. He had hoped that some assurance would have been given that the country would no longer be called upon to defray such a useless expenditure.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the hon. Baronet (Sir R. H. Inglis) had stated that this grant was the consequence of a bargain on the part of the Crown; but he would like to know who authorised the Crown to make such a bargain. Some of the Colleges at Oxford and Cambridge possessed estates yielding 10,000 l. l, l. l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he very much objected to the payment of this sum out of the Consolidated Fund. There might be some reason why the general police force should be placed on the fund—they were partly a military force; but he could see none for the Metropolitan Police.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that having objected to the vote for Maynooth, he felt himself called upon to object to this vote also. It was very discreditable to the two Universities that they should require this annual vote. He understood that the college revenues of one of these Universities amounted to 150,000 l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, if the hon. Gentleman referred to the Returns, he would find that even in the County Courts of the metropolis there was a good deal of time unoccupied.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to know of the hon. Secretary to the Treasury, whether Sir Charles Barry had made any estimate of the future expense of the Houses of Parliament. Two estimates had been made—the first was 700,000 l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to inquire whether that sum would be sufficient to complete the office?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to understand whether Sir Charles Barry was allowed to go on spending money, no one knew how? Was there any control over him?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished for some explanation respecting a charge in the estimate before them. First, they had "Richmond Park, 2,105 l. l. s.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to know who superintended the expenditure of the interior of the House. He found a charge for lighting with oil and wax the offices and division lobbies of the House 6,8212., and for gas in both Houses 2,8422., being nearly 10,000 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had just resinned his seat, that it was time the House of Commons should exercise some control over the vast expenditure made on account of the Royal palaces. Since Her Majesty came to the throne, no less than 518,000 l. l. l. 391 L. L. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not mean the slightest reflection on Mr. Cubitt—quite the reverse. He was surprised the hon. Baronet should have again alluded to the subject of the Crown revenues in that House. A more fallacious Return, as the hon. Baronet well knew, had never been made than that to which he had referred. If the Crown estates were properly managed, they would very nearly equal the expenditure of the civil list. He had never grudged any expenditure necessary for the comfort of the Crown, but he objected to extravagance.
 MR. ANDERSON  said, that despite what had been said, he did not believe that the people of Scotland took the smallest interest in racing.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, the subject of harbours of refuge had been too long-neglected in this country, and, considering our maritime position, he was surprised it had not before engaged the attention of the Government. Between Harwich and
 396
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, his attention had been only recently called to the subject. When he came into office, the control of harbours of refuge was in a somewhat anomalous position. The Admiralty was not answerable for the works which were under the control of the Treasury, although they were answerable for the expenditure. He believed that the estimate for Holyhead harbour would be sufficient to defray the cost. He said that with confidence, as the works were under the direction of Mr. Rendel, and reliance was to be placed on his estimate. He was told by all who saw the works that they were executed in the best possible manner; that the plan would prove successful, and that it would be a harbour of great use in the Channel communication between Great Britain and Ireland.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  replied, that the plan respecting Dovor harbour had been recently under revision. 34,000 l. l. l.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, there were two works in progress in the Channel Islands—one at Jersey, which it was not intended to carry out—and another, a most important one, in the Island of Alderney, which was a work of very great expense, because it had to be carried on in deep water. After having consulted with the best engineers, and having considered the subject both at the Board of Ordnance and at the Admiralty, it had been determined to proceed with those works at Alderney.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, it was impossible to work more than seven months out of the twelve at Alderney. It would, perhaps, take seven years, and the estimated expense was about 600,000 l.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he had before expressed his opinion as to the necessity of proceeding by degrees in this matter. The sum asked on account of the formation of harbours of refuge in the present Session approached very nearly 400,000 L. Duchess of Sutherland
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, the hon. Gentleman was right in stating that an assurance had been given that this harbour
 398 l.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, as the hon. and gallant Member (Col. Blair) had stated, it was hoped that the railway between Dumfries and Portpatrick would be continued. At all events, 100,000 l. l.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that his recollection of what took place on the occasion of the grant being made to Maynooth, in 1845, by Act of Parliament, was entirely different from what had just been stated by his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth (Mr. Williams). He would, however, in the first place, refer to some of the statements of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire. It was not the fact that this was a new building; on the contrary, it was an old one, and until Parliament granted 30,000 l. l. 400 l, l.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he did not go a single inch with the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) in the principles which he had been in the habit of propounding in that House; but on the broad principle of being opposed to all religious endowments from the public purse, he would vote for the proposition of the hon. Member. The hon. Member for Meath, instead of continually telling them what he would do, should put his intentions into a form that had something like reality, and which would show that he really was ready
 403
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, there was a strong feeling out of doors against the continuance of the office of Lord Lieutenant of Ireland—a feeling which he believed was shared in by the people of Ireland themselves. He wished, therefore, to ask, whether the Government intended to introduce any Bill to do away with that office, and whether the Vote asked for was merely for this year?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he believed that the origin of these grants had another object in view beyond the encouraging the breeding of horses. He believed that there was no public amusement which afforded such general satisfaction in this country as horse-racing; and if it was alleged that it only induced gambling, he must say that, if such was the case, those who engaged in it would not be deterred by its abolition
 408 ad absurdum,
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  begged very respectfully to point out that the position in which he and other hon. Gentlemen were placed who objected on principle to all religious endowments by the State, was by no means altered by the Vote which had been just come to, and he begged, therefore, to adhere to his opposition to the Vote.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  begged to return his thanks to the hon. Gentleman who bad brought forward this Bill. He had come to the conclusion that, in the long run, the effect of the reduction in the fares would be very beneficial to the cab proprietors themselves. Hon. Members had alluded to the property invested in cabs and omnibuses; but he appealed to the House whether there was a large town either in England or on the Continent, where the public vehicles were of so wretched a character. As an instance of the good that would result from the Bill, he might mention a circumstance which had recently occurred to himself. Some days ago he had accidentally left a largo bundle of papers distinctly marked with his name in a cab, and it was only that very day that the Hansom cabdriver had brought them to his house, in the hope of obtaining a reward. If the Bill had been law, he should have been furnished with a ticket specifying the number of the cab, and should have been able to find the driver in an hour or two. The only fair ground for
 428
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  wished to know how the stud houses in Bushey Park (on account of which there was an item included in this vote) were occupied, whether by the horses of private persons or not? It was understood that public sales were to take place periodically of thorough-bred horses from these stud houses, and he begged to inquire whether a debtor and creditor account would be kept of the sales?
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he was opposed to all ecclesiastical endowments; but he must say that, to begin by objecting to a small sum like this,' would be very like straining at a gnat, and swallowing a camel. When the House of Commons was prepared to do justice to all classes, he should be glad to support such a proposition, but in the mean time he should vote against the Amendment.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he regretted that he should have to detain the House a few minutes on this question. The subject was one so new and important that he hoped hon. Members were in a better condition to judge of it than he was when the Bill was first introduced. By this Bill they were about to deal with property of one class, that in hackney carriages, of more than 1,700,000 l. l. 423 were maximum minimum 424 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 425
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he must meet the statement of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) with a similar answer to similar statements. The hon. Member had periodically made the same complaint, and as the reply, in facts and figures, was the same, truth required that the same answer should always be returned. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) said, the Universities paid a large sum in stamps for degrees, &c. The Universities paid double the amount in stamps—double the amount, in fact, which was received in the shape of fees. The grant to the professors was an act of liberality on the part of the Crown, for the purpose of encouraging learning. The grant at first was paid out of the revenues of the Crown, but by an arrangement on the part of that House it had been transferred from the Crown to the civil list. It was rather too much for that House to say now, that having got the control of the public funds, they would put an end to the bargain. About twenty years ago, another hon. Member for Lambeth brought forward a proposition of this kind; and Mr. Spring Rice, the present Lord Monteagle, then one of the Lords of the Treasury, laid on the table the documentary evidence, by which what he had just stated was proved to be the fact. If Government would not exact the stamp duty on degrees, he had no doubt the Universities would not be unwilling to consider how their claim to the smaller sum could be waived. With reference to the time to be given the Universities to come forward with their plan of reform, the noble Lord specifically said to the Universities, Government will not interfere if you will consent to destroy professorial chairs, and disregard the wills and intentions of founders; but Government could hardly expect that the Universities would adopt such a course indicated to them. SIR DE LACY EVANS said, he thought
 420 l.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, the hon. Member could only answer for himself and the views which dictated his vote, but he for one had never scrupled to declare he objected to paying any money for teaching that which he conscientiously disapproved. In conscience he disapproved of the teaching in Maynooth, and on that ground he objected to the vote with regard to Maynooth; but that was not the ground on which he conceived himself justified in objecting to any other vote on the table of the House.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that he was one of the Metropolitan Commissioners, and the subject of Battersea Park had come before that body. It was true that Mr. Cubitt did offer to purchase the whole of the land from the Government; but, for reasons which it was not necessary to state, the Government declined the proposal. He (Sir R. H. Inglis) was desirous, however, since the subject had been mentioned, that some honour should be done to Mr. Cubitt for the liberal and disinterested offer which he made. As to the expenditure in the Royal parks, which had been alluded to, he was satisfied the bargain begun by George III., and continued by George IV., with the people, had been for the benefit of the latter, and it appeared by a return he moved for some time ago that while the Crown had received 32,000,000 l. l
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, it was true a proposal had been made by Mr. Cubitt to take the land which had been purchased for Battersea Park off the hands of the Government at the price they gave for it; but that proposal had not been acceded to, nor was there any intention of acceding to it. With regard to the appro-
 392
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he entertained a strong objection to any opening for carriages in the manner suggested by the hon. Member, as it would make it necessary that the park should be opened all night—a plan that could not be sanctioned. The opening of such a road would, at the same time, cause considerable inconvenience to equestrians.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, the gardens were opened last Sunday to the public in pursuance of instructions which he himself had given.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, the lighting was in the department of the Serjeant-at-Arms; the lighting of the roof was under the control of Mr. Meeson; the gas was supplied by contract.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, this 91,700 l.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : The
 394
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH : It is under the control of the Treasury. All the Commissioners of Works had to do was, when Sir Charles Barry certified that a certain amount of work was done, an examination was made to see if it had been performed, but the control was in the Treasury.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that the Board of Works were not officially bound either to inspect the statues in the metropolis, or to see that they were cleared from rust. With respect to the second portion of the hon. Member's question, he should observe that the bronze statues were not under the control of the Government department of the Board of Works; while with reference to the statue at Charingcross he had to state that he had ascertained that the repairs of the statue and pedestal would cost a sum of about 1,000 l., l.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he trusted that the object of Ministers and of that House was to deal out evenhanded justice to all classes of Her Majesty's subjects. They had, on the previous evening, rejected a vote which deeply interested 6,000,000 or 7,000,000 of Her Majesty's subjects—he meant that for the repairs of Maynooth; and seeing that the present Vote referred to parties who had the clergy reserves to fall back on, he thought it only fair to the hon. Members near him (the Irish Members) to move that this Vote be disallowed.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the question raised by the Vote was not the policy of supporting a Church Establishment in the British North American Colonies. That policy had formerly been pursued by this country; and when it had been pursued, a number of clergymen had been induced to proceed to the British. North American Colonies on the distinct understanding that as long as they might continue to officiate there they should receive a certain allowance. If the Committee should refuse to pass the present Vote, a direct breach of faith would be practised on those parties. There was no intention on the part of the Government of making any further provision for clergymen in North America; no new appointments were to be paid; and no vacancies among the recipients of that Vote were to be filled up. The amount of the Vote was thus becoming gradually diminished, and in the course of time it would necessarily cease altogether.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he wished to know if it was to be distinctly understood that there were to be no fresh sums voted under that head?
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  replied in the affirmative.
 MR. JOHN M'GREGOR  said, he should support the Vote solely for the purpose of maintaining the faith of Parliament.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would not oppose the Vote after what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary for the Colonies.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he objected
 443
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, the Government were not going to wait until the parties died off, but intended to proceed at once to abolish the charge. So far as the principal item, the presents to the Indians, was concerned, 7,700 l
 MR. JOHN M'GREGOR  said, he must condemn the practice of giving presents to the Indians; but, at the same time, he begged to express his satisfaction at the explanation of the hon. Under Secretary.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he believed that the continuance of these presents was one of the conditions on which the Indians had sold their land to us, and had also assisted us in time of war. He should be glad to be informed of the reason why these poor people were about to be deprived of this boon.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he apprehended that no inconvenience would follow from discontinuing the presents. He felt quite certain that England had derived no benefit in return for them.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he believed that the Indians in Canada were materially benefited by these presents, and still considered that they were originally made for military services and for the cession of land to the British Government. He must confess that he saw with feelings of discontent a proceeding which amounted to repudiation.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that when he was Secretary of State for the Colonies, he had proposed to do away with this grant; but he had been induced to postpone his intention. He had, however, never heard it argued at that time that the Indians had a claim upon us for those presents in return for surrendering their lands to us.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had the authority of a Canadian gentleman for stating that these presents were most pernicious in their result upon the Indians themselves, especially in the mode in which they were given. He had been lately informed by a gentleman who had seen them distributed, that the blankets and money which were
 444
 MR. JOHN M'GREGOR  said, he must deny that the grant had been ever given in consequence of any concession of lands by the Indians.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he only required that any conditions which might have been entered into with the Indians should be kept.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he believed that we were not bound by any agreements to give presents to the Indians. He should, however, inquire into the matter.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to know why Demerara, Honduras, and other islands, which were self-supporting, were not mentioned in the estimates?
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, all the colonies whose salaries were paid out of a Parliamentary grant were included in these estimates; but the rest, whose emoluments were paid out of the colonial resources, were put into the colonial estimates.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he wished to ask whether the salary of the Chief Justice of Anguilla, which was put down at 100 l
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that this was a sum paid to the Chief Justice of the Leeward Islands in addition to his salary, in return for his discharge of the functions of Chief Justice of Anguilla.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought the Colonies ought to maintain their own governors, and he particularly objected to so large a sum as 4,000 l
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that with regard to the large salary to the Governor of the Windward Islands, his impression was, that when the arrangement was originally made, the Governor in Chief was in command of that station. Latterly, however, that office had not been held in conjunction with the office of civil governor. It must be borne in mind that Barbadoes was a great naval station, and the head quarters of the Windward Islands; and the Governor in Chief was called upon to exercise more hospitality than the Governor in Chief of the Leeward Islands.
 MR. JOHN M'GREGOR  said, he was of opinion that they would never be able to govern the colonies unless this country paid the salaries of the Governors and Chief Justices, in the same way as they paid the salaries of Ambassadors at foreign Courts.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  was not surprised at his hon. Friend (Mr. J. Macgregor) differing from him in opinion in this matter; for since his hon. Friend had been a Member of that House, he had never known him to stand forward to promote economy; but, on the contrary, was always for spending the public money, and throwing the weight of his influence, as the representative of a large constituency, on the side of any Government that was inclined to be extravagant. Barbadoes was in a most prosperous condition, and there was no reason why this country should be called upon to pay this large salary of 4,000 l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought that the continuance of such a charge upon the public funds of this country for the purpose of providing magistrates for the West India Colonies was most unjustifiable. He should not, however, oppose the Vote, as an intimation was given in the estimate that the demand was to be gradually reduced as vacancies occurred until the whole should cease.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, there were some of the items in this Vote of which he must complain.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he expected the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Williams} was about, when he rose, to complain of the item 400 l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must remind the hon. Gentleman that it was absolutely necessary to have some religious instructor at Gambia; and he could assure the hon. Member that if the majority of the population there were Roman Catholics, he should vote for the money being paid to a Roman Catholic priest quite as willingly as he now did for a Protestant clergyman.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he believed that the chaplain was not for the inhabitants of Gambia, but for the Governor and police magistrates, and other officials. He thought, therefore, that hon. Gentlemen opposite, if they were sincerely opposed to religious endowments of all kinds, ought to refuse to sanction this one, and ought to tell these officials that they must pay for a chaplain out of their own salaries; Take another instance of a different kind. There was a Catholic Ambassador at Athens, Mr. Wyse, and he (Mr. Lucas) believed that there was a chaplain to that embassy—
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. Member is misinformed. There are no chaplains except those attached to embassies. Greece is a mission.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he was of opinion that religion ought to support itself. It did so in England; and he believed it could do so equally well in the colonies. He knew missionary institutions at home that were perfectly willing to send out, without any expense to the country, men fully qualified to discharge the religious duties at our missions and embassies. He should therefore move that the present vote be reduced by the sum of 400 l
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not object to this small item. There was a chaplain at Sierra Leone; but as the revenue of that colony was sufficient to bear the charge itself, it was not necessary to include it in this estimate. He hoped that Gambia, in the course of another year or so, would be equally able to bear a similar charge.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that, according to the statement of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), there were no chaplains except at embassies. He (Mr. Bright) knew of no distinction as to the soul's health between embassies and missions. He supposed, however, that the chaplains at embassies were kept as a matter of decoration and ornament. Now, as the noble Lord had dispensed with the charge of maintaining chaplains at missions, perhaps he would also save money by equally dispensing with them at embassies. The Committee on Public Salaries recommended that embassies should be abolished, and missions substituted. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) was on that Committee, and appeared to agree in most things recommended by the Committee; but not with regard to the abolition of embassies. With reference to the Amendment now proposed by the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Pellatt), he (Mr. Bright) would suggest, that as a change in this item would possibly he made next year, it would be better not to press the Amendment on this occasion. It would be quite scandalous for Members on that (the Ministerial) side of the House to take every opportunity of picking a quarrel with grants to Roman Catholics, on the ground that those Members objected to all grants on account of religion; and yet, when similar grants were proposed to Protestants, that those same Members should acquiesce in them. He would rather go out of Parliament, and have nothing to do with politics, if he could not carry on his senatorial duties with more even handed justice than some persons appeared disposed to observe.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he certainly objected to the recommendation of the Committee referred to by the hon. Member (Mr. Bright) with regard to the embassies. He considered it to be a matter of very great importance; and on coming down to the Committee, after the decision had been come to, he protested against that decision. He might have agreed to one or two minor points adopted by the Committee; but, finding that on almost all the more important questions he was left in a small minority, he did not feel himself justified in continually dividing the Committee, and that might have made it appear that he acquiesced in their decisions.
 MR. LUCAS  said, that in the 18th Vote of these Estimates would be found a charge of 100 l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the Government only allowed a chaplain at Courts where there were British consuls and British residents; and then the practice was, that whatever sum those British residents subscribed towards the support of a chaplain, a sum of equal amount was allowed by the Government for the same purpose.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he did not think the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas) had dealt fairly with those Gentlemen who voted against Maynooth last night. He (Sir J. Shelley) gave his vote on that occasion without any feeling of bigotry, and he wished the hon. Gentleman would wait and see how he (Sir J. Shelley) should vote when the  Regium Donum.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he had nothing to do with the hon. Member's motives; he had only expressed a hope that the hon. Member, and those who had voted along with him the night before, would act consistently when the next Vote for a religious endowment came before them.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he thought that it would be absurd to vote for this item of 400 l Regium Donum,
 MR. MIALL  said, he wished to see the whole of these ecclesiastical items expunged from the Estimates. He understood a hope had been held out that these votes for chaplaincies would be done away with altogether.
 MR. ATHERTON  said, he had voted for the grant for repairs to Maynooth College last night; and therefore, in voting for the present grant, as he intended to do, he was not liable to the charge of inconsistency.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that he would not press his Amendment to a division, understanding from the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies that the item for the chaplaincy would disappear from the Votes in a year, or two years at most.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that he had given no such pledge as the hon. Gentleman supposed. What he said was, that he hoped the vote would in a short
 449
 MR. MIALL  said, he would move a reduction of 100 l l
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  hoped that the reduction would not be pressed, as the people in Heligoland were too poor to be able to provide spiritual instruction for themselves.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he must complain of the conduct of the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Shelley) and his friends, which he thought was scarcely consistent. When Votes were proposed for Roman Catholic purposes, or for Ireland, they took an objection to them, and pressed their objections to a division; but when the Votes happened to be for Colonial and Protestant purposes, they raised objections to them, indeed, but they did not assert their principles by going to a division. In the Vote now before the Committee there was an item of 400 l
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that he was perfectly ready to move that this Vote be
 450 l l
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  begged to inquire the amount of the population of the Falkland Islands, for whose benefit so large a sum as 4,750 l
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that there were no troops there. Doubtless this Vote was a large one, looking only to the population of the Falkland Islands, which was very small; but then it should be remembered that these islands, from their geographical position, would be of the utmost importance to this country in time of war. Again, these islands possessed large and commodious harbours, which were becoming increasingly resorted to by shipping engaged in the Australian and other trades, in preference to South American ports, for the purpose of obtaining fresh supplies of provisions. The amount of tonnage entering the ports of these islands had been rapidly augmenting for some years past. In 1851 it amounted to 17,538 tons, and in 1852 it was no less than 22,024 tons. Under these circumstances, the floating population of the islands was considerable.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he did not deny the national importance of maintaining these islands, but he considered the Vote excessive. It might be reduced one-half, if no more than the proper number of officers were kept. The present staff was enormous, considering that the resident population of the islands, as he understood, only numbered twenty-seven persons.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he thought the maritime and naval importance of these islands should be considered. They possessed the most magnificent harbours, which ought to be carefully surveyed.
 MR. ATHERTON  said, that the merits of the Falkland Islands as a naval station might be as great as the hon. and gallant Member (Sir G. Pechell) represented; but that circumstance had nothing whatever to do with this Vote, which was most anomalous and extravagant, considering the extreme paucity of population.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  would again remind the Committee that it was not from the extent of their present resident population that the Falkland Islands derived their importance. They constituted a most valuable maritime station, at which shipping frequently touched to take refuge, or to obtain supplies. At the same time, if any reductions could consistently be effected in this estimate, the Government would be ready to make them,
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that, as it was proposed to send out medical missionaries to heathen countries, he thought it would be better if the chaplain and the surgeon were rolled into one. If the Falkland Islands belonged to the United States Government, the cost of maintaining them would be reduced at least by one half. When that House voted millions so rapidly as they did, it was scarcely worth while to say anything about a small matter of this kind. At the same time, when they did not object to items like these, there never was any economy effected.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he could assure the Committee that care would be taken to have this expenditure investigated, with the view of ascertaining whether it might not be reduced.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he would remind hon. Members opposite that the explanations which had been given did not affect the principle that no religious denomination should be supported from the public funds.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to call attention to what he considered the excessive saleries of the Government officers, and he objected particularly to that of the Governor, 3,000 l l l l l l l
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that large reductions had of late years been made in the cost of this establishment. In 184 l l l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would not trouble the Committee by dividing, if the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies would give an assurance that the diminution of the cost of this colonial establishment should be carried still further.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he wished to call attention to the salary of the colonial chaplain, 700 l l l
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that after the decision come to on the last Vote, it would be unnecessarily delaying the business of the Committee to take another upon a point involving precisely the same principle.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies whether he could give an assurance that, with an increasing revenue and a diminishing expenditure, this charge upon the revenues of the country would finally disappear?
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he could not give a positive assurance; he only drew the inference, from seeing that a great reduction had taken place, that a further one might be expected.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he objected to the salary of the Governor as excessive and out of all proportion to the salary of any other Government officer charged with similar responsibility.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the Governor of a colony was not entitled to a pension, and his salary, therefore, always at first sight appeared disproportionate in amount to those of officers who were entitled to retiring pensions.
 MR. MAGUIRE  begged to ask whether any provision was made for the spiritual necessities of such Catholics as might be in the island, whether civilians or soldiers?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  answered in the negative.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that as no doubt there must be Roman Catholics there, because wherever there was any part of the British Army there were persons of that denomination, he thought it unfair that no provision should be made for their spiritual necessities, while 700 l l
 MR. LUCAS  said, he wished to know whether it was the fact that there were Catholic soldiers at Hong Kong? If there were not, he should not object to the Vote; but if there were, as he believed was the case, he should certainly vote for striking out this 700 l
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that no doubt there were Catholic soldiers at Hong Kong, because it was an Irish regiment which was at present stationed there. He believed, however, that the chaplain, whose salary was included in the present Vote, had nothing to do with the garrison, but that his services were entirely confined to the consular establishment. If there was a Catholic chaplain for soldiers of that religion, as was the case at Corfu, his salary would not appear here but in the Army Estimates.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he must reiterate his objections to the salary received by the Governor of Hong Kong—3,000 l l l.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that he could not consider that 3,000 l
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that if the Governor received a salary of 3,000 l l
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that he would not press his present Motion, but would at a subsequent part of the estimate move the reduction of his salary as chief superintendent of trade to 1,500 l
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that he should include in his Motion the 95 l l
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that supposing the principle advocated by the hon. Member who had proposed the Amendment were correct, and were to be carried out, it would be necessary to have a chaplain of each sect which might have members at Hong Kong. Did he not feel that it was quite impossible to do this? He believed that so long as the Church was connected with the State, the Government could not appoint any other ecclesiastical persons but such as were connected with the Church of England without incurring a great difficulty.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that he understood that this was merely a chaplain to the colonial establishment; and he thought that it would be most inconsistent and anomalous if the Committee, immediately after agreeing to vote the salary of such an officer at the Falkland Islands, were now, without the slightest distinction being shown between the two cases, to refuse it at Hong Kong.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he would appeal to the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) to withdraw the Amendment, as he thought it had been understood that the division on the last Vote should be decisive with respect to all the colonial chaplaincies.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that no such understanding could affect him, for he was not then in the House. Thirty-three Members voted against the Government on the last division, and as the amount of the present item was twice as large as that then in question, there should be double the number against it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that his hon. and gallant Friend (Captain Scobell) was quite mistaken with regard to the duties of the Governor of Hong Kong as superintendent of trade, which were very considerable. When the trade of China was thrown open to all persons in this country, an arrangement was made by which it was settled that there should be three superintendents of trade—one at a salary of 6,000 l l l 456
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must remind the Committee that the statements of the noble Lord applied in precisely the same degree to the other consular establishments in China, where the salaries were much smaller. He did not think the Governor of Hong Kong was superior in
 457 l attachés.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he wished to direct attention to the fact, that the Chinese officials were paid smaller salaries than the English officers, and he would suggest as the means of effecting a reduction of expense that a smaller number of English, and a larger number of Chinese servants should be employed.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he must beg to call attention to the proceedings in connexion with the slave trade that were carried on on the coast of Africa. It was understood that there was now another system in operation, and that vessels went to the coast of Africa—whether around the Cape of Good Hope he did not know—which it was supposed would not be suspected, being three masted vessels, and not rigged like slavers. There was a case where the crew of one of these vessels had landed and invited the unfortunate blacks to a banquet on board, and managed to kidnap a great number of them. It was said that the British Consul at Havana had been the instrument to bring the matter to light, and a sort of compromise had taken place by giving up 200 or 300 of them, whereby the Captain General could excuse himself. They all knew that for a series of years the Captain Generals had been sent out to make their fortunes, and had connived in almost every instance in allowing the slaves to be landed. The way in which the slaves were now introduced into the island of Cuba was a new feature in the case; he hoped the attention of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London was called to it, and that he would demand the utmost vigilance on the part of the British cruisers to put an end to the system. It appeared that the vessel was called the  Lady Suffolk,
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the attention of the Government was constantly directed to the matter that had been re-
 458
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to call attention to a sum of 500 l
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he believed the only question before the Committee was, whether the salary of the chief superintendent of Hong Kong should be reduced from 3,000 l l l
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, that there was a similar discussion last year, and the vote appeared in the estimates in the same manner then.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the question of the 500 l
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that was a subject which the Government considered some time ago, and he thought it had been announced in that House that there was to be an inquiry. It was stated that the Governor General of India would appoint a Commission for that purpose, but there was some difficulty in point of form; but it was intended that there should be an inquiry, in order to see in what manner the interests of British commerce could best be promoted in that quarter. Until they got
 459
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was not speaking with reference to Sir James Brooke. He should say the same thing if it were another person. They paid 500 l
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he wished to recall the attention of the Committee to the question upon which they were about to divide. It was quite evident that they must either cut down the salary of this Governor, or increase the salaries of all other Governors. Otherwise, they would be doing great injustice to the latter. As for the unhealthiness of the climate, the service was a voluntary one, and he did not suppose the extra salary was to pay for physic.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that there was a charge of 563L. for postages and journeys on the public service for our Minister at Wurtemburg. He considered it necessary that there should be some explanation of this item, which appeared to him to be a great waste of public money, as was indeed the whole establishment of Ministers at the petty Courts of Germany, such as Wurtemburg,. Bavaria, Saxony, & c. Hanover might, perhaps, be excepted, on account of its connexion with the Crown of this country; but with this exception, he thought that Ministers at Frankfort and at the Courts of Austria and Prussia would be ample diplomatic arrangements for the whole of Germany.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the charge for postages was on account of
 460
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that last year considerable discussion took place with regard to the Ambassador's chapel at Constantinople, which ended in the Chancellor of the Exchequer of that day withdrawing the Vote. He now found in the present Estimates the sum of 327 l d.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that with regard to maintaining a chaplain at Constantinople, considering the large amount of British shipping and the great number of British sailors constantly at the port of Constantinople, he thought it was of
 461
 MR. ARTHUR KINNAIRD  said, he observed in the Votes a charge for extra services on the part of our Consul at Charleston, in the United States. He wished to take that opportunity of asking the noble Lord the state of the negotiations which were entered into some time ago with regard to British coloured subjects, who, on their arrival at Charleston, were taken out of their ships and lodged in gaol, and then charged a considerable sum for their stay in that comfortable place so long as the ship to which they belonged remained in Charleston. He was aware that the subject had some time ago attracted the attention of the Government, but he had not heard the result. He was anxious, however, that the question should not be allowed to drop; and though the Federal Government had, in the first instance, evaded the question, yet he believed if this country were to take it up in earnest, the Federal Government would not shrink from their duty in protecting British subjects. He should be glad if the noble Lord could tell him the present state of these negotiations.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he regretted that he could not give his hon. Friend the information he required. The question, as the Committee was aware, was one of great interest and of considerable difficulty. The slave States in the south of the Union had passed laws which he forbore to characterise; but the effect of them was, that a man of colour belonging to a crew of a vessel, on her arrival at one of these ports, was arrested, and kept in prison as long as the vessel remained there. The British Government had represented to the Government of the United States that such treatment was a violation of the treaty between the two countries. This assertion was not denied by the Federal Government; but the constitution of the United States was such that the action of the Federal Government on the separate
 462
 MR. WISE  said, that of twenty-three missions the miscellaneous expenses amounted to 1,700 l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman that these contingent expenses did not depend on mere caprice, but were governed by strict regulations at the Foreign Office. The expense would in great part be caused by messengers and despatches from Madrid.
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that the salary of Consul General in Turkey was 1,500 l l.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that Turkey was in a very different condition from the United States. Justice was well administered in the latter country, property and life were secure, and consuls were required only at the seaports. But in Turkey consuls had important and multifarious duties to perform; they were, in fact, the pioneers of civilisation and progress; and as this country pushed forward its consular agents, so it was found that the security of life and property was extended, and commercial transactions speedily followed. When he was at the Foreign Office he had more applications for the appointment of consuls than he thought it was proper to comply with; but wherever they were appointed, there commerce was extended and life was secured, the pachas were put on their good behaviour, and the tranquillity of the country, on which commerce mainly depended, was increased.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he would now call attention to the fact that there was a charge of 4,000 l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that our intercourse with Turkey was much more considerable and multifarious than with Persia; and it must not be forgotten that there was attached to the Persian embassy a secretary acquainted with the language, whose services were indispensable. The habits of the Turkish Government had long been to require, not only from England, but from all European countries, that much of the intercourse should be carried on by means of dragomans, though there was more of personal intercourse when we had an ambassador there. He believed, however, that it was becoming more and more the practice of the Turkish Ministers to learn to speak French, as both Reschid Pacha and Ali Pacha could speak French fluently, and in that way personal intercourse could be obtained. Still there were many details, particularly with regard to commercial affairs, where dragomans were necessary, and especially when the consuls sat as judges in courts of appeal for the protection of European residents. It had been felt, however, to be desirable that these dragomans should be British subjects, and, without casting any reflection upon those valuable servants, the dragomans, who were not British subjects, he had some time since established a system of sending three or four young men from this country to learn the Turkish language, that they might act as interpreters. He believed that this system would succeed perfectly, as he understood that these young men were bestowing great care and attention in acquiring the language. But it was impossible that the duties could be performed without the intervention of interpreters.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that the noble Lord had said the necessity for interpreters was greater when the Ambassador was absent. Now, it had happened that during the last year this country had been deprived of the advantage of having an Ambassador residing at Constantinople—the late Government having thought proper to allow Lord Stratford to leave his post. When the present Government was formed, however, that nobleman was sent back to Constantinople; and if that had been done sooner, he {Lord D. Stuart)
 464 l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the word "extraordinary"' in this case was a technical term, implying those items which did not consist of fixed salaries or regulated sums.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that the sum set down for the mission in Spain, 2,457 l l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought he had answered the question put by the hon. Member in regard to the contingent expenses of the Spanish mission. There were two kinds of expenses connected with that mission; one consisted of the fixed salaries of the Minister and the persons attached to the mission; and the other of what were called "extraordinaries" or incidental expenses, such as postages, mes-
 465
 MR. REPTON  said, that unless he received an assurance from the Government of the rapid diminution of this grant, he would take the sense of the Committee upon it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was a diminution in the grant to what it had been, and he believed that there would be a further diminution in it.
 MR. REPTON  said, he should move that the grant be reduced to 2,000 l
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that an arrangement had been come to in respect to this vote that no addition was to be made to the number of Polish refugees that received benefit from it. It should be recollected that those persons came to this country in a state of great distress, and many of them were very deserving men, who were totally dependent upon the very small amount that was doled out of this sum. He knew, too, that a former Government of which he was a member, made this arrangement with the Polish refugees—namely, that those who received this pittance should continue to reside in this country; but if they went away they would lose their allowance, and would not receive it upon their return; and, further, that no new persons should be placed on the list.
 466
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, the grant had been originally made, on his Motion, in 1836. It was for men who had fought in the cause of their country, in support of a state of things which this country had sought to uphold, and who, by the vicissitudes of fortune, had been driven here for a shelter. Afterwards, the grant was raised from 10,000 l l l
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he thought that this grant was altogether unjustifiable. It was no recommendation to him that those men had fought for their country, for he was opposed to all kinds of fighting. He did not think that they had anything to do with the civil disputes of any part of the world.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he thought, on the other hand, if the working classes were polled, a vast majority of them would be found to be in favour of continuing this relief to a meritorious but unfortunate class of individuals, for their sufferings in a cause which must be dear to every Englishman.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  hoped that, ere long, they should hear no more of grants like this. He trusted that England would always offer an asylum to political
 467
 MR. REPTON  said, on the understanding that there would be no further increase in the Vote, he would not press his Amendment.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he must ask for some explanation as to the charge of 400 l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the item of 400 l
 MR. MIALL  said, he must refer to the items of 89 l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, these were charges which had been upon the Votes for a considerable number of years, and at a previous period detailed explanations of them had been printed with the Votes, as the hon. Member might have seen on a reference to these Votes.
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he would suggest that it would be desirable that the Committee should have the names of the "poor French refugee clergy," to whom 700 l
 MR. BRIGHT  thought the proposition to furnish the names of the gentlemen in question a reasonable one.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had no objection to produce their names, if the hon. Member for Ashton (Mr. Hindley) would make a Motion with that view.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that was precisely the answer the Committee had a right to expect, for the items appeared to be very much the same every year. These poor refugee clergy were no doubt very aged, but they had been aged for a great number of years; and he was quite certain, if the Committee did not look sharp into the matter they would live on for fifty years to come. The Government ought from year to year to look over all these small items, and gradually get rid of those which a want of wisdom in our forefathers had created.
 MR. HUTCHINS  said, he must maintain that the vote for St. David's College, Lampeter, stood upon very much the same footing as the one which was rejected on the previous night; and if the grant to Maynooth ought to be rejected, he could not see how this one could be supported upon principle.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he conceived that there was a wide difference between the two oases.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would reconsider his determination to print the names of the recipients of the Poor Clergy Charity. It was only 1,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he coincided with the feeling of his right hon. Friend (Mr. V. Smith) on this point, and ventured to hope that the hon. Member for Ashton (Mr. Hindley) would abstain from moving for the production of the names in question, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) promising to satisfy himself that there was no fraud committed on the Government in this matter.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, no consideration of delicacy for the persons who were the recipients of the charity ought to deter them from doing their duty to the public, and he should be sorry if this suggestion was not carried out. He was quite sure that, so far from the parties being derided, they would become objects of veneration, from their extreme age.
 MR. VANCE  said, he must complain that the Government had been pleased to deduct ten per cent from the former Votes made for the Dublin hospitals, although it was understood at the time of the Act of Union that those institutions should be supported out of the public purse, in the same way as the Irish Parliament had granted an annual sum for their maintenance. His hon. Colleague (Mr. Grogan) intended moving for a Select Committee to inquire into the hospitals of Dublin, and he trusted that until such a Committee had been appointed and had completed its inquiries, the Committee would consent to the suspension of the Vote.
 MR, W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought that Irish Members ought to be content with the Votes as they stood—there being no less than eight for various public hospitals in Dublin. Not one of the hospitals of London, or of any other part of England, was supported by a grant of public money; and, for his part, he thought the hospitals of Ireland should be placed upon the same footing.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was not disposed to take the advice of the hon. Member for Lambeth. The hon. Member did not seem to know the difference between the two countries. Before the Union these institutions were maintained out of the public revenue of Ireland. But by the Act of Union the revenue of Ireland was taken from her, her debt doubled, and her taxation increased. Yet, notwithstanding all this, they wanted to deprive her of the small benefit she enjoyed from these Votes. "You," exclaimed the hon. and gallant Member, "have taxed Ireland. It is out-own money, and we have a right to spend it as we like."
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that, having already expressed his opinion on the subject of these grants, he would content himself on the present occasion by simply moving that this Vote be expunged.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that having been in the north of Ireland some time since, he had an opportunity of making inquiries as to the working of these grants, and he found that it was in many respects unsatisfactory. He would not enter into the general objection to these grants, nor into the objection to the present grant as regarded Ireland particularly further than to say, that the Presbyterians were more numerous in the north of Ireland than the members of the Established Church, and were in a more comfortable condition than the average population of Ireland, so that no ground existed for this grant, which did not apply with tenfold more force with respect to the Roman Catholic population. The plan pursued in the north of Ireland in reference to these grants of money—and he had the statement from a gentleman of strict veracity—was this: If twelve heads of families seceded from any existing denomination, and formed themselves into a separate congregation, they, on certifying that they had subscribed between them 35 l Regium Donum, l l l l l Regium Donum. l 471 l l
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he was surprised that an hon. Member, always professing such a high regard for peace, should come forward and make such charges as he had done upon a respectable and numerous body, imputing to them, in fact, the deliberate practice of a system of swindling and robbery, by giving a fictitious and false appearance to the local subscriptions necessary to secure a portion of the grant. He hardly liked to trust himself to describe the charge made, and would, therefore, confine himself to the actual words used by the hon. Member. He accused the respectable Presbyterian clergy of the North of Ireland with concocting certificates, and making sham subscription lists to obtain the stipend; and he further said, that when the stipend was thus obtained, such subscriptions as were real were often withheld; and he described this conduct as sapping the foundations of public and private morality. He should have thought the hon. Member would have had the decency, or at least the propriety, of adducing the evidence of some witnesses in support of the charge he had made, in order that there might be an opportunity
 472 l 473
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, that after the Vote of last night, when the Committee refused to vote the sum necessary for the repairs of the Roman Catholic College of Maynooth, he had no alternative but to vote against this grant. The Roman Catholics were the poorest and largest portion of the population of Ireland, yet they received less assistance from the State in proportion to their numbers than any other denomination. There was no argument for this Vote which did not exist, even in a stronger degree, in favour of the Vote which they rejected last night. He looked upon that Vote, therefore, as one of infinite importance, and one which would form an era in their future discussions. It was regretted by the majority of the Committee, on the express ground of conscientious objection to assist in the maintenance of the Roman Catholic religion. That was the reason alleged by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis), whose authority was so high on these subjects, who stated as the ground of his vote that he should not consent to give any sum of money from the public revenue for the promotion of religious doctrines of which he disapproved. If that argument was good as regards Maynooth, it was equally good against all ecclesiastical establishments, otherwise it resolved itself into the right of the strongest, and he did not know
 474
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, the hon. Baronet who had just sat down had laid too much stress upon the Vote of last night. He (Sir J. Young) was then in the minority, but he did not look upon the result as a precedent which he was bound to follow; on the contrary, he regarded it as an evil omen, which he thought the country would look upon as a warning. Some Gentlemen had opposed the Maynooth Vote, as they had the present, on the ground that grants of public money should not be made for ecclesiastical purposes. But he (Sir J. Young) did not think that opinion was shared by the Committee. The grant to these Presbyterians was one of very old standing; and they themselves laid the grounds for it in this, that when they first went to Ireland they were induced to do so by the hope not only that their religion should be respected, but that they should participate in the endowments of the State. It would, therefore, be very hard upon that body if the Legislature was now to withdraw it. The hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had stated one case, and one case only, in which he thought an endowment had been surreptitiously obtained by a false certificate, and no doubt the hon. Member was convinced that the case was such as had been stated to him; but he (Sir J. Young) begged to remark that the Legislature could adopt no more dangerous course than that of legislating upon single and isolated cases. However well-founded the single case might be, it was evidently unfair to put that forward as characteristic of the whole body of Presbyterians in Ireland. He denied that there was any ground for saying, as the hon. Gentleman had done, that the Presbyterians of Ireland had been demoralised by the operation of this grant. On the contrary, he maintained that they were among the most industrious, loyal, and best-behaved people in that country. Placed in the most barren part of Ireland, they had cultivated the ground; and he besought the Committee to recollect what followed. Their commerce extended in their ports, and at this moment, taking the numbers into account—and they reached to about 1,000,000—there were fewer Presbyterians in the poor-
 475 Regium Donum, 476
 MR. COBDEN  said, the noble Lord the Member for Tyrone (Lord C. Hamilton), on rising to reply to his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), was in that state of excitement in which he often found himself when addressing the House, an excitement which often led people into the use of words of indiscretion for which they should not always be held responsible. Otherwise he (Mr. Cobden) should have said there was something rather unparliamentary in the words in which the noble Lord had called his hon. Friend to task for having referred to an anonymous authority in that House. His hon. Friend did what every man in that House was in the habit of doing; he made a statement on his own authority; and he (Mr. Cobden) had yet to learn, that any hon. Member who made a statement of facts which came within his own knowledge was liable to the charge of making anonymous or slanderous imputations upon anybody. He ventured to tell the noble Lord that he would find his hon. Friend perfectly ready to be responsible in that House for whatever he stated there on his own authority. His hon. Friend, when quoting an example, did not say that the whole body of the Presbyterian clergy in
 477 478 479
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I think, Mr. Bouverie, the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) stated last night, with regard to one of the divisions, he did not well know what he was voting for. I am afraid that description is not only applicable to the first division, in which he might be mistaken, but with regard to the second division also, because I cannot believe his deliberate purpose was to refuse a sum for the repairs of Maynooth College. I am very much afraid the hon. Member was not aware of the tendency of the vote he was about to give. He may, perhaps, after hearing the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay), and the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken, the Member for the West Riding, have now, or begun to have, some notion of the tendency of that Vote. I must say I think those hon. Gentlemen have exaggerated the effect of that Vote. The Vote must be read, not by the light of last night, but by the Vote given a considerable time ago on the question of Maynooth itself, when the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire proposed to abolish altogether the grant to the College of Maynooth, and to repeal the Act which established that grant. It will be recollected that the Committee refused to concur with the hon. Gentleman, and maintained the Act of Parliament by which Maynooth was established. The effect of that decision is, that Maynooth remains; that the teaching of Maynooth is conducted on the same principles; that the same
 480 the 481
 MR. SPOONER  said, he was not at all convinced by the remarks of the noble Lord that the course he had taken last night was not a proper one. He should not have altered that course, whatever might have been the consequences with regard to the Presbyterian Vote. The noble Lord was convinced that it was the incumbent duty of every one to maintain the endowments of the Established Church of this country. Strongly as that conviction was also impressed on his own mind, he could not, let the consequences he what they might, give his sanction to support a religion which he believed to be contrary to the word of God, and com-
 482
 MR. CAIRNS  said, it was not his intention to say that it was technically irregular to oppose this Vote, not on the ground that it was either extravagant or unwise, but upon the ground that all religious endowments ought to be abolished; but he did say it would be equally regular and much more fair, if it were wished to argue that great question, to put it before the Committee in a more distinct form, and to give hon. Members an opportunity of recording their votes upon it. He would not now enter upon that discussion; but there was one observation worthy of attention. Without going into the accurate history of this grant, there had been such a grant going on ever since the reign of James I. In one shape or another, the Presbyterians in Ireland had been receiving aid from the State since the reign of that Sovereign. Congregations had been formed, ministers ordained, young men trained for the ministry, chapels built, and property purchased, on the faith that the Presbyterians were to have that  status 483
 MR. R. M. FOX  said, that an appeal had been made  ad misericordiam,
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, if the Vote had been proposed now for the first time, he should have opposed it; but, looking to the length of time it had been granted, and to the social, moral, and political benefits it had produced, he would support it. He could not shut his eyes to the fact, that in those parts of Ireland in which Presbyterianism existed, order, industry, and prosperity predominated, while the other parts were disgraced by lawless confusion and murder.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he considered that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had most grievously insulted a large portion of the people of Ireland. The hon. Member (Mr. Hastie) spoke in a manner worthy of his name—very precipitately, when he alluded to the outrages and murders in the south of Ireland. What was the fact? Why, the last Committee which had sat to inquire into disturbances in Ireland directed its attention solely to the north of Ireland, where the Presbyterian religion was predominant. As a Roman Catholic, he would not assert that religion was the cause of those outrages; it lay far deeper. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Young) the Secretary for Ireland had slandered all the religions in Ireland when he stated that these money grants rendered them moral, peaceful, orderly, and industrious. If the  Regium Donum 484 l
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  said, he should vote against the grant. He had never voted for the Maynooth grant, except once, and that was on the Motion of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) He believed that his own Church could find funds now, as she had found them under the penal laws, and that State connexion was ruin to a Church, and damage to a State. He was for "cutting the painter," and thought that every man should pay his priest as he paid his doctor, when he wanted him—and their religion would be better looked after. He objected to mixing religion up with politics at all; but he was aware that until they got rid of endowments altogether that was impossible; but, that once effected, the business of the country would be better looked after by Parliament.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he must deprecate the impression which the speech of the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) was calculated to convey with respect to the Vote which the Committee had arrived at on Thursday evening, upon the question of the grant of Maynooth. Nobody could suspect the hon. Member of being very friendly to the Established Church; and, therefore, when he had stated
 485
 MR. M'MAHON  said, as hon. Members who were opposed to religious grants had not divided on previous Votes of a similar description which had been passed during the evening, it seemed as if they were inclined to illustrate their principle only in the case of Ireland.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he must complain that the Bill gave new and extensive powers to the Commissioners of Police. It authorised them to decide whether a man should have a licence or not,
 486 487
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he wished to move the insertion after the words "for public use," of the words "either for first or second class carriages, as shall hereafter be provided." He was anxious to provide that the middle classes should be able to hire a carriage with a fair chance of riding in it with comfort. The other day there was a letter in the  Times d.
 MR. FITZROY  said, he wished the hon. Member to defer his Motion until the Report was brought up.
 MR. THORNELY  said, he would be glad to see some competition in cabs, and saw no reason why cabs should not ply at various prices—say 6d, 8d, 10d, or 1 s. d.
 MR. BONHAM CARTER  said, he thought the suggestion a good one, and that upon each cab there should be affixed the price per mile. Many people would be willing to pay 9 d., d.,
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman the Member for Lewes (Mr. Fitzroy) would endeavour to pass the Bill as it then stood. He felt persuaded that the best principle to adopt in that matter would be to establish one uniform tariff. He had been informed that there were at the present moment companies without end ready to start cabs of the best description and with the best horses at the proposed fare of 6 d. 488
 MR. FITZROY  said, he thought the County Court Judge was not a proper functionary. He should have no objection that in every case the Commissioner of Police should report to the Secretary of State the cause of suspension, and if the Secretary of State thought the cause insufficient, he should restore the licence.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he objected to both the Motion and Amendment. It was quite as reasonable to give an appeal to the Lord Chancellor as to the County Court Judge; and to report the cause of suspension to a Secretary of State was still more absurd. It was imposing an unnecessary trouble to report the cause of suspension, and it could not be expected that a Secretary of State could attend to such a matter.
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, he must express a hope that the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer would postpone the consideration in Committee of the Spirit Duties Bill until a later day than that which had been fixed upon. The distillers in Ireland would be most materially affected by the provisisns of that Bill, and it was but fair that they should have an opportunity of urging their views in connexion with that measure upon the attention of Government.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he had no faith whatever in promises of the kind alluded to by the hon. Member for Antrim (Mr. Macartney); but he based the present question upon the ground of policy, and believed that if a Committee were to be appointed to investigate this subject, Ireland would easily prove its claim to be exempted from the payment of those charges.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he had placed himself in communication with Sir Edward Blakeney upon the subject, and he had forwarded to him a list of queries, the answers to which would place him in a condition to judge of the state of that hospital. He had also made inquiries with respect to the regulations under which
 438
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that if he rightly understood the hon. Gentleman, bis first question was, whether the Government intended to propose a Supplementary Vote for the repairs of the College of Maynooth. He had only to answer that question by saying that the Government having introduced into the regular estimates a Vote for the repairs of the College of Maynooth, and that House having in a Committee of Supply refused to grant the sum necessary for those repairs, it was not the intention of the Government to propose any such Supplementary Vote. In reply to the second question of the hon. Gentleman, he had to state that the Government meant to introduce a Bill on the subject of Ministers' Money in Ireland; but he could not then say on what day they would be prepared to bring forward that measure.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he would
 437
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that in consider-
 439
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it would be more convenient if the right hon. Gentleman would bring forward the Customs Resolu-
 440
 MR. OLIVEIRA  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works whether it was intended to remove the old dilapidated shops which deface Hyde-park from Albert-gate eastward; what the tenure of the present occupants of those shops might
 430
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I must positively deny giving a lecture to the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden). I merely pointed out the inconvenience of discussing important matters on such occasions as the present. With respect to the question put by the hon. Member for Manchester, I cannot at this moment state precisely the expenses of the Burmese war; but if he will repeat the question on Monday, I will endeavour to give him an answer. In the course of the last year it was within the ordinary revenue of the country, and I have every reason to believe that it still remains so; but I do not like to speak of figures without reference to paper. With respect to the second question, whether any order has been sent out to annex any further territory, I have to reply—Most decidedly not. My anxiety was, that the annexation should be confined within the narrowest possible limits, and that no other portion should be taken than the country within the valley of the river Irrawaddy, which is an exceedingly fertile country.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, I hope the hon. Gentleman will not think I treat him with any disrespect when I say I do not think it a reasonable practice to introduce discussions of great importance, simply on the notice of a question to be put upon the Motion for adjournment. I, however, do not wish to complain of the course he has taken. About two hours ago I received notice of the questions which the hon. Member has put: those questions I am ready to answer, and to those questions I shall confine myself. I do not say that we ought not to have a discussion on the subject; but I think it not a convenient course to raise it on a simple notice of asking a question, and I had not the slightest notion that any discussion would now have been raised. My hon. Friend asks—"Was the province of Pegu annexed to the British territory in India by the Governor General in Council without previous instruction from home?" My answer is, Certainly not. If the hon. Member will refer to the papers on the table, entitled "Further Papers relating to Hostilities with Burmah," he will find, at page 46, that the Governor General says—
 "This province of Pegu, extending somewhat above Prome, may be retained and permanently
 434 "We are of opinion that the permanent annexation to the British dominions of the province of Pegu, including Prome within its northern limit, should be adopted as the measure of compensation and redress for the past, and of security for the future, which we ought to insist upon."
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I cannot give a positive answer, but so far as I am informed, I have every reason to believe that the province will pay its own expenses, besides placing in our hands a great check on the power of the Burmese from our being in possession of all the seaports, which give access to their country.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, as regarded the operation of that measure, he meant to apply the same principle to the property of the Royal burghs in Scotland, which he meant to apply to the property of corporate bodies in England?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman, considering the immense importance of the subject to all classes of the community, would consent to delay the Committee on the Income-tax Bill till Friday. From a circumstance, which was well known, a large number of the Irish Members were now absent, and they would probably not be in their places on Monday. It would be scarcely fair, therefore, towards those Members, and would certainly be attended with great disappointment and inconvenience, if the Committee on the Income-tax Bill—a measure in which they felt particularly interested—should be proceeded with on that day. Consider in get that no opposition had been made to the second reading of the Bill, he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would consent to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) and take the Customs Resolutions on Monday, reserving the Committee on the Income-tax Bill till Friday.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he would take that occasion to point out the injustice of paying the expense of prosecutions at assizes and quarter-sessions in England out of the national funds, and allowing the same item to fall as a burden upon the county rates in Ireland. In 1846, when the corn laws were repealed, the late Sir Robert Peel promised that the expense of such prosecutions should be paid out of the Consolidated Fund both in England and Ireland. So far as England was concerned, the spirit of that promise had been carried out; but the expense of prosecutions at assizes and quarter-sessions was still left as a local burden in Ireland, and he desired to know, therefore, whether it was the intention of the Government to propose a Supplementary Vote for the relief of Ireland.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he would refer the right hon. Gentleman to the debates in  Hansard
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Secretary at War, how and in what manner the inquiry into the present state of Kilmainham Hospital, mentioned in Her Majesty's answer to the Address of this House, had been or would be instituted and carried on, the names of the persons conducting such inquiry, and any instructions given to them in relation to it; I also, whether the result of such inquiry would be communicated in a formal and official shape to this House; and also what are the intentions of Her Majesty's Government with reference to carrying out the declared wish of this House for the maintenance of the hospital as a shelter for maimed and worn-out soldiers in Ireland?
 MR. BRIGHT : The right hon. Gentleman seems to have taken an opportunity of lecturing my hon. Friend (Mr. Cobden). ["No, no!"] But he should recollect that there are unfortunately few opportunities for making statements, however important. In the other House of Parliament, on the presentation of petitions, questions can be discussed at full length. That formerly was the practice here. I certainly do not recommend any return to such a practice, because it would interrupt the business of the House. But still, when the Government have withdrawn a day from those who are called independent Members, and are attempting, Session after Session, to compress their opportunities into the smallest possible limits, I think they ought not to take it so unkindly if, now and then, they are called to order a little on matters of this sort. The right hon. Gentleman says, the province of Pegu will pay its own expenses. That is precisely the statement that has been made by every President of the Board of Control for the last fifty or seventy years; and there is no instance that I am aware of in which the statement has not been falsified by the result. And if we are to take the assertions of persons well informed with respect to Indian affairs, there never was, from the time of Lord Clive to that of the Marquess of Dalhousie, a smaller chance of any territory paying its own expenses than the territory of Pegu. I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman if he is able to give the House any probable information as to the present expenditure of that war. As we are now within a fortnight of the discussion of matters connected with India, I hope the right hon. Gentleman will be able to give us some information on this point. We generally find out the expense of such an affair four or five years after it has happened, and when we have no possible control over it. We sometimes catch a President of the Board of Control before a Parliamentary Committee, and then the eyes of the country are opened as to what is going on. I should be glad if the right hon. Gentleman can tell us anything about the probable expense, and also
 436
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he was of opinion that the right hon. Gentleman laboured under some misapprehension, in supposing that parties throughout the country who were interested in the measure would not be taken by surprise. He had travelled within the last few days with distillers from the south of Ireland, who were deeply interested in the passing of the Spirit Duties Bill, and who were anxious to communicate with Government before that Bill went into Committee. Prom his own experience he could say that those parties would not be prepared to visit London before the middle of next week.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) whether Her Majesty's Ministers would allow the Vote in reference to the repairs of Maynooth College to remain in its present state, or whether they would bring in a Supplementary Vote for the purpose of carrying on those repairs? He would take that opportunity of also asking the noble Lord when it was the intention of the Government to bring in their Bill for the settlement of the question of Ministers' Money in Ireland?
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, the whole subject of local burdens in Ireland was well worth consideration, and the Government would give its attention to the point mooted by the hon. Member for Antrim. He was prepared to go into a full inquiry as to the way in which the local burdens in Ireland were assessed; but that was a totally different question from proposing to place a portion of them upon the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. COBDEN : Sir, I have given notice of a question to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, and I hope I shall be excused if I preface it by a few observations, because it has reference to a subject which I am anxious to bring before the House, and it is in consequence of the difficulty experienced by private Members in bringing subjects under discussion that I now ask permission to say a few words. We have been informed by the papers which have been laid on the table, that Pegu, a territory belonging to the Burmese empire, has been annexed to our Eastern territories. But in reading over those papers there is some difficulty in ascertaining by whose
 432 433
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Will the right hon. Gentleman allow me to ask him whether he has sufficiently informed himself on the question as to be able to hold out any hope that the new province will pay its own expenses? It is stated to have been taken as an indemnity for expenses which have been incurred. I wish to know whether he can give us any asurance that it will even pay its own expenses.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the parties who were likely to be affected by the provisions of the Spirit Duties Bill had had ample time since the Bill had been printed to consider those provisions. To his own knowledge persons who lived at a considerable dis-
 431
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was not aware of any promise having been given by Sir Robert Peel such as that referred to by the hon. Gentleman; but viewing the question raised in the light of policy or expediency, he thought it was one which the hon. Gentleman was fairly entitled to urge upon the attention of the Government, and it was clearly the duty of the Government to give it a full and fair consideration. His Colleagues and himself would do so, but, in the meantime, they were not prepared to propose a Supplementary Vote.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be extremely agreeable to his Colleagues and himself if they could meet the wishes of the right hon. Gentleman opposite; but he was very sorry to say that public duty obliged them to adhere to the order of business which they had announced to-night only in conformity with former intimations. The success of the Income-tax Bill depended mainly upon its next stage, and, as that measure was regarded by the Government as the basis of the whole of their financial propositions, they felt it necessary to withhold all remissions of duties until the House had given its assent to the Income-tax Bill. He might remind the hon. and learned Member for East Suffolk (Sir F. Kelly) of the announcement made before the recess—that in the event of the House agreeing to read the Bill a second time to-night, it should be considered in Committee on Monday next. He could not but think that the Irish Members would be found, as they certainly ought to be, in their places on Monday, and that, too, after having enjoyed quite as long a Whitsuntide vacation as was usually allowed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was most important that they should take the Committee on the Income-tax Bill before the Customs Resolutions.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it appeared to him that that was a question for the consideration of the Committee on the Bill. He had then only to say that he was not aware of any reason why the property of the Royal burghs in Scotland should be treated differently from the property of corporations in England.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would now state, for the convenience of the House what he proposed with regard to the Customs Resolutions. It was admitted on all hands to be of great importance that these Resolutions should be passed as soon as the House might find it convenient; and he believed that with respect to a very large number—nearly the whole in fact—of the proposals of the Government in reference to the Customs, there was no disposition either to oppose or to debate them. With regard, then, to those portions of the Resolutions, he should propose, on whatever evening they finished the Committee on the Income-tax Bill, and at whatever hour it might be, to pass all the remissions of customs duty with respect to which there was no disposition to raise any question, reserving for a future evening those portions of the Resolutions to which he understood objections were to be made.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH,  in reply to the first question, said that the houses to which the hon. Member had called his attention, were held under lease of the Dean and Chaper of Westminster; that the lease would expire in about fifty-six years from this time; that the Dean and Chapter had refused to renew the lease; and that it was their intention if they could buy the property at a reasonable price, to make important improvements. To the second question he had given an answer last night, when he stated that he doubted whether it would be expedient to make a carriage drive, because, although such a drive might be advantageous to those who went in carriages, it would not be so advantageous to foot passengers. With regard to the third question respecting the cavalry barracks at Knightsbridge, he wished to inform the hon. Member that the subject was not under the consideration of the Government.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he wished to put to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) a question upon a subject of much importance to the people of this country. In the course of the last few weeks statements had appeared in the public prints to the effect that a rebel force, which had for some time been harassing the Chinese dominions, had met and defeated the armies of the Emperor. According to the latest news, that force was proceeding to attack the capital of China. It was stated likewise, that the Emperor had applied to the representative of Her Majesty's Government in China for aid in suppressing the insurrectionary movement. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether Her Majesty's Government had received any papers upon that subject, which they would be prepared to lay before the House? Whether any such application as that to which he had referred had been made to the Governor of Hong Kong; and if it had been made, what was the course which Her Majesty's Government deemed it advisable to pursue in the matter?
 COLONEL DUNNE  rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice. Before the House went into Committee, he felt it his duty to call the attention of the House to the necessity of instituting a preliminary inquiry as to the fiscal and political relations of Great Britain and Ireland, with the view of ascertaining whether Ireland did not at the present moment bear her fair share of the Imperial taxation. There were various reasons why the House should grant this inquiry, which he would lay before it, and which appeared to him conclusive. The first reason was, that there was very little knowledge among the English Members of the House, or, indeed, this country generally, of the actual condition of Ireland. They boasted that great prosperity now prevailed in Eng-
 505 506 l l l l l l l l 507 l l l l l l l l l 508 509 d. 510 l l
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  complained of the little attention which had been paid to the speech of the hon. and gallant Member for Portarlington by the occupants of the Ministerial bench, who had not had the grace to remain quiet, even in appearance, during its delivery. He (Mr. French), following precisely in the course of his hon. and gallant Friend, had to state on the part of his constituents and himself that they did not shrink from their fair, just, and equitable share of taxation; but they thought they had a right to ask that that fair, just, and equitable taxation should first be decided by a competent tribunal. He defied any man to adduce a single rational argument why this Committee should be refused: there was no reason, beyond the fact that the Irish Members were only one-sixth of that House. This was not the first time they had asked for an inquiry as to how the
 511
 MR. MACARTNEY  thought it the height of injustice in any Government to come forward with such a proposition as this, which must be regarded as an aggravation of the financial oppressions under which Ireland had suffered. One of the worst evils inflicted on Ireland for years past had been the poor-law, which was inefficient as a measure of relief for the deserving and helpless poor, whilst its administration was so enormously expensive that more than one-third of the proceeds was swallowed up in establishments. The united burden of poor-rates and county cess for the year 1851 amounted in England to 9 2–10 per cent on the rental, whilst in Ireland it was not less than 15 per cent. On this he rested the case for an inquiry into the circumstances of Irish taxation, and he was content to leave the question to the judgment of Englishmen and Scotchmen. Let them give a fair verdict, and they would get rid of one-third of the entire present taxation of Ireland.
 MR. CONOLLY  conceived it to be his duty to insist on the absolute necessity of granting an inquiry of the kind now asked
 512 513
 MR. WILKINSON  thought that whatever were the other wrongs of Ireland, she could not complain of not having her full share of the attention of that House. He had been a Member only during the present Parliament, but he was quite sure that during that period Irish Members had occupied at least one-half the entire time taken up by the proceedings of the House. They were fond indeed of saying that their observations were treated with silent contempt but if they were not answered, it was because three or four Gentlemen got up to speak on the same side one after another. Whether the object they sought was right or wrong, he was sure they went about the business in a very bad way. He admitted that Ireland had great grievances to complain of—the Established Church, for instance; but Ireland, he thought, would never get equal rights until she made up her mind to submit uncomplainingly to equal taxation. In that sense he considered that the Irish Members were very ill-advised to come down to that House so often with their appeals  in forma pauperis
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, that the main ground which rendered it necessary for so many Irish Members to address the House on this occasion was the same which caused their attendance there—the Act of Union. Had it not been for that Act, the Irish Members would not have troubled the English representatives with their presence. He disclaimed any idea of suing for any remissions of taxation  in forma pauperis; 514 l l l 515 l l l l l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he could not commence the remarks which he had to make upon the present occasion, without adverting to the remarks of the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. French) as to what he had been pleased to term the inattention of the Government during the speech of the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had brought this Motion before the House. For his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) own part, he entirely denied that charge. He was in the House, and was attending to the speech of the hon. and gallant Colonel who introduced this Motion, when some of the Gentlemen who were now sarcastically cheering were not in the House at all. He was making the best endeavour in his power to hear the gallant Colonel, who was so attentive to his own Motion that he had left the House after making his speech, though he certainly succeeded most imperfectly, in consequence of the noise which prevailed in the House at the time, a large shave of which—he would not call it disturbance, but it was something like it— appeared to come from the neighbourhood of the hon. Member himself. The hon.
 516 l 517 518 l l from the Opposition benches. l l l l l 519 l l l l l l l l l l 520 l l l 521 522 l l prima facie l l 523 l l l l l 524 l l l s. d. s. d. l
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  hoped, though he was perfectly unconnected with the representation of Ireland, that he might venture to intrude for a few moments upon the attention of the House. In the first place, then, the right hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, had taken objection to the form of proceeding adopted by his hon. and gallant Friend, on the ground that if his Motion were accepted by the House, the progress of public business
 525 526 527 l l l l l l l l 528 l l
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, that when the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir J. Pakington) and his Friends were in office, there were vague promises thrown out by their organs in the press, and by electioneering agents, that if they were kept in office, those consolidated annuities would be remitted; but they heard from the late Chancellor of the Exchequer that no hon. Member was to leave the House with the impression that the then Government were necessarily about to adopt the Report of the House of Lords. In fact, a considerable sum, 121,000 l 529 l l l l l l s. s. d. l l 530 l l
 MR. MAGUIRE  wished to repudiate for himself and for his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Portarlington (Col. Dunne) the notion that this Resolution partook in any way of a factious character. He believed that there was a strong and almost unanimous feeling in Ireland in favour of it. The right hon. Gentleman, in the course of his speech—which for a Chancellor of the Exchequer to make was, he thought, one of the jauntiest he had ever heard—said that the justice of the tax was generally felt and acknowledged in Ire-
 531 l l l 532 l l l l l l l 533 534 l d. d., 535 Laughter.
 MR. E. BALL  said, it was something so extraordinary to hear the farmers of England spoken of in anything like terms of kindness, that he could not refrain from expressing his gratitude to the hon. Member who last addressed the House, for the manner in which he had been pleased to refer to a class, the relation of whose sufferings had been too often received in that House with ridicule. He would also express his own sympathy with the people of Ireland, whom this Budget menaced with so much injury. The question was, whether or not the income tax was to be imposed on Ireland. Let the House look at the present condition of Ireland—she came before them reeling in her weakness; she came in all the despondency of a body who, if he might use the expression, had risen from her tomb, and she came with her grave clothes scarcely shaken off. And what was that House doing? Ought they not to administer restoratives; ought they not to endeavour to recruit her exhausted energies? But instead of that they were weakening and purging her. She came
 536
 MR. BLACKETT  complained of the machinery by which the income tax was proposed to be assessed and collected. He might safely say that the trading classes had dealt tenderly with the Budget. In the first place, they had accepted the income tax with all its inequalities, and for a much longer period than the most sanguine statesman could have anticipated, though they had suffered much from its inquisitorial character, its intricate machinery, and its injustice towards the various classes of the community. He thought, therefore, they had a right to expect that some alteration would have been made in the Bill so as to remove the subordinate grievance of which they complained connected with the assessment and collection of the tax; and he could not but think that the trading classes had much reason to complain that not a single clause of the Bill, as it came before the House, even attempted to improve the machinery by which the tax was to be imposed. The main objections to the working of the tax ranged themselves under two heads: the first relating to the want of confidence generally felt in the income-tax commissioners; and the second, to the large discretionary powers vested in their hands. With respect to the first of these points, the hon. Member for the West Riding of Yorkshire (Mr. Cobden) had recently suggested that recourse should be had to the system adopted in America—namely, that the commissioners should be elected by the taxpayers of the previous year; but while there was no doubt that such an arrangement would be preferable to the present one, it would still leave the main defect of this part of the tax untouched, inasmuch as the tribunal before which the taxpayer would be expected to disclose his affairs, would consist of his neighbours. But whatever difference of opinion might exist as to the mode in which the commissioners should be appointed, he thought it most desirable that they should strictly define the limits
 537 l 538 l l l s. d.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Amendment raised again the question which they had been discussing all night, and inquired whether the noble Lord seriously meant to renew that debate?
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he had put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that evening, but had received no answer. It was known that Sir Robert Peel declined in 1842 and 1845 to extend the income tax to Ireland. Now, if Sir Robert Peel were right in 1845 in declining to extend the income tax to Ireland, he (Lord C. Hamilton) wished the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer would inform the Committee what progressive alterations had taken place since that period to prove the capability of the country to bear the great additional taxation now proposed? The right hon. Gentleman must remember that Sir Robert Peel backed his own convictions by citing the names of Pitt, Fox, Sidmouth, and Grenville, who all concurred in exempting Ireland. He must also remember that until now he had advocated a
 539 l l l l l l 540 l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in his opinion the noble Lord was pursuing a rather unusual course. The time of the House had been occupied until nearly eleven o'clock in discussing the question of the imposition of the income tax upon Ireland. It had been his (the Chan-
 541
 COLONEL DUNNE  rose with some indignation to repudiate the tone the right hon. Gentleman had assumed. The right hon. Gentleman had asked if he had consulted Lord Derby. He had not; but he had consulted the feelings of the people of Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman had misrepresented his speech. He had expressly alluded to the topics the right hon. Gentleman had charged him with overlooking. He had argued that the Union could not be affected by matter subsequent. The right hon. Gentleman had presumed to
 542
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  could see, from the tone which the discussion had taken, that the Irish landlords wanted to save themselves from the tax; but he, as a landholder, was determined to give it his support.
 MR. ALCOCK  supported the extension of the tax to Ireland. England was exposed to many burdens from which Ireland was exempt. He cordially thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the course he had taken in submitting the present measure to the House.
 MR. VANCE  wished to expose a fallacy which had been too frequently advanced. Prom the discouragement given to the commerce of Ireland, that amount of revenue from customs was not collected in that country which ought to be collected there. It had been overlooked that a considerable portion of the customs on articles consumed in Ireland was collected in London and Liverpool; and if the accounts in this respect were fairly gone into, he had no doubt they would show a difference of a million. The Irish people had no objection to pay the same customs and excise duties as England; but the rule had been to exempt that country from direct taxation, and he contended that the imposition of such taxation was contrary to the 7th Article of the Union. With respect to the consolidated annuities, the city which he represented (Dublin) would derive no benefit whatever from the remission. That city at one time owed 40,000 l 543
 LORD C. HAMILTON  said, he would not trouble the Committee by dividing. His object had been to ascertain the ground on which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had deviated from the principles laid down by Sir Robert Peel, of whom he was a supporter.
 MR. FREWEN  then moved an Amendment in the clause, to the effect that the duration of the tax be limited to two years. He protested against renewing the tax for seven years as too long a period for the House to tie up its own hands from dealing with the question. The House ought to renew it for a short period, and reserve to itself the power of continuing it from time to time.
 The CHANCELLOR OF the EXCHEQUER  said: Sir, the hon. Gentleman has raised a question of great importance, and one which is perfectly fair and convenient to be dealt with by the Committee—namely, whether we shall agree to continue the tax for a period of only two years, or for a more extended term. I only wish to remind the Committee that the main objects which the Government have in view in proposing the renewal of the income tax for a considerable time are these two. In the first place, to give stability to our system of finance; and, in the second place, to put the tax upon such a footing, and so regulate its provisions by a progressive descent of the rate as may bring it to a point in which it will probably be in the power of Parliament to part with it altogether, if so disposed. These are the two reasons which governed my Colleagues and myself in the proposition that we have made. The hon. Gentleman says, on the other hand, that we ought not to renew the tax for so long a time, and he would grant it for two years only. My objection to that is, that it would throw the question of the income tax into the same unsatisfactory position as it has now for several years stood—that it would fail to give to our financial system that stability which the propositions of the Government are likely to impart to it; and lastly, that it would not lay the least ground for, nor make the slightest progress towards a state of things in which it would be possible for Parliament to part with the tax. For these reasons I hope the Com-
 544
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if this question were to be considered as a mere change in the phraseology of the Income Tax Bill, for the purpose of giving it greater clearness, he should think it was undoubtedly wise and safe to adhere to the established phraseology which had become intelligible, which had acquired a fixed and known construction, and under which the lax was actually levied. If, however, he understood the hon. Gentleman aright, he had in view a substantial object—he wished to change the form of the tax, by providing that in all cases under Schedule A deductions of every kind that could be shown to have been made, should be allowed to persons who were liable to pay under that head. He was sorry to say he could not meet the views of the hon. Gentleman. The House had already decided upon a proposal less wide than that of the hon. Gentleman—he meant the Resolution of the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Palmer), which by no means went the length of the Motion submitted by the hon. Gentleman. Such a proposal would aggravate the inquisitorial character of the tax, and would add to whatever was offensive in its character to a degree greater in fact than
 545
 MR. SPOONER  had understood the hon. Member for Bodmin (Mr. Michell) to press for the levy of the tax upon the net annual value instead of the gross annual value upon which owners of property were called on to pay. In Clause 30 this provision was made in the case of all persons who held capitular and ecclesiastical property. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: That has always been so.] Yes, but why should one set of property-holders be allowed to deduct all their repairs, and not another?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that Clause 30 certainly related to repairs, but they were repairs of an entirely different character from the repairs of property; they were in respect of the liabilities of these bodies. There was no analogy whatever between the repairs which a rector was liable for in the chancel of his church, and those which a landlord or farmer made in order to enable a tenement to yield its rent. The two things were entirely distinct. They proposed to maintain the framework of the Act exactly as it was.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the 33rd clause, which referred to sea-walls, contained no new enactment. There must be exceptionable cases, and it was impossible to meet every particular case. It was better to adhere to certain phrases when they had acquired an established meaning, rather than run the risk of disturbing the whole framework of the Act.
 MR. WALPOLE  thought the right hon. Gentleman had made an admission not quite consistent with his former statement on the subject. The right hon. Gentleman, in opening his Budget, stated that his great object was to keep this tax as a weapon to be used when a great emergency occurred. But now every modification suggested to render the tax more just was refused. If it was desired to retain the tax for some great emergency, it ought to be so adjusted as to make it fair and equitable on all parties, who might then consent to its renewal hereafter. If the tax expired in 1860, with all its present inequalities resting on it, the renewal of it on any great emergency would be opposed, not only by the landed interest, but
 546
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would simply observe that the principle on which they had proceeded in regard to the clauses of this Bill had been to introduce any mitigating provision, wherever it could be done without breaking up the framework and foundation of the tax. To this Amendment his right hon. Friend of course would not expect the Government to accede, for it was one which avowedly opened up the whole question of the adjustment of the schedules, relatively to each other. The right hon. Gentleman was friendly to allowances on the different schedules to different degrees, whilst Government thought the tax could be levied on that principle, and had endeavoured to provide for the alleviation of the financial burdens of different classes in another way.
 MR. SPOONER  thought his hon. Friend the Member for Bodmin would find his purpose answered better by withdrawing his Amendment, and accepting that of his right hon. Friend.
 MR. W. S. KNOX  thought the Government should take time to consider this point, and would therefore move that the Chairman report progress.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, considering the state of public business, the great interests concerned in the speedy progress of this Bill, and also the fact that they were about to have two holidays, he thought it would be exceedingly inconvenient to leave off at this point.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  thought it
 547
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Bill had been printed and in the hands of the Members for more than a week. The words used in this clause would hare no effect whatever on the mode of levying this tax in Ireland, which was provided for by special clauses, laying down in clear and distinct terms the test that was to be applicable.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  wished to call attention to the probable effect of Clause 17, as regarded the occupying tenant, which would materially aggravate the hardship of his position.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  hoped the hon. Gentleman who had moved to report progress would not insist on his proposition.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE  said, he saw no economy in the Bill, and could not understand what there was in it which should make the public so anxious for this wonderful Cab Bill. He should move, upon the next stage, that the half miles be charged at a proportionate mileage rate, and that the rate for waiting be assessed as at present.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that in the course of last Session, when the measure relating to New Zealand was under discussion, his right hon. Friend (Sir W. Molesworth) stated his opinion that a fraud had been committed, and moved for papers from which he would be enabled to make out a case of fraud, and urged the necessity for the production of those papers as a reason for delaying the Bill. The House however, did not concur in what was requested by his right hon. Friend, and the Bill passed. He might add that the statement which was made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) on that occasion was a very fair one, and that the arrangement made by the Bill of last Session was a very proper one for all the parties concerned. His right hon. Friend (Sir W. Molesworth), the other day, in answer to a question of the hon. Gentleman, stated the papers on the table proved the case he wished to make out; but, as Parliament had decided the question, and the Government saw no reason for disturbing that decision, he was not disposed to take any step in the matter.
 MR. BAILLIE  rose to put a question to the noble Lord the Member for London, with regard to the New Zealand Company. It would be remembered that a Bill had passed last Session, giving a constitution to the colony of New Zealand, which contained a clause confirming a large grant of money to the New Zealand Company, which was to be paid out of the land sales of the colony. Against that claim the right hon. Baronet the present First Commissioner of Works protested, on the ground that the claim of the New Zealand Company was founded on fraud, which he would be able to prove if papers, for which he moved, were laid on the table. A few days ago he (Mr. Baillie) asked the right hon. Baronet if he was prepared to prove the charge of fraud he had made against the New Zealand Company last Session, and to which he replied that there was no necessity for proceeding with the charge, because the papers on the table proved the fraud beyond the possibility of doubt. That answer being made by a Member of the Cabinet, must be supposed to be the answer of the Government, and they must be of
 504
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  would be very glad to consent to this, if the Government would repay the railway companies the money they had expended upon their stations.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER   presented
 MR. W. J. FOX  suggested that some right of entrance to railway stations should be provided for cabs, and that these stations should be put upon the same footing as other cab ranks.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  understood that the fee at present paid by cabs on entering the stations was principally for water, and
 548
 MR. MILES  asked the Under Secretary for the Colonies, whether, in pursuance of a despatch (No. 169) from Sir C. A. Fitzroy, dated Sydney, October 19,1852, upon the subject of immigration, any Act had been passed by the Colonial Legislature of New South Wales to regulate the Indenting of assisted immigrants, and their employment for a certain time after their arrival in the colony.
 MR. PETO  said, that as a Nonconformist he had much pleasure in seconding the Amendment; and he regarded it as a happy omen for the progress of enlightenment and liberality that both the original Motion and the Amendment should have been introduced by Gentlemen who were consistent and conscientious members of the Established Church. The supporters of any description of tax ought, in his opinion, to be prepared, to show that it was a good public tax; but with regard to church rates, neither in their origin nor in their effect could they be considered to answer that description. At the first establishment of church rates the inhabitants
 605 l. 606 607 l. 608 l. l. 605*
 MR. HUME  was anxious to recall the attention of the House to what had already been done by Parliament on this subject, and what still remained to be effected. About fourteen or fifteen years ago, the church cess or church rates in Ireland were made the matter of discussion in that House; and it was stated that they were the most fruitful source of dissension and heartburning in that country; and Parliament then determined that they should be absolutely abolished. In 1834, Lord Althorp brought in a Bill to abolish church rates in England as well as in Ireland; but he (Mr. Hume) opposed the proposition of the noble Lord, and he believed it was upon his opposition that the measure was abandoned, and he opposed it on this ground—that the noble Lord proposed to throw a portion of the burden upon the Consolidated Fund; whereas he (Mr. Hume) maintained that the Church ought to maintain the whole burden out of its own property. He was still of the same opinion; and he wished that his hon. Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay) had omitted all reference to the pew rents in his Amendment. He should have confined himself to the proposition, that church rates ought to be abolished, and that the expenses now defrayed by church rates should be charged on the property that belonged to the Church, and which was now at the disposal of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. He had never heard any speech more convincing to his mind—if he wanted conviction on the subject—that church rates were an evil to the Church, than the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Tavistock (Mr. R. Phillimore). He thought the speech of the hon. and learned Member ought to convince every
 612 the
 SIR JOHN BULLER  then moved the issue of a new writ for the borough of Plymouth, in the room of Mr. Mare, whose election had been determined to be void. The Committee which sat upon the election petition had reported that they saw no reason to delay the issue of the writ.
 MR. S. WORTLEY  instanced the case of the Stamford inquiry, in which he had conducted the case on one side, as a precedent.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thought it was rather premature to issue a new writ while a Committee was sitting, under the Act of 1842, to inquire into the state of bribery in the borough of Plymouth.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I cannot say that there is anything very satisfactory cither in the propositions which have been made to the House, or in the debate in which these propositions have been discussed. At the same time the House must feel that the subject is a most important one, and therefore that their decision ought to be deliberately made. I quite agree with my right hon. Friend who has just sat down that it is not absolutely essential for the Established Church that any part of its funds should be raised by church rates. I quite admit that the Church Establishment might well exist without church rates, as in Ireland the Established Church remains without those rates. At the same time, if we are looking at this as a practical question, we must consider in the first place that here is a very considerable sum—those who put it at the least sum, set it down at 300,000 l. l. 634 635 l. l. 636 l., l. Geo. 637 l l 638 639
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he could assure the hon. and learned Member for Tavistock, that if he apprehended his proposition would give satisfaction to the Nonconformists, he was utterly mistaken. They never yet in any broad question of civil or religious liberty had asked anything for themselves which they were not willing to give to others; and they deemed that the exclusive proposition of placing them, as it were, in the position of suing  in formâ pauperis 619 620
 MR. E. BALL  said, he had never considered that a church rate was an impost which ought naturally and necessarily to offend the consciences of Dissenters, because he had always supposed that Dissenters were bound, under the prescription which was their special and peculiar law as religious men, to obey the law of the country in which they lived; and therefore, although they might have, as he himself had, strong objections to a church rate, he could not think they could justly regard it as a violation of their consciences, or as being offensive to God, to pay a tribute which was levied upon them by the law of the country which yielded protection to them and to their property. But, if he had ever entertained any doubts or misgivings as to the necessity of coming to some speedy decision on the question, what had been advanced by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Phillimore) on this occasion had satisfied him that they could no longer, and ought no longer, to delay the settlement of it. The law imposing these rates seemed to occupy a portion dissimilar to that of all other laws; for it had been stated to-night that in large populous districts, where the  vox populi 609 610 l. 611
 MR. MIALL  had prepared himself to encounter some resistance in the course of this debate; but he found that scarcely any resistance, at least in the way of argument, had been offered to the propositions now under consideration. Previously to coming into the House he had looked through a pamphlet published a day or two since by the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley), and he beg-
 621 bonâ fide, 622 623 bonâ fide, 624
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, that it was provided by that Act that the reassembling of an Election Committee should not delay the issue of the writ.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that the Plymouth Election Committee had made no recommendation whatever with respect to the issuing of the writ, preferring to leave the matter entirely in the discretion of the House. But he had no hesitation in saying that the individual feeling of every Member of the Committee was in favour of the writ being issued.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the noble Lord had pointed out how the movers of both the propositions before the House had destroyed each other's arguments; but the noble Lord himself had not been always so consistent upon this matter as not to be in some degree obnoxious to the same charge as he had brought against these two hon. Members. If he recollected rightly in 1837 the noble Lord was a party to a proposition made in that House, which was precisely the same as the Motion now made by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets; and in 1849 the noble Lord stoutly opposed the proposition which Sir W. Page Wood then made, which proceeded on the principle involved in the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Tavistock (Mr. R. Phillimore); but to-night he objected altogether to the Motion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, and said he was willing to admit a first reading of the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Tavistock. It appeared that, upon this question, as upon some others, the noble Lord bad not made much progress lately, for he seemed to suppose that the objections he had taken that night were so insurmountable, that the church-rate dispute must still remain open and unsettled. He (Mr. Bright) was glad, however, that this question had been brought forward, and the course which the debate had taken was gratifying, because it showed that the House, with the exception of the hon. Baronet below him (Sir R. H. Inglis), and the hon. and learned Gentleman who represented the other University, Mr. Wigram, was arriving at more rational views, and that this subject was becoming more simplified. He was sorry that in the Universities, opinions which were now obsolete with most men, were still found to linger; and he believed that if this country had been governed upon the opinions prevalent in the Universities, it would have remained Roman Catholic in religion, and Austrian in politics, till this day. He was quite ready to admit that there appeared to be objections to both the plans before the
 640 l. 641 l. l., l l., 642 l. 643
 MR. BRIGHT , while approving of the
 649
 MR. WIGRAM  said, he could not but regard the present Motion as one of great importance, especially considered in reference to the Amendment brought forward by the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Clay), because he could not, when he saw that the ground upon which the opposition to church rates rested was that of conscience, help perceiving that this Motion, at present aimed against church rates, was in its ultimate object an attack upon tithes. He was justified in saying so by a petition which had been presented to the House, signed by several members of the Society of
 625 626 627
 MR. COLLIER  said, he felt extremely indebted to the hon. and learned Member for Tavistock. His speech showed that the reforming spirit had at length penetrated into the regions of Doctors' Commons—a spot long held sacred from such an intrusion. But while thus far he gave the hon. and learned Member his thanks, he was bound to say that he thought that his proposition did not go far enough, and that the proposition of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Sir W. Clay) was more suited to the exigencies of the case. Undoubtedly of all the taxes levied in this country, church rates were the most objectionable. In the first place, they were levied upon all for the benefit of the few; they were uncertain with respect to the property on which they might be levied, and the purposes to which they might be applied; and they were enforceable only in the worst courts of the country, where the method of proceeding was tedious, expensive, and dilatory, and calculated to tax to the utmost the funds of the suitors and the patience of the public. Not only did they awaken the natural repugnance of the human species to pay money in any shape, but they exacted payment by the most odious of all processes—an injury to the conscience of him who paid. They were not conformable to the spirit of the British constitution. They had high legal authority—that of Blackstone—to show that originally the repairs of the church were provided for out of the tithes, which were divided into four portions—one for the repair of churches, another for the maintenance of the bishops, a third for the support of incumbents, and the fourth
 606* 607* 608*
 MR. MITCHELL  expressed his readiness to adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet.
 MR. MITCHELL  then moved that the Select Committee upon the Berwick-upon-Tweed Election Petition should consist of the following Members:—Mr. Thomas Mitchell, Mr. Edmund Denison, Mr. Mullings, and Mr. Collier.
 MR. MITCHELL  would leave the matter entirely in the hands of the House; but he would ask the hon. Baronet the Member for Petersfield (Sir W. Jolliffe) how the inquiry was to be conducted, if the Members who were cognisant of the facts: of the case were excluded; for it must be recollected that no lawyer would appear before such a Committee as the present.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  stated, in reply, that, in a recent Session of the Legislative Council of New South Wales, an Act was passed for the purpose of establishing a self-supporting system of immigration, the principle of which was, that emigrants from the mother country were to repay a portion of the cost of their passage, but that in the event of their hot being able to do so they were to enter into the service of employers in the colony, who should pay to Government the expense of their passage, indemnifying themselves by deducting the amount So paid from the wages of the immigrants. That Act, however, had
 567
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he felt bound to express his entire dissent from the sentiments of the hon. and learned Gentleman who spoke last, and of the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis), who, he thought, took a very exaggerated view of this question in holding it to be one affecting the very existence of the Church of England. He must say that to him (Sir G. Grey) the question of Church rates did not in any degree appear to affect the existence of the Church of England; and he thought they were injudicious and ill-advised friends of it who staked its existence upon such a question. He thought church rates and tithes stood upon a totally different footing. He believed that if church rates were abolished to-morrow, however great the inconvenience it might cause in some parishes.
 628 629 630 631 632 633
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  concurred in the observations of the hon. Member for Manchester, that when a charge affecting the personal honour of a Gentleman not present was made, and when the person who preferred the accusation was a Member of the House, it would be unseemly to allow that Member to form one of the tribunal. On the other hand, if justice were to be done, there would be great disadvantage in forming a tribunal without any Members who were cognisant of the facts to elicit the truth. He recollected an inquiry into a matter concerning the personal honour of two Members of that House, which arose out of an Irish election. In that case an impartial tribunal was chosen, much in the manner recommended by the hon. Member for Petersfield, but in addition to the Committee so chosen, a Member, a friend of each party, was present, in order to examine the witnesses. He forgot whether they had voices in the Committee or not. He thought in this case a fair tribunal would be constituted if a Committee of five were appointed, and the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Mitchell) to be added, together with another Member, a friend of Mr. Hodgson's.
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  was a Member of the Stamford Committee, the number of which was nine, one Member, Sir W. P. Wood, conducting the inquiry on one side, and the hon. Recorder for London on the other. He thought the best plan would be to adopt the mode suggested by the hon. Baronet the Member for Petersfield, "that a Committee should be appointed in the first instance by the Committee of 'Elections, and that then a Member on
 650
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that if the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) were adopted, the Committee must consist of more than five Members. In the case of the Stamford inquiry the Committee consisted of eight and the Chairman.
 SIR J. TROLLOPE  would remind the House that the duties of the Committee of Elections were laid down and defined in the Act of Parliament. Those duties had been infringed in the case of the Derby inquiry by the desire of the House, although the Committee was not actually in existence at the time, not having been sworn. He wished to remind the hon. Baronet the Member for Petersfield (Sir W. Jolliffe) that upon that occasion the House had expressly desired the Committee of Selection to nominate the Members to conduct the inquiry. If it was the pleasure of the House that the General Committee of Elections should undertake this duty, he would not, as their Chairman, oppose it, but he gave this assent under protest that this was a departure from the duties expressly prescribed for them by Act of Parliament.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that he considered both the original Motion and the Amendment equally objectionable; but when a proposition was made by an hon. and learned Member sitting immediately behind the Treasury bench, and an Amendment to it moved by an hon. Baronet who stated that he gave his general support to
 613 Cheers. 614 l. l. l. l., l. "The church rate affects property in the same way as any other charge. The other day I was called upon to pay 14 l. Hansard, 615 616 bonus locus pœnitentiœ: "Another proposition was to continue church rates as at present, but to exempt Dissenters from the payment of them. As far as Dissenters were concerned, this would of course satisfy them; but it would be detrimental in the highest degree to the interests of the Established Church. If any person could exempt himself from the pay-
 617 3  Hansard, animus animus 618 l. l.
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE : * 568 Blackstone, Ancient Law and Institutes of England, Ad fanum reficiendum omnes quidem opem ferre debebunt. circumspecté agatis, "Unusquisque parochianus tenetur ad repara-
 569 "It is now perfectly established law, that the parishioners in vestry assembled can alone make an order for a pecuniary rate, and that neither the Churchwardens, nor the Ordinary, nor Commissioners, nor any other, without the authority of the parishioners, can rate or tax them for the purpose. The rate, supposing a rate to be the only moans by which the money can be raised, must, under ordinary circumstances, when all are willing to do their duty, be one to which the majority present assent. It cannot be the rate for which most votes are given; it must be the act of the majority. If, in a vestry meeting of twelve, five vote for one sort of rate, four for another, and three for a third, the first rate would not be valid. No trace, I believe, can be found of a by-law, or any order of a deliberative or in some sense legislative body, which the parishioners in vestry assembled are, made  more burgensium. Gosling Veley, ratione personæ, v. 570 "Q. 2389. Do you wish the Committee to understand, that church rates at any time would have been regarded as a poll tax?—Certainly they were of that nature, and it is obvious they were, because wherever there has been a charge upon land, as in the case of tithes, there has always been a power of distress and seizing the lands; but though since the time that any Church has been appropriated or impropriated, the impropriator is bound to repair the chancel, you cannot seize the rectory, or have a distress against the property; that has been decided by the Courts of Common Law upon the very ground which I am stating, that it was a tax  in personam, v. "At Poole, and also at Boston, persons were mode to pay, not merely for the houses and lands which they occupied, but for the ships which they possessed, and for their stock in trade; and when the whole case was legally decided, at the Delegates, some twenty-eight years ago, one of the Common Law Judges, Chief Justice, expressed his opinion that, in strict law, you might assess a man according to his whole personal estate; and he expressed it very strongly, because, in the course of the argument it was said, 'That you may as well assess Rundal and Bridge for all the jewellery in their shop;' and he answered, 'So you may.' But in practice and in usage the ordinary course is to assess the occupant always, and according to the value of his holding. "Q. 2482. With respect to the property which should be made the subject of such rate,; are there any difficulties or doubts in the law at present which, in your judgment, should be amended?—No, I think none. "Q. 2483. Is all land within the parish rate able, excepting such exempted land as I have spoken of?—Yes. I never heard of an attempt to relieve any other land from church rate excepting the glebe, "Q. 2484. And it matters not whether the occupier lives within the parish or out of it?—Certainly not; there is an old case upon that subject." 571 572 573 Vict. 574 v. Will. Will. 575 "Q,. 3131. With respect to the out-townships of Leeds, would you tell the Committee whether church rates are levied there?—Church rates are not levied now in any out-townships of Leeds; there are several very large out-townships, Huns-let having nearly 20,000 inhabitants now; Holbeck has, perhaps, also 16,000 or 16,000. "Q. 3132. Headingley?—The last place in which a church rate was laid was Headingley. There has been no church rate laid in Headingley, but the churchwarden of Headingley raised the amount necessary for the repairs of the Church and the support of the worship by a voluntary rate upon the Churchmen themselves. "Q. 3133. Are church rates levied in any of the principal towns of the West Riding of Yorkshire?—In the principal towns of the West Riding of Yorkshire, church rates have been abandoned for some years. "Q. 3134. Bradford, for example?—In Bradford, for the last ten years, and with its chapel-
 576 "Q. 3135. (Sir D. Dundas.) Those are all populous places?—They are all populous places. In Huddersfield there has been no church rate for fourteen years; there is no church rate in the chapelries of Golcar, Lindley, and Longwood. In Sheffield, there has been no church rate for thirty years, nor in any of its chapelries. In Wakefield there has been no church rate for five or six years. There is no church rate in Otley; none in Barnsley, and in many of the large villages." "In most of the populous towns of the West Riding they do not now pay church rates, and that in many cases the opposition to church rates was seen to be so strong and so general, that neither the clergyman, nor the clergyman's friends, chose to have the bad blood that would have ensued from a contest, and they gave it up. "Q. 2609. Do you happen to know the amount of the costs?—I do not, but generally I can say, that from that time to the present, no church rate has ever been levied in that parish, which is the largest parish in Leicester, containing about 25,000 or 30,000 inhabitants; I believe, also, that in the other parishes of Leicester, with one exception, for the same period, no church rates have been levied; I believe in that solitary parish, which was the parish of St. Martin, Leicester, up to the last year, church rates were levied; a violent opposition was raised there; I believe at the very last meeting there, the anti-Church party prevailed, and the rate was refused; therefore in Leicester now, I believe, there is not a single parish which pays church rates." "Q. 485. It had been previously determined, as a very available mode of practically opposing a rate, that a Dissenter (and I was to have been the individual) should be the churchwarden. I refrained from taking office, and it was agreed that the Vicar's churchwarden should, without any obstacle or embarrassment whatever, take precisely that course which would, under the most favourable circumstances, at least settle this question, whether a minority could be enabled to make a rate. 577 —"the ten thousand expedients which may be found abundantly suggested in almost every judgment in this case, as means by which opponents "of a church rate may, if such be their policy, embarrass and throw obstacles in the way of its being made." "Q,. 486. (Chairman.) Is the proposal of a nominal rate one of such resources to which you allude?—Yes, it is one of such manifold resources. "Q. 487. And the appointment of a church warden who is notoriously adverse to the proposal of a rate?—That is an expedient by which considerable facility may be given practically…ֵ I am perfectly satisfied, from my rather abundant experience in this sort of warfare, that it is exceedingly convenient to the opposers of a church rate to have in their favour an officer in that character of churchwarden." "Q. 3056. Do the parishioners ever elect Dissenters as churchwardens with the view of evading the rate?—Since 1848, we have elected a Dissenting churchwarden each Easter." The Church Bate Question Considered 578 "Did any man suppose that those interests of the Church was by maintaining every one of its abuses? Did any man suppose that those interests were to be promoted by a profanation of the Church itself, year after year; by a desecration of the house of God; by a squabble about church rates at each succeeding Easter? In rejecting such a proposition, let them remember the immense amount of responsibility which they assumed, the quantity of ill-blood and heartburnings which they perpetuated, as well as the annual desecration of the house of God Easter after Easter. He entreated them to consider well before they arrived at any such conclusion."—[3  Hansard, "Q. 2375. Do you think that great social evils arise, as far as your experience is concerned, from the existing mode of repairing the fabrics of churches?" "Most certainly. Looking back at my experience, which is now above forty years, I have seen not merely litigation in courts, but I have seen every description of heartburning and quarrels, the separation of parishes into two parties, not precisely upon religious scruples, but from the feeling of one party towards the other, and so on; and it has created greater feuds than any other subject that I know. "2376. Do you think the existence of church rates, for example, likely to impair the proper influence of clergymen over their flocks?—That depends entirely on the clergymen themselves. Every clergyman of discretion keeps himself, as far as possible, aloof and away from church rates; and he says,' that is the business of the churchwarden and the vestry; it is not mine.' If he imprudently intermixes himself with the church rate, then he is very likely to get into difficulty; but all the prudent clergy whom I have known have always kept apart." "That, in the opinion of this House, it is just and expedient, that effectual measures should be taken for the abolition of compulsory payments of, church rates in England and Wales." 579 l. l. Hansard, "That it is the opinion of this House, that effectual measures should be immediately taken for the abolition of church rates."—[3  Hansard, "for discharging persons dissenting from the Church as by law established, from contributing to church rates, and from taking any part in levying, assessing, or administering the same." 580 "A Select Committee to consider the law of church rates and the difference of practice, which exists in various parts of the country, in the assessment and levying of church rates, and to report their observations to the House." 581 "That all the inhabitants, without distinction, or regard to different modes of faith, ought to contribute to the repairs of the Church." "Q,. 2601. (Mr. A. Hope.) Have you formed any opinion as to whether payment for the repair of churches out of pew rents would be either desirable or possible?—I have thought of that question very much indeed, and I will not hesitate to answer it to the best of my belief; I have not the slightest objection to tax the occupants of pews who are capable of paying, but I never would assent to any system that should leave the poor of England without a place to go to church. "Q. 2602. And there would be great difficulties in any such tax as should not make it a beneficiary interest to the managers of churches to create as many pews and as few free seats as they could?—I am afraid it must be so; that is quite manifest; there is no difficulty in that proposition at all." "The Churchwardens find great difficulty in collecting the present pew rents. Some openly refuse to pay—the Vicar among the number; of course they keep their seats—and even if the system was fair in its nature, and unobjectionable in point of principle, it cannot be enforced, nor can any man be ejected for nonpayment. It is
 582 "Q. 2777. He is asked whether he believes that any remedy could be applied, which would give permanent satisfaction, unless it dealt with the conscientious scruples of Dissenters?—I think not; my belief is, that that is felt now very sensibly by a very great number of Churchmen, who are very extremely desirous of not having any more church rate discussions." "Q. 3905. Has the opposition to church rates in your parish been from a conscientious objection in point of principle, or a question of amount?—Partly both, I think. They took an objection to the church rate proposed, because we had had 100 l. "Q. 4228. I believe you object on principle, to the payment of church rates?—Yes." "What are the objections of Dissenters? Not [he answers himself] the sum of money
 583 "The principle for which the Dissenters contended was, that every man has a right to worship God according to his own conscience, and that he cannot, consistently with justice, contribute a doit to the support of a form of worship which his conscience condemns; and if any Dissenters did not act on that principle, they deserved the respect neither of the Established Church, nor of those to whom they professed to belong."—[3  Hansard, "It was on the ground that they considered the rate injurious to the interests of religion, as well as oppressive to them individually, and hard upon them conscientiously, that the great bulk of the prayers of the petitions were founded."—[ 3 Mansard, 584 585 vivâ voce, forum 586 "Q. 3356. (Chairman.) Will you state whether you think, that if church rates were abolished, churches would still be maintained in the agritural parishes?—I am fully confident that they would. "Q. 3367. Should you, as a Dissenter, but yet interested in the maintenance of the edifices of the Church as public property, be disposed to give up those edifices entirely to the members of the Established Church?—I do not think I should feel justified in expressing an opinion upon a question of so much importance as that." "If you ask for my mere individual opinion and feeling, it would be certainly to give them up to the Establishment, and not to disturb the Establishment at all in the possession of them; that is my individual feeling, but I cannot speak for others. I know no feeling to the contrary of that, however, I may say." "Q. 228. (Mr. A. Hope.) Have you remarked among those who you say, and I suppose quite truly, by the increase of knowledge raised a conscientious objection to paying church rates, any conscientious objection on their part to partake of what they would get in return for that church rate, namely, a refusal to be married in the church, or to use its burying ground?—Yes, very much indeed. "Q. 229. (Sir D. Dundas.) In your parish?—In my own parish, and in others. "Q. 234. (Mr. A. Hope.) All of your friends, I suppose, who are unwilling to pay church rates, are willing to give the  quid pro quo; 587 588
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  rose to reply, amidst loud cries for a division. He referred to the contradictory objections that had been urged against his measure, as proving that it was one of great moderation. Until yesterday morning he was perfectly ignorant of the provisions contained in Lord Stanley's pamphlet. He contended that his measure had been much misrepresented by the right hon. Member for Morpeth (Sir Cr. Grey) especially as regarded its operation on Dissenters.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, that in rising to move, as an Amendment to the Motion of the horn and learned Gentleman—the Motion with respect to church rates,
 589 v. 590 591 Geo. l. l. s. d., l. s.; l. s. d., 592 593 "Do you wish the Committee to understand that church rates would at any time be regarded as a poll tax?" "Certainly they were of that nature, and it is obvious they were, because, where there has been a charge on land, as in the case of tithes, there has always been a power of distress, and seizing the lands; but though, since the time that any church has been appropriated, or impropriated, the impropriator is bound to repair the chancel, you cannot seize the rectory, or have a distress against the property. That has been decided by the courts of common law, upon the very grounds that I am stating—that it was a tax  in personam, 594 595 596 "I. A. B., do solemnly and sincerely declare that I am not of the communion of the Church of England as by law established, but I do dissent therefrom; and I do solemnly declare that on that account I object to the payment of church rates, that I do not do so from any pecuniary or interested motives, but for the sake of my conscience only." "That Dissenters should be discharged from the charge by law established of contributing to church rates, and from taking any part in the levying, assessing, or administering the same." 597 locus pœnitentiœ 598 599 "A. 3,128. On the authority of Dr. Hook, that since church rates had been refused in Leeds, the parish church had been rebuilt at an expense of 30,000 l., l. "A. 3,193. Congregation to which witness belongs has for several years raised about 670 l. l. l. l., l. "A. 3,188. Assume as a low average that by Dissenting congregations 80 l. l. "A. 3,195. Throughout England there are county associations, in which the richer congregations subscribe to assist the poorer village congregations." 600 l. "That it is the opinion of this Committee, that for the repair and maintenance of parochial churches and chapels in England and Wales, and the due celebration of divine worship therein, a permanent and adequate provision be made out of an increased value given to Church lands by the introduction of a new system of management, and by the application of the proceeds of pew rents—the collection of church rates ceasing altogether from a day to be determined by law." 601 "A. 3,176. The Nonconformist chapels in England and Wales, of all denominations, are 14,340, of which there were 597 Roman Catholics; the preaching stations in villages having either schoolrooms or hired rooms, were 7,472; none of these latter were Roman Catholics. Mr. Baines assumed the number of parochial churches and chapels to be 14,000. "A. 3,221. Mr. Horsman said, in the House of Commons, in 1847, the number of churches was 13,147, and from the rapid increase since, he assumes them now to be above 14,000. This calculation is completely confirmed by the recent return by the Registrar General, of the number of Dissenters places of worship. There were certified from 1688 (date of passing of the Toleration Act, 1  Wm. Mary, "Note. The materials from which the return was prepared do not afford the means of distinguishing disused places from those which are still existing." 602 Will. 603 l. l. ad verea cundiem, 604 l. l. l. l.,
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that great inconvenience had arisen in former and in the present Sessions, in consequence of Committees having been nomi-
 648
 MR. TATTON EGERTON  called the attention of the House to the fact that Mr. George Duncan, one of the Members of the Durham Committee, was also a Member of a Committee on a group of railways which was still sitting, and had attended its meetings so closely from the commencement that, were he withdrawn, it would be like taking away the right hand of the Chairman. He begged to move, therefore, that
 707
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer would object to allow occupiers of land to have their land valued by competent persons appointed by the commissioners in case they thought themselves overcharged. At present it was left to the discretion of the commissioners.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had never had this point stated to him by any one, and he was not aware that the occupiers of land felt themselves aggrieved in this respect. He would rather not give a positive answer without inquiry, but he would consider the matter, and give the hon. Gentleman an answer. The commissioners alluded to were not officers of the Government, but local commissioners.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, this clause was of a nature which, he thought, the House would be generally of opinion was objectionable. It professed to tell the House and the public many things which were not contained in it, and which would require that any man who had a chance of discovering what it meant should be not only very laborious, but also have a good deal of practice in construing Acts of Parliament. The clause stated—
 "The said duties hereby granted shall be assessed, raised, levied, and collected under the regulations and provisions of the Act passed in the Session of Parliament held in the 5th and 6th years of Her Majesty, c. 35, and of the several Acts therein mentioned or referred to, and also of any Act or Acts subsequently passed explaining, altering, amending, or continuing the said first-mentioned Act; and for this purpose all the said several Acts shall be revived, and shall be deemed to have been and to be continued in force from the day of, 1853." Vict., 717 718 Gazette,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he did not for a moment question the motives with which the hon. Gentleman had made his statement to the Committee; and was satisfied that when he had heard the explanations which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was about to offer, that he would see that his criticisms upon this Bill were not well founded, although the objects which he had in view might be perfectly rational, and, he fully granted, quite open to consideration. In the first place, the hon. Gentleman was entirely in error if he supposed that because this was a supplemental and amendment Bill, therefore he was precluded from introducing improvements into its provisions. The Bill certainly revived several old Acts, but it revived them subject to any provisions or alterations which the Committee might choose to introduce into the present measure; and so far from precluding the making of amendments, the bulk of the Bill which he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had introduced consisted of amendments of the existing law; and it was perfectly competent for any person to propose still further amendments. With regard to the proposal for a consolidated Bill, such a Bill must be considered in two ways: first, with respect to the convenience of hon. Members, as well as of persons out of doors, so as to present a clear intelligence as to what was to be done; and, next, with reference to whet was still more important, namely, the functions which this Bill had to perform as a Ways and Means Act for the services of the year, and the limitation of time, which on account of those functions must necessarily be confined. On the first ground, he thought it more for the convenience of the House that they should see the new enactments standing by themselves. If he had introduced a consolidation Bill, with about 250 old and 50 new clauses, how many hon. Members would have been able to make themselves masters of such a document? And would be not have been told that by bringing the whole of the law before the House, instead of the parts upon which he proposed new enactments, the new and old had been inextricably mixed and confounded together? But then as to the other consideration. It would have been impossible to introduce such a Bill, looking to it as a means of levying revenue to be brought into the Exchequer by a certain period, so as to have it passed in time. The present Go-
 720 721 l. l. l., 722 723
 MR. BRIGHT  denied that he had passed any censure upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer for not altering the machinery of the income tax, because that subject bad probably not been brought before the notice of the right hon. Gentleman. He still, however, must consider him faulty in not having endeavoured to consolidate these Acts, because he maintained there were many persons who, within twenty-four or forty-eight hours, would have produced a complete Bill upon the subject. With regard to the secrecy necessary, it was well known that at present there was little or no practical secrecy, the returns made by persons under the income tax constantly turning up in the most unexpected places; and he had not asked that very man's assessment should be printed, but that there should be such lists as would suffice for guidance as to voting purposes. The right hon. Gentleman was bound to attempt something in the way of consolidation and of the amendment of the machinery by next Session. The opinions of the Judges had been given that this was not framed as an Act of Parliament should be; and it was unquestionably unconstitutional to tax men by Acts which they could not comprehend. As to the alteration of the machinery, he did not say the matter would not require consideration to put it in its best possible form, but he certainly hoped the right hon. Gentleman would do something with regard both to the machinery of the Act and to consolidation in the course of the next Session.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  felt bound to confirm in the strongest manner, as regarded Ireland, the objections which the hon. Member for Manchester had brought, as regarded England, to the manner in
 724
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, no doubt it was intended that the same power should be given to landlords in Ireland of deducting the tax on the interest of mortgages and bonds, as existed in England. In regard to the objections brought against the construction of the Act, the hon. Member did not say what other course could be pursued. Did he think that the matter would have been simplified and consolidated if they had attempted to construct a totally new system of income tax for Ireland? The opinion of those whom they had consulted was in favour of an opposite course, and they were recommended to take such provisions of the existing law as might be applicable to the circumstances of Ireland, and to apply any other special provisions which might be necessary.
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  could not help bearing his testimony to the loose and slovenly way in which this clause had been drawn. It was certainly quite contrary to the spirit and letter of the constitution that the people should be called upon to pay taxes under such an authority as this. The tax was to be assessed and collected under the provisions of the 5 & 6  Vict., "And all powers, authorities, rules, regulations, directions, penalties, clauses, matters, and things
 725
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that as regarded that portion of the Act which applied to England, he would be rather disposed to trust to the alterations which might probably be effected by the Chancellor of the Exchequer hereafter, than to have the measure delayed, as the right hon. Gentleman said would have been necessary if he had sought to introduce a consolidated Bill; but, with regard to Ireland, the case was altogether different. He would submit to the right hon. Gentleman whether he could not even now introduce into this Bill a few clauses which would be quite sufficient to place the case of Ireland upon a separate and distinct footing with regard to the operation and practical working of this tax. The right hon. Gentleman had not, he thought, an-
 726 5 & Vict., Vict.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman would find, by the wording of the Bill, that the Acts to which he referred were not revived at all with reference to Ireland; but, even supposing they were, nothing could be more barren of effect, inasmuch as no assessed taxes or land tax existed in that country. If they were revived, which he denied was the case, they would, therefore, merely be revived in an abstract manner, and no difficulty whatever could arise. With reference to the question which had been put by the hon. Member for Dublin University (Mr. Hamilton), and repeated by the hon. and learned Gen-
 727
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  objected to this Bill being made to depend upon other Bills. If it were necessary to introduce the income tax into Ireland, the Chancellor of the Exchequer should have taken the trouble to form a measure which should be in itself an entire one, and not dependent upon other Acts. English gentlemen now were accustomed to pay the income tax, and did not care much about it; but Irish gentlemen were different, and he doubted if it would be expedient to press the income tax upon that country. The tax would fall with great severity upon the tenantry, who were too poor to pay it, so that they would actually have to advance the amount from their capital, and in some cases a tenant would be compelled to pay the entire income tax due upon 100 l.
 COLONEL DUNNE  considered that the complaint urged against the Bill—namely, that it was unintelligible, was a very reasonable one. There was one clause in it which no one could possibly understand; and the reason which had been given for not explaining the obscurity in which it was involved was, that the difficulties were so great that very few were capable of understanding them. Would he be told that the Government were unable to set forward in a clear manner the machinery employed in working this tax? In his opinion the operation and execution of this tax were as had as the principle of it. He would call upon the right hon. Gentleman for some explanation on this point, although it seemed to him that the right hon. Gentleman, who was a great master of language, had used his power in this Bill on the principle of the diplomatist who declared that the use of language was to conceal and not to express our ideas.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he thought that the verbal and technical arrangements of the present Bill, faulty as it was as regards this country, appeared to him to be still more so as regards Ireland. He acknowledged the courtesy with which the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had referred to the observations which he had addressed to the House; and he had listened to his speech with great attention at the beginning, and great surprise at the close. He must confess himself at a loss to conceive how the right
 728 729
 MR. MICHELL  was understood to suggest that the clause should be altogether expunged, in order that other and more simple and perfect provisions might be introduced. As for secrecy under the present machinery of the tax, it was out of the question. The returns men made were often found in the butter shop, and cheese had been sent to his own house wrapped up in his own return. He agreed, for the most part, in the observations of the hon. Member with respect to the machinery of the tax, which he thought most objectionable.
 MR. CAYLEY  wished to draw the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to a case of a somewhat singular character, and one which he hoped might excite his sympathy. The Motion of his right hon. Friend the Member for Berkshire (Mr. R. Palmer) was to the effect
 730
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in the case to which the hon. Member alluded, although the person referred to made nothing but his rent, he had at the same time paid the expenses of his living. If the small occupiers of land were so extremely poor, he was sorry for them; but although the case which the hon. Member had brought forth might excite his sympathy, yet it would badly be enough to guide him in forming an opinion upon rules of State.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  rose for the purpose of putting a question of great importance to the Chancellor of the Exchequer—one which was viewed with deep interest by a large number of persons. His question related to the 41st clause. But though it related to so late a clause in the Bill, he thought it desirable to have an explanation from the right hon. Gentleman before they arrived at it. The 41st clause empowered persons before they paid the income tax to deduct the amount of any premium upon life assurance from the income upon which they were taxed. The question was, to what incomes did the Chancellor of the Exchequer intend to confine or limit the power of making the deduction? The clause did not in this respect appear to him to be very clear. His conviction was that the clause, as the right hon. Gentleman had framed it, was meant only to extend exemptions to incomes under Schedules D and E; but the words of the latter part of the clause seemed to have a different meaning, and to imply that all persons paying premiums on life assurance were to be allowed to make the deduction. An impression prevailed in the country that the owners and occupiers of real property were to have no such exemption. It was upon this head, particularly, that he wished to be informed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I need not now enter into details, but briefly reply to the question of the right hon. Baronet, that there cannot be the least doubt but that the exemption in question is applicable to all the schedules of the Bill.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that he doubted whether there was a single hon. Gentle-
 731
 MR. BOUVERIE  (the Chairman of the Committee) said, that it was not competent for the hon. Member to move that the clause be postponed. That could only be done by order of the House.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he
 732 733
 MR. MAGUIRE  thought that when the House was imposing the income tax on Ireland for the first time, it was not too much for the Irish Members to ask that they should be enabled to understand it. Now he defied any Irish Member to know what he was voting for when he assented to this clause. For himself, he declared solemnly that he did not understand a single word of what he was going to vote for, and he was therefore desirous for some further explanation of what would be its effect.
 MR. KIRK  said, that he had as an Irish Member voted for the imposition of the tax upon Ireland, under the belief that he would thus relieve the tenant farmers from the burden of the consolidated annuities, and of the other direct taxes under which they were labouring. He still retained full confidence that the expressed intention
 734
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought that this question would be much more conveniently discussed when they arrived at the 13th clause. He was quite alive to the importance of this question, and to the weight of the considerations which might be urged in favour of that view of it which was taken by the hon. Member. The only object of the Government was to provide the best, fairest, and simplest mode of collecting the income tax in Ireland; and there were no doubt a great many points in connexion with the operation of the clause which had been referred to, upon which they were most desirous to have the aid of Irish Members. That, however, was not the question immediately before the House. The clause they were then discussing went to the root and framework of the Bill, and was decisive as to the time at which this tax would be levied, and as to when it would be available for the purposes of the State. It therefore formed the very base of the financial propositions of Government. It was, however, quite open to the Government, or to the Committee, to levy the tax in Ireland either upon the owner or occupier without interfering with the progress of the Bill; and he therefore thought that the discussion of this point might very well stand over.
 MR. LUCAS  gave the right hon. Gen-
 735
 COLONEL DUNNE  made an inquiry for the purpose of ascertaining whether the tax was to be charged according to the residence of the person, or the locality of the property.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that with regard to real property, it would be placed in the same position as real property was in England under the present Act. Property derived from the profits of land in Ireland would be charged in Ireland. The taxation of other species of property would depend upon the residence of the possessor.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that if the property were charged according to the residence of a person, when that person was resident in England no credit would be given to Ireland for the tax. In the Excise and Customs a great deal was in that way credited to England, and not credited to Ireland.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained, that the persons who now, under Schedule A, pay the income tax in England in respect to land in Ireland, will, of course, continue so to pay it;
 736
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  apprehended that what his gallant Friend wished to ascertain was, whether there should not be a distinct separation in the accounts of in-income tax paid in England and Ireland; that there should be a Schedule A for Ireland as well as for England, and so on, in order that each country might be exactly credited with the amount it paid. He believed, however, that the object of his hon. and gallant Friend could be attained without the insertion of a specific clause, as arrangements might be entered into by the Treasury for the purpose.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there could be no doubt as to the propriety of putting all returns under the income tax from Ireland in the same account, and he could assure the hon. and gallant Gentleman that his suggestion would not be lost sight of.
 LORD NAAS  said, that as this was the first clause which raised the question of how far the existing machinery in Ireland would enable them to collect the income tax, he proposed to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman, upon which some explanation was requisite, in order to satisfy the people of Ireland. When the proposal to extend the income tax to Ireland was on a former occasion discussed, it was urged over and over again by the highest financial authorities in the country that, laying aside the policy or the impolicy of that measure, if the House were to decide upon such an extension, it would be found in the end to be wholly unproductive to the revenue. It was, therefore, before proceeding further, not an unwise question to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he was prepared to lay before the Committee some estimate or some calculation which would enable it to form an idea as to the actual amount that would accrue to the Exchequer in consequence of the extension of the income tax to Ireland. Now the right hon. Gentleman ought to tell the Committee whether the expense of collection, under the clauses before the House, would not be likely to swallow up a great portion of the sums derivable from the tax. In 1845, when the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) brought forward his Amendment to extend the tax to Ireland,
 737 "That, unlike the indirect taxes that were collected in that country, it would be got in at such an enormous expense in proportion to the amount, that the ultimate payment into the Exchequer would not by any means be equal to the burden imposed on the people. They had had some experience as to the collection of such taxes in Ireland already. They had had the assessed taxes in Ireland already at a former period, and the result was that they imposed a heavy burden on the people, and got nothing whatever into the Exchequer. If they had imposed a property tax on Ireland, having to create anew the whole of the machinery necessary for its collection, what would be the result? Why, they would have oppressed the people, and got nothing for the Government."—[3  Mansard, 738
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that with respect to the question of the amount that was to be levied from the income tax in Ireland, he had frankly avowed that which was upon the surface of the case, namely, that on all these questions generally every man must entertain and form his own opinion. They were all on an equality in respect of their power of judging what would be the probable produce of the income tax in Ireland, and he did not enjoy from his official position any advantage that would enable him to arrive at a conclusion such as the House ought to receive on his authority and on the authority of the Government. He had already stated that there was but a meagre list of documents and of documentary evidence to which he could refer; and he need not now repeat it, because the noble Lord, he had no doubt, must be perfectly aware of it. The noble Lord had quoted the authority of his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Goulburn), and the sentiments he had expressed on the question in 1845. His right hon. Friend was then simply recommending to the House to pass a continuing and reviving Act; there was nothing in the nature of reconstruction or extension contemplated by his proposition; there was no man who would give a more conscientious judgment; but the bias of his mind was to view strongly and favourably those reasons that would discourage an alteration in the income tax at that time. With respect to the condition of Ireland, and the change it had undergone since that period, and with respect to their means generally of forming a judgment of the practicability of levying the income tax in Ireland, he did think there was something to be said over and above what could be said in 1845. Various changes had taken place since 1845, all of which tended very much in the direction of facilitating the imposition of the income tax at present, and amongst the deplorable consequences of the famine, there were consequences also that were not deplorable. For exam-
 739 l. l.
 MR. J. BALL  wished to offer a suggestion in reference to the next clause.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 740  begged to interpose for a moment, to offer a suggestion. As the Government were anxious to derive all the advantage they could from the representations of the best-informed persons, he would propose to postpone the 13th clause.
 MR. J. BALL  thought it would be better to pass over that evening the whole of the clauses referring to Ireland. He denied that the measure involved any increase of taxation in Ireland; on the contrary, he was quite certain that it involved a remission of taxation in Ireland. He sat down with pen and paper to calculate, half-year by half-year, the result of the various financial changes that had been proposed. In the first year he found the increase would be 37,800 l. l. l. l.
 MR. MACARTNEY  begged to explain that the rate in aid was levied so effectively, because a stoppage was made for it out of the rates collected under the poor law, and the amount thus obtained was placed before Parliament to show that Ireland was able to pay a rate in aid.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  wished to know if a tenant occupied a farm worth 30 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, no tenant whose property was valued to the poor-law at less than 100 l. 741
 MR. I. BUTT  asked a question in reference to an Amendment of which he had given notice, in the 13th clause. It was a great hardship for a tenant to have to pay income tax according to a rating that was beyond the actual rent which he paid. No doubt that in the case of a tenant being charged for income tax, whose income was below 100 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was understood to say that he had read the Amendment, and that he would consider it in connexion with the general subject.
 MR. MAGUIRE  asked what was the  minimum
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that point would be determined by the poor-law rating, which fixed the  minimum at l. s.
 LORD NAAS  proposed at the end of Clause 12 to add these words:—
 "Provided always, that as soon as the valuation of any poor-law union in Ireland shall have been completed, under the provisions of an Act passed in the Session of Parliament held in the 15th and 16th years of Her Majesty, chapter 63, in order to the assessing of the duties chargeable under schedules (A and B) of this Act in Ireland, the commissioners of valuation in Ireland shall, instead of the clerk of the union as aforesaid, between the 1st day of April and the first day of June in every succeeding year, transmit to the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, at the head office in Dublin, true copies of the last final list of all the tenements and rateable hereditaments comprised within the said poor-law union, which the said commissioner of valuation had transmitted to the clerk of such poor-law union, in conformity with the provisions of the afore-mentioned Act." 742
 LORD NAAS  consented, at the suggestion of the CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER, to allow the Amendment to stand over for further consideration.
 MR. MAGUIRE  was anxious to point out to the Chancellor of the Exchequer a grievance which would arise to the occupiers of small tenements under the latter portion of the 13th clause. The clause said that the tax should be paid by the occupier. Now, suppose a man had property yielding 90 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was not the least doubt about the question, supposing the Bill should pass as it now stood; for in that case the occupier would be liable to have the tax levied on him irrespective of the question whether the landlord was or was not liable. It was the same thing in England. If the tenant, paid 7 d. l. l.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  proposed to add a proviso, empowering the parties to make an appeal from the valuation of the commissioner of valuation to the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, with a view to a revaluation of the property.
 LORD NAAS  said, although the proviso just proposed in some degree lessened his objection to the clause, still he thought there were good grounds for opposing it. He did not think it right to give power to persons to do that in respect to the income tax which the parochial ratepayers had not a right to do in respect to parochial rates. He should move that the clause be omitted.
 MR. F. SCULLY  supported the clause as it stood. At present a man had no appeal, but was bound for fourteen years. He considered the clause as a fair one, and believed it to be in perfect unison with the Bill of the noble Lord (Lord Naas) of last year.
 SIR ARTHUR BROOKE  wished to know whether the expense of the revaluation was to be paid by the Government?
 MR. KIRK  asked if the right of appeal was to be given when parties were rated too low, as well as when they were rated too high? By lowering the rate in boroughs from 8 l. l. s.,
 MR. CAIRNS  said, the objection to the clause was this. If the commissioners thought that a particular property was valued too low, they had a right to direct its revaluation, and then the Government proposed to give the owner a right of appeal against the revaluation. But suppose the owner was of opinion that his property was valued too high, where was his right of appeal? The Amendment of the Government did not give it; it was only where the commissioners directed a revaluation that he had it; but if there was no revaluation, then there was no right of appeal. But if it was right to give the commissioners power to order a revaluation, in the event of their being of opinion that the former valuation was too low, surely it was equally just that a similar power should be given to the taxpayer, in the event of his thinking that the former valuation was too high. The Amendment of the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to give a right of appeal in the one case, but to refuse it in
 744
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, it was not very clear whether the clause under consideration was intended to apply to valuations made by poor-law guardians, or to those made by the commissioner of valuations in Ireland. There was a great difference between the two classes of valuations; and if the clause was intended to apply only to the valuations made by poor-law guardians, there might be no grounds for objecting to it; but if it was intended to apply to the valuations made by the commissioner, then he hoped the House would not adopt it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  trusted the Committee would not act upon the advice of the hon. Gentleman opposite, for it was plain that the clause was necessary as a protection to the revenue. If they were dealing with the case of Ireland after the whole of Ireland had been valued by the commissioners of valuations, then all parties might join together and say that they should accept the valuation of the commissioner as being impartial and sufficient; but the Committee had to consider that over a considerable part of Ireland there was no valuation at all by the commissioner, though there was one by the poor-law guardians. Now, he thought it would be absurd to subject the levying of the income tax to the standard of the poor-law valuation, or, in other words, to leave the fixing of the valuation for the income tax simply and purely in the hands of local authorities. There could be nothing in his opinion more fair than to say that the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, where they thought that the valuation was too low, should be entitled to step in and demand that a revaluation should be made by that authority which Parliament had already recognised and established as a proper authority for making valuations in Ireland. In reply to the remarks of the hon. Member for Dublin University (Mr. Hamilton), he had to state, that the clause was not intended to apply to valuations made by the commissioners of valuations; but it was plain that if they were not to give power to the Commissioners of Inland Revenue to order a revaluation in the case of a poor-law valuation being too low, they would place the revenue in a most disadvantageous position. The hon. Member for Belfast (Mr. Cairns) complained that they did not intend to give the taxpayer
 745
 LORD NAAS  thought the plan of Government would distract the commissioners, who were rating Ireland as rapidly as possible.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it was perfectly clear the clause was framed by some one who had very little knowledge of Ireland. Griffith's valuation was nearly finished. The clause was most impolitic, and he advised the right hon. Gentleman to consult the Secretary for Ireland, who knew something about the question.
 MR. J. BALL  was afraid, from the terms in which the clause was expressed, that it would lead many to suppose, what he was sure was not intended, that the commissioners were to have power to order a revaluation of single tenements. He suggested that words should be introduced to the effect that the revaluations ordered by the commissioners should be revaluations of districts.
 MR. CAIRNS  agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it was fair to assume that parties were satisfied with the existing valuations made  inter se 746
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  taunted the noble Lord the Member for Coleraine with having passed his Valuation Bill of last year in hot haste, and without allowing the Irish representatives an opportunity to discuss it properly. It was too bad for the noble Lord to come forward now and say that his defective legislation should net be corrected; and he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not give way to the pressure from the opposite side of the House.
 COLONEL DUNNE  asked to whom the expense of the contemplated revaluations was to be charged?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that when the House had settled the principle upon which the revaluations were to be conducted, it would then be time enough to make provision for the payment of the expenses.
 MR. F. SCULLY  recommended that the clause should be postponed for further consideration.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  saw no reason why the clause should be postponed; and, indeed, the Committee were not competent to do it. The truth was, that parties at present had power by law to apply for a revaluation—[ Cries of
 LORD NAAS  repeated the expression of his willingness to withdraw his opposition to the clause, on the understanding that it was intended to apply only to the valuations made by poor-law guardians.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman persisted in forcing the clause through the Committee, notwithstanding the objections which had been stated, he should feel it to be his duty, when the Report was brought up, to propose an Amendment for giving to parties a power of appeal similar to that conferred upon the Commissioners of Inland Revenue.
 MR. MAGUIRE  asked on what principle it was intended to value incomes derived from trades and professions in Ireland?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman was probably aware that there were a great variety of provisions which were all set out in the present Income Tax Act for the valuation of incomes derived from trades and professions. The same principle, as appeared upon the face of these provisions regarding England, would apply to Ireland, and he did not know that there was any reason for, or possibility of, having a different set of rules for that country. When they came to the execution of the Act, some differences might arise out of the peculiar circumstances of Ireland, and out of the fact that they had not the same means of levying the tax as they had in England; and it might be found necessary to adopt some more summary, though not more stringent, methods of obtaining information. That was a matter for consideration in detail, but he saw no reason for adopting a different standard as regarded trades and professions in Ireland from that which prevailed in this country.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the effect would be to distribute all over Ireland, officers of a higher class, and receiving higher pay, to perform duties ordinarily performed in England by persons of a different class. It seemed to him more natural that the assessment should be made by the same class of people as in England, and that an appeal should be allowed; that such appeals should be heard by the assistant barrister, who should be bound to hear applications, not in open court, but in private, although he would decide judicially upon them. If, however, any better system could be proposed, he was willing to consider it.
 MR. I. BUTT  wanted nothing for Ireland that England had not got; but by the English Act, any person might be assessed by a Commissioner for Special Purposes, by sending in a return to him, and passing by the local commissioners. He believed
 748
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated, that it was intended that Ireland should be on the same footing with England, and he would take care that the words should be introduced into the Irish Bill.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that appeals against assessments, he believed, must be heard at quarter-sessions, and it would be necessary for the assistant banister, before deciding such appeal, to take the oaths or affirmation required to be taken by the Commissioners for Special Purposes.
 COLONEL DUNNE  wished to know if any arrangements as to costs had been made?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  considered it unnecessary to make any arrangement with regard to costs. They would be, no doubt, arranged as in England.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  considered that the proposal of the hon. Member would give a power to the commissioners which they had never enjoyed before. It was a fact that, although the income tax had been in operation for eleven years, there were many people taxed under Schedule D, who did not know that there was a power of appeal to the Special Commissioners; and, while this state of information continued, there might be great misapprehension caused by adopting the proposal of the hon. Member.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished to know what the hon. and
 754
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he meant "clauses," The effect of his Amendments was, that, as regarded precarious incomes of less than 150 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had spoken of this in the paper as a single clause, and then, at the moment of proposing his Amendment, he had made a fundamental alteration in it. He should view the Amendment as one complete plan of exemptions which the hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to apply to the Bill. First, then, as to the exemption of precarious and clerical incomes, he regretted, for the sake of a small object, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had involved the House in all the difficulties from which he thought they had escaped in the reconstruction of the income tax, and in the hopeless task of investigating the taxing different trades and property derived from different sources. The hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to exempt clerical in comes; but did he consider incomes arising from small ecclesiastical benefices as precarious incomes? Why should these incomes be exempted because they were clerical? He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was not prepared to accede to the exemption of clerical incomes as such. He believed that such an exemption would neither be wise nor desirable, nor would it before the interest of the clergymen themselves to place them in such a position. If the House were to reconstruct the tax, would it not be mockery to leave out of the exemptions the smaller class of annuitants—widows, for example, with small annuities of 100 l. l.
 MR. I. BUTT  had framed the clause on purpose so as not to make the exemption absolute. The 150 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 755 : The intentions of the hon. and learned Gentleman became more equivocal in the next portion of his Amendment. He proposed an exemption in respect of property chargeable under Schedule A, where the poor-rate was 5 s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. d. 756 l.
 MR. SPOONER  supported the Amendment. He urged the hardness of imposing the tax for the first time upon artisans, clerks, and small shopkeepers, with incomes between 100 l. l.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that before the Committee divided, he wished to set himself right on one or two points with the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had misapprehended the meaning of his Amendment. The Amendment he had just moved was in no way whatever connected with the other Amendments of which he had given notice; it was entirely owing to a misprint that they came to appear in the paper as one Amendment. The right hon. Gentleman had charged him with asking him to reconstruct the tax by making a distinction and graduation between incomes of different amount. The fact was that it was the right hon. Gentleman himself who had done that, because he proposed that incomes below 150 l. d. l., d.
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, that the object of the hon. Gentleman and himself were, he believed, identical. They were both in favour of indirect as opposed to direct taxation, and both of them were anxious as soon as possible to get rid of the income tax. But he owned that, in his opinion, the best method of doing so was to make all classes feel its inequalities, pressure, and injustice. On this ground he should feel himself bound to vote against the Amendment. Before he sat down he wished to explain the vote he gave on the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Herefordshire (Sir E. B. Lytton). He voted in favour of that Motion, although differing from its object, solely because he was opposed to the Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, just as the hon.
 757
 MR. KIRK  made an appeal to the Committee in favour of the clergymen of all persuasions, who he thought ought not to bear this tax when their incomes did not exceed 150 l.
 MR. BARROW  was understood to be enforcing on the Government the necessity of introducing a provision into the clause allowing farmers to make deductions from their profits of any interest which they might have had to pay for money borrowed. He thought that the principle of assessing farmers on the rent, rather than by profits, subjected them in this respect to much injustice; and he could not see why, at all events, where money had been raised by them, that they should not be placed in as advantageous a position as landlords under similar circumstances.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  begged to be excused if he did not apprehend very readily the suggestions of the hon. Member. As far as he understood the proposition, the hon. Member stated that a landlord who was charged with income tax on 120 l. l.
 MR. W. MICHELL  then proposed—
 "To leave out from the word "than," the word "as," in line 11, in order to insert "five hundred pounds a year for the year of the assessment of his profits or gains, shall be entitled to be relieved from all the said duties assessed upon or paid by him on the first hundred pounds, and from so much of the said duties on four hundred pounds a year assessed upon and paid by him." 758 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  opposed the Motion.
 MR. E. ELLICE  seconded the Motion.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  regretted that no communication had been made to the Chairman of the General Committee on Elections, with respect to the inability of the hon. Member for Dundee to serve upon the Durham Committee, for in that case the General Committee could have selected another Member, and so not have interfered with the transaction of other business. The question now before the House was one of considerable importance, and in a case of contending duties the House should decide at once which was the first and more important. If they would read the Act of Parliament, they would see that the first duty of the House was, by means of Special Committees, to ascertain who were really Members of the House, and that all other duties were subordinate to that one. On the whole, he thought the House should pause before it resolved to interfere with the selections made by the General Committee on Elections.
 MR. HUME  said, the House would recollect that, some time ago, a very important subject—namely, that of reforming the ecclesiastical courts—was brought before the House. They were then promised by the Government that a Bill would be brought in upon the subject. He therefore wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government what prospect there was of such a Bill being brought forward?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I have already stated to the House on a former occasion that a Commission had been appointed by the late Government on the subject; that they had made up their minds with regard to the general outline of the measure to be proposed, but not as to its details, which would require very great consideration. I then said that it would take not less than three or four months to go through all the details of the measure. Under these circumstances it had been determined not to bring in a Bill on the subject at present.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : What I propose is not to enter upon any discussion on the Bill, but simply to move the second reading of the Bill, in order that it may be referred to a Select Committee. The whole question will, of course, in that case, be considered by the Committee.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : In reply to the questions of the right hon. Gentleman I will communicate to the House as much as it is possible to communicate at present on this subject without injury to the public service. The right hon. Gentleman has made a statement with regard to certain facts which requires some, though not material, correction, on my part. The English Government were informed by the Government of Russia that the Emperor had thought necessary to despatch a special mission, under charge of an Ambassador, to Constantinople, in order to obtain a confirmation of those concessions which had been made at former times to the members of the Greek Church at the Holy Places of Jerusalem. We were informed at the
 712 713 714
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the Bill referred to had been introduced in the House of Lords, and was founded on the reports of several Commissions that had been appointed to inquire into this subject. Those inquiries had been made by persons most competent to deal with the matter. What he now proposed was, that the Bill should be read a second time that evening, and then referred to a Select Committee, who would go through every clause, as the hon. Gentleman was aware; and it would be necessary that the Bill should come back to the House, and be submitted to the consideration of a Committee of the whole House. He (Lord J. Russell) thought it would be very inconvenient, after so much evidence had been already taken on the subject, to take any further evidence before the Select Committee. If the hon. Gentleman would suggest to those who had communicated with him on this subject the
 715
 MR. DISRAELI : I am very unwilling, Sir, at any time to take advantage of this Motion for the purpose of entering into any general discussion; and nothing but a sense of public duty could induce me to touch upon the topic to which I am about to refer. And even with that sense of duty, I shall now endeavour to confine myself as much as possible to making an inquiry of Her Majesty's Government, making only one or two observations for the purpose of making that inquiry perfectly clear. The subject to which I wish to call the attention of the House and of Her Majesty's Government is, the state of our relations with the Ottoman Porte. The House will recollect that very early in the spring considerable alarm was created, not only in this country, but also in other States of Europe, by the arrival of an Extraordinary Ambassador from the Court of Russia at the Court of Constantinople; but that alarm was allayed by the confident declarations which were made by persons in authority, that this mission, though apparently commenced with circumstances of great pomp and urgency, really did not refer to any subject of general interest or importance, but merely to the relations which ought to subsist between the members of the Greek Church, who were subjects of the Ottoman Porte, and the members of other Christian Churches at the Holy Places in Jerusalem. With that general impression, which obtained currency, I think I may say that the public mind assumed an aspect of tranquillity. However, it so happened, Sir, that about six weeks or more ago, Colonel Rose, who in the absence of Lord Stratford, Her Majesty's Ambassador at the Porte, was really the British Minister at Constantinople, and of whom I am bound to say, as all who have been brought into connexion with him, will bear witness, that he is a man of very great ability, and of considerable knowledge with respect to the coun-
 710 711
 MR. SPEAKER  having requested that Members of Election Committees who had not been sworn should come to the table for that purpose.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  agreed with the last speaker in regard to the importance of Election Committees; but in the present instance he thought the House would exercise a wise discretion by assenting to the Motion of the hon. Member for Cheshire (Mr. T. Egerton).
 MR. STRUTT  said, that one of the Members appointed to serve upon this Committee, the hon. Member for Tewkesbury (Mr. Martin), was in precisely the same position as the hon. Member for Dundee, being at present engaged upon a private Committee. He therefore moved—"That the attendance of Mr. Martin on the Bury St. Edmund's Election Committee be dispensed with."
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  asked whether the noble Lord intended to move the Select Committee before the discussion took place on the Income Tax Bill? Was there to be any discussion on that Motion, or was the matter to be proceeded with simply  pro formâ
 MR. DUNCAN  regretted that his name should be mixed up with a discussion in that House; but the present question arose from no wish of his to shirk his fair share of public duty. He was willing to serve cither upon an Election Committee or upon a private Committee, and he would cheer-fully abide by the decision of the House, only reminding them that he could not be in two places at once.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had presented five petitions from parties whose interests in land and building societies amounted to 850,000 l
 MR. LABOUCHERE  was inclined to think that the House could not do better than listen to the advice of the hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth. It was unquestionably the first and most paramount duty of the House to attend to the business of Election Committees, and, considering the spirit of all their legislation and practice with respect to that subject, he thought they would do wrong in releasing any Member from the duty of serving upon an Election Committee, no matter how he might otherwise be engaged.
 MR. J. WILSON  then moved that the House at its rising adjourn till Monday next.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government a question with regard to the Registration of Assurances Bill. He had received on Thursday night, and again that evening, a message by telegraph from persons at Manchester who were concerned in the land and building societies there. Whole streets, in fact some of the suburbs of Manchester, had been built by building societies, and the anxiety there with regard to this Bill appeared to be extreme. He understood that not less than 6,000 or 7,000 of the electors of Manchester were concerned in those societies, and what they desired was this—to be informed whether the Bill was to be read a second time  pro formâ,
 MR. BRIGHT  believed that a deputation from the Manchester building societies was already on its way to London, and he thought they ought to be permitted to be examined before the Select Committee.
 MR. BROTHERTON  urged the importance of allowing Members serving upon private Committees to give their undivided attention to the business brought before them in those Committees.
 MR. SOTHERON  thought the House would establish a good precedent if it now declared its opinion that the fact of a Member serving upon a private Committee should be held as a sufficient reason why he should not be appointed to serve upon an Election Committee.
 MR. THORNELY  thought that as hon. Members were well aware that their names were placed upon panels to serve upon Election Committees, they ought, if they were engaged on railway or other private Committees, to apprise the General Committee of Elections of the fact, and they would then probably be exempted from
 709
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  did not intend to oppose the Motion, but he protested against its being made a precedent, because it was calculated to create delay and expense. The General Committee on Elections in every instance where previous intimation had been given that it would be inconvenient for Members to serve upon Election Committees, had attended to those representations. Scarcely a day had passed, indeed, in which he had not received a vast number of such applications, both verbal and written; and he thought that the Members who had made these applications would acknowledge that they had always met with courtesy and consideration at his hands. It would, he repeated, be attended with great public inconvenience if Members, after they had been chosen to serve upon Election Committees, were to be discharged from attending to that duty; but considering the peculiar urgency of the present case, it was not his intention to oppose the Motion which had been made.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished the right hon. Gentleman, as the clause related to Ireland, to state its nature.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that if the operation of the clause was unjust in England,
 794
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought that two-thirds would be more equitable than one-third, and there was reason why those loans should not be charged at all. In many instances the money had been expended in charity, and the landlords had received no benefit from the outlay.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he would now bring forward the clauses of which he had given notice. The principle of the first two was identically the same, and that principle was simply this—that it was desirable to limit, as far as possible, the discretionary power at present exercised by the Income Tax Commissioners, and to lay down some fixed rule in cases where there at present prevailed nothing but a contradictory practice. It was, he believed, a common impression that persons assessed to the income tax were only chargeable with the tax upon the amount of money actually received; but this was quite an erroneous notion. If they would turn to the Act of 1842, they would find it enacted that "no deduction was made for any debts except bad debts, proved to be such to the satisfaction of the Commissioners respectively." Now, he confessed that, in his opinion, the fairest rule would be that no man should be called upon to pay income tax on any greater amount of money than he actually received into his pocket; but he did not propose to go so far, or to establish any principle that would interfere with the
 811
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that the absence of a right of appeal from the decision of the local commissioners had often led to great injustice. Mr. Fielden, formerly of that House, preferred to have his goods sold by public auction, than conform to that which he believed to be unjust.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, in reply, that the encouragement he had got from hon. Members was sufficient to induce him to take the sense of the Committee on the first proposition with reference to bad debts. With regard to the second proposition, he believed it would be necessary to leave the
 816
 MR. BLACKETT  said, that as a young Member of the House, he was most unwilling to appear to act any way vexatiously; and if the right hon. Gentleman would promise to introduce a clause embodying the principle, he (Mr. Blackctt) would not divide the Committee.
 MR. MILES  said, he hoped the hon. Member who moved these clauses would consider what had fallen from the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer. It would be hardly fair to pin the right hon. Gentleman to a clause without affording him an opportunity of consulting the law officers of the Crown upon it, particularly after the principle had been admitted. He should recommend the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Blackett) to leave the matter in the hands of the Government. With respect to the exclusion of machinery employed in manufactures, he would remark that some machinery was used now in agriculture; and if one exemption was allowed, the other must follow. But he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer had done as much as could be expected from him in promising to consider the first proposition.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he had hoped for a more distinct announcement from the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but he thought the Committee would agree that he was acting safely in withdrawing the clauses.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that very considerable excitement had been caused in the trade by the announcement of the intention to withdraw the pound draught on tea; that a public meeting had been held in the City, at which a deputation had been appointed to wait upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and that the deputation had had a very lengthened interview with that right hon. Gentleman. It had been shown to that deputation, consisting principally
 826
 MR. FITZROY  said, he should resist the proposition for the adjournment, because hon. Members would be exactly in the same position two days hence, with regard to the Bill, as they were now.
 MR. FITZROY  said, if the House was in favour of postponing it until this day, he would not object to that course.
 COLONEL BLAIR  said, that, representing a Scotch county which had borrowed more money for drainage purposes than any other in that country, he must urge the adoption of the noble Lord's suggestion.
 COLONEL BLAIR  said, he thought that complaints from Scotland were of such rare occurrence, that when one was brought before the House, it did not meet with the same consideration as complaints coming from other quarters usually did. The real question was not a question of repairs; all he asked was, that the Scotch landlord should enjoy the same deductions that the English landlord did. He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would permit the whole case to come under consideration, and that he would allow the Amendment of the hon. Member for Lanarkshire (Mr. Lockhart), to be added to the clause. In his opinion, Scotland did not receive much aid from the Budget of the right hon. Gentleman; but he hoped that he would reconsider his opinion and accept the Amendment of his hon. Friend without pressing the Committee to a division.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE  said, he hoped both the hon. Members would consent to withdraw their separate Amendments. The feeling in the House and out of doors was one of gratitude to the hon. Member for Lewes for dealing so ably with a very complicated question.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE  said, he should move that the Chairman report progress. He thought that his right hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) was unfairly treated by this question of the tea duties being brought on at a quarter-past one in the morning.
 LORD ADOLPHUS VANE  begged to explain that he had no wish to obstruct the Government, nor any intention of taking part in the debate upon this question. He had suggested the delay out of fairness, and would like to hear the Chancellor of the Exchequer explain his proposition.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he must object to proceeding with a measure which involved the interests of so many persons at that late hour, and should move that the Bill be read a third time on Thursday.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  would not object to the third reading, on the understanding that the Amendments might be considered in the last stage of the Bill.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished to enforce what had just been said as to the removal of Customs duties not diminishing the cost of collection, by reference to a Parliamentary paper just delivered. In 1842 the cost of collecting the Excise duties amounted to 862,682 l.; l., l. l., l., l. l. 823 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the right hon. Gentleman had taken no notice of the figures he had adduced relative to the diminution in the cost of collecting the Excise. No one could doubt that the increase in our domestic trade had been commensurate with that of our foreign commerce, yet the fact stood untouched, that whilst the cost of collecting the Customs duties had rather increased, that of collecting the Excise duties had materially diminished. His position had not been invalidated by the observations of the right hon. Gentleman, and he should feel bound to take the decision of the Committee on eleven articles on which he did not think the Chancellor of the Exchequer justified in asking a remission of duty.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I cannot speak, Sir, with the same weight or authority as does my hon. Colleague (Mr. Masterman), knowing, as he does, the feelings and opinion of the City of London;
 830 s. 831
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, if the clauses were inserted now, he should have no objection to the recommitment of the Bill, provided it was distinctly understood that the discussion would be then confined to the subject-matter of the clauses themselves.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, in the present state of the relations between Russia and Turkey, I feel that, as anything said here must be considered of the utmost importance, I must decline answering the question which the right hon. Gentleman has just put. I can but leave him to give notice of any Motion which he may think proper to make on the subject, and I shall be ready, at any moment, to defend the course we are now taking.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, if the Committee now agreed to the Resolutions respecting tea, he hoped they might be reported to-morrow. Of course, he had no right to ask hon. Gentleman who had Motions on the paper to postpone them; but at the same time he might say, that it was most desirable to obtain a decision upon these Resolutions at the earliest possible period. He could assure the Committee that there was no wish to prevent the discussion of the Resolutions relating to tea; but communications had been made to various Members of the Government, and especially to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, during the last week or ten days, representing that it was most important to the interests of trade and commerce that a decision on this subject should not be longer delayed.
 LORD NAAS  said, he had an Amendment to move, to omit the words "one-third part of" from the clause. He thought that a very good case might be made out why landlords who were repaying loans contracted in times of Irish distress should be altogether exempted from the tax on those instalments. The right hon. Gentleman himself proposed to exclude such parties to a certain limited extent, and seemed thereby virtually to yield the principle contended for. The loans had been, as he said, contracted in times of distress—a very large portion of them not so much for the purpose of improving the land, but with the object of relieving destitution. He certainly thought it was a very hard case that the Government placed the Irish landlord in a different position from that of any other mortgagee; but they actually did so, for they charged income tax upon repayment of the principal. He sincerely hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would entertain the claim which he had made, the more especially as he believed hon. Gentlemen from Scotland would join in urging the demand.
 LORD NAAS , with reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer just before the division, said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not call upon the House to decide to-night without further consideration upon the clauses to which reference had been made. From the remarks which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman, an alteration appeared to be made in the whole principle of the Bill as regarded Ireland.
 LORD NAAS  said, he would willingly concur in the suggestions of the noble Lord, with that understanding.
 LORD NAAS  said, he did not rise at
 808
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that he thought the question of public rates stood in quite a different category from that with respect to repairs, and that, therefore, the Chancellor of the Exchequer might concede the deductions stated in the Amendment, without opening the large question to which he had referred. Although, however, he thought that, taken by itself, the Amendment of the hon. Member was founded on justice, he should not support it if it went to a division. He thought the English tenant was unduly burdened as compared with the Scotch tenant, and if that were so, he thought that on the other hand the Scotch landlords might very well bear a little injustice, as compared with those on the other side of the Tweed. Injustice, indeed, was perhaps not the word. He should rather say, they must put up with the rough justice that was incident to this income tax. As he stood by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and had supported his propositions in instances where the interests of others were concerned, he should not now vote against him when his (Mr. Dunlop's) own interest as a landlord was involved.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  said, he could also speak to the inconvenience resulting from the want of uniformity in the practice of the commissioners: there were different regulations with regard to the depreciation allowed to shipowners in Glasgow from those that prevailed in Liverpool and Hull.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, that by the existing landlord and tenant system in England, the landlord had some portion of his public burdens paid by the tenant; and the rules which were in force in England, ought, he conceived, to be applied to Scotland also. It was not equitable that in England allowance should be made for church rates, poor-rates, and county rates, and that it should not be made also in Scotland. He possessed no property south of the Tweed, and could not therefore say whether the cost of repairs fell more lightly upon the English than the Scotch proprietor; but he certainly did not think that the Scotch proprietors should be placed on a different footing from the English.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the noble Lord has anticipated the purport and effect of the observations I made, in a very disingenuous spirit, and in a manner which, I must say, is not favourable to the independent Members of this House. I do not think I was bound to say I opposed the reduction of the tea duties. [ Ironical cries of
 MR. DISRAELI : If my hon. Friend who has just spoken had been a teetotaller, which I am sure he is not, he could not have made a better speech on behalf of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The answer of the right hon. Gentleman, if a correct one, would be good against their having discussion on any subject whatever. If it is understood that the moment a Minister proposes to deal with a tariff, no one is to call in question the policy he is pursuing, and is to be debarred from even asking questions regarding it, I wish to know why such questions are brought before the House of Commons at all, and not settled by the Board of Trade or by an Order in Council? The Chancellor of the Exchequer stated that he had formally given them all the information the Government possessed on this subject; but, I am bound to say it was of a very slight character indeed. He has never yet given us any detailed statement of the increased consumption; and as to the state of China, which he says he has alluded to, I must remind the Committee that there has been three or four arrivals from China since that statement was made, and that none of those important views that have recently attracted our attention to the state of China, had then been made known. Surely it is not unreasonable that the House of Commons should wish to know what opinion the Government have formed with regard to a market so important as China. No doubt in a great change of this kind, the convenience of the trade should be considered; but surely it is not to be considered at the expense of all discussion whatever. I therefore make the reasonable request that this Resolution should be now postponed, to be brought on again on some early day—the first on which they should again meet, if the right hon. Gentleman pleased.
 MR. DISRAELI : The Committee should understand, Sir, that this Resolution is a most important one. We are now called upon to vote a reduction in the tea duty to the amount of nearly 3,000,000 l., 827 l.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman opposite had charged him with inconsistency in voting on a previous occasion for a Motion made by the hon. Member for Montrose, he wished to explain that he did not vote for that Motion on the ground that it removed a number of small duties, but because it terminated protection on a number of articles consumed by the cultivators of the soil.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was prepared to offer any observations to the House on the present state of affairs in China?
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought that subsequent statements were not generally satisfactory to the public. He should like to have had some idea of the estimate which had been formed of the increase in our commerce with China in consequence of the reduction of the tea duties, and also he should like to have known if the Government was possessed of any information as to the present state of affairs in China. He would not at such a late hour lead the Committee into any discussion; but the question was, in his opinion, one of a most important character.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had not been led to expect, by the notice given by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that they would have entered at that late hour on the discussion of the principle on which our Customs duties ought to be established; but as the question had been started, he did not wish, so far as his own opinion was concerned, to let the matter pass over silently. He thought there was a great deal in what had been said by his hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdonshire (Mr. Baring). The Committee must remember, that in putting an end to Customs duties on small articles, they did not reduce the cost of
 822 l.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been somewhat wanting in courtesy to hon. Gentlemen on that side of the House in not bringing forward the proposition in a manner that would afford an opportunity for fairly discussing it. The Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to complain that he (Mr. Disraeli) wished to delay the Resolutions without pledging himself to oppose them. It would, however, have been perfectly open to him to say he would oppose the Resolutions; and of course the Chancellor of the Exchequer, after the general engagement he had made, would not have pressed them to-night; but he (Mr. Disraeli) would not himself oppose the Resolutions, or offer any obstacle to their passing. He hoped, therefore, that his noble Friend (Lord A. Vane) would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. DISRAELI : The right hon. Gentleman has not told us how many millions of pounds will be the probable increase of consumption during the first year.
 MR. DISRAELI : The statement of the right hon. Gentleman upon such a subject ought to be clear, plain, and explicit, and to leave no occasion for the application of the rules of arithmetic. It is a question which affects some millions of the revenue of this country, and the state-
 832
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish to put a question to Her Majesty's Ministers as to the present state of affairs in Turkey. The House will, I hope, permit me, not that I wish to contravene for a moment the regulations that apply to the asking of questions in this House, to preface the question I am about to put by a brief statement, in which I shall offer no opinion, but which it is necessary that I should make in order that the House may fully understand its bearing; and as the question mainly depends upon dates, I may be permitted respectfully to beg the attention of hon. Members to the statement I feel it my duty to submit. The House is aware that, since on Friday last I addressed a question to Her Majesty's Government on the subject of our relations with the Porte, the Russian Ambassador Extraordinary at the Porte, Prince Menschikoff—the  ultimatum 788 viâ
 MR. FREWEN  said, that though he had a very legitimate subject of complaint in the mode in which hopgrowers were treated under the Bill, yet, seeing the uselessness of dividing the Committee, he would, on the present occasion, content himself with reminding hon. Members of the oppressive nature of the income tax as far as that class was concerned. He had already drawn the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the circumstances which had led him to postpone his claim until the Budget was produced; nevertheless, that had been now done, and still the grievance was unredressed. The hopgrower paid the enormous tax of about 12 l.
 MR. FREWEN  said, there were in several parts of the kingdom—for instance,
 796
 MR. FREWEN  said, that unless these banks on the coast were kept in repair, the land in many cases would be under the sea.
 MR. CARDWELL  explained that he quoted those figures, which he remembered accurately, merely for the purpose of showing the great increase which had taken place in the trade of the country.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he did not want to prolong the discussion, but he could not permit the noble Lord to state as a conclusive reason against removing Customs duties the fact that he had discovered an increase of 36,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 824
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he wished to make some inquiry of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer with reference to the imposition of the tax on the property of Scotch municipal bodies.
 MR. E. EGERTON  said, with reference to the third clause, that the present working was far from satisfactory, and that, in the absence of any other proposition from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he should support it.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished
 790
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, with reference to the peculiar advantages which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer said were possessed by the Irish landlords over those of England, he was prepared to show, from
 795 d.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he believed that landowners were dealt with as mercifully as they could well expect, in being allowed to make a reduction of one-third; and he would advise the noble Lord (Lord Naas) to be content with the clause as it stood.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he wished to take this opportunity of inquiring what course the right hon. Gentleman proposed to take with reference to the three clauses postponed the other night, which bore upon the liability of the occupier to pay the landlord's share of the income tax?
 Mr. LUCAS  said, he claimed no peculiar exemption for the Roman Catholic clergy; but, perhaps, if he called attention to the subject on the bringing up of the Report, the right hon. Gentleman would be willing to insert general words, allowing similar deductions for disbursements under Schedule D as were allowed under Schedule A.
 MR. LUCAS  said, that the clause as it stood at present only applied to landlords. He thought that a similar provision should be made with respect to cases where the
 797
 MR. LUCAS  said, he wished to obtain some information from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer relative to the deductions allowed in respect of the incomes of ecclesiastical persons. Protestant clergymen of the Established Church were assessed under Schedule A, but were allowed a deduction for: parochial rates, taxes, and assessments, &c.; but he did not understand that an analogous deduction was allowed in the case of the Roman Catholic priest, who was assessed under Schedule D, although a Roman Catholic priest had many disbursements which he was obliged to make of considerable amount, such, for instance, as a payment to his bishop, and he was also just as liable to parochial rates and taxes as the Protestant clergy.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, that the answer of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer was far from satisfactory, more particularly after he had admitted that it was very unfair to tax a man for debts which were clearly bad. The principle which the hon. Member for Newcastle-upon-Tyne (Mr. Blackett), proposed, affected the case only where debts were "ascertained" to be bad. They were not to speculate, for he admitted there was great difficulty in ascertaining the value of debts about which there might be some doubt; but it appeared to him that there was something very tangible and exceedingly clear in the 1st clause. When there was a bankruptcy the whole of the debt was to be deducted from the profits of the year in which it was declared, and in subsequent years credit was to be given for the dividend as part of the profit of those years in which a dividend was paid. He thought that this was an extremely fair proposition; and he could imagine nothing more unfair than that a trader should be called upon to pay upon the whole of his debts, and then, if a bankruptcy occurred, and all was positively lost, that the duty should not be remitted. Clearly, the tax either ought not to be taken in the first instance, or if taken, and the money were lost, it ought subsequently to be remitted.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he could not see why compositions with creditors should not be treated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer as similar cases in insolvency. If the hon. Gentleman who proposed the clauses persisted, as he hoped he would, in taking the sense of the Committee upon them, he (Mr. Butt) would gladly support him.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he hoped his hon. and learned Friend would not press this matter to a division, but would leave the clause for reconsideration.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would be willing to give a favourable consideration to the moderate claim which the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas) had put forward. He thought it was worthy of consideration whether some words might not he introduced to authorise deductions from the sums to be paid by the Roman Catholic clergy on the ground of certain expenses necessarily incurred in their form of worship.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, it appeared that the right hon. Gentleman defended the injustice committed upon Scotch landlords in making them pay income tax upon public burdens, by the still greater injustice which was practised upon Scotch householders. The farm buildings in Scotland were more extensive and built at greater expense than those in England, but the repairs were not left to the tenant; the buildings were handed over to the tenant in such a state of repair that they usually lasted until the end of the lease without repair. The Scotch proprietor was, in his opinion, fairly entitled to the same exemptions as the English one, and ought to be placed precisely on the same footing. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, admitted the injustice which existed as far as the Scotch proprietors were concerned, and his only defence had been, that the matter complained of was not the most unjust part of the system.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he begged to join in the request of his noble Friend. The clauses in question involved a most important principle, and it would be only right to give the Committee an opportunity of considering them.
 MR. I. BUTT  said his mind was fully made up as to the necessity for the clause, but he did not wish to press it against the feeling of the Committee. He begged to give notice, however, that when the Bill was recommitted on Thursday next, he
 820
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman was right in the construction he put upon the Bill, and it was really the case that the Irish trader was equally privileged with the English trader, nothing could possibly be more absurd than the collocation of words contained in the two clauses which the Committee had passed with regard to assessments and appeals in Ireland.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he would now propose the addition of a clause, the object of which was to place the trader in Ireland upon as advantageous a footing with regard to appeals as the English trader. As the Bill at present stood, the Irish trader had no power of going to the Special Commissioners in the first instance with his complaint respecting the assessment, but could only go before them on appeal from the decision of the Land Tax Commissioners; whereas, the English trader had the option of going with his case before the Special Commissioners as a tribunal of first instance.
 MR. BUTT  said, that upon this assurance he would withdraw the clause; but the right hon. Gentleman would find it absolutely necessary to make some provision like that he had pointed out. The cases in which the rents in Ireland were below the poor-law valuation were by no means rare. The estate of an hon. Baronet near him (Sir Arthur Brooke) was set at an annual rental 1,500 l.
 MR. I. BUTT  then proposed a clause
 809 l. l., l. l.; l.; l. l., l.,
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, the clause as it stood would entail upon landlords great hardship. They might be charged with rent they never received, when tenants had left the land without a straw upon it distrainable; for the growing crops and the straw might be sold and removed. The whole policy of the old Act was to compel the landlord only to pay the tax on rent received; for it was always provided that the tenant should "deduct" it out of the next rent—that is, the next rent paid. But now the landlord would be liable for rent not paid.
 MR. J. BALL  said, he would now beg leave to bring forward the clause of which he had given notice. He believed it desirable that they should go as far as was possible in recognising the principle of exempting precarious incomes from the tax. The object of this clause was to extend the principle which had been recognised by the right hon. Gentleman in that very important modification of this tax which he had introduced into the 41st section of the Bill before the Committee. It was desirable, he thought, to go as far as possible, without altering the principle of the tax itself, in recognising the claims of the possessors of precarious incomes. His object, therefore, was to provide a mode by which, secure from fraud and imposition, every possessor of precarious income should be enabled annually, or at such time as he was enabled to do so, to invest, for the
 818
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer appeared to wish the Committee to believe that it was not essential that a Bill under which a large amount of money was to be raised should be properly contrived and arranged, but as it was essential to the right hon. Gentleman to raise the money, he seemed to think it a little unreasonable that any one should object to any of the clauses. The right hon. Gentleman was not aware of the difficulty which the second resolution was intended to remedy. It was the custom for manufacturers to expend a large sum annually in keeping their machinery in good working order, and he knew that the deduction of 5 per cent proposed was considerably less than the depreciation of the machinery in the manufactories of Lancashire and Yorkshire. He was satisfied the right hon. Gentleman would not deny the abstract justice of the principle of his hon. Friend (Mr. Blackett), and, if so, he could not see what objection he could have to introduce the clause, because it was most desirable to produce uniformity in the practice of the commissioners. As to the third proposition, he must say the system by which the local commissioners were appointed, was bad, and he urged on the Chancellor
 815
 MR. BRIGHT  said, this case was not peculiar to the farmers; for manufacturers sometimes borrowed money to carry on their business, for which they paid interest, and no one pretended that they were to be allowed deductions in the income tax. If such cases were exempted, it would be impossible practically to make the Bill work.
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, he should support the second clause. Many manufacturers had 20,000 l. l. l.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he was in favour of all the clauses proposed by the hon. Mem-
 814
 MR. GEORGE  said, he begged to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the case of a party who, being tenant for life, repaid the principal sum due at once, instead of repaying it by instalments extending over a given number of years, and he hoped it was intended to give such a person the benefit of the deductions that would be allowed him in case the money was paid off by instalments.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he approved of the principle of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's new clauses, but he could not understand upon what ground the right hon. Gentleman asked a man to pay a tax in the first instance to which he was not at all liable. Nothing could be more vexatious and harassing than to ask a tenant to pay this tax, or to be liable to have his goods seized for it when the law said that the tax should not be imposed upon him, but upon his landlord. For the same reasons which induced the right hon. Gentleman to exempt the tenant-farmers from the operation of this tax, he recommended him to apply the same principle to the inhabitants of the towns.
 MR. MASTERMAN  said, he must ex-
 829
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  said, that great inconvenience arose from different principles being acted upon by local commissioners in different districts, and he would beg to express a hope that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would agree to the third
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, he had been more indulgent than usual in allowing the House to sit to so late an hour. He was now under the necessity of moving that it do now adjourn.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, he must beg his hon. Friend not to withdraw that clause, which he considered to be most important. One objection to the income tax was, its inquisitorial character, and anything that could be done to remove the annoyance and vexations attendant upon it should be done. The object of the clause was to prevent unnecessary exposure before local commissioners, who might be the rivals in trade of the appellant. He thought the proposition was just, fair, and equitable, and likely to make the tax palatable.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he understood the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer to object to make an allowance to the tenant for embankments to resist encroachments of the sea; and he wished to know, if the custom were ascertained to be at variance with his decision, would he have any objection to insert a clause to save the tenant as well as the landlord?
 MR. MALINS  said, that professional men now made a return of their profits at the end of every year; and he thought, in many cases, it would be a disagreeable thing if they were called upon to return their average profits for three years. He was far from thinking this clause a boon.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he begged to propose to add a proviso to this clause. As the law at present stood, there was a doubt whether a tenant who paid (as the law compelled him to do) a preceding tenant's arrears of a landlord's tax, could recover the amount so paid from the landlord, the landlord perhaps having received no rent from the first tenant, who might have absconded. He did not see why the landlord should be called on to pay when he might not have received rent for either house or farm, or on what principle the tenant was made responsible for the default of his predecessor. The taxgatherer ought to look after the taxes due to Government as sharply as the landlord looked after his rent. The object of this 31st clause was to clear up that doubt, and to enable the tenant to recover the rate from his landlord; but he (Mr. Spooner) submitted that neither the landlord who had received no rent, nor the tenant, ought to be made to pay the rate which was due from an absconding previous tenant, and it was with the view of carrying out that principle that he proposed this proviso.
 MR. SPOONER  said, it was frequently the case, that notwithstanding all his vigilance, the landlord lost his rent. Suppose a man left his farm just a day or two before his rent became due, what could the landlord do? The proviso could do no harm where the landlord did not suffer the tenant to run away, and in other cases would only do justice. He must divide the Committee on it.
 MR. T. BARING  said, he must explain that he meant to speak of the proposed reductions as miserable in point of the relief to be afforded. If it were convenient to sacrifice some thousands of pounds of revenue, it would be much better to apply the sum in removing the duty from articles which entered into general consumption.
 MR. T. BARING  said, he did not wish to impede the course of public business, but he must enter his protest against the system of taking the duty off articles merely because the duty was not oppressive in amount. He thought the duty ought only to be remitted when it rested upon the consumer or upon the manufacturer, or when by its repeal they could reduce the expense of collection, or enlarge the commerce of the country. That opinion, he knew, was not popular in that House; but he felt the same difficulty in 1845, when the then Government proposed reductions upon a large number of articles, by which between 300,000 l. l.
 MR. T. BARING  said, the right hon. Gentleman had appealed to him as a merchant as to the inconvenience occasioned by suspense; but the right hon. Gentleman knew perfectly well that the only two articles at all interesting to commerce were tea and soap; and when the right hon. Gentleman talked about the injury of suspence in reference to such an article as
 825
 MR. T. BARING  said, he believed that since the Chancellor of the Exchequer submitted his financial propositions to the House, there had been a sensible rise in
 834
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he saw no reason why a man should not set off the value of his bad debts from his income. As the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer was willing to consider the propriety of framing a clause to meet the evil, he should recommend his hon. Friend (Mr. Blackett), to whom great credit was due for introducing the matter, to withdraw the clauses.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought the principle of the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Mitchell) was correct; and if there was anything to add in the shape of a specific provision for bankruptcies, he was willing to do so.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he saw several objections to this clause. First, he doubted very much the expediency on general grounds of holding out such a decided premium to the locking up of large accumulations of capital as would be created by enabling persons who transferred sums of money to an official trustee for the benefit of their wives or children, to claim as deductions from their incomes the amounts so invested. Again, such an arrangement would be objectionable, because it would operate in favour of Schedules E and D, to the exclusion of the rest of the schedules. And, lastly, he denied the expediency of creating a machinery of this kind, so exceptional in its nature, and tending to bring about a particular disposition of property upon a large scale, and thereby interfering with the natural course of property, until Parliament had at least determined whether the income tax was to be a permanent part of the revenue of the country. If the tax was intended to be made permanent, then he could perfectly understand this proposition, although even then its expediency would admit of discussion; but surely nothing could be more irrational than to appoint official trustees and give people a bonus upon whatever funds were placed in their hands, and thereby to bring about a great concentration of property under a highly artificial form for the sake of exemption from the tax, when at the same time they were holding out the hope that Parliament might discontinue the tax. The question of the duration of the tax would in few years have to be considered; upon that point he had already expressed his own opinion; but whether its duration should be temporary or permanent, at all events do not let them prejudge that question by a collateral arrangement like the one now proposed, which would be absurd unless the tax was to be permanently continued.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Irish trader was placed by the Bill upon precisely the same footing as the English trader. The Commissioners of Inland Revenue appointed the persons who were to mate the assessments; and if the hon. and learned Gentleman supposed, as he seemed to do, that the Special Commissioners were independent of the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, he was entirely mistaken. What appeared to mislead the hon. and learned Gentleman was the fact that in England under ordinary circumstances, although the assessment was realty made by the inspectors or surveyors of taxes, yet the parties could only be served with the notices under the authority of the local commissioners; where in Ireland there were no local commissioners, and all the proceedings that were taken with regard to any assessment must have the previous saction and authority of the Commissioners for Special Purposes.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his hon. Friend, who had just sat down, had expressed great contempt for duties on anchovies, agates, and cornelians, and called them miserable exactions. He did not much differ from the hon. Gentleman as to the principle, but he must express his astonishment at the conclusion to which the hon. Gentleman arrived as to the propriety of keeping those miserable duties
 821
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would be happy to give, at a subsequent period, any information in his power upon this subject.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  ( pointing to the Resolution
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not understand before this moment, and, indeed, he could hardly understand it now, that the right hon. Gentleman was of opinion that it required the consideration of the Committee, whether they ought to proceed to reduce the tea duties, or to take off one-half of the malt
 828
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would not enter into details at that late hour, but would simply state that it was proposed that all tea imported and reported at the Custom-house before the 10th of July should have the benefit of the pound draught; but that, after that time, it should cease altogether.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not see any reason for objecting to it, for no one could be a loser by it. He must repeat, he considered it a boon; but if the hon. and learned Gentleman were desirous that the present mode of assessment should remain, so that the party assessed should have the option of choosing by which mode his gains should be tested, he would consider if it might not be allowed to remain.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to explain that its provisions were meant to enact that an abatement of duty should be allowed to those persons who had made insurance, or contracted for a deferred annuity, on the lives of themselves or wives, in respect of the annual premiums made. He would move the addition of certain words in order to
 805
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the words in this clause, "Any person who shall have made insurance on his life or on the life of his wife, or shall have contracted for any deferred annuity on his own life, or on the life of his wife, in or with any incorporated company, or any company or association registered under the Act passed in the eighth year of Her Majesty 'for the registration, incorporation, and regulation of joint-stock companies,'" were introduced in order to induce certain companies which had not yet been registered to register themselves. He considered that the Income Tax Act would confer great benefit on insurance companies by the encouragement which it held out to the public to insure; and he thought this was not an unsuitable occasion to induce those companies to conform with the provisions of the Act passed in 1844 respecting registration, which would be useful as affording authentic public information.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as to the form of the clause he would now propose, he might call it an Amendment to Clause 13, because the form of such a clause would be preserved. The proposed clause was the same as the 13th, up to the 37th line, where it goes on to say that "the assessment of the said duties in Ireland, chargeable under Schedules A and B, shall be paid by the landlord or lessor; or if it shall appear to the Commissioners to be necessary or proper, the assessment shall be made upon such persons as are liable to the rate for the relief of the poor." He now proposed to add a proviso to the clause, to the effect of enabling the party assessed, who could show that the annual value of the land was less than the poor-law valuation, to do so in the way of an appeal. The proviso would likewise give to the landlord the power of reducing the poor-law valuation to the standard of the actual amount of rent, in all cases where the poor-rate valuation was greater than the amount of rent
 806 l. l. l.; 807 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that if a person, after paying five instalments of rentcharge,
 804
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply to a question of Mr. Malins, said, this clause was intended as a boon to professional men. The rule with regard to trades was this, that they should pay on the average of three years. If a man were assessed on the fourth year, he would be assessed on the average of the previous three years; but if at the end of the fourth year he should show a falling off in his gains, a deduction would be made; whereas, if there had been a profit on the fourth year the taxpayer would have the advantage of it. That was the present state of the law regarding trades, and the object of the clause was to give the same advantage to professions as to trades.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the general basis of the Bill placing the rate on the poor-law valuation showed the intention of the Government, because that rate was made by law on the value of the holding after allowing for the poor-rate. The intention, therefore, was
 810
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, as there appeared to be some discrepancy among good authorities as to the practical working of the first clause, perhaps the best way would be to leave the clause in his hands, with the view of its being further considered, and he would endeavour to meet the case which it involved.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he fully admitted that the questions involved in the hon. Gentleman's clauses were difficult and important; but it was not without serious consideration that he had come to the conclusion that it would not be wise to adopt them. With respect to the first of these clauses, what he had to observe was this, that it proposed a departure from the entire principle on which profits were at present calculated for the purposes of the income tax. The whole principle upon which the income tax proceeded was, that the payments under Schedule D were to be computed, not upon the receipts but upon the profits of the year. Now, the proposal of the hon. Gentleman was, that they should entirely depart from that principle, so far as debts, either bad, or supposed to be bad, were concerned; and he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) must say that he was very apprehensive of the effect of this change of principle. He did not see why, as the law at present stood, it should not work in a manner generally satisfactory. He had teen told by what he might call the highest authorities, that the proper course would be, that when a debt was alleged to be bad, or partially bad, but where there was a prospect of future dividends, a fair estimate should be formed of the
 812 addendum, 813
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that there were three propositions before the Committee. With respect to the first, he was willing to admit that it seemed to demand that something should be done regarding it. With respect to the second, it amounted to a general allowance for depreciation. This might be an equitable ground for deduction, and he was not prepared to say that it was not; but if they were to consider depreciation in machinery and ships, they would have further to consider how the admission of the principle would be affected with regard to the other great classes of taxpayers. The expenses of repairs and management being already allowed under Schedule D, it would be well for the Committee to consider how far they would be justified in making further concessions. If any hon. Gentleman could discover some mode of reconstructing the income tax, with greater justice and fewer oppressive incidents, in Heaven's name let him do it; but he warned the Committee how it carelessly opened the door to those other concessions to which hon. Gentlemen had referred.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not expect, after what fell from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Blackctt) in his opening speech, that he would divide the Committee upon his clauses. If that intention were persisted in, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) must point out one matter so objectionable that he would be compelled to resist the clause. The hon. Gentleman proposed, "Whenever a composition shall have taken place between a debtor and his creditors, such sums only shall be liable to income tax as shall have been actually received by the several creditors within the year for which their respective returns are made." Upon what principle should that be allowed? When a composition had once been effected, the debt could no longer be considered a bad debt, or why should not all debts due be considered bad debts?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was no particular clause applicable to Schedule B, but there was a general clause which allowed deductions for interest on money borrowed. He might as well take this opportunity of saying that it was his intention to bring in a clause which, with relation to Ireland, would more accurately define the mode in which these deductions were to be allowed under the Act.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if the Irish landlord was really worse off than the landlords in England and Scotland, the hon. and gallant Member must remember the Irish proprietor had a good start of his brother, for he was not subject to the same charges. Let them take "repairs," for example, which were not a very heavy tax in Ireland. The proviso would alter the whole law of recovery; and when the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) said the taxgatherer was bound to look after his taxes as closely as the landlord after his rent, he seemed to forget the expense of such a system. If they were to continue to raise the tax at a moderate charge, they must be satisfied with a moderate amount of labour in return. Suppose a tenant disappeared, and succeeded in spiriting away his stock from the farm without the landlord's knowing anything of the matter? The hon. Gentleman proposed that the Government should lose the tax. Now, the landlord might recover his rent at a subsequent period from the tenant as a debt; but how were the Government to recover the amount of the tax in that case?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that, in replying to the observations of the hon. Gentleman, he would for the sake of clearness separate the case of houses from the case of lands; and, secondly, the tax leviable in respect of property from that leviable in respect of occupation. He did not deal with the case of houses, beause the principle of the law, as now administered, is this—that where rent had not been received, unless there were evidence that it had been in the power of the landlord to recover his rent, the payment of income tax in respect of that rent would not be levied. [Mr. SPOONER: It is constantly done.] No
 793
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not wish to ask the Committee to give an opinion upon these clauses to-night. He had not the least objection, after stating what the clauses were, to print them, and propose their insertion in the Bill afterwards.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Government had remodelled those clauses to a considerable degree, and they proposed to retain the power of resorting to the occupier with reference to the case of houses, and dwelling-houses especially, apart from agricultural holdings. They intended to frame these clauses in such a way that, speaking generally, for the purpose of levying a tax on land, the resort, in the first instance, would be to the immediate lessor.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he did not apprehend that any money spent upon the drainage of the land would come under the operation of this clause. If the clause had not been limited to the case of tidal rivers, the repairs done to the banks of every ditch or brook might have been brought under it, and there would have been no end to the questions that might thus have arisen.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must know the circumstances of the case before he could give any promise. The presumption generally would be, if repairs of that kind were executed by a tenant, they would be allowed for in the rent. He should be glad, however, to receive information on the subject from the hon. Gentleman.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the clause was a general clause, and had no exclusive reference to Ireland. The general term "rentcharges" was used in the Income Tax Act, that Act having been passed without any reference to those very peculiar descriptions of rent-
 803 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that no Member of that House had been able to tell him of the nature of the grievances of which the parties referred to complained. The only representation he had received from Scotland was a representation in favour of the total exemption of boroughs; but the principle of the law was, that the property of municipal bodies should pay, as other bodies did, for the protection afforded to them by the State; but then came the question what should be done with respect to the rates and duties which contributed to the revenues of municipal bodies? He understood the practice to be, that in the case of duties levied upon articles brought into towns, which duties were imposed by Act of Parliament, the exemption from income tax was allowed; but when such duties were levied under the authority of local by-laws, they were then subjected to the tax. Such was the statement made to him; but he had not been able to obtain any particulars, and the officers of the revenue department in London were entirely without information on the subject. If he could obtain further information while the Bill was going through Committee, he should be glad to make use of it in conformity with the provisions that governed the administration of the law. If not, it must stand over for the consideration of the Executive Government.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that this clause referred to nothing but the cases of sea walls and embankments. If the charges for drainage to which the hon. Baronet had alluded, were levied by a public rate or assessment, that case was met by another clause, which expressly allowed a deduction to be made for any charge levied by public rate for draining or fencing.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not believe that the tenant ever made or repaired sea walls, or the embankments of tidal rivers.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman had directed attention to an inequality in the tax; but the question must be regarded, not with reference to that isolated point, but to the general bearing. The inequality in question was one of a multitude, which, to a great degree, balanced one another. If on the ground of this inequality Parliament allowed the public burdens to be deducted, the consequence would be that the landlords in England would say, or would, at all events, be justified in saying, that they also had great inequalities to complain of. Which did the hon. Gentleman think ought to be a first reduction—public burdens or repairs? He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) thought that repairs had the first claim, and ought naturally to be allowed before public burdens. Did the hon. Member consider that English and Scotch landlords stood upon the same footing with respect to repairs, and that the average amount paid by Scotch landlords was as great as in England? [Mr. LOCKHART: Yes.] He thought not. His impression was, that the charge for repairs in Scotland, which fell upon the landlord, was much lighter than that which fell upon the English landlord. This was owing in part to the practice of granting leases in Scotland, which generally carried the performance of ordinary repairs by the tenant. [Mr. LOCKHART: No!] He had known something of Scotch leases, and he had never known a case where a lease was granted in which the tenant did not covenant to bear the ordinary repairs; and this was also the custom in England, where leases were introduced. This was only a part of the main question, whether the landlord was to pay upon his gross or net rental. That House decided the other night, by a large majority, in favour of the gross rental; but the Amendment now be fore the Committee involved the breaking up of the whole framework of the tax. If the Amendment were agreed to, there would not only be a counter claim on the part of the English landlords for a reduction upon repairs, but also a counter claim on the part of householders. While repairs upon agricultural property only amounted to 5 or 6 per cent, in house property the repairs averaged from 10 to 20 per cent. The repairs of houses in
 799
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had already stated that there was nothing peculiar in the case now under discussion; and it was not a profitable discussion, as he had said that he would bring in a clause to put the matter beyond doubt.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must object to the insertion of the words if he was to understand that there was to be a subsequent inquiry whether the Amendment was necessary or not. He had stated what was the proper interpretation of the clause, and the inspector of taxes referred to by the hon. Gentleman was in error, and if the hon. Gentleman would supply him with the particulars of the case to which he had referred, it should be set right; but; he could not introduce an Amendment into a Bill passing through Parliament merely to correct the error of a subordinate officer of the Government.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman had mixed up matters that were essentially distinct in themselves from one
 791
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The clause did not relate solely to Ireland, but was a general one, which pointed out the mode in which interest on money borrowed would be deducted from income tax.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that since Friday night he had made an inquiry on the subject of the hon. Gentleman's Amendment, which he thought must have been proposed in error, for he found that persons assessed under Schedule B were entitled to deductions for interest on money borrowed in the same manner as traders under Schedule D.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there had been no change in the condition of the tea market since his statement was made, which had materially altered the calculations upon which he based his proposal.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The common rules of arithmetic will inform the right hon. Gentleman.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if the noble Lord persevered in his Motion, the Government were bound by their pledge not to oppose it; but they
 833
 MR. BARROW  said, he was happy to hear that that was the opinion of the: right hon. Gentleman, as he had proposed his Amendment in consequence of the refusal of an inspector of taxes to allow such deduction. Still, as the provisions of the Bill were very difficult to understand, and his Amendment could do no harm, and only make the matter clear, he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would agree to it.
 MR. BARROW  rose to move a proviso of which he had given notice:—
 789 "Provided always, that in estimating the income of persons charged under Schedule B, such persons shall be entitled to deduct from the estimate of such income any source of annual interest paid for money borrowed, whereby the income shall or may be diminished."
 MR. BARROW  said, he thought that the mode in which taxes were to be imposed should be properly defined in Acts of Parliament, and not be left to the instructions of the Government. He would ask the right hon. Gentleman to point out the clause in the former Acts which affected the object in question.
 MR. KIRK  said, he thought that there being, first, an appeal to the Commissioners for Special Purposes; and, secondly, an appeal to the assistant barrister, there could be no doubt that substantial justice would be done to all parties assessed under Schedule D. He saw no necessity, therefore, for the supposed clause.
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, he was anxious to solicit the attention of the Committee to a grievance to which the proprietors of lands and houses in Scotland were exposed, and which would be much felt in Ireland, but from which English proprietors were, under all circumstances, entirely exempt. Hon. Members were aware that in England all rates were by law a charge on the occupier, and that when a landlord took upon himself the payment of them, he received a deduction of income tax in respect to them. In Scotland, on the contrary, county rates, and—with the exception of one-half of the poor-rate, and one-half of the schoolmaster's salary—all parochial assessments, were by law a charge on the landlord, including therein the maintenance and repairs of churches, manses, burying grounds, school houses, and schoolmasters' houses. He paid these burdens out of the rents, on every shilling of which he was charged income tax; and in respect of them he received no abatement. The relations between landlord and tenant were substantially the same in both countries, and there could be no reason why landlords on the north side of the Tweed should be charged with taxes from which those on the south side were exempted. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had received a memorial on this subject, signed by two-thirds of the Scotch Members, and it had only recently been his (Mr. Lockhart's) duty to submit to him a similar memorial, unanimously adopted by the commissioners of supply of the county which he had the honour to represent. He had also received remonstrances from various other quarters. He trusted, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman would give his assent to the Amendment of which he had given notice. He should be equally satisfied, however, if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would undertake to bring up a clause, placing the proprietors of Scotland and Ireland on an equality in this respect with those of England. If the right hon. Gentleman, however, would not give such an assurance, he must press his Amendment to a division.
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said that, the hon. Member was going to vote not only against his own interest but against that of his constituents.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  seconded the Motion for the postponement of the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GOODMAN  said, he should oppose the Amendment. If these claims for deductions were listened to, the efficiency of the measure would be entirely destroyed.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  trusted the hon. Member (Mr. Fitzroy) would allow nothing to interfere with the progress of the Bill.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that these sea walls were not the only barriers that were set up to resist the encroachments of the sea. In fact, they formed but a small portion of the expense for the protection of the country. In the county with which he was connected, a sum of 30,000 l.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he hoped, whatever the fate of the first and second clauses might he, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give his best attention to the first. As a mercantile man, he could speak emphatically of the great inconvenience which arose, in practice, from the Commissioners refusing to take any cognisance of bad debts unless under acts of bankruptcy, and where dividends were paid. The cases were numerous in which a merchant made a bad debt quite equal to his ordinary income on the year; and yet, under the present system, no allowance was made for bad debts of this nature.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, that if manufacturers had a claim to deductions on account of machinery, shipowners had a much stronger claim, as their property was depreciated by wear and tear to a much greater extent.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he thought the proposition for postponing the Bill was reasonable.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the result of the proposed delay would be to throw the Bill over to the end of the Session.
 MR. MOORE  said, the subject which he had to bring under the consideration of Parliament that evening was unfortunately no new one to the House. It was one of its oldest and most wearisome grievances—it had vexed the Legislature that inflicted, almost as much as the people that endured it; and he believed there was no nation upon earth but Englishmen that would endure such a bore as Irish grievances had been to them, for the mere luxury of obstinacy in wrong. If Englishmen would only reflect, that in order to save Ireland from the doctrine of purgatory in the next world, they were dooming it and themselves to something very like a purgatory in this, they might ultimately come to the conclusion that it would be a profitable compromise to get rid of Irish wrongs and Irish discussions together. But until they could bring their minds to that wise determination, they had none to blame but themselves, if, to use the words of a great man on an ominously similar occasion, they continued to be "lashed round and round the same miserable circle of occasional arguments and
 863 864 865 866 867 "He believed the Protestant Church in Ireland to be one of the most mischievous institutions in existence; he believed it was so considered now; he believed it would be considered so by posterity; and it was only because their Lordships were familiar with it that they were not shocked at the picture. There was nothing parallel to it, except the attempt at the end of the seventeenth century, to impose episcopacy upon Scotland. Could there be any wonder, then, that the Roman Catholics were discontented?" "As long as the foulest practical abuse that ever existed in any civilised country continues untouched, or touched only with a faltering hand—the Irish Church, as lavishly endowed for an eighth part of the Irish people as if more than double their whole number could partake of its ministrations—there assuredly never can be peace in that ill-feted land." "My own opinion is, that the Irish Church is a bad institution—that it is a very bad institution. It is my deliberate opinion that of all institutions now existing in the civilised world, the Established Church of Ireland is the most absurd and in defensible…Take the opinion of foreigners, of travellers, of writers, it does not matter where the book comes from, whether from Europe or America—whether Catholic or Protestant—whether partial to England, or opposed to England, they one and all state that Church to be such an abuse that they can scarcely conceive How it exists."—[See 3  Hansard, "In Ireland the adherents of the Established Church are but a small minority of the population; and this minority consists almost entirely of the wealthier classes, who could, without diffi-
 868 869 870 l. l. 871 872 873 Primâ facie, 874 de propaganda fide? 875 876 "The Protestant Church is in form a temple, but in truth a fortress, built from the ruins of the old national hierarchy, drawing supplies for its ample garrison from the conquered and impoverished country over which it frowns, but yielding no succour or protection to its vassals. It has been fed by forced contributions wrung from the people whom it could not, as a religious establishment in, demnify for the tax that it extorted. The Church of Ireland, is, finally, one which for centuries, in every measure of severity of exaction and oppression, signalised itself by more than a concurrence with the tyrannical spirit of the civil government. It is felt to be at once a weight upon the country and a degradation. Let any honest man answer this question—Is it possible for a community where such things exist, to be kept we do not say at peace—for that were extravagant—but in subjection to the British Crown, otherwise than by constant and irresistible force of arms?" 877 "Whereas the estates of this kingdom, in their claim of right, declared that prelacy is and hath been a great and insuperable grievance to the nation, and contrary to the inclinations of the majority of the people…Therefore the King's and Queen's Ministers do declare that they will settle that Church government in this kingdom which is most agreeable to the inclinations of the people." 878 "An enormous debt and expenditure, the only portion which Holland brought to us at the time of the deplorable Union, taxes overwhelming in their amount, laws always voted by the Dutch for Holland only, and always against Belgium, representations so unequal in the States General, the seat of all important establishments fixed in Holland, the most offensive partialities in the distribution of civil and military employments, in a word, Belgium treated like a conquered province, everything rendered revolution inevitable." "That the object of every insurrection that had taken place in Ireland since the Reformation, was the supremacy of the Bishop of Rome and the Romish form of worship. That they were not wars against English rule, nor for ambitious purposes, but wars of religion. That the penal laws and confiscations that followed, were not laws of persecution or the result of bigotry or tyranny, but of political necessity, and absolutely required for the protection of the Church Establishment." 879 880
 MR. MOORE : I have no such instructions.
 MR. MOORE : I really do not know whether I have or have not.
 MR. MOORE : That is not the case.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that as a Roman Catholic Member, he could not permit the speech of the noble Lord the leader of that House to pass without observation. He had felt the deepest disappointment at that speech; for he certainly had not expected to hear the tone and arguments of the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) adopted to
 952 953
 MR. PHILLIMORE  wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman could produce any information relative to the proceedings of a court-martial recently held in India upon an officer charged with brutal and violent conduct towards Sepoys.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he could not consent to the adjournment of this debate. The case involved a very great irregularity, and an infringement of the privileges of that House, supposed to have been committed by a Parliamentary agent; but since he last addressed the House the case had assumed an entirely new aspect, and it had become matter of notoriety that the agent had not acted upon his own suggestions, but upon much higher authority. He (Mr. Bentinck) thought he should adopt the most straightforward course in stating the rumours he had heard on the subject, and in giving the hon. and learned Gentleman, whose name had been mentioned in connexion with the matter, an opportunity of either admitting or denying the share attributed to him in this affair. It had been a matter of notoriety, mentioned to him by many hon. Members, that the suggestion of the petition to which he had, on a former occasion, called attention, did not emanate from the Parliamentary agent, but came from Her Majesty's Attorney General (Sir Alexander Cockburn). In confirmation of this statement he had in his hand a letter addressed to Lord Adolphus Vane by a gentleman connected with the county of Durham, who said he had heard it stated generally that Mr. Atherton went to Sir A. Cockburn seeking his advice, and stating that he had spent 1,000  l. Cries of
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had nothing to complain of in the conduct of the hon. Member in bringing forward this Motion. The hon. Member had given him notice, not exactly of the charge he intended to make, but that he was about to bring his name and conduct into question. Upon this, he had desired Her Majesty's Government should resist the Motion; for he was most desirous of meeting and testing any charge which the hon. Gentleman might bring against him. The House had now heard the hon. Gentleman's explanation. No man was more sensible than himself of the liability of any man occupying a public position, to have his public or official conduct and conversation made the subject of inquiry and investigation; but he must protest altogether, although he needed no protest on this occasion, against having the private conversations which took place between one gentleman and another, in the unreserved confidence of private friendship, being disclosed. Whatever passed between his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Atherton) and himself, passed as between one gentleman and another, as between one private friend and another. He could easily conceive, if
 961 962
 MR. BENTINCK  denied that he had been guilty of any breach of private confidence in the statement he had made. He had given the names of all the parties concerned; and he maintained that the explanations which had just been tendered had justified him in all that he had said.
 MR. KEATING  said, this Motion was brought forward some time ago, and was postponed then on the ground that till the inquiry by the Committee on the petition on the Durham election was disposed of, it was not expedient to go into the present petition. He contended that the same reasons still existed for postponement.
 MR. ELLIOTT  then moved the adjournment of the House on the ground of the late hour to which the debate had been protracted, and the rather as the Government business was never allowed to proceed at such a late hour.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the circumstances were such as to induce him to press the House to divide on his Motion.
 MR. BUTT  would vote for a Committee
 964
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that all parties were agreed that there should be inquiry. The only question was as to the mode and the time. As to the mode, he should not care how it was settled; but with regard to the time, he really thought that as the petition on the last Durham election was to come on the day after to-morrow, this inquiry ought to be postponed till it was settled.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, if the House would agree to a Select Committee, he would not name that Committee till the Durham petition was disposed of.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the Government had not the slightest objection to inquiry. The only question was, whether, as there was a Motion for a Committee to inquire into all compromises of election petitions, and as this was such a case of compromise, this case should not be referred to that general Committee, or whether it should be referred to a Select Committee on its own merits.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I am anxious to state my reasons for voting against this Motion; and after the speech to which the House has just listened, I do not think I shall find much difficulty in performing that task. The hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas) has perfectly kept his word to the House; he has frankly
 941 942 943 944 945 946
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the House had before it a factious petition, presented to Parliament in order to effect a return, and that by a notorious presenter of petitions and dealer in Parliamentary seats. They had that fact before them; and he thought it a subject for examination and inquiry. Then, what was the suggestion made on the part of the Government? Why, this—that the remedy should be a hypothesis. A grievance was admitted:—but on Tuesday next an hon. Member was going to make a Motion which might possibly suit the parties complaining. Who could tell what would happen next Tuesday? He would counsel the House to come to this
 963
 MR. DISRAELI  said, there was no similarity between this case and that of Government business. The Government had the whole night to bring forward their business, but here was the case of a private Member who could not bring on his Motion until after midnight. The opposition, therefore, was not only vexatious, but it struck at the privileges of independent Members, and he appealed to the noble Lord opposite not to sanction such a proceeding.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, a grievance had been complained of, and a debate had taken place on the subject about three weeks ago. The noble Lord now said that the hon. Member for Surrey was going to propose a Motion which, if carried, would provide a mode of remedying that grievance; but it was by no means certain that the Motion of the hon. Member for Surrey would be agreed to. He (Mr. Disraeli) thought the best course would be to ap-
 957
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was bound to yield to the authority of the hon. Member for Mayo, and he must, therefore, endeavour to suppose, that in making the present Motion, the hon. Gentleman was acting in contravention of the wishes of the Roman Catholic dignitary to whom he alluded. [ Laughter. Morning Herald: "Dr. M'Hale responded to the toast, 'the Catholic Hierarchy of Ireland,' in a speech of a character usually remarked in most of the letters of his Lordship. In the course of his remarks, he said—So clearly are the temporalities of the Church the root, the centre, the foundation of all the discordant sects that are now warring against truth and the lives of the people, and the peace of
 902 Laughter and cheers. 903 "This, indeed, we have had, above all things, at heart, most anxiously to consult for the security of our most holy religion, and the spiritual affairs of the Church; and, therefore, you will perceive that the Catholic religion, with all its rights, which it enjoys by Divine institution and the sanctions of the sacred canons, is so singly, as heretofore, to flourish and be dominant in that kingdom, that every other worship is to be altogether removed and interdicted, &c. And with equal zeal have we taken care to assert the liberty and dignity of the ecclesiastical authority, &c.; but it has also been decreed that all the magistrates of the kingdom shall do their endeavour to secure that due honour, observance, and obedience shall be shown by all to the ecclesiastical authority and dignity. To this is added that the most illustrious Queen and Her Government promise to give all assistance by their powerful patronage and protection to the aforesaid bishops, when, in the exercise of their pastoral office, they shall have occasion to restrain the wickedness and audacity of those men, principally, who impiously seek to pervert the minds of the faithful, and to corrupt their morals, and when they have to scatter and drive away from their flocks the detestable and dire plague and ruinous evil of perverse books." 904 "We now wish you to be informed that our most beloved son in Christ, Leopold II., Grand Dake of Tuscany, and Duke of Lucca, as might be expected from his distinguished piety, ardently desired that the laws existing in Tuscany might in some way be set in order, and adjusted in all those points which have reference to ecclesiastical laws. He, therefore, with earnest entreaties be sought of us that we should, in the meantime, be pleased to make certain arrangements, since the same most religious prince has proposed and determined hereafter to enter on a full convention with this apostolical see, by which the ecclesiastical government and affairs in the regions subjected to him may be prosperously settled. Therefore, confiding in a firm and sure hope that the aforesaid our most beloved son in Christ will enter on such a concordat, according to our wishes, with the greatest possible celerity, we, meeting his wishes, some heads having been examined by our venerable brothers, cardinals of the Holy Roman Church, of the same congregation, placed over special ecclesiastical affairs, were in the meanwhile settled, which heads have been ratified by us, and by the prince himself. And by these heads or articles, among other things, it is decreed that the bishops shall have all liberty in fulfilling all those things which pertain to the sacred ministry, and may exercise censorship over writings and works which treat of things relating to religion; that they may freely apply their episcopal authority to keep away the faithful from any bad reading whatsoever, mischievous whether to faith or morals; and at the same time it is provided that they may all be able to communicate freely with this Chair of Blessed Peter, the centre of Catholic truth and unity, and that all spiritual and ecclesiastical causes are singly and altogether to depend on the judgment of the sacred power, according to the prescript of the sacred canons. But we received no slight joy in that our aforesaid most beloved son in Christ did not fail to promise and profess to us that he would devote all his resources and diligence to protect our most holy religion, to maintain Divine worship, and to encourage the honesty of public morals, and would be ready with his powerful assistance, by which the bishops might be enabled freely to exercise the episcopal authority." 905 "But, gentlemen, while we thus send back our defiance to the challenge of Orangemen, let us not forget that there is another deeper, deadlier, more subtle, and more fatal foe, to whom we owe a debt of vengeance, with the scrupulous payment of which we cannot allow even Orangemen to presume to interfere, and Tories must be content to wait until we have first discharged towards the Whigs that preliminary duty. Business first, and pleasure afterwards. Let us first oust the Whigs, and then drub the Tories. With regard to the first, Lord John will not have it to say, that of the payment of that debt we seek postponement. We will discharge it with interest, and to the uttermost farthing. In this island, once so attached to their persons and so devoted to their policy, their policy has not an honest supporter, nor their persons an honest friend; and when the news that their destiny is at last accomplished shall reach our shores, there will arise from Cape Clear to the Giants' Causeway one universal shout of triumph and execration, which might almost arouse our famine-stricken dead from their very graves to swell. Thus let us endeavour to deal impartial vengeance between Whig and Tory."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he believed that the hon. Member was connected with an association in Ireland, the establishment of which had been recommended by Archbishop Cullen.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked whether he was then to understand that the hon. Member for Mayo was not acting under the countenance and authority of Archbishop Cullen? Had not the hon. Member the support of Archbishop Cullen?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the House had heard it stated that the Established Church of Ireland had been the cause of many evils in that country; but hon. Members who entertained that opinion had not stated what that Church had done to deserve this accusation? The clergy of the Established Church were not turbulent nor disaffected, nor had they during the famine, or at other times, manifested a want of charity for their suffering neighbours. Was it because the Church of Ireland was in a state of torpor that its existence was complained of by the Roman Catholics? Or was it because that Church was active and daily spreading its doctrines and its ministrations among the people of Ireland, and because the people were showing their appreciation of the blessings which the Church dispensed, by flocking over to it in thousands? Which of the two reasons was really influencing the supporters of the present proposition? It was notorious that the people of Ireland were quitting the errors of the Church of Rome, and attaching themselves to the Church of Ireland in multitudes. It was notorious that they were flying from the domination of the Church of Rome, and seeking the freedom of the Church of England. Some hon. Members seemed to hold that fact an argument for the destruction of the Established Church in Ireland; but no Protestant, no man who deserved to be considered tolerant, far less liberal or just, would sanction such an argument. The true purport of this Motion was the destruction of the Church in Ireland. This was one of the two objects that had been decided upon by the Synod of Thurles, which was presided over by that emissary of a foreign Power, the Legate of the Pope, Dr. Cullen, who was intruded upon Ireland contrary to the law of the United Kingdom and of Europe. The first object which he dictated to the Synod was the disturbance of the settlement of private property by the adoption of measures in respect to tenant right which were inconsistent with the rights of property; the second and chief object was the destruction of the Church in Ireland. These were the avowed objects of the Synod of Thurles, as stated by the Pope's legate, Cullen, and an association had been formed to carry out the decrees of the Synod, of which the hon. Member for Mayo was the representative in that House. ["No, no!"] Was not the hon. Member the representative of an association established under the
 901
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  stated, that he had not received any papers connected with the case.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, that when he made inquiry on the subject a few days back he found that no report of the court-martial had arrived.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  could assure the hon. Gentleman that he had come straight to the House from the Cabinet. He was not aware that any official information had been received of the nature alluded to by the hon. Gentleman. He had heard a rumour that the Chinese were disposed to grow opium, but not officially. He would make an inquiry upon the subject, and let the hon. Gentleman know the result.
 MR. LUCAS  said, that he found the Motion they were discussing that night to be one which it was extremely difficult and painful for him to speak upon, because it was a Motion which seemed to him to be beyond all argument; and he confessed that he experienced a feeling which he knew not how to describe when he approached the discussion of a question which in his judgment ought to pass as a matter of course in any national assembly that wished to deal justly to all classes of Her Majesty's subjects. He experienced a difficulty to restrain the feelings of indignation which always arose in his mind when he considered the enormous injustice under which 5,000,000 of Catholics laboured in Ireland
 934 egium Donum 935 Nisi Prius 936 Omne ignotum pro magnifico, 937 938 939 the Biography of Lord George Bentinck, 940
 MR. HENRY DRUMMOND  would not follow the hon. and learned Gentleman who bad just sat down through all his various misunderstandings of the various speeches
 914 915
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he regretted that an institution so ancient and so venerable as the Established Church in Ireland
 921 922 "1. The appropriation of the ecclesiastical revenues of the country—originally set aside for the religious instruction and consolation of the people—to purposes quite foreign to the spirit of that sacred trust. 2. The penalties or prohibitions which still attach to the performance of certain spiritual functions, or the exercise of certain ecclesiastical rights of order or jurisdiction. 3. The laws which still disqualify certain classes of Her Majesty's subjects, on account of their religion, from holding various honourable and important offices in the State. 4. Those more hidden operations of Government which, by a certain connivance between the legislative and the executive, between the wording and the working of the law, pervert the best and most benevolent institutions into instruments of persecution, drain the bitter cup of poverty of its one blessed drop of comfort, and cheat even the gallant men who live and die in the service of their country, of all that elevates life, and consoles death. The first, though perhaps not essentially the most vicious, is the largest of these elements of persecution; and as it sustains, and feeds, and fosters all the others, may be regarded as the most important of them all. The iniquitous anomaly of the Church Establishment of Ireland may be truly said to be the cause of every evil, and to stand in the way of every good in that country; and it would be superfluous to argue the condemnation of a system which has been already denounced by the voice of the whole civilised world." 923 "Amid the anxiety and alarm which have seized the adherents of the Protestant Establishment in Ireland, they must look to some more efficient props to uphold its tottering existence than the clumsy fictions which they are not ashamed to scatter about its imaginary extension. In vain are they endeavouring by such weak expedients to avert its impending doom. They may fancy that because they have been hitherto imposing on the English people, and gathering funds by an indulgence in all the licentiousness of slander, they may be still permitted to enjoy the same privileges of imposition in a continuous immunity from exposure. They appear, however, to feel that they have been somewhat mistaken in their calculations. The result of the recent elections in Ireland has filled them with an alarm which they are awkwardly endeavouring to conceal, and the loudness and audacity of their boasts, at a time when the world has witnessed the decline of the Parliamentary establishment, and the vigorous reaction of a people whom its votaries proclaimed to be prostrate, are but too evident signs of their terrible apprehensions…Yes, it is this conviction of the deep-seated reverence of the Catholic people of Ireland for their religion, and their unconquerable resolve not only to maintain it, but to carry on a vigorous, and legitimate, and constitutional opposition to the Moloch of the Establishment, that has recently sent over such a motley crew of parsons and readers to this country, and is sending back, by way of commercial interchange, such huge cargoes of lies and inventions regarding their triumphs in the west of Ireland. Such artifices will no longer do, for in the fate of every successive Administration that refuses to extinguish this national nuisance it will appear that the days of the Establishment are numbered. When pressed by the serried array of half the representatives of Ireland, who can break up a more vigorous Administration than yours, to relieve at once this country from the incubus that has oppressed all its energies, it will not do to adjure them to wait until you sec the result of the new ninth or tenth reformation in the regions of the south or west of Ireland. No, they will not wait, nor will they listen to those arguments of persuasion which Tory, as well as Whig, Ministers know so well how to wield; for this very Celtic people, who are represented in England as Protestant converts, have instructed their representatives not to wait, nor take office or favour of any kind from any Minister until the country is cased of the burden of that Establishment with which calumny has not blushed to connect them…Those ecclesi-
 924 925 "With satisfaction we acquiesce in the establishment of the national church; we neither repine at its possessions, nor envy its dignities: we are ready upon this point to give every assurance that is binding upon man." 926 "The Catholics of Ireland, far from claiming any right or title to forfeited lands, resulting from any right, title, or interest which their ancestors may have had therein, declare upon oath 'That they will defend, to the utmost of their power, the settlement and arrangement of property in this country as established by the laws now in being. 'They also' disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment, for the purpose of substituting a Catholic establishment its stead. And, further, they swear that they will not exercise any privilege to which they are or may be entitled, to disturb and weaken the Protestant religion and Protestant Government in Ireland.'" "And I do declare that I do not believe that the Pope of Rome, or any other foreign prince, prelate, person, state, or potentate, hath or ought to have any temporal or civil jurisdiction, power, superiority, or pre-eminence, directly or indirectly, within this realm. I do swear that I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within this realm, as established by the laws; and I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment as settled by the Jaw within this realm; and I do solemnly swear that I never will exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion or Protestant Government in the United Kingdom; and I do solemnly in the presence of God, profess, testify, and declare that I do make this declaration, and every part thereof, in the plain and ordinary sense of the words of this oath, without any evasion, equivocation, or mental reservation whatsoever. So help me, God!" 927 Geo. "And whereas the Protestant Episcopal Church of England and Ireland, and the doctrine, discipline, and government thereof, and likewise the Protestant Presbyterian Church of Scotland, and the doctrine, discipline, and the government thereof, are, by the respective Acts of Union of England and Scotland, and of Great Britain and Ireland, established permanently and inviolably." "And is not the King, beloved brethren, whom by the law of God we are bound to honour, entitled now to all the honour, and all the obedience, and all the gratitude you can bestow? And do not his Ministers merit from you a confidence commensurate with the labours and the zeal expended by them on your behalf? And that Legislature which raised you up from your prostrate condition, and gave to you, without reserve, all the privileges you desired—is not that Legislature entitled to your reverence and love? We trust that your feelings on this subject are in unison with our own, and that a steady attachment to the constitution and laws of your country, as well as to the person and Government of your gracious Sovereign, will be manifest in your entire conduct. Labour, therefore, in all things to promote the end which the Legislature contemplated in passing this Bill for your relief—to wit, the pacification and improvement of Ireland. Let religious discord cease; let party feuds and civil dissensions be no more heard of; let rash, and unjust, and illegal oaths be not even named among you; and, if sowers of discord or sedition should attempt to trouble your repose, seek for a safeguard against them in the protection afforded by the law." 928 naïveté: "Far, then, from shrinking from any avowal of hostility to a system fraught with such injustice, I must frankly own that the Establishment has been, and shall continue to be, the object of every legal and constitutional opposition in my power. However irrconcileable you deem such a declaration with the obligations of our oath, I must protest against your competency to expound its meaning, or to be the guide of my theology." 929 "The misfortune of having bishops perpetually from England, as it must needs quench the spirit of emulation among us to excel in learning and
 930 "What is the case of Dr. Kirwan? That man preserved this country and our religion; and brought to both a genius superior to what he found in either. He called forth the latent virtues of the human heart, and taught men to discover in themselves a mine of charity of which the proprietors had been unconscious. In feeding the lamp of charity he had almost exhausted the lamp of life; he comes to interrupt the repose of the pulpit, and shakes one world with the thunder of the other. The preacher's desk becomes the throne of light; around him a train, not such as crouch and swagger at the levees of princes (horse, foot, and dragoons), but that wherewith a great genius peoples his own state—charity in action, vice in humiliation; vanity, arrogance, and pride appalled by the rebuke of the preacher, and cheated for a moment of their native improbity. What reward? St. Nicholas Within, or St. Nicholas Without! The curse of Swift is upon him—to have been born an Irishman, to have possessed a genius, and to have used his talents for the good of his country. Had this man, instead of being the brightest of preachers, been the dullest of lawyers—had he added to dulness venality—had he aggravated the crime of venality and sold his vote, he had been a judge; or, had he been born a blockhead, bred a slave, and trained up in a great English family, and been handed over as a household circumstance to the Irish Viceroy, he would have been an Irish bishop and an Irish peer with a great patronage, perhaps a borough, and had returned Members to vote against Ireland, and the Irish parochial clergy must have adored his stupidity and deified his dulness. But, under the present system, Ireland is not the element in which a native genius can rise unless he
 931 932 933 "I have been a witness of the reception of his Imperial Highness on his return to this city. It was a touching sight to see the children of the schools conducted by the Christian brothers greet him in whom they recognised their friend; and I was forcibly indeed reminded that, while Parliamentary England, Belgium, and Sardinia cither persecute the Church or obstruct her full working and development, monarchical Austria, Tuscany, France, and Naples protect and defend her liberties, maintain and uphold her rights; nay, more, in proportion as the Cortes in Spain loses its power, the Church recovers its authority—a humiliating lesson to those who would cry out for Parliaments as the panacea for all evils, and who denounce Governments which punish evildoers and disturbers of religious peace, but which encourage the good in the practice of goodness—the pious in works of piety."
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was sorry that he had not been present during the whole of the debate, but he was still more sorry at having heard the speech of the noble Lord who had just sat down. He did not know how the noble Lord viewed his past political career in connexion with this
 947 948 949 950 951
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to ask a question respecting India, but was sorry to find that, in addition to the other difficulties surrounding the question, they had to deal with a President of the Board of Control who did not appear on the front benches until the time for asking questions had passed. [ Sir Charles Wood at this moment entered the House.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that he remembered Canning's saying that the duty of a Lord of the Treasury was to make a House, to keep a House, and to cheer the Minister; but from what he had noticed that evening, it appeared to be the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to clear the House; for the result of his observations
 916 917 de novo, 918 l, l. l. l.; l.; l. l. l. l. l., l., 919 l.; 920
 MR. MURROUGH : Sir, I deem the hon. Member for Mayo entitled to the consideration of this House for having brought forward this Resolution, not only because it is no party question, and from the manifestations of applause on the other side of the House, I perceive that no succession to office is in anywise involved in its decision; not merely because it deeply affects the interests and the feelings of a peculiarly sensitive, conscientious, and religious people, but inasmuch as it may afford some test to those representatives of popular constituencies, whose impatient and undisciplined minds could not brook the delay
 887 888 889 890
 MR. JOHN GEORGE PHILLIMORE  said, he regretted the tone which had characterised the speech of the hon. Member who had last addressed the House. It was to his (Mr. Phillimore's) mind greatly to be deprecated that when a question of this kind was introduced into the House, history, instead of forcing us to acknowledge our errors, should be made a kind of magazine for the purpose of furnishing weapons to parties of different religious persuasions with which to attack each other. If he was disposed to follow the example of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) it would not be difficult to point that hon. Member's attention to instances of persecution on the part of Protestant States quite as galling and far more sweeping than any which the hon. Member had laid to the charge of Roman Catholic States. No one could have travelled in Germany, within the last few years, but must have observed large bodies of Protestants fleeing from the dogmatical persecution of the King of Prussia. He mentioned that circumstance simply to show that arguments like those used by the hon. Member were of no avail whatever, and only tended to increase religious hostility; and the only safe course for the House to adopt was to disregard alike the indiscreet expressions uttered at public meetings and the violence exhibited by parties in other countries, and to look for reasons of mutual charity and good will. Therefore, the simple question the House now had to consider was—Did the Irish Church, as at present constituted, fulfil its high and important functions? In other words, did it minister to the spiritual wants of the Irish people? He did not dispute that it was a highly-endowed establishment, and contained among its functionaries a number of men of great ability and learning; but he asked the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Newdegate)—he asked any hon. Member in that House, having a regard for candour—whether in his conscience he believed that that Church was a blessing and a benefit to the people whose spiritual care and instruction it was meant to promote? He would ask whether, in the records of history, there could be found any instance of a Church which had been beset by a fatality which had made it rather the instrument of evil than of good? He would ask whether any Church ever owed its existence to any more inauspicious circumstances? He would ask whether there was any Church whose career had been marked,
 907 "Ille erit, ille nocens, qui me tibi fecerit hostem." 908
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, that the hon. Member for Mayo had asked the House to agree to a Committee—as he stated in one part of his speech—of inquiry and investigation. It certainly, however, appeared from other parts of his observations that on his part, at any rate, further inquiry and investigation were needless. If the House agreed to a Committee, he thought they must do so with the distinct understanding that it was one which was proposed with a view to the abolition of the Protestant Church in Ireland, and that, as the hon. Member had said, nothing short of religious equality would, in the opinion of those who brought forward this Motion, satisfy the justice of the case. [Mr. MOORE said, that he had quoted the words of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London.] The hon. Member had, it was true, quoted the noble Lord; but in
 882 883 l. l. l.; l. l. 884 "There are some who really think, and some who affect to think, that great dangers may result to the Establishment from concession. I declare solemnly, that if I could enter into that opinion—if I could see anything of peril to the Church or the State—dear to me as are the interests of my fellow-men, I would abandon these long-asserted claims, and would range myself with their opponents."—[2  Hansard, 885 l. l. l., 886 l. l.
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  said, that although he rose to second the Motion, and meant to vote for it, yet he exceedingly regretted it had been brought forward,
 881 vexata questio
 MR. GARDNER  hoped hon. Members were not prepared to do what the Secretary for Ireland had stated he was ready to do—namely, to maintain the Established Church in Ireland at all hazards, and under all circumstances. He hoped, moreover, that they were not prepared to adopt another suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman—a suggestion which appeared to come from that quarter with particularly bad grace—namely, to wait the force of circumstances, and yield to violence what they had long refused to reason. Neither could he agree with the right hon. Gentleman that the injury the people had suffered from the Establishment had been small. He (Mr. Gardner) admitted that the injury inflicted by the Church in Ireland in the present day was inconsiderable; but he had been accustomed to refer by far the greater part of the misfortunes of Ireland, whether political, social, or commercial, to the abominable penal enactments of the last century, which were most undoubtedly passed to further the interests of an indefensible institution. For himself he remained unconvinced of the contrary; even after the speech of the hon. Baronet (Sir R. H. Inglis), whoso arguments appeared to him to have added no cogency to the case put forward by the Secretary for Ireland. The truth was, that the poverty which characterised the arguments of those hon. Baronets, was owing to the consciousness they had, that they were the advocates of a thoroughly bad cause. He was himself opposed to Establishments on principle; but still he admitted that a great deal might be said in favour of such an Establishment as existed in this county; but such an Establishment as that that existed in Ireland nothing could justify. He should have preferred that this Motion had come from another quarter; but believing, as he did, that nothing could be worse than the existing state of things, he should give the proposition his hearty support, and he trusted the time might shortly arrive when they would bring to the discussion of Catholic claims a spirit more just, more rational, and, he might be permitted to say, more religious.
 MR. ROSS MOORE  said, that the advocates of the present proposition were compelled, from the consciousness of the weakness of their cause, to indulge in vague generalities. The hon. Member, as the foundation of his arguments, if they could be called such, stated that which he (Mr. R. Moore) trusted, for the honour of the Roman Catholics, was untrue—namely, that they were eminently a disloyal and disaffected body. He trusted that this was merely a specimen of Hibernian exaggeration. Although the Catholic portion of the population was not as loyal as they ought to be, yet he believed they were far from being as disloyal and as disaffected as their champion had represented them to be. He felt surprised to hear a member of the Roman Catholic Church asserting that the Roman Catholic population of Ireland were disloyal. Was it not in the memory of all those who heard him, that the warmest advocates of Catholic emancipation previous to 1829 had stated that the Irish Roman Catholics were then indeed disloyal; but if Parliament emancipated them, and gave them equal rights with those of Protestants, they would prove themselves a most loyal body. Their requests having been conceded, was it not now too much to be told that they were still disloyal, because the Established Church, which they had sworn never to undermine, still existed? A reference had been made to the opinions of eminent men by the hon. Member for Mayo. He would take the liberty of troubling the House with the opinion of as eminent a man as graced the age in which he lived. It was the opinion of Lord Plunkett; and it was completely at variance with that which had been expressed by the hon. Member for Mayo that evening. Lord Plunkett said—
 "With respect to the Protestant Establishment of the country (Ireland), he considered it necessary for the security of all property. He thought that there should not only be an Established Church, but that it should be richly endowed; and that its dignitaries should be enabled to take their stations in society with the nobles of the land; but speaking of it in a political point of view, he had no hesitation to state that the existence of
 909 "The Church by law established is the Church of a community every where considerable in respect of property, rank, and intelligence; it is strong in a prescription of three centuries, and in the support which it derives from the supposed identity of its interests with those of the Church of England. Nothing short of a convulsion, tearing up both establishments by the roots, could accomlish its overthrow. The notion of dislodging it from its temporal pre-eminence, in order to clear the way for three national establishments, among which its property should be equally distributed,
 910 "It is the interest, also, of the Protestant Church and of the State. Ours is the first Government in the history of the world which has found any difficulty in dealing with men who ask only the means of being useful to their fellow-subjects, and nothing for themselves." 911 912 The West Galway Church Building Fund. Statement and Account, by the Lord Bishop of Tuam. With a Report of his Lordship's Tour through Parts of the United Dioceses of Tuam, Killala, and Achonry, in the months of July and August, "In order to enable the members of the Church to form some judgment of the benefit hitherto effected in the district of West Galway, it may be enough to state, that whereas but a few years ago there were only two churches, and two clergymen the incumbents, by the arrangements already made there are S churches, besides 8 buildings licensed for the performance of Divine worship; and there are 18 clergymen officiating, of whom six are incumbents of parishes, and 12 are missionaries." 913
 MR. MOORE  said, that although the hon. Member for Meath and the hon. Member for Manchester had not left anything unanswered which had been stated in opposition to the Motion which he had ventured to bring before the House, still, as allusion had been made to him, he hoped that he might be permitted to say a few words in vindication of his Motion. However hon. Members had disagreed in their views upon this question, there appeared to be an unanimous impression, that to institute an inquiry into the Irish Church Establishment would be synonymous with the subversion of the establishment. Now, he was not prepared to say that that might not be the result of his Motion, but he denied that any such consequence was necessarily implied. It had been asserted that his proposition was to leave the inquiry to twenty-four Roman Catholic priests and Archbishop Tuam; whereas what he proposed really was that the matter should be
 954 955
 MR. PHINN  recommended that at that hour in the morning the debate should be adjourned.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  would not have troubled the House with any observations but for the strange nature of some of the arguments which he had heard. He had heard it argued that the Protestant religion ought to be maintained in Ireland because it was the true religion. He would not stop to ask persons with such views where was the proof of their infallibility; but he would ask them to consider the dangerous consequences of their doctrine. If the presumed truth of a system were admitted as an argument for its support, how could they deny an equal right in those who held a contrary opinion? Would they not allow every Roman Catholic to entertain the same views himself about his own religion? and if they did, how could they deny the right of those who conscientiously held the Protestant religion to be false to exert every means for its destruction? If, again, they contended that the Irish Church was the inevitable consequence of English connexion, could they wonder that the Irish people looked with disfavour on that connexion? And although he could not quite agree with the hon. Member for Mayo as to the extent of disaffection existing among the Roman Catholic population of Ireland, yet he thought the measures adopted to maintain the Irish Church Establishment on high religious grounds had produced more evil and disaffection than any political or economic cause whatever. He had heard it said also that Ireland was a conquered country, and must, therefore, adopt the Church of her conqueror; but what could the feelings of the people be expected to be if they were continued to be treated as a conquered nation, and laws forced upon them which could only be justified by the rules of conquest? Was it possible to conceive anything more calculated to irritate the feelings of the Roman Catholics than to teach them thus to regard every penny of church dues they paid as a tribute to an invader, and every church steeple they beheld among them as a badge of conquest? He could well understand that these doctrines might have been prevalent at the time of the first establishment of the Church in Ireland. Hallam, the Protestant historian, stated that there were three arguments in favour of the compulsory establishment of the Pro-
 891 table d'hÔte, salons 892 893 "It seems as if the whole connexion of the two islands, and the whole system of constitutional laws in the latter, subsisted only for the sake of securing the privileges and emoluments of a small number of ecclesiastics, frequently strangers, who rendered very little return for their enormous monopoly." 894 Coningsby, 895
 MR. OTWAY  said, that a short time ago two Judges of the Sudder Adawlut, the highest native court of judicature in India, were suspended from their offices in Bombay. Following this proceeding, Mr. Luard, a gentleman in the Company's civil service published in the newspapers articles attacking the character of the Indian Judges generally. Shortly after Mr. Luard was suspended from employment by the Bombay Government. He wished to know whether the Government were in possession of any papers relative to the suspension of the two Judges; and also whether it was their intention to institute any inquiry into the circumstances connected with Mr. Luard's suspension from employment?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  advised the House to agree to the Motion, as he thought the case was an exceedingly trumpery one, which any Committee would agree upon in a few hours.
 SIR J. TROLLOPE  certainly thought that there was more in this case than could be laid at the door of the agents. It must be remembered that election agents acted generally under the instructions of others. The names of agents were sometimes bandied about as being the parties solely responsible; but he believed that if the House instituted the inquiry now asked for, they would have to go far beyond the agents, and to ascertain whence they had derived their instructions. The agents were often very unjustly charged with acts with which they had no direct connexion.
 SIR J. TROLLOPE  observed that the proposition of the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. Locke King) was for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into election petitions that had been withdrawn. Now, no less than sixty-eight election petitions had been withdrawn, and he did not think Members would readily consent to serve upon a Committee which was to conduct so extensive an inquiry, neither could the investigation have been got through in the present Session.
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, the petition itself was presented in November; and he wished to know if any new facts had been presented to the hon. Member (Mr. Bentinck) to render this case different from what it was sis months ago?
 SIR R. H. INGLIS  said, that in one portion of the remarks of the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat he perfectly agreed—namely, in the very just criticism which he had delivered upon the argument of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Cavan (Sir John Young), who that evening had come forward as the organ of Her Majesty's Government; because anything more weak—anything less effective for its purpose—in fact, anything more entirely destructive of the avowed principle which it professed to defend, than was that argument, it had never been his fortune to hear. Nor had its weight or influence been increased when coupled with the authoritative name of Sir Robert Peel; for substantially it was nothing more than this—"If you agitate sufficiently, we have not sufficient force to resist." Why, was not that holding out a premium to agitation?—was it not in effect to say, "Because there is no sufficient manifestation of public opinion out of the House, and no sufficient interest excited in the House, I will resist a proposition which otherwise I might be unable to oppose?" But the question was not of numbers in the House or out of the House—it was a question of right. The hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had, indeed, found it convenient to slur over the Union compact; but he (Sir R. H. Inglis) begged to remind the House that the Act of Union was not, like other Acts of Parliament, passed in the early part of the Session, to be repealed or not before its termination, according as the House might deem fit. No; it was a solemn compact between two nations previously wholly independent of each other. The Union with Scotland was one such instance—that with Ireland was another; and neither party was now at liberty to consider whether the stipulation was, according to their estimate, injurious to their particular interests. Now that Act of Union—that solemn compact between two independent Legislatures, provided as an
 896 animus 897 "I hold the Established Church of Ireland, in spite of all that has been alleged against it, to be the best machinery for the moral and political regeneration of this country. Its overthrow I should hold to be a death-blow to the best hopes of Ireland. It must be well manned—the machine must be rightly wrought before it can answer its purpose. And the more I reflect upon the subject, the more I feel the highest and deepest interests of the land are linked with the support of the Established Church. All is provided if that Church is well fostered and patronised." 898 899
 MR. ATHERTON  would not have risen to speak on this subject, had it not bees for the very unfounded piece of gossip which the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) had thought proper to publish to the House. He said, without the slightest hesitation, that there was not a word nor a semblance of truth in that statement. He never stated to the Attorney General that he had expended 1,000  l. 959 960
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the simple question seemed to be, whether the inquiry should be conducted by the general or by a special Committee. If the prayer of the petition was very complicated, there might be some ground for saying a general Committee would be too much overladen with matter to see to the subject; but it did not appear to be of any very extraordinary difficulty, or to require much explanation. It remained for Gentlemen opposite to show that it was so. He had not the slightest wish to prevent the fullest inquiry; but they ought to state some special circumstance to prove the case was one for a special Committee.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, when this subject was last under discussion, the House agreed to adjourn the debate until a decision had been come to upon a Motion for the appointment of a General Committee for an inquiry into all cases of this kind. That Motion had stood for to-night; but it had been postponed until Tuesday, and he therefore moved that this debate be adjourned till that day.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  would recommend the House to close with this proposition.
 MR. HUME  said, he was absent when the debate commenced, and he understood that allusion had been made by the right hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay) to some speech of his on the combination laws; but he only wished to state on this occasion why he supported this Bill: he supported it because he considered the duty of the Master of the Rolls was utterly incompatible with the duty of a Member of that House, and he had voted for the exclusion of the Judge of the Admiralty on the same grounds.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he thought that the Police Commissioners would form a most useful tribunal to be invested with any kind of judicial authority.
 MR. FITZROY  said, that the Amendment would render the Bill nugatory so far as it regarded the refusal or suspension of licences.
 MR. PIGOTT  moved the following Amendment. At the end of Clause 2, to add the words:—
 "Provided, however, that in case of the refusal or suspension of any such licence as aforesaid, it shall be lawful for the proprietor of any such Stage or Hackney Carriage, or other persons applying for such licence, or subjected to such suspension, to appeal from the decision of the Commissioners of Police to the Metropolitan Police Magistrate for the time being sitting at the Police Office at Bow Street."
 LORD HOTHAM : But the hon. Baronet never took any opportunity of expressing his dissent from the Report; and last came the learned Judge himself, Dr. Lushington, then one of the most distinguished Advocates in Doctors' Commons. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh had asked him if there was any degradation in canvassing those 5 l 1012 1013 1014
 LORD HOTHAM,  in reply, said, that if this Bill were liable to all the objections now urged against it, he knew not how to account for their having been withheld until this, the last, discussion that could take place upon it. Painfully conscious of his own inability in an adequate manner to en-
 1009 ipso facto, 1010 1011
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he begged to move that the Bill be read a third time this day six months. This Bill was a Reform Bill, and a Reform Bill brought forward from the Opposition side of the House, with every evil that every Reform Bill had hitherto had in it. Framed upon narrow exceptions, and from ephemeral purposes, without taking any grasp of the past in order to become a guide for the future—he would not say brought in with any personal interest or with a personal application, for he was desirous of placing the matter upon a foundation which should effectually exclude from consideration all its personal effects—it did not look to history as a guide for the future—it did not consider that the things which had occurred in any past times might, and assuredly would, occur in future times—and it wanted to deprive this House of many of those advantages which it had had in past times, upon a speculation of what might occur in the future. It was as true in politics as it was in grammar, that—
 "Multa renascentur quæ nunc cecidere, cadentque Quæ jam sunt in honore." 994 Quorum pars parva fui. 995 l l 996
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he quite agreed in thinking that the objections to which the Bill was liable ought to be removed, and that a fortnight ought to be given with that view.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he must explain that the provision referred to only regulated the form of procedure by which a Commission would issue under the Great Seal.
 MR. I. BUTT,  in reply, said, that after
 993
 MR. I. BUTT  moved the Second Reading of this Bill. In doing so, it was necessary for him to explain to the House the principles of the measure, and the reasons upon which it was founded. He might venture to remind the House, that at a very early period of the Session he had given notice of this Bill. Circumstances which he could not control had prevented his being able to bring the subject before the House, and he had been obliged to introduce the Bill without any statement of its objects. This imposed upon him now the necessity of asking the attention of the House while he briefly stated its provisions, although he felt the disadvantage under which he would be placed. Usually, the person having the carriage of a Bill, had, on the second reading, the opportunity of waiting to hear objections, and to reply to them. It was not easy to exaggerate the importance of the question he had undertaken to bring before the House in relation to the administration of the criminal law. He felt the responsibility which attached to any proposal to alter established practices, and no one could be more sensible
 965 l 966 sub silentio, 967 968 969 970 971 972 973 974 975 976 977
 MR. I. BUTT : I did state one instance that was mentioned to me by the hon. and learned Member for East Suffolk (Sir F. Kelly), where an actual execution took place, and the real murderer afterwards returned from India.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he opposed the Bill on the ground that it would put every party concerned in a criminal trial in a false position, and must inevitably lead to an accumulation of false testimony. The law had now made twelve men on their oaths the arbiters of the life or death of a prisoner. Now could it be supposed that if this Bill passed, any Judge to whom an appeal was made on the part of a prisoner to interpose between him and the final sentence of the law, would take upon himself the responsibility of refusing to do so? A new trial would, therefore, be granted in every case where it was asked for, and a door would thus be opened to the greatest possible evil—that of subsequently making good testimony which had been defective on the first trial.
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  said, he thought that the adoption of this Bill would render the administration of criminal justice a matter of impossibility, because in every case of felony, where a convicted criminal had the power, an appeal would be sure to be lodged, and the time of the public would be wasted in trying over and over again cases about which no rational doubt existed, and the greatest encouragement would be given to the lowest class of practitioners. If we once appointed persons to the high and awful situation of criminal Judges, we must be content to rely upon it that they would not be disposed to treat lightly the grave responsibility which weighed upon them. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Butt) said that they allowed an appeal in civil cases with regard to property of a trifling amount, and asked why then they should refuse an appeal in cases where a man's life or his honour was at stake? Now, that was very much of an  ad captandum
 MR. NAPIER  said, that after the most careful consideration he was perfectly convinced that it would be prejudicial to give an appeal for a second trial in criminal cases. The question turned upon the balance of convenience and inconvenience. Of course the whole proceedings, one way or the other, must be attended with some imperfections and some disadvantages. It was, therefore, not enough to show that certain advantages might follow any particular alteration of the law; but it must appear on which side the balance of justice and convenience preponderated. The power on the part of the Judge to reserve points of law for the consideration of the Superior Courts was to be retained by this Bill; and the question was, whether it should not be obligatory on the Judge to reserve whatever points were insisted upon by the counsel of the prisoner. He had for a great many years had a considerable practical acquaintance with the administration of criminal justice, and he never knew an instance in which, ultimately, any point that counsel thought to be favourable to his client was not reserved by the Judge. It had always been considered that a second trial would be attended with many circumstances unfavourable to the prisoner, owing to the chances there would be of a defectiveness of evidence, and also owing to the prejudice likely to arise from the certificate that was to be given by the Judge who had presided at the former trial as to his being satisfied or not with the evidence adduced on that trial. The admission of written testimony in case of a second trial would be a most dangerous innovation, as the value of evidence depended, in a great measure, on cross-examination, for which there would be no opportunity. But then it was suggested that a second trial might follow an acquittal; but his humble opinion was, that, when the public prosecutor had once brought a man to trial, and there was any miscarriage in the criminal proceedings, that man should never be put upon his trial again. Mansfield, Hale, Denman, the present Lord Chief Justice of England, the Chief Baron of the Exchequer, the late Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and all the Judges in Ireland to whom he had spoken on the subject, were unfavour-
 987 988
 MR. NAPIER  said, the Bill certainly gave the Lord Chancellor power to issue Commissions of review in criminal cases; Commissions which might, perhaps, be directed to young and inexperienced barristers, who might order an acquittal to be entered on the record without any verdict at all. They were to have five gentlemen nominated as Commissioners, and three of these could set aside the finding of twelve men on their oaths, without knowing the facts and the evidence of the case. He never would consent to such a step, which would, in fact, revolutionise the law. The hon. and learned Member had referred to the case of Kirwan, which was certainly a very remarkable one, and he had adverted to the change in the sentence, and to certain new evidence after trial which could not be made available. He might be permitted to say he never could forget the anxiety in which he passed day after day while that case was pending. If this Bill had been law, he admitted he might have been saved much of it—Kirwan might have had another trial, and what the result of it might have been he would not pretend to say; but this he would say, that every care had been taken in examining the evidence, and the utmost vigilance exercised by those who were intrusted with it. He had been very sorry to see the reports in the public press here, which were very inaccurate, and he could assure the House that the greatest care was taken in examining the evidence of every witness. With respect to the new evidence which had been referred too, that too had been examined with the greatest particularity. Why were not those persons sent before the grand jury? Because when they appeared before the Crown solicitors, and were examined in the office, they had no evidence to offer. After the trial these persons said they bad evidence to offer; but, if so, why had it not been given at first? When sentence had been passed, and doubts were suggested as to the evidence by which the prisoner was found guilty, the Judges communicated with the Lord Lieutenant, and, on their recommendation, Kirwan was sentenced to transportation for life. That charge was open to
 989
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he had not yet heard a single argument against the principle of the Bill. Judges, like all other men, were fond of irresponsible authority, and if their authority had been always regarded as decisive, men could now be hanged for stealing to the value of 13 d., d. De morte 990 hominis nulla cunclatio longa est. ex parte
 MR. MACAULAY : Sir, I cannot suffer the House to proceed to a division on this question without expressing the very strong feeling which I entertain upon the subject. I shall vote with all my heart and soul for the Amendment moved by my hon. Friend the Member for East Surrey. I never gave a vote in my life with a more entire confidence that I was right; and I must say that I think it hardly creditable to the House that a Bill against which so much can be said, and for which there is so little to be said, should have come to this stage without a division. On what ground is this Bill brought in? Is it brought forward on the ground, which is the only one on which, as I should conceive, a great statesman—a Conservative statesman—could ever propose any important reform—is it brought forward on the ground that the present state of the law has produced any practical evil whatever? That ground is utterly disclaimed by all those who support the Bill. No one of them has asserted that in any single case any inconvenience, during the experience of ages, has arisen from our permitting the Master of the Rolls to have a seat in this House. The office of the Master of the Rolls and the House of Commons commenced their existence, I think, in the same generation—certainly in the same century. During 600 years the Master of the Rolls has been eligible to a seat in this House. To go back no further than the time of the Hanoverian succession, we have had amongst the most distinguished Members of this House a succession of Masters of the Rolls—Sir Joseph Jekyll, Strange, Kenyon, Pepper Arden, Sir William Grant, Sir John Leach, Sir John Copley, Sir Charles Pepys, and Sir John Romilly. Is it pretended that in any one case any one of these eminent Judges ever, in any respect, discharged his judicial duties less efficiently because he was admitted to a seat in this
 997 998 999 1000 1001 1002 1003 1004 1005 Judicial Organisation 1006 l 1007 1008
 MR. PHINN  said, that after listening to what had fallen from the noble Lord, one would suppose that the public were entirely satisfied with the administration of the criminal law as it at present existed, and that an appeal to the Home Office was sufficient for all purposes. But there were men in high judicial office who took a very different view of the subject. Chief Baron Pollock, in his evidence before the Commission, referred to the fact that in 1827, in the course of five months, no less than
 984 985 986
 MR. ALDERMAN CUBITT  rose to propose an Amendment in Clause 6, line 32: after the word "elsewhere," to insert the words "within the Metropolitan Police District."
 MR. EWART  said, he seconded the Motion, because he approved the principles of the Bill. He also approved its being referred to a Select Committee, and would suggest that the Committee should be instructed to hear evidence on the application of the powers of the Bill to England. The whole subject was full of difficulty; but it was of the utmost importance that the principle of the measure should be recognised by that House.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that after the strong and conclusive arguments which had been urged against the principle of the Bill, he should not have thought it necessary to occupy the time of the House with any further observations with respect to it, had not reference been made to two cases which occurred when he was Secretary of State for the Home Department. He believed that this Bill would lead to delays in the administration of criminal justice, tending to impair its efficiency; while at the same time it would not provide a remedy in such cases as had been adduced as a ground for its proposition. And so far from tending to facilitate the
 991 992
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  seconded the Amendment.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : I did not concur in the recommendation.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  seconded the Amendment. He thought, that considering the amount of capital engaged in this trade, it would be unjust to allow these matters to be decided by a single individual, without the power of appeal.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he had no objection to the principle of this Bill so far as it went to affirm the perfect freedom of all parties to combine for purposes authorised by the existing law; but it was quite clear that that law should not be construed to authorise illegal combinations. His objection to the Bill as it stood, was this. It appeared to him that it would legalise that system of quiet and peaceful intimidation by which poor men, who were in great distress, and were willing to work at the smallest wages by which they could maintain themselves and their families, were sometimes prevented from so working, in order to be driven into combinations with other persons which they did not wish to join. There might be a man standing by the door of a factory, watching every man who went in and out, taking down his name, and giving him to understand that he was a marked man. The poor man who might be the subject of such observation knew he was thereby incurring certain consequences which he preferred to avoid by relinquishing the work on which he and his family altogether depended for subsistence. It appeared to him that such a system would be sanctioned under the words "peaceable intimidation, or inducing other persons to abstain from working." What he should therefore propose was, that this Bill should be now read a third time, and the consideration of any amendments, that could only be proposed after the third reading, be postponed for a fortnight, in order to allow time to consult with the law officers of the Crown with reference to framing a clause to meet the objection.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, if I felt that the principle of the Bill which the
 979 980
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. and learned Gentleman adduces an instance which is one of no unfrequent occurrence, namely, that of a man who was a soldier in India, and who, being tired of the climate, and home-sick, and desiring to get out of the service, probably accused himself of a crime which he had never committed, in order to be sent home from a distant and foreign station. The hon. and learned Gentleman may not be conversant with matters of military detail; but if he will appeal to his friends in the Army, he will find that it is by no means an uncommon thing for a soldier to accuse himself of a crime of which he was never guilty, for the purpose of being removed from the station where he happened to be. My opinion is that the present state of the law does afford to an innocent man every possible security which human institutions can afford for freedom from unjust punishment. In the first place, the error may arise as to the facts of the case, or as to the law. If it arises as to the law of the case, the Judge, if he has any doubt on the subject, has it in his power to reserve the point of law for the decision of the Judges at large. Therefore, as regards the law of the case, there exists already that very power of appeal which this Bill proposes to give. Then, as to the facts of the case, it is the greatest mistake to suppose that when persons have been convicted of criminal offences there is not ample opportunity for them to resort to that quarter with which pardon or commutation by the constitution of the country, rests, namely, the Crown, through its constitutional advisers. Anybody who fills the office which I have the honour to hold, very well knows that there is no case in which there is—I do not say any probable ground for supposing the verdict or sentence to be erroneous, but no case in which there is the slightest pretence for so representing it, in which application is not made for a revision or commutation of the sentence. In the case of such an application, what
 981 982 983
 MR. MASTERS SMITH  said, he begged to ask the noble Lord the Member for London, whether he had any intention of introducing, during the present Session of Parliament, any measure for the disfranchisement of the electors in Her Majesty's dockyards?
 The MARQUESS of GRANBY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that Sir Robert Peel had fixed a duty upon cheese and butter, which he meant to be repealed. He (the Marquess of Granby) would only express a hope that the right hon. Gentleman himself would follow out the same principle, and take off duties at the present only in order to impose them again at a future day. He had to remind the right hon. Gentleman that a great deal of land throughout the country had been converted from tillage into pasture in consequence of
 1070
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, he must appeal to the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer to reconsider his determination, and to allow lands and houses to be assessed to the tax upon their net, and not upon their gross, value.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not undertake to comply with the request of the hon. Member. The House had had fully in its view the whole of this question during the debates on the income tax. It had been well understood at the outset of those debates that the mode in which lands and houses were valued at the present moment, unquestionably imposed on the classes charged for income tax under Schedule A a tax higher than 7 d.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that he had an Amendment to move upon this clause, the object of which could be briefly explained. Under the existing law, seven Commissioners were elected both by the Commissioners of the land tax, and the magistrates in each division of a county, for the purpose of hearing appeals against the assessments to the income tax; and out of the whole seven Commissioners it was frequently difficult to get a sufficient number to attend for the purpose of transacting the business. Indeed, instances sometimes occurred, when only two Commissioners were present to decide appeals. To obviate this objection, therefore, he proposed that the magistrates of each division should be  ex officio 1038
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it had been already understood that the Bill should be recommitted for the purpose of giving hon. Gentlemen who had proposed to introduce certain clauses with respect to Ireland a full opportunity of discussing them. He should therefore be brief on the present occasion; but he thought it would not be expedient to adopt this Amendment for several reasons. In the first place, it would be a very great innovation, and he doubted whether it would be any improvement upon the existing law. The law with respect to the Commissioners had hitherto proceeded upon the principle that the functions to be discharged by the general Commissioners of income tax, being of a delicate and confidential nature in many cases, ought not to be entrusted to the Land Tax Commissioners generally, but to a select body chosen from among them. Now, the hon. Gentleman proposed to depart from that principle, but without effectually changing the law so as to give his proposition a general application, for he restricted its application to a particular manner, and with reference to a particular class. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), had received many representations complaining of the unsatisfactory operation of the law connected with the present machinery; but he had heard of no instance in which the working of the Act had been found fault with through the defective number of Commissioners who attended to transact the business. Again, he was not prepared to assent to the doctrine that any person who was fit to be a county magistrate, was necessarily fit also to be entrusted with the functions of Income Tax Commissioner, and he thought it better to leave the appointment of these Commissioners to the Land Tax Commissioners generally, as the constituent body from whom they should be chosen. Another reason why the Amendment was objectionable was, that very great jealousies existed already in certain trading districts with respect to the mode in which the appeals were determined; and he was sure that these local jealousies would only
 1039
 MR. FREWEN  said that he believed his Amendment would effect a very necessary and desirable alteration in the rural districts in particular; but he would not press it if the sense of the Committee was against it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he begged to call the attention of the Committee to an important alteration, or rather addition, which he now proposed to make upon the suggestion of an hon. Gentleman who had given notice of a proviso, and furnished him with a copy of it. The proviso of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Seymour Fitzgerald) was to the effect that, whenever any lessor or landlord of lands in Ireland, subject to duty under Schedule A of this Act, shall have paid the duty chargeable by this Act in respect of any rent not received by him at the time of such payment, and which has been subsequently lost by reason of the bankruptcy, insolvency, or absconding of the tenant by whom such rent was payable, then, and in that case, it shall be lawful for the said lessor or landlord to deduct from and set off against the duties payable by him, in the year next following, the full amount of the duties paid by him in respect of the rent so lost. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had prepared a clause based upon precisely the same principle, and designed to carry out the same object which the hon. Gentleman's Amendment had in view; although he thought it would be inconvenient to adopt the exact words of the hon. Gentleman, because the accounts of the tax collectors must be almost hopelessly complicated by the carrying forward of claims for abatement from half year to half year. His own proposition, therefore, was to the effect that if any landlord or lessor of any tenement or hereditament in Ireland, assesed under Schedule A, should have paid the amount of duty chargeable upon him, and it should afterwards be proved to the
 1040
 MR. I. BUTT  objected to the alterations proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, who proposed now to legislate for the owners of land in Ireland in a manner entirely different from the legislation adopted for the corresponding class in England. The right hon. Gentleman now proposed that it should be at the discretion of the Commissioners whether the tax should be assessed upon the landlord or the tenant. They might, and he was told by the Chancellor of the Exchequer they would, as a general rule, assess the landlord; therefore the Irish landowner must pay the income tax whether he received his rent or not; he must pay it in the greater number of instances before he received his income, in many instances upon income which he would never receive. In the case of the English landowner the tenant paid the tax in the first instance; he deducted it from his rent, so that the landlord only knew of the tax on a deduction from income actually received. In Ireland he must pay it in the first instance: this he would feel as an oppressive advance, and an advance on account of income that might never be paid; and they made this difference in favour of the landowner in England, where rents were punctually paid, and against the landowner in Ireland, where they were
 1041 l l l l s. d. 1042 l
 MR. FITZSTEPHBN FRENCH  said, he must claim precedence for an Amendment, omitting the words "in Ireland" from the clause altogether. The result of it, as it stood now, would he, to render it incumbent on the landlord to demand his rent as soon as it became due, instead of leaving "the hanging gale" over, as was the practice in Ireland. He doubted if it would be advantageous to the tenant, whom it was intended to assist; but his chief objection to it was that it was a departure from the principle of identity of legislation. That principle was only insisted on when it was necessary to tax Ireland. It was exceedingly disheartening, when he was addressing a few observations to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the right hon. Gentleman should select that time for conversation with the hon. Member, though he supposed there was indeed but little use arguing the question. He asked the right hon. Gentleman, if it was advantageous to tax the landlords in the first instance, why he did not extend the principle to this country? He believed the object of the Bill was to force the landlords to drive out the small occupiers. It was one which had been sedulously persevered in by the party in power, and a great portion of the exodus which had taken place was the result. But that was not sufficient for them in their anxiety to get rid of the Catholic and Celtic population of Ireland, which was announced in the leading journal of Europe. In the justice of England he had no confidence, unless it was identical with her interest, and they could only obtain that identity in Ireland by refusing to accept any legislation which was not identical with that by which the interests of England were preserved and governed.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he objected to the clause, and he wished to know whether it would not be just as easy to come on the
 1044 l l
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he thought the reason given by the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. French) for the Motion he had submitted, was the most extraordinary he had ever heard. The hon. Member entirely distrusted and had no confidence in the justice of England, and said the only thing he could place any confidence in was identity of taxation in Ireland with England; whereupon, to carry out this identity of taxation, he proposed to omit the words "in Ireland" from the clause.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, the hon. Member for Malton had not the plea of inexperience for misstating or misrepresenting what fell from any other hon. Gentleman. In proposing the omission of the words alluded to, his (Mr. French's) object was to render the clause applicable to the United Kingdom. He had no desire to exempt Ireland from the operation of the Bill, but he did wish to make the clause a general one.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. I. Butt) was one of which he could not approve. He did not sec the justice of asking the tenant, and particularly the Irish tenant, to pay for his landlord. From the census and agricultural returns of 1851, it appeared that the number of small occupiers in that year was nearly 500,000; whereas the number of occupying tenants who had holdings to the extent of 200 acres, who would come under the operation of this Bill, would not amount to more than 7,000 or 8,000. From the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer on previous occasions, he found that this Bill, and this clause in particular, was altered with the sole object of putting the tax upon the landlord, in the first instance, and he was of opinion that it would be better to leave the clause as it stood.
 MR. KIRK  said, he was very much obliged to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the alteration he had introduced into this clause, by which the injustice originally contemplated was remedied. He should decidedly oppose the Motion of the
 1045
 MR. LUCAS  said, he also felt obliged to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the main, for the clause be had introduced; but he wished to ask one question with reference to its operation, which he did not perfectly understand. The object of the clause, so far as he could understand it, was to exempt the occupier, in all cases in which it was not necessary for the purposes of raising the tax, from paying the landlord's share. It was, however, left to the discretion of the Commissioners as to what cases should not be exempted; and he wished to know upon what grounds the Commissioners were to regulate these exemptions?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman had stated very fairly and properly the object of the clause, subject to the single reservation of the case of occupiers of messuages of a certain value. The case of occupiers of messuages was materially different from that of occupiers of land. In regard to messuages, a different standard was fixed by the poor-law rating in towns as to the point at which the occupier became exempt, and the landlord became liable to assessment, and he bad reserved under this Bill those cases which might require some consideration from peculiar circumstances, in particular localities, in regard to the point, at which the tax ought to be taken from the occupier. There was certainly a class of tenants in messuages in whose cases the tax ought to be taken from the occupiers; but in regard to lands he did not think it would be safe to take the tax from the occupier, and the occupier only, because the Government might often have great difficulty in getting at the other party. But the case did not he between the occupier on the one side, and the head landlord on the other. The person whom the Bill proposed to substitute for the occupier was not the head landlord, but the immediate lessor; and as the immediate lessor was a person whom they might often have great difficulty in reaching, this reservation was made to which the hon. Gentleman had called attention.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished for some further explanation with regard to towns, and would like to know when the right hon. Gentleman would be prepared to say what class of occupiers were to be exempt?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that, from the nature of the circumstances, it was impossible to arrive at any definite test generally applicable. Whether the landlord or the tenant would be assessed, must be left in many cases to the Commissioners to decide, though he believed the most practicable mode would be to assess the occupier.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he would beg to impress upon the right hon. Gentleman the fact that there was scarcely an occupier rated to the poor, from 8 l l l
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, that rents in Ireland were paid in many parts of the country but once a year, and, therefore, in many instances, they would be making the landlords pay upon incomes which they had not received.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that the new clause proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer would leave it in all cases to the discretion of the taxing officers whether they would assess the tenant or the landlord. Now, according to the English law, the tenant must be assessed if his rent were over 10 l l
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would resist the Amendment, for there was high authority to show that the landlord ought to pay all the taxes to which the land was liable.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he believed the Amendment he now begged to propose would alleviate a great hardship in the mode of assessment proposed by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, without diminishing the amount received under the tax, or without altering the persons upon whom the burden was to be imposed. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had on a former evening stated that the tax was to be paid irrespective of the receipt of rent,
 1047 1048
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had handled the concession which he proposed to make in a different way from his hon. Friends on the lower benches. He must say that the concession was not made to the necessity of the case, but was owing rather to the indulgence with which he desired to deal with the case, and with some recollection in his mind of the disposition which existed amongst the great bulk of the Members of that House to meet the demands that were advanced by Irish Members. With respect to the Amendment which he proposed to make in regard to bankrupt and absconding tenants in Ireland, he did not hesitate to express his apprehensions that Gentlemen connected with land in England would complain of his making such concessions in favour of the Irish landlords, and would ask to be placed on the same footing. [An Hon. MEMBER: Give us the same law as you have in England.] All he could say was, that a great number of Irish Members had made representations to the Government that valuation should be the basis of those proceedings. [An Hon. MEMBER of the Opposition: Not on this side.] The hon. Gentleman should know the rules of the House better than to make those interruptions. And a provision was introduced in the Bill to enable those persons who found they were aggrieved by the valuation, to show that the annual value was less than the valuation. That was a provision to which there was nothing analogous in England. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cairns) said the concession with respect to bankrupt and absconding tenants was illusory. He did not think it would
 1049 1050
 MR. CAIRNS : He pays one half of it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Is it not paid in the first instance by the tenant?
 MR. CAIRNS : It is taken from the tenant in the first instance, but he only deducts one-half from the landlord.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The tenant paid it in the first instance, and the landlord did not receive it. He was to be charged on what he actually received; but the hon. Gentleman proposed that the landlord should deduct the amount of the poor-rate which he had never received. Suppose the landlord had 1,100 l l l l
 SIR ARTHUR BROOKE  thought it was hopeless to expect any justice from that House, so far as Irish proprietors were
 1051
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he should support the measure as an independent Member of the House, and he thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the alteration he had made; and if he had no other reason for thanking him, he would do so on the ground that the measure was objected to by the hon. Gentleman opposite. As the clause stood at present, landlords would have to pay the income tax whether they received their rents or not, and he thought the proviso would have the effect of inducing landlords to reduce their rents, which would, in that event, be more punctually paid. He might remark, that landlords would be called upon to pay the income tax in March, or April, while they would not, in many cases, receive the rents upon which the tax was paid until the months of November or December following, and he thought, therefore, it might be arranged that the Commissioners should not apply for the tax until the period of the year when the rents were paid.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, that, though opposed to the clause as it stood, he was inclined to make every possible allowance for any misappreciation of the state of Irish property which his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been guilty of. He confessed, however, the right hon. Gentleman did not seem to show himself so practically acquainted with the management of Irish estates as it was to be wished; for when he attempted to draw an analogy betwen the circumstances of English and Irish property, he fell into an error, which very much depreciated the estimate to be formed of his plan. He regarded the proposal of the hon. Member
 1052 Laughter.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he believed that in dealing with Ireland their purpose ought to be to look rather to the collateral, than to the direct, effect of any particular measure. He could not help feeling that it was rather an Irish practice to charge income tax upon incomes never received. Nor was it, he must say, a case of self-assessment at all—the proposition of his hon. Friend (Mr. Cairns), was in noways open to any such objection.
 MR. FORTESCUE  said, that having supported the proposition that was favourable to the tenant, and having now to deal with a question which had reference solely to the interest of the landlord, he should from a sense of justice and equity of the case give his vote for the proposal of the hon. Member for Belfast.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, that in Ireland three-fourths of the rents did not exceed 12 l l 1053
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, that when he voted for an income tax, he voted for a tax that was to be imposed on every man's income, which he conceived to be the average amount of receipts; but to tax it upon the hypothesis of what that property might be would be a grievous injustice.
 LORD NAAS  said, that the English landlord merely paid the income tax on his actual receipts; and the object of this Amendment was to enable the Irish landlord to pay only as much in respect of his income as the English landlord paid in regard to his, and no more. Independent of the inconvenience of the tax, he believed that the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have a very severe and harsh effect on the Irish landlords. He thought the Members of that House who set themselves up to be the true friends of the Irish tenantry were perhaps inflicting as great a hardship upon that class as was ever inflicted upon them by the original Irish Poor Law Act, which had led to such disastrous consequences.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, his hon. Friend behind him (Mr. H. Herbert) had intimated that his (Viscount Palmerston's) right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was not deeply acquainted with the management of land in Ireland; but the noble Lord who had just addressed the House had shown himself very imperfectly acquainted with the details of land in England. The noble Lord had stated that ID England landlords paid income tax only on the rent they received. The fact was, that in England each tenant paid the landlord's income tax upon the rent which the tenant was bound to pay, deducting-
 1054
 MR. CAIRNS  said, in reply, he would take the case of a landlord in Ireland, with five tenants, who bad to pay him 100 l Cries of
 MR. J. BALL  said, he thought the hon. Member had forgotten that, by the Bill as it now stood, the Irish landlord had the alternative of being assessed on the net annual value as fixed by the public valuation, or on his actual rent; and the knew that the valuation was generally below the rent. [ Cries of
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the Bill was unjust throughout; it began by taxing Ireland in a higher proportion than this country was taxed; and this injustice was carried out. It was well known that in some cases landlords never got any rent at all; and they would be in a worse position after this Bill passed, as it would make the country poorer. He should support the Amendment, believing it would tend to mitigate the injustice of the measure.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he must remind the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer that there was no such person as surveyor of taxes in Ireland, and he therefore could not understand why such an officer should be mentioned in the clause. He also wished to call attention to the variation of the wording of the clause with that of Clause 18. As some difficulties were likely to arise from these circumstances if the measure was passed in its present shape, he would reserve to himself the right, upon the bringing up of the Report, of framing a clause that would obviate those difficulties.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, when officers were appointed for collecting the tax in Ireland, the officers of excise might be made available in some cases; but these were matters of detail which must necessarily be deferred.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he still thought there would be extreme difficulty in carrying out the clause. The 18th clause provided that the assessment under Schedule D should be made by the officers of inland revenue; but that provision did not extend to Schedule A. He therefore thought an additional clause would be necessary either on bringing up the Report, or on the third reading.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the power proposed to be given under this clause. The Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed that the collector shall be authorised to put in force against the landlord or lessor the most stringent remedy for the recovery of the tax. Now, one of the extraordinary powers given for the recovery of poor-rates in Ireland had been the sale of the fee of the land. He asked the right hon. Gentleman whether it was his intention to give the same power under this Bill for the recovery of this tax? He thought that such a power would be most unconstitutional.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, that, under the poor-law, power was given to sell the land of a proprietor for a debt contracted by a tenant who had fled to America, or any other place. He wished to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman proposed to give a similar power under this Bill—namely, to sell the property of the landlord for income tax upon an amount of
 1056
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The sole object of the clause is to provide an easy remedy. [ A loud laugh from Col. Dunne. and
 The CHAIRMAN : I think the right hon. Gentleman will see that this is an expression which he ought not to use.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Oh, I will withdraw it readily; but I must insist on being protected against such a course of proceeding.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that his laugh was not directed against the right hon. Gentleman, but was in consequence of an observation made to him by an hon. Member near him.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I beg the hon. and gallant Member's pardon. It will be for the Committee to consider the best course of proceeding. It may be that the remedies provided by the poor-law are the best; but that is a practical question, and one for the Committee to consider.
 LORD NAAS  said, it was most difficult to ascertain what those powers really were which the Bill proposed to give; for it referred to one particular Act, and when they turned to that Act they were again referred to another Act for an elucidation of its meaning. He would suggest that the power of recovering arrears should be the same as was given in the first poor-law passed for Ireland.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, that in England the corpus of the estate could not be sold for arrears of poor-rate; in Ireland it was different, for, by a process of law, the estate itself might be reached. He did not think the Amendment of the noble Lord would give a sufficient remedy, as the original poor-law was very defective in this respect. Under the first poor-law the greatest losses were sustained in seeking to recover the poor-rate from the immediate lessor. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had no intention to give power for the sale of the estate itself, in order to recover this tax, but
 1057
 MR. NAPIER  said, he thought the better way would be for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to hold this clause over for further consideration. He would suggest an alteration in the early part of the clause, where the occupier who was charged with the tax was liable to a distress for the recovery of the amount; for, supposing that this party had nothing to be distrained, there appeared to be no alternative proposed as against him. He was of opinion that the whole of the clause ought to be well considered.
 SIR ROBERT FERGUSON  said, that the powers given under the Land Improvement Act for the levying of instalments had been found to work most efficiently. The sums levied had been paid very regularly, and he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would consider whether similar powers might not be put in force with advantage under this Act.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, as he understood the right hon. Gentleman, the powers to be granted to Ireland were to exceed those which were in operation in England.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he concurred with the hon. Member for Londonderry (Sir R. Ferguson) in the opinion that the powers given under the Land Improvement Act had operated efficiently in Ireland; and if that were the case, it might perhaps be a saving of expense to adopt them in the present instance.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he thought that however efficient the machinery under the Land Improvement Act had worked, it would be preferable to extend to Ireland the system which had been found to work so well in this country.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had now to bring up several new clauses. The first was one to which he had referred early in the evening, and which was in substitution of the one proposed by the hon. Member for Horsham (Mr. Seymour Fitzgerald). It entitled landlords in Ireland to claim repayment of the tax paid on rent lost by the bankruptcy, insolvency, or absconding of tenants; and he had added the words "by the land being left waste."
 MR. SPOONER  said, he did not mean to oppose the clause, but merely to say that its principle was the same as the pro-
 1058
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was refreshing to him to be found fault with for having dealt more kindly with English than with Irish landlords, for hitherto he had heard of nothing but the immunities enjoyed by English over Irish landlords. This was, no doubt, an advantage the Irish landlords possessed over the English, who only enjoyed the right as regarded houses. There was, however, some inconvenience in levying the tax in the same form in Ireland as in England; and considering that the Irish landlords were made primarily liable to the tax, he thought, on the whole, that there was a balance of advantage.
 MR. G. M. BUTT  said, he would suggest that there should be some definition of the word "insolvency," so as to make it include cases of assignments to creditors and deeds of composition.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was assured by the legal adviser of the Board of Revenue that the word would bear that legal sense; but he would look into the matter again before the third reading.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The next clause had been suggested by some observations made during the discussion on the Bill. It amended the position of parties with regard to the assessments in Schedule A. If on an appeal there was any dispute about the annual value of the land, the Commissioners now had power to order a valuation; and this clause was for the purpose of extending that advantage to the parties appealing, who would be enabled to require a valuation to be made; which power they did not hitherto have.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The next clause had been suggested by the noble Lord the Member for Northumberland (Lord Lovaine), and referred to the description of relief given two years ago under the 3rd section of 13 & 14  Vict., 1059
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The next clause had been prepared in consequence of a suggestion of the hon. Member for Meath (Mr. Lucas), and enabled clergymen and ministers of every denomination to deduct from their assessable income charges incurred in the exercise of their professional duty. It did not exempt them as clergymen, but only put them on a footing of equality with other professions. For instance, a medical man, if he used an equipage, was entitled, as a matter of course, to deduct the expense of it from his assessable income; and, in the same manner, a clergyman who used a horse wholly and exclusively in the discharge of his professional duties, would be entitled to deduct the expense attending it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : There was one other clause, one which had been suggested by the hon. Member for Newcastle-upon-Tyne (Mr. Blackett), and it was intended to enlarge the power of deduction with regard to bad and doubtful debts. At present, the Commissioners had no power to make allowance for bad debts, except those which were proved to be such; and although it seemed to be, in some degree, doubtful whether they had the power of allowing for debts proved to be partially bad, yet, on the whole, he believed that a more rigid interpretation had prevailed than was altogether consistent with fairness. The effect of this new clause would be to allow the Commissioners, in cases of composition, to put down as good whatever the composition amounted to; in cases of bankruptcy to allow them to put down the whole as bad, and to charge the party afterwards upon the dividends when received; and in cases of doubtful debts to allow them to make a reasonable estimate of their value.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be impossible to introduce the clause proposed into the Bill. The question to be considered was, whether
 1060
 MR. I. BUTT  then brought up a new clause. He said, by the present law, if there were any defalcation it must be made good by a reassessment of the district. That provision was just, inasmuch as the collector was in the hands of the local authorities; but in Ireland the fact was the reverse, and to apply the same enactment would be manifestly unjust. The object of the clause, therefore, was to prevent its application to the sister country.
 MR. I. BUTT  then proposed a second new clause, the object of which was to allow the Irish landlords to deduct the amount they paid for poor-rates from the income to be assessed. There was this difference in the cases of the two countries: in England the rates were paid entirely by the tenant, but in Ireland the landlord was compelled by law to pay at least one-half of the rate. Thus, if a man had a farm in England worth 100 l l l l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would beg the hon. and learned Gentleman to postpone the clause till the third reading. In its present shape he could not accept it, because from the valuation, which was the basis of the assessment, the poor-rate had already been deducted. There might, however, be cases
 1061
 MR. I. BUTT  then moved a third clause, the necessity for which he admitted had been in great measure removed by alterations already made. Its object was to provide, that wherever the Special Commissioners adopted the option of assessing the tenant, the latter should only be assessed to the amount which he would himself be entitled to deduct from his landlord.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he objected to the proposed enactment. It would afford only an insignificant amount of relief, at the expense of a great deal of inconvenience and expense.
 MR. BUTT  would not divide the Committee.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he must complain of the large amount of revenue that was frittered away by the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In the present case he was not aware that any one had complained that the duty was excessive, nor would its repeal save anything in the cost of collection, nor would it even stimulate the manufacture in this country. He should propose, therefore, that the duty on these articles be retained.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he had asked the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer how much he expected to save in the cost of collecting the revenue in consequence of the repeal of those duties? and the right hon. Gentleman had stated in reply, that the removal of Customs duties had not hitherto led to any perceptible reduction in the cost of collecting the Customs revenue, but that it had prevented that increase in the cost of collection which would otherwise have taken place in the midst of our constantly increasing commercial transactions. But he (Lord J. Manners) would remind the right hon. Gentleman, that while the cost of collecting the Customs revenue bad increased during the last ton years, the cost of collecting the Excise revenue had considerably diminished during the same period. The right hon. Gentleman would not surely contend that the difference in these results was to be attributed to the fact that there had been no increase during the last ten years in the consumption of articles subject to the Excise duties. The fair inference to draw from their experience in that matter was, that where Excise duties were repealed, a large portion of the expense of collecting those duties was removed, while no corresponding reduction took place in the case of the repeal of Customs duties. He found that the cost of collecting the Excise duties in 1842 had amounted to 823,682 l l l l l l l l 1065
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he felt bound to offer his decided opposition to the proposal. It appeared to him that the right hon. Gentleman was about wantonly to throw away 2,000 l l Cries of
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that after the eloquent appeal that had been made in favour of art and educating the minds of the people by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Committee might be surprised to know that the great inducement which the right hon. Gentleman held out to the artisans of England to study the works of the great masters of painting in foreign countries was to remit the amount of 1 s. d. s. d. l l s. d. 1068
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The notice which I gave of introducing a Bill for disfranchising persons employed in the dockyards was in consequence of the Report of the Chatham Election Committee, for it seemed unreasonable to withhold the writ from Chatham without either bringing in a measure for disfranchising the dockyards, or else some Bill for preventing the exercise of undue influence upon persons employed in those places. But after I gave notice, it appeared that the measure would be one that would meet with considerable opposition, or that, at all events, would occasion a great deal of discussion, and that being the case, I do not think it would be desirable to interrupt business of great importance by a measure of this description. When the general question of the reform of the representation of the people comes before Parliament, it may be considered whether it would be possible to bring in some measure for the protection of dockyard voters, or whether they ought to be disfranchised. I do not, however, intend during the present Session, to introduce any measure upon that subject, and therefore I shall not offer any opposition to the issue of a new writ for the borough of Chatham.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that the remission which was proposed to be made in the case of glass and other articles would bear with equal severity upon the manufacturers; and that, therefore, those who were connected with land had no right to complain of being unfairly dealt with by the remission intended to be made with reference to cheese and butter.
 MR. COLVILE  said, that he thought a heavier duty than 2 s. d. s.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that hon. Members might fancy they were teaching
 1067 ignis fatuus
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he thought the Committee would agree with him that articles of luxury offered a fair subject for taxation. But the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was surrendering upon articles of that description a sum of upwards of 10,000 l 1064
 MR. CAYLEY  said, he would remind the hon. Gentleman that the best ropes and cables were not made by hand labour, but by machinery.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he should support the Motion. There must be some limit to their sittings, and, considering the time which hon. Gentlemen had been already occupied during that day in the business of the House, and the probability there was of a long and heavy debate on the following evening upon the Indian question, he thought it only reasonable that the Chairman should then report progress.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he would propose an Amendment establishing a uniform duty of 6 d.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he should feel bound to take the sense of the Committee against Ministers on this subject. He should move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. GEORGE  said, that in the district which he had the honour to represent, a great many farmers had turned their attention to the manufacture of butter, and the improvement of the breed of cattle. Without offering any opposition to the principle of free trade, he thought the present moment ought not to have been seized for making such a reduction as that now proposed, and trusted the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give Ireland a little more breathing time
 MR. TOLLEMACHE  said, he must object to the reductions on butter and cheese, as inflicting additional injustice on the agricultural interest, which had suffered so much from the removal of protection Oh cattle and dairy produce. With regard to cheese, he anticipated that the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman would occasion a certain loss to the revenue, without benefitting any class. He should, therefore,
 1069
 MR. TOLLEMACHE  said, he should divide the Committee on the question that butter be altogether omitted, and that the duty remain as at present.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he must declare the principle of free trade to be entirely wrong, and he believed it would result in ultimately raising the price of articles.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he must inquire why the Chancellor of the Exchequer thought it necessary to alter this duty? At the time when free-trade principles were first promulgated by Sir Robert Peel, that right hon. Gentleman fixed the duty on butter and cheese. What circumstances, then, made it necessary to alter it?
 MR. MITCHELL  said, the proposed reductions upon cordage, which Russia supplied, was equivalent to twenty per cent. The manufacture of cordage was carried on chiefly by manual labour. The right hon. Gentleman proposed to sweep away the whole of the duty of twenty per cent upon the manufactured article. As a free trader he was not prepared to oppose this reduction, but he thought it a precipitate step. Russia supplied both the raw material and the manufactured article, and there was every facility for importing it into this country. In the execution of her own policy, Russia levied a duty upon the export of the raw material, but not on the manufactured article. The difference between the cost of the raw material and the manufactured article was 12 s. 1063
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether the duty on raisins not of British possessions would be reduced to 10 s.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that when the Resolutions were first published, he was under the impression, according to the best intelligence he then possessed, that raisins would be of great use to the community in mitigating the serious inconvenience occasioned by the extreme scarcity of currants. It was on that account that the reduction of the duty upon raisins was inserted in the Resolutions. After that period, the hon. Gentleman gave notice of a Motion to reduce the duty upon currants also. To this proposal he could not accede. A popular proposal it might have been upon many grounds, and he should be glad if it could be adopted, on account of our relations with the Ionian islands, had it been certain that the: consumer would get the benefit, or that the revenue would recover itself. But the accounts of the prospect of supplies, and the anticipations of the future supplies, were such as put an end to the question. In point of fact, there was a currant famine. They were at double their ordinary price, and we had arrived at a state
 1062
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the principle on which he acted was a very simple one. It was to simplify the tariff by the reduction of duties wherever they could effect it at a moderate cost to the revenue. With regard to duty-free goods, there was but one material office the Customs had to perform, that was to ascertain that the articles were really what they professed to be, and for that purpose searching was necessary. That was all that was necessary with regard to duty-free goods; with other articles, however, it was not so. However low the duty, there was the whole warehousing system involved. If the duty were only one penny, it was worth the importer's while to pay something for the postponement of the duty. Then it was necessary to charge the duty, to levy the duty, to account for it, to audit the accounts, and so on. By removing articles of this nature entirely from the tariff, great inconvenience and expense were obviated. He believed it would be found that no less a sum than 400,000 l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I confess, Sir, that I have heard the speech of my noble Friend with the greatest regret and surprise. I really had hoped that there was no man in this House—and if there was any man I should have thought that he would have been the last man—who would have exhorted us in tones so solemn to beware how we exempt pictures while we continue to tax beer. Why, Sir, we live in a utilitarian age, and utilitarianism is supposed to be the danger of this period—and perhaps it is the danger of this period; and here we come down to a popular assembly, to do something if we can to meet that spirit of utilitarianism. We are laying out large sums of money upon the education of the people—we are endeavouring to train their taste, to educate their eye, to make them—[ De- 1066 risive laughter. l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would venture to say, from a recollection of the transactions to which the hon. Gentleman referred, that when Sir Robert Peel fixed the duty on those articles, he fixed it with the hope that after a moderate period it would be unfixed. He thought it was quite obvious that, on the principles which that House had adopted, articles of food ought to be progressively relieved from duty.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the answer to the hon. Baronet's question was, that it would be a very good thing if they could have all these fruits admitted free, but they were under certain necessities as to raising a revenue, and had gone as far as they could with safety in reducing duties. 2 d. d.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would suggest that those parts of the Resolution to which there was no objection should be then taken, and that others, which were opposed, should stand over.
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  said, he considered the reduction of these duties of the utmost importance, and as being calculated to do considerable injury to Ireland.
 SIR ARTHUR BROOKE  said, he should not be doing his duty unless he urged upon the Government the necessity of con-
 1071
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he was of opinion that these reductions, as affecting the revenue to the extent of upwards of 80,000 l
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  hoped his hon. Friend would not persist in the Motion, though he thought the arrangement of duties proposed by Government very unsatisfactory.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he must ask why the rates of duty were not uniform? The right hon. Gentleman's object was, of course, to prevent any protective effect. Thus there was a lower duty on apples, which we did produce, than upon oranges, which we did not produce. Why should cherries pay 2 d. d., d. s. d.
 MR. HUME  said, it was most important that they should know the truth, in order that they might remove the abuses existing in connexion with the Company. Many of the statements of his hon. Friend (Mr. Bright) were unanswerable. There were others which did not apply at all to the Company. He was, therefore, very anxious, not simply to adjourn the debate, but to give the fullest opportunity for discussion. He considered the question of the utmost importance.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, this was a preliminary discussion, which could not so well be taken at any other stage.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Home Secretary, whether it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill during this Session of Parliament for the better regulation of the laws relating to the profession of physic and surgery; whether it
 1092
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it would depend on that whether the introduction of the Bill was postponed or not.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he proposed to take the third reading of the Income Tax Bill on Monday, and he would put this adjourned debate next after it, in the hope that the House would then allow it to be brought in. Of course, it was important that the House should have a knowledge of the details from the Bill itself. He should, therefore, be sorry for there to be a lengthened debate before the House was acquainted with the details of the measure. In the hope that the adjourned debate would not be of great extent, he would put it for Monday next.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not understand the right hon. Gentleman to say that he meant to oppose the introduction of the Bill. If they were to have a debate of a week or ten days on the introduction of the Bill, the House would be kept all that time from a knowledge of its details.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he only hoped that the debate would not be a very long one.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he referred to the interval between the first and second readings.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he hoped that the noble Lord would allow the House time to consider the Bill before they were called upon to approve its principle.
 MR. DISRAELI : Can they be nominated, out of the thirty Directors that now exist?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : It will be no disqualification of any person that he is in the Court of Directors, if he have the other qualifications that we require; but merely being a Director, is to be no qualification, unless he has served the ten years in India, which we deem the necessary qualification. We believe that this change will effect a great improvement in the Court of Directors. It will be, of course, to the interest of the Crown to name the best Indian servants that can be found; and we shall thus introduce at least six most competent persons of large Indian knowledge and experience. In proposing, however, this form of government, which, in present circumstances, we believe to be the best that can be devised for India, we do not think it fair to tie up the hands of Parliament so as to prevent its making any change that may, in the course even of a short experience, appear desirable. The times change; and in those days no man can say how soon the necessity for
 1156 l l l l 1157 very 1158 1159 1160 1161 1162 1163 1164 1165 "After this apprenticeship of several years, the assistant to a collector and magistrate is regarded as a candidate for promotion. He is then subjected to a further examination, with the view of testing his knowledge of the languages and the laws of the country, and his promotion is made dependent on the success with which he passes the test. Of twenty civilians who came up in 1852, seven only were passed. A successful candidate is then deemed qualified for the office of collector or magistrate." 1166 1167 1168 1169
 SIR CHARLES WOOD * 1093 1094 1095 1096 1097 1098 "For the arrangement of the general government of India, both abroad and at home, I think the Committee has received as much information
 1099 1100 1101 1102 1103 1104 1105 1106 1107 "It is the simple fact that scarcely a single case that goes to a Court in India goes there without bribery and without perjury on all sides. I mean literally what those words denote." "Oral evidence in a case is, generally speaking, plainly and palpably false. To express in the strongest way my own views, I may state that I was a pleader in the Sudder Dewanny Adawlut for twelve years. For a good many of those years I had a very large business, but I scarcely recollect an instance where I thought it worth while to comment upon the evidence at all." "Informing a native of a point which it is necessary for him to prove in order to substantiate his case, is almost tantamount to bidding him go into the bazaar, where witnesses to any fact may be procured at an anna (1½ d. "Such is the unfortunate prevalence of the crime of perjury, that the hope of impunity is not extinguished by the apprehension of the delinquent. I observe that Sir W. Jones, who carried with him to this country (India) a prejudice in favour of the natives, after long judicial experience reluctantly confesses their general depravity. The prevalence of perjury, which he strongly states, and which I have myself already observed, is perhaps a more certain sign of the general dissolution of moral principle than other more daring crimes. It is that crime which tends to secure the impunity of all other crimes; and it is the only crime which weakens the foundation of every right, by rendering the administration of justice, on which they all depend, difficult, and in many cases impossible." 1108 "As far as regards the integrity of the judges, the confidence of the natives is complete; they have little or no notion of the possibility of corrupting an English judge. I know from constant intercourse with the natives, from the very commencement of my service in India, down to a very recent period, that they look upon the incorrupti-
 1109 "The general impression throughout the native community, with two or three exceptions, is that the English judges are absolutely incorruptible." "The native has a general feeling against the honesty of all judges. I think that general feeling has given way entirely; and I think, as a general rule, the native believes that an English judge is usually honest." "There is no question about the integrity and the morality of the civil service. There are many civil servants who are quite competent and thoroughly understand the duties of their office; those oven who do not possess a knowledge of the law, are willing to discharge the duties of their office with impartiality." 1110 "The (native) Courts themselves, within my observation and knowledge, have manifestly improved in regard to integrity and trustworthiness." 1111 "Lord Dalhousie appointed a Hindoo of high caste, high family and character, stipendiary magistrate of Calcutta, much to the annoyance of the English applicants for the situation; but the natives especially exhibited their jealousy and dissatisfaction in so many ways, that the person appointed complained to his friends of the bitterness of his position, and the pain and misery which had been brought upon him by the constant attacks, public and private, and the annoying petty jealousy which he had experienced from his countrymen in consequence of his elevation.'" 1112 l l l l 1113 nil., d, l 1114 Scindian "There are no macadamised roads, and no materials wherewith to construct them, yet nowhere throughout the Presidency is communication so well kept up, not only on the great lines of traffic, but between village and village, and nowhere is the number of carts greater in proportion to the population." "There is a passable and often an excellent cart road in many districts from every village to its neighbour. The main Bombay and Agra road is in excellent order; the traffic and travelling on the cart roads is constant during the fine season; the province abounds with fine cattle, and carts for burden and for locomotion are in general use." 1115 1116 "A liver exceeding two miles in actual width, besides the islands, which at that point divide it into four branches, and running over a bed of pure sand of unknown depth, was to be arrested in its course by a dam, 12 feet high, thrown across it, and a large part of its waters was to be distributed over an extent of 3,000 square miles by means of a network of channels; and all this was to be done in a country where such works had never been heard of before on a scale of magnitude, or at least only by tradition, and to be effected by
 1117 1118 1119 "Yet this truly benevolent purpose, fashioned with great care and deliberation, has, to our painful knowledge, subjected almost the whole of the lower classes throughout these provinces to most grievous oppression; an oppression, too, so guaranteed by our pledge, that we are unable to relieve the sufferers; a right of ownership in the soil, absolutely gratuitous, having been vested in the person through whom the payment to the State was to be made, with unlimited power to wring from his coparceners an exorbitant rent for the use of any part of the land." 1120 1121 1122 "Within the last two years many of the ryots of Coimbatore seem to have become so well convinced of the much greater advantages of cultivating the exotic than their indigenous cotton plant, that (unless I am greatly misinformed) they planted last season from 1,500 to 2,000 acres of ground with it, and seem as if they intended to treble the quantity in this year." "On the coast, within the last three years, Messrs. David and Arthur Lees, Messrs, T. and L. Shaw, both from Manchester, and Mr. Kenrick, of Madras, have embarked in the undertaking. The aggregate extent of land under cultivation by these persons amounts, I think, to
 1123 "If they are in earnest, nothing that I can see impedes their acting independently of Government; and, if they would but form themselves into an association, subscribe a sufficient capital among its members, and judiciously lay it out in farming or purchasing from the Company's Government or its allies—the Nizam and other—districts capable of being improved by such outlay, they would not only render England independent of America in respect to their cotton supplies (which appears to be their grand object), and obtain an accession to their imports of other East Indian produce, but they themselves would reap a large profit independently of the consideration of improving the moral and political condition of the people of the place. On the other hand, it can hardly be expected that the natives of India, if left to themselves, would bestir themselves in any such national undertakings, then ideas and prejudices being generally against any innovation."
 1124 1125 l "Although the Government monopoly must, in all probability, like all other monopolies, be disadvantageous, yet it does not appear to be productive of very extensive or aggravated injury; and, unless it should be found practicable to substitute an increased assessment on poppy lands, it does not appear that the present high amount of revenue could be obtained in a less objectionable manner." d. d. 1126 l l 1127 History of Hindostan, 1128 "At this time (the beginning of the 18th century) all prisoners of war were murdered—all suspected persons were put to the torture; the punishments were impaling, scourging, &c. The people in certain provinces were hunted with dogs like wild beasts, and shot for sport. The property of such as possessed anything was confiscated, and themselves strangled. No one was allowed to invite another to his house without a written permission from the vizier or rajah of the place where he lived, and the people were constantly exposed to the most dreadful plunderings and outrages. Such [continues Count Bjornstjerna] was the situation of Hindostan during the latter part of the dominion of the Great Moguls. It became still worse when Nadir Shah, like a torrent of fire, overwhelmed the country, and was perhaps most unhappy when, after the departure of Nadir, India was left in the power of the Mahrattas, whose only object was plunder and devastation. Hindostan then presented a picture of such unheard of oppression that one shudders at the description. Thousands of examples may be found in the history of these times, of the whole population of conquered towns being massacred by the conquerors: Delhi, which then had more than 1,000,000 of inhabitants, became quite desolate after Nadir Shah's massacre, which continued seven days without intermission. Shah Abdala, Nadir's successor on the Persian throne, also loft it to the pillage of his outrageous soldiery (1761), and it fell a third time a sacrifice (1767), to the power of the Mabrattas, who massacred all who could not save themselves by flight." "Let us give a specimen of what the English really do for this country. In former times, under our vaunted ancient kings, there were many places in this very city (Delhi) where a poor man could not venture after sunset without the chance of having his turban stolen off his head; and now a weak old man may pass in safety over that same, ground with a bag containing 1,000 rupees in his hand. The roads through the wilderness were so' unsafe in former days, that no one dared to travel without an armed guard, and robberies in the jungle were of constant occurrence. Now the loneliest traveller knows no fear. We often hear the praises of this king, or that wuzeer, who perhaps built a paltry serai, or laid a dawk to Cabul to provide himself with musk melons; but who does not know that our Government, by the construction of good roads, has placed the luxuries of distant places within the reach of the poorest people; then as to the administration of the laws, under the native rulers of old justice was put up
 1129 "On the decline of the Mahomedan Empire, every village found it necessary to repair the defences which had existed, or to erect new ones if they had none before. All Upper India was covered with bands of horsemen, Sikhs, dashing at everything, and the inhabitants only repelled them by erecting little citadels in the middle of the villages, with watchmen aloft on a high lookout. The bricks which formed these redoubts are now all taken for the houses of the cultivators. There are no such defences now to be seen in the British territories. The districts are highly cultivated. There is not a vestige of the jungles near villages." Calcutta Englishman "The continual warfare which distracts Oude for eight months in the year, is now carried on upon a more extensive scale than ever." Madras Spectator: "The state of violence and rapine is such that capitalists do not quit their houses till they have provided escorts from their military friends." 1130 "To the North-western provinces, at least, cannot be applied the taunt that we have done nothing compared with the Mahomedan emperors with respect to roads, bridges, and canals. Even here, in the very seat of their supremacy, we have hundreds of good district roads, where one never existed before, besides the 400 miles of trunk road, which is better than any mail road of similar extent in Europe, and to which the emperors never had anything in the remotest degree to be compared. In canals we have been fifty times more effective. Instead of wasting our supply of water on the frivolities of fountains, we have fertilised whole provinces which had been barren from time immemorial. The scientific survey alone of the North-western provinces is sufficient to proclaim our superiority, in which every field throughout an area of 52,000 square miles is mapped, and every man's possession recorded. It altogether eclipses the boasted measurement of Akbar, and is as magnificent a monument of civilisation as any country in the world can produce." 1131 Bishop Heber's Journal "Agricultural labour can readily be obtained for 1 s. d. s. d. 1132 l l l l l l 1133 History of the War in Afghanistan, 1134 "more good has been accomplished in India, more earnest, serious, and enlightened legislation has taken place for the benefit of the people under the Act of 1833, than during the previous two centuries and a quarter of British connexion with the East." 1135 1136 1137 1138 "The law which passed in 1734, the source of all these benefits, the very line of demarcation from which commences the good government of India, did actually commit this whole authority (the political direction of India) to Commissioners appointed by the Crown. In the Public Board, so constituted by the wise and necessary interposition of Parliament, and continued with slight variations by succeeding Acts, has ever since resided a complete and effective superintendence
 1139 1140 "I do not think the present system is fairly described as a fiction, since it is acknowledged, that not only the Board of Control, but the Cabinet, when of a different opinion, sometimes think it right to defer to the opinion of the Court of Directors, no doubt because they feel that the Directors are more competent to form an opinion than themselves." 1141 l 1142 1143 1144 1145 1146 "The plain straightforward course would be decidedly to have the Government and the Council nominated altogether by the Crown; but whenever I have spoken of that with well-informed persons, I have been informed, in a manner that I could not possibly resist with my want of experience, that such a measure was totally out of the question; that it was quite impossible; and therefore, driven from that, I fall back upon what appears to me to be the more practicable suggestion, which I have made in the course of my evidence to-day." 1147 "No one will deny that it is necessary that Parliament should be open to appeals on all subjects connected with the government of any part of the British Empire; but, so far as my opinion 1148 "I think that many bad and few good consequences would result. The public opinion of one country is scarcely any security for the good government of another. The people of one country, whether represented by the public authorities of this country, or by the nation itself, cannot have the same acquaintance with the circumstances and interests of the other country as they may have with their own. The great security for the good government of any country is an enlightened public opinion; but an unenlightened public opinion is no security for good government. The people of England are unacquainted, or very ill acquainted, with the people and the circumstances of India, and feel so little interest in them, that I apprehend the influence of public opinion in this country on the government of India is of very little value, because there are very few cases in which public opinion is called into exercise, and when it is so, it is usually from impulses derived from the interests of Europeans connected with India, rather than from the interests of the people of India itself." "There would be two great inconveniences. In ordinary cases there would be apathy and indifference on the part of Parliament and the public; the Secretary of State for India would be able to do exactly as he liked, and to omit any part of his duty if he were too indolent or too ignorant to perform it; but whenever it did happen that interest was excited in Indian questions, they would become party questions; and India would be made a subject for discussions of which the real object would be to effect a change in the administration of the government of England." 1149 1150 "That all Indian proceedings are reviewed by two separate bodies independent of one another, is a much greater security for good government than would exist under a system by which those two bodies were merged into one. The double revision by persons of a different class, in a different position, and probably with different prepossessions, tends greatly to promote a close and rigid examination." "If you have a body unconnected with the general government of the country, and containing many persons who have made that department of public affairs the business of their lives, as is the case with the Court of Directors, there is much better discussion and much better sifting of the matters committed to their charge by having such a body in addition to the Minister of the Crown, than by having the Minister of the Crown without such a body, or the Minister of the Crown acting as chairman of the body." "I think the system of double government is much wiser than bringing the Crown more prominently forward. I think the present plan is the best. For two members elected by the Court of Proprietors, one Director might be put in by the Court itself taken from the Indian service, who had been a member of Council, or who had gained a high reputation for his service in India. I do not think it would be advantageous to have the
 1151 "I think that a change, such as the transfer of the whole of the Government of India from the Court of Directors to the Crown, would be much too violent and sudden, and would tend very much to embarrass so vast a machine as that of the Government of India; and I think it would be more advisable to prepare for the change which must take place by gradually remodelling the Government. It might be possible to prepare for the great change by the nomination of a certain proportion of the Directors, so that the public would have an opportunity of seeing immediately how the newly-modelled machine worked. One-fourth or even one-third of the Directors might be appointed by direct nomination from among those who have had long Indian experience." 1152 1153 1154 1155
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he felt a considerable disadvantage in rising to address the House after having listened upwards of five hours to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman. But the question was one, as the right hon. Gentleman had said, of first-rate importance; and, as he (Mr. Bright) happened from a variety of circumstances to have paid some attention to it, and to have formed some strong opinions in regard to it, he was unwilling even that the Bill should be brought in, or that that opportunity should pass, without saying something, which would be partly in reply to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, and partly by way of comment on the plan which the right hon. Gentleman had submitted to the House. There was, as it appeared to him, great inconsistency between the speech of the right hon. Gentleman, and that which he proposed should be done; because) really, if one took his speech as a true and faithful statement of the condition of India, and of the past proceedings of the Government in that country, the conviction would be that the right hon. Gentleman would be greatly to blame in making any alteration in that Government. At the same time, if it were not a faithful portraiture of the Government, and to its transactions in India, then what the right hon. Gentleman proposed to do in regard to the home administration of that country was altogether insufficient for the occasion. He (Mr. Bright) could not on the present occasion go into many of the details on which the right hon. Gentleman had touched; but the observations which
 1170 1171 1172 1173 1174 "The division of authority between the Board of Control and the Court of Directors, the large-number of directors, and the peculiar system by which measures are originated in the Court, sent for approval to the Board, then back again to the Court, and so on, render all deliverances very slow and difficult; and when a measure is discussed ire India, the announcement that has been referred to the Court of Directors is often regarded as an indefinite postponement. In fact, it is evident that (able and experienced as are many of the individual; directors) twenty-four directors in one place, and
 1175 "But enlightened as were the instructions thus issued to the supervisors, the supervision was wholly inadequate to the requirements of the case. The double Government, as I have shown, did not work well. It was altogether a sham, and an imposture. It was soon to be demolished at a blow. …ֵ The double Government had, by this time, fulfilled its mission. It had introduced an incredible amount of disorder and corruption into the State, and of poverty and wretchedness among the people; it had embarrassed our finances, and soiled our character, and was now to be openly recognised as a failure." "In respect of all transactions with foreign Powers—all matters bearing upon questions of peace and war—the President of the Board of Control has authority to originate such measures as he and his Colleagues in the Ministry may consider expedient. In such cases he acts presumedly in concert with the Secret Committee of the Court of Directors—a body composed of the chairman, deputy-chairman, and senior member of the Court. The Secret Committee sign the despatches which emanate from the Board, but they have no power to withhold or to alter them. They have not even the power to record their dissent. In fact, the functions of the Committee are only those which, to use the words of a distinguished member of the Court (the late Mr. Tucker), who deplored the mystery and the mockery of a system which obscures responsibility and deludes public opinion, could as well be performed 'by a secretary or a seal.'" "In judging of responsibility, we should remember that the whole foreign policy of the East India Company is regulated by the Board of Control; that in the solution of the most vital questions—questions of peace and war—affecting the finances of the country, and, therefore, the means of internal improvement, the Court of Directors have no more power than the mayor and aldermen of any corporate town. India depends less on the
 1176 l l 1177 Friend of India, "No one has over attempted to contradict the fact that the condition of the Bengal peasantry is almost as wretched and degraded as it is possible to conceive—living in the most miserable hovels, scarcely fit for a dog-kennel, covered with tattered rags, and unable, in too many instances, to procure more than a single meal a day for himself and family. The Bengal ryot knows nothing of the most ordinary comforts of life. We speak without exaggeration when we affirm, that if the real condition of those who raise the harvest, which yields between 3,000,000 l l 1178 Friend of India, l Friend of India Friend of India "The affair itself is sufficiently uninteresting, A native Zemindar had, or fancied he had, some
 1179 arcana Friend of India "The Grand Trunk, however, is the only road upon which a good speed has been attained, remarks being attached to all of the remainder strongly indicative of the want of improved means of communication, From Shergotty to Gyah, and Gyah to Patna, for instance, the pace is four miles and a half an hour; but then 'the road is cutcha, and the slightest shower of rain renders it puddly and impracticable for speedy transit.' From Patna to Benares the official account is the same, but the rate increases at one stage to five miles and a half. The southern roads arc, however, in the worst condition, the mails travelling to Jellasore at three miles an hour, or less than a groom can walk; and even between Calcutta and Baraset the rate rises to only four miles and a half an hour,
 1180 minimum, "The loss of revenue by the famine of 1832–33 is estimated at least at 1,000,000 l l 1181 "From my late investigations on this subject, I feel convinced that the state of our communications is the most important subject which calls for consideration. I reckon that India now pays, for want of cheap transit, a sum equal to the whole of the taxes; so that by reducing its cost to a tenth, which might easily be done, we should as good as abolish all taxes. I trust the Committees in England are going on well, in spite of the unbecoming efforts which have been made to circumscribe and quash their proceedings. Woe be to India, indeed, if this opportunity is lost! Much will depend upon you (the letter was not addressed to himself) and others now in England, who know India, and have a single eye to its welfare. It behaves you to do your utmost to improve this most critical time, and may God in his mercy overrule all the efforts of man for its good! What abominations, villanies, and idiocies there still are ill our system! Is there no hope, no possibility, of infusing a little fresh blood from some purer source into these bodies (the ruling authorities)? It is quite clear that no radical improvement can take place till some influences can be applied to stimulate our rulers to more healthy, wholesome action; health can never be looked for in a body constituted as the Court of Directors now is; nothing but torpid disease can be expected as matters now stand." 1182 l l l l l l l 1183 "British born subjects in India not in the service of the Queen or the Company—
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  asked if the noble Lord objected to the debate being adjourned for one night?
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, the East India Company had been put upon its trial. Heavy indictments had been preferred against it; and it was important that the opportunity should be given of answering them before the Bill came before Parliament.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, in answer to the first question of his noble Friend, he had to observe that the present condition of the medical profession in this country was one that required considerable regulation and amendment. It was, in fact, a labyrinth and a chaos, owing to the many different sources whence degrees and licences to practise in the different branches of the profession arose. The question was very complicated, and he certainly had no hopes of being able to bring forward a measure which would embrace the whole subject this year. With regard to granting a new charter to the College of Physicians, he hoped to be able to bring in a Bill in the course of the present Session which should either enable that body to work efficiently, or which should incorporate the charter which was required to be granted. With respect to the Pharmaceutical Society, he had had a code of by-laws submitted to him, which was now under consideration. There were persons who objected to that code, and those persons had sent to him a legal opinion on the subject—in fact, the opinion mentioned by his noble Friend. But it should be remembered that that opinion was founded upon a case stated by those who objected to the by-laws, and the House must, of course, make some allowance in consideration of that circumstance. He would, however, endeavour to ascertain from an impartial authority whether there was any good foundation for these by-laws or not.
 COLONEL HARCOURT  said, that he wished to draw the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the very hard bearing of the tax upon the pilots belonging to the Isle of Wight and Portsmouth. The earnings of the crew of each pilot boat amounted to about 150 l
 MR. HUME  said, that all the anomalies in the collection of this tax which had been proved to exist before the Income Tax Committee were continued by this Bill. Retaining, however, all the objections which he had ever held to the tax in its present form, and believing still that no tax upon income could be a just one, and that a tax upon property only was the proper mode of raising the necessary revenue, he should not now offer any opposition to the Bill, because he saw that the Government were determined to pass it in its present forth; and great as he thought its defects, he believed they were more than compensated by the advantages which would be derived
 1209
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he had opposed this measure at every stage, and it was now useless to carry that opposition still further by dividing against the third reading. He should not, however, do his duty, if he did not protest against the injustice, and, as he thought, the illegality, of this measure, as far as regarded Ireland. There were three tests of the amount of the taxation to be imposed on Ireland according to the Treaty of Union. Now whether they took the test of the amount of the exports or imports, or of consumption of the people, it was clear that not only could they not, in accordance with that treaty, impose any new taxation on Ireland, but they were bound to diminish the present taxation. It had been admitted by Mr. Goulburn, that the proportion of the taxation of the empire which was fixed upon Ireland at the time of the Union was unjust; and yet the fact, of her having failed for some time to pay it was now adduced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to show that there was a debt due from her. He (Colonel Dunne), however, denied it. He hoped that Ireland would never lie down under the injustice that was now being done to her, but that she would in every constitutional manner protest against the imposition of this tax.
 MR. KINNAIRD  would, for the same reasons as the hon. Member for Greenock, record a different vote to-night from that on a former occasion.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, it was his intention to give a vote directly in the teeth of a vote which he gave the other night. When the Chancellor of the Exchequer then stated that Government would act upon the broad and general principle of not attempting to equalise the income tax, letting a little too much justice on one side go against a little injustice on the other, he said that he did not desire that an exception should be made in the case of Scotch landlords, though they were unjustly treated. But the right hon. Gentleman had departed from that general principle of allowing no deduction for rates in any case, and now allowed it in the case of Ireland, and refused it in the case of Scotland, the reduction in England being already effected by the way in which the rates were laid upon the occupier. His Irish friends would say, "Look at your conduct and look at ours. You supported the Chancellor of the Exchequer against us and against everybody through thick and thin, and now he conies at last to a reduction of rates, and he takes it off us and keeps it on you." He did not like to be exposed to that taunt. He thought the right hon. Gentleman ought to have some consideration for them, and he should certainly endeavour to obtain that consideration by voting with the hon. Member opposite.
 MR. SMOLLETT  thought that as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had intimated his intention to allow the poor-rate to be deducted from the Irish proprietors, they were justified in taking the sense of the House again upon this question. The right hon. Gentleman had given some ingenious reasons why this boon should be bestowed on Ireland, and not on Scotland. Perhaps there were other reasons. Ireland was disloyal and turbulent; Scotland was orderly, loyal, and submissive to the law. The Irish Members opposed the Government in every possible way; the Scotch Members, or a great majority of them, had supported the Government in passing this income tax. For these services the
 1227
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  supported the view of the hon. Member for Edinburgh, as he knew one company in the receipt of a quarter of a million per annum which was not registered at all, and who would not avail themselves of the clause referred to by the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He thought the more open the matter was left the better.
 MR. COWAN  said, he was a Member of the Committee referred to, and the right hon. Gentleman would be aware that a difficulty had arisen with respect to the word"registered"—whether it meant provisional or complete registration. The right hon. Gentleman was probably aware that many of the older companies were unwilling to be registered under the Act of 1844, and to get over that difficulty he would propose the insertion of the words, "or any company established prior to the passing of the last-mentioned Act."
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, the right hon. Gentleman who said that no one could attempt to remove the inequalities of the income tax without rising from the task a sadder and a wiser man, showed himself every time he spoke a more unjust man. They assessed the proprietors of land in Scotland on incomes which they never received; they compelled them to act as unpaid collectors of taxes, and then charged them on the amount they collected. The injustice was monstrous; but it did not at all shock the right hon. Gentleman, His hon. Friend had understated the case. In one parish where he had property, on the occasion of building a new church, the demands in the shape of legal and positive burdens absorbed the whole of his rent for one year. The next year the clergyman's house had to be repaired and the garden put in order, and he had to pay between 200 1. 1.
 MR. E. BALL  said, that though the larger class of farmers throughout the country were at present in a thriving condition, the small farmers had not in any way shared their prosperity. He believed that the right hon. Gentleman had not dealt with the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk (Sir P. Kelly), in a correct manner, by treating it as if it involved the non-payment of the tax at all by those in the receipt of but small incomes. It amounted to nothing of the kind. He called upon the House to accept the Amendment as a matter of justice to the small farmers.
 MR. DIVETT  appeared at the bar and reported that the Select Committee appointed to try the return of Charles Townley, Esq., for the borough of Sligo, had agreed to the following Resolutions, namely:—
 "That Charles Towneley, Esq., is not duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Sligo. "That the last Election for the said Borough is a void Election." 1208 "That the said Charles Towneley was, by his agents, guilty of bribery and treating at the last Election for the Borough of Sligo. "That Jeremiah Joyce O'Donovan, and Alderman of the Borough of Sligo, was bribed by Henry Stonor, by the promise of payment of 1037., being a portion of an outstanding Election account, to forbear giving his vote, which he had promised to Mr. Somers, and in consequence absented himself during the Election. "That it was not proved that the acts of bribery and treating were committed with the knowledge and consent of the said Charles Towneley. "That the influence of the Roman Catholic Priests was exercised in a manner inconsistent with their duty as ministers of religion, and destructive of freedom of choice on the part of the voters."
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  then moved to add the clauses of which he had given notice. The hon. and learned Member said he would not at that advanced stage of the Bill occupy more than a very short time in making the observations which he felt it his duty to offer to the House; but he could assure the House that his proposal was not brought forward from party spirit, nor, indeed, was it in reality at all opposed to the general principle of the measure; and he appealed with full confidence to Gentlemen on both sides of the House for an impartial consideration of his proposal. He had fixed upon the limit of 300 1. l 1. 1. 1215 l l l 1216
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  then moved to deduct 5 per cent from the amount of the tax paid upon all incomes under 400 l 1221 l
 MR. BANKES  said, the result of his own observations induced him to differ from the remarks of the preceding speaker, so far as regarded the condition of a corresponding class of small farmers in England. Many of that class were at present unable to derive a profit from their trade, or to pursue any other trade; they were not willing to emigrate and so abandon their native land, though at the present moment they did not know how they were to live by farming. It was with a view to relieve that class that he would support the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend (Sir F. Kelly). He could not deny that farming, in many instances, was a prosperous trade at the present moment; but in connexion with that admission was the fact, that numbers of the class of small farmers were rapidly quitting the country, because they could not find a living in it.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, as he understood the Government were about to con-code something to Ireland which had not been conceded to Scotland, he should certainly feel it his duty to vote in favour of this Amendment.
 MR. I. BUTT  was bound in justice and fairness to confirm the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that the Government had not departed from the principle of the Bill with regard to Ireland. The Amendment he proposed did go beyond that principle, and the right hon. Gentleman steadily and determinedly resisted it. The clause he now proposed was simply for the purpose of placing exceptional cases upon the same footing as the general assessment under the poor-law valuation. He was very unwilling to give the slightest support to the Government; but as an honest man be was bound to state that they were merely carrying out the principle on which the Bill was originally
 1228
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that was precisely the object of the clause, which, as it stood, would leave the matter altogether open.
 MR. BRIGHT : The hon. Member had misrepresented what he had said altogether. He had stated that Mr. Kaye, in the pas-sago he had quoted, referred to the system of government which prevailed in Bengal in 1772. Afterwards, however, in the next quotation, when the author alluded to what was stated by Mr. Tucker, he was referring to the present Court of Directors and the Board of Control. He had made the distinction to which the hon. Gentleman referred, and had said that Mr. Kaye had expressed just the views with regard to the
 1247
 MR. MAGUIRE : Well, one that will satisfy me as a Member of this House.
 MR. MAGUIRE  wished to remind the right hon. Gentleman, when he charged Irish Members with meeting figures by exclamations, that he had been specially challenged by the hon. Member for Port-
 1212
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, it was with no ordinary anxiety and solicitude that he approached the consideration of this question, and he should have refrained altogether from addressing the House on it, had he not been influenced by the desire to contribute whatever faculties he possessed to what he believed to be the cause of truth and justice and sound policy, and to deliver his opinion on a subject which all would agree was intimately connected with the interests of the country, and on the proper solution of which depended the happiness of a large portion of our fellow-subjects. Differing as he did very much from some of the propositions advanced by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control the other night, there was one part upon which he was ready to concur with him. He quite agreed that, however theoretically absurd and anomalous the frame of the Indian Government might be supposed to be, still, if it had contributed to the happiness and welfare of the subjects of that part of Her Majesty's dominions, it ought not to be abolished or altered. But if he could succeed in showing that it had failed in those sacred duties which it undertook to fulfil, and if that failure could be shown to be owing not to accident but to causes to which the attention of the Legislature had been repeatedly solicited by its greatest and wisest statesmen—causes, the effect of which was predicted by Mr. Fox, Mr. Burke, and Lord Grenville, and others equally competent— then, he said, they had an argument of practice as well as a deduction of reason against the continuation of a system which general reasoning as well as repeated experience had conspired unanimously to reprobate. He would immediately meet the right hon. Gentleman on the issue he proposed—the practical advantage conferred by the existing system of Government on the Natives of India. Let them see whether the ar-
 1231 "There is one part of the Bill upon which, after what has recently passed elsewhere, I feel myself irresistibly impelled to say a few words. I allude to that wise, that benevolent, that noble clause which enacts that no Native of our Indian empire shall, by reason of his colour, his descent, or his religion, be incapable of holding office."— [3  Hansard, 1232 vice versa; "There are men now on the bench at Madras who are not only unfit for the office which they hold, but who have been guilty of acts which would render them unfit to be intrusted with the life of a flea almost, instead of the life of a human being as they now are. There is now a man holding the office of sessions judge who returned a trial to the Sudder Adawlut when I was Judge. The facts came before myself, and therefore I
 1233 ex officio 1234 "It is impossible to peruse the records of the most serions criminal cases without being struck by the total absence of a proper tone of mind on the part of the criminal judge. We find conclusions arrived at altogether unsupported by the evidence, questions omitted in most important points, and judgment given upon conclusions not suggested by the premises, and frequently announced in a most reprehensible manner." 1235 "I should say that the morality among the higher classes of the Hindoos was of a high standard, and among the middling and lower classes remarkably so; there is less of immorality, and less of extreme poverty, than you would see in many countries in Europe. In all their domestic relations, and their charity to their neighbours, they are superior to what you will find in many countries; it is not so much so, perhaps, with the Mahomedans, but still I should say that there is no striking degree of immorality among them. "Is it your opinion that confidence might be placed in the natives for the performance of the
 1236 "You mean that if their allowances were such as to maintain them in the relative station in which they ought to be as compared with Europeans, confidence might be placed in their honest and straightforward conduct?—Certainly, for official business of most kinds. "Does your experience enable you to say, that where a sufficient salary was allowed, and due confidence placed in them, you have found the natives fit for any duties connected with the Government of the country?—I have felt the want of the power of giving those rewards which the natives prize more highly than a salary in hard coin. Such rewards are essential, perhaps, to command their devoted service, including loyalty. You cannot now expect that. They disregard, comparatively speaking, money salaries, though these of course are not unacceptable, and render them quite efficient as official men. "Will you state what those rewards are to which you refer, which you think they prize above money?—Those rewards which the native Governments of India would confer upon them for good service; a village, for instance, in perpetuity, rent free, or a small portion of land, from one acre to one thousand." 1237 1238 1239 l  separatum clausumve separatum clausumve. 1240 1241
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, there was no disposition on the part of the Government to favour one party more than another. The only reason why they took the poor-law valuation as the ground of their assessment was, that in Ireland there were so many different interests, that it would be Impossible to levy the tax upon any other principle.
 MR. HEYWORTH  believed, that it would be both impolitic and unjust to levy our taxation on property alone, for in that case millions would escape taxation altogether. He believed that the income tax, even in its present form, was as just a tax as any that was paid. The only question was, whether it would be a lasting tax; for if it were, he believed it would be possible to make it as just as any tax could be.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, he wished to know whether any provision would be made for the repayment of advances made by the Lowther's Town Union in Ireland under the Temporary Relief Act, and the repayment of which had been promised by the Government to the union?
 MR. SPOONER  said, if the matter remained open, it would be quite right; but it appeared to him that the Bill to be afterwards passed would confine the privilege to those companies who were registered according to its provisions.
 MR. SPOONER  thought that the right hon. Gentleman opposite overlooked the fact he himself recognised—the principle of a graduated income tax, which was all that his hon. and learned Friend (Sir F. Kelly) was contending for. No one pretended to say that in many instances of persons possessed of an income of 400 l l l l 1219
 MR. LAING  had great experience with respect to small farmers in Scotland, namely, men with rents of 10 1. 1., 1. 1220
 MR. WALPOLE  appeared at the bar and reported that the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the return for Bury St. Edmund's, had determined that James Henry Porteus Oakes, Esq., had been duly elected a burgess to serve in the present Parliament for that Borough.
 MR. KENNEDY  said, that this measure had been maintained on these two distinct grounds; first, that England being liable to an income tax, Ireland should be so too; and, secondly, that the consolidated annuities having been remitted to Ireland, it was only fair she should pay the income tax as an equivalent. He denied, however, that either of these reasons was well founded. Up to the present time it had been a recognised principle that the taxation of Ireland, as compared to that of England, should be in the ratio of one to twelve. This was the first time that that principle had been deviated from; and before this was done, he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer was bound to prove either that England had declined, or that Ireland had increased, in prosperity, or that all former Chancellors of the Exchequer
 1210
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman, in proposing this clause to the House, founded it partly upon the general argument, and partly upon the special ground of the exception made to Ireland. As far as regarded the general argument, they had discussed it on a former occasion, when he opposed a clause much more limited than this, and it was rejected by a large majority, on the ground that it was impossible to concede it without unsettling the general structure of the income tax. The hon. Gentleman had said nothing to show that that argument was not applicable to this clause, and on that ground he was compelled again to oppose it. It was not the mere question whether the Scotch landlord paid 6 or 7 per cent, which was not paid by the English landlord. The income tax as it stood was a system of compensations, and if they were not to re-enact it until its inequalities were removed, he could not lay upon the hon. Gentleman a more difficult task than to remove them. He thought the hon. Gentleman would rise from such a task a sadder and a wiser man. The hon. Gentleman had little conception of the structure of the tax, when he talked of removing all inequalities. If the Scotch landlord were worse off than the English landlord with respect to rates, there was still another question to settle, whether he was worse off on the whole. If this claim were conceded to the landlord, what would they say to the householder? The Scotch landlord paid 5 per cent on repairs, including all he laid out when he renewed his leases. The householder in England, if not in Scotland, had to spend from 15 to 20 per cent for repairs. If they made a deduction of 15 or 20 per cent under Schedule A, or if the hon. Gentleman succeeded with this Motion, there would be a host of the most formidable claims under Schedules D and E, which were now in abeyance. This was a small corner of a great question. It was whether they should have the income tax in its present shape, full, he granted, of inequalities, but which in a considerable degree compensated one another, or whether they should enter on a task, perfectly hopeless to perform, of endeavouring to remove those inequalities. That was all he should say
 1225 1226
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  having moved the Third Reading of the Bill.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , after a little delay, and some exclamations from the Irish benches, rose and said, the hon. Gentleman asked him to give an assurance that would satisfy his constituents.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he gave the hon. and gallant Colonel full credit for the perfect consistency with which he had contended against this measure, for—as he thought —the advantage of Ireland. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) should not, however, then enter further into this subject, than to protest, once for all, against the assertion that the Budget was intended to impose or did impose, additional taxation
 1211 1., 1., primâ facie 1.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he doubted whether any answer he could give would satisfy either. This was a question of administration and detail, and, as he had already stated, it was impossible to give an answer with respect to the point at which it was desirable to draw a line in reference to the person that was to be charged, whether the landlord, the occupier, or the immediate lessor. What the line would be he could not at present state, because there being no organisation of officers in Ireland for the collection of the tax, it would be very imprudent on his part to profess to give an answer with certainty.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was sorry that he could not accede to the request of his hon. and
 1217 l l 1. l 1218 l l
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : They must submit to some registration.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had communicated with the Poor Law Commissioners on the subject, but they disclaimed any such assurance as that referred to by the hon. and gallant Member. If, however, the board of guardians of the union would state the names of the persons who bad given the
 1230
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then brought up clauses allowing the poor-rate to be deducted from the assessment in Ireland, which were  agreed to.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had another Amendment to propose. The House would remember that he proposed to provide that the receipts for insurance in certain insurance companies should be accepted as deductions from a man's assessment on the income tax. Now, his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury was engaged in presiding over a Committee who were engaged in examining into the state of insurance and joint-Stock companies. As the new tax could not demanded before the 10th of October next, he proposed to take advantage of the remaining part of the Session to introduce a Bill determining some fixed and simple provisions which would be required to be complied with by all companies before their receipts for the
 1229
 MR. WILKINSON  did not understand that anything was to be given to Ireland which was not to be given to Scotland, and he must appeal to the forbearance of the Scotch Members, to their loyalty, to make allowance for the difficulties in adjusting the different claims in a way which was confessedly unjust and unequal. As Scotchmen had proved to be the best agriculturists in consequence of the difficulties of their climate and similar causes, so he hoped that the taxation to which they were subjected would be equally good for them.
 SIR ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL  said, his principal reason for bringing forward the clause of which he had given notice was, that the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. I. Butt) had given notice of moving a clause upon the third reading to a similar effect as this, relating to Ireland; and if that clause had been agreed to, the Scotch landowners would have had an unanswerable case to bring forward. He understood, however, that that clause had not yet been acceded to. He was not asking for an exemption in favour of Scotland which did not exist in England, but he only asked for the same boon to be extended to Scotland that was going to be, or had been, granted to Ireland. The case was one of comparison between the owners of land and of houses. In Scotland there were many rates or assessments which were paid by the landlord, who, consequently, received a larger rent, to enable him to defray those expenses in proportion to the value of the property of which he was the owner. In England the same taxes were paid by the occupier; therefore the money did not pass through the owner's hands, and did not come within the clutches of the income-tax collectors. There were throe of these heads of rates: first, one-half of the poor-rates; secondly, the assessments for the repair of churches, parsonages, schools, and school-houses; and, thirdly, the expenses of prisons, of the prosecution of criminals, of the constabulary, of the building of bridges, and other things—all these were paid by the landlord in Scotland. In some counties, also, the highway rates were levied, partly from the owner and partly from the occupier. Altogether, the Scotch landlord paid about 6 per cent upon the rent more than the English landlord. He might put the case in another way, which would make it clearer to the House. The profit derived from landed property could be put under three heads: first, there was the rent, or the landlord's profit; secondly, there was the tenant's profit; and, thirdly, there was the sum devoted to the payment of these rates. In both countries the landlord and
 1222 d, 1223 1224
 MR. GROGAN  said, that, by the 12th clause, the collector general of rates for the city of Dublin was to transmit to the Commissioners of Inland Revenue copies of the poor-rates "made by him for the relief of the destitute poor in the several electoral divisions, or parts thereof, in which he is by law authorised to make and declare such rates." Now, the fact was that the collector general for the city of Dublin did not make any rate; he only assessed it when made by the board of guardians; and the clerk of the board of guardians was, therefore, as in other parts of the country, the proper person to apply to for copies of the rates. He would also call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the amount of remuneration paid to those officers for performing that duty.
 SIR GEORGE GOODMAN  was of opinion, from what he knew of them, that the agricultural constituencies were generally satisfied with the income-tax scheme of the Government, so far as it affected them; at all events the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Kelly) was not likely to give them more relief than the scheme of the Government.
 SIR J. W. HOGG  solicited that kind indulgence which the House accorded to those who did not obtrude themselves on its attention, but who rose in discharge of a public duty, and for the purpose of self-defence. He should not have taken any part in the debate on the Motion for the introduction of this Bill, if the ordinary course had been pursued, and the Bill had been permitted to have been introduced, taking the discussion, as is usual, on the second reading. But that course had not been adopted. The hon. Member for Manchester, who followed his right hon. Friend (Sir C. Wood), not only argued against the introduction of any measure at all at the present time, and against what he termed the system of double government, which it was the object of this Bill to maintain, but preferred a frightful bill of indictment against all who had been hitherto concerned in the government of India; and it was because he felt himself called upon, to the best of his ability, to endeavour to refute these charges, that he craved the indulgence of the House. It appeared that there was to be something like a division of labour among the opponents to this measure. The hon. Member for Manchester had preferred the indictment with his usual vehemence and ability, while the different counts were to be distributed among the Gentlemen who surrounded him; and it appeared that the Gentleman who had just resumed his seat had undertaken the department of law and declamation. Upon this subject great agitation—he might say great clamour—had prevailed out of doors, and he was glad that such agitation and clamour had prevailed; he was glad that associations had been formed, that every charge, public or private, which could be raked up against
 1242 1243 Friend of India, Friend of India 1244 1245 1246
 SIR J. W. HOGG : He (Sir J. W. Hogg) would leave the House to judge of the explanation afforded by the hon. Member. So strongly did the quotation from Mr. Kaye's book strike him, conversant as he was with that book, and knowing that Mr. Kaye entertained opinions directly opposed to those in support of which his authority had been cited, that he had referred to the passages which preceded the extract read by the hon. Member. In page 78, Mr. Kaye says, "But although in 1765, the revenues of those provinces became our own, motives of policy, natural but shortsighted, impelled Olive to leave the actual administration in the hands of the old native functionaries, to be carried on in the name of the Soubadhar." It was Olive's policy to maintain the name if not the authority of the Soubadhar, and that policy was founded on an apprehension of giving offence to foreign Powers. This led to great confusion, and to flagrant oppression among the natives, which Mr. Kaye eloquently denounces; but his denunciation of that system ought not to have been brought forward in this House as any authority for an attack upon the present system of government at home, and still less, ought it to have been brought forward from a work, the whole tenor of which is in favour of the existing system. But the hon. Member said he had coupled the quotation from Mr. Kaye's book with the minute of Mr. Tucker. Now, he (Sir J. W. Hogg) had exactly the same complaint to make of the unfair use attempted to be made of the respected name and high authority of his friend the late Mr. Tucker, whose minute, from which an extract had been read by the hon. Member, had no reference whatever to the system of double government. Mr. Tucker was one of the stanchest advocates of double government, and so far from having expressed any opinion opposed to that system, his desire was to extend it further, and apply it to the proceedings of the Secret Committee, where the President of the Board prepared the despatches without concert with the other Members of the Committee. The minute referred exclusively to the Secret Committee. Mr. Tucker stated that the orders emanated solely from the Board, and he protested strongly against the indignity of being compelled to sign despatches in the preparation of which he had no part, and of the purport
 1248 1249 1250 1251 "As to the constitution of the Home Government, can any man doubt that when the Company is no longer a trading body, and when so large a portion of its patronage is taken from it which is connected with its trade, that, a very different class of persons will become proprietors of India stock? There will be a material deterioration of the constituency, and that must, at no distant period, lead to a material alteration in the character of the representative body of the proprietors —the Directors themselves. I am by no means desirous of seeing any diminution whatever effected in the real influence of the Court of Directors; for of this I am satisfied, that it is essential to the safe and useful working of the Government of India that they should be persons of high moral character, as well as of property—whose independence and impartiality should be unimpeachable; that they should be able to deliver their free and unbiassed opinions upon all occasions—and that their uniform conduct should afford the strongest guarantee that they would ever consult the public interest." "What I apprehend is this, that the constituent body will, in the course of time, to a great degree, become composed of persons connected with India, and the result of that will be, that the Court of Directors will, in time, also be similarly composed. I look to that as being a great calamity. I am by no means desirous that India should be wholly governed by retired Indians, or that all the prejudices, all the partialities, and all the interested feeling's which may have grown up with them in the course of a long residence in that country, should be carried into the councils of the Court of Directors, and there predominate. On the contrary, one great advantage of the practical working of the system hitherto has been this— that the Court of Directors, while partially composed of persons connected with India, has yet had the means of having within itself merchants of the first eminence; persons connected with the trade of the City of London, and others who have been influential members of various classes of society. What has been the effect? The beneficial distribution of their patronage; not distributed solely among the sons of Indians—not to those who, from their very childhood, have acquired all the prejudices of native Indians by a constant residence in that country—but their patronage has embraced every class of society. There is not a class of the community which has not its representative in India; and in so searching among those middle classes from which they have derived so many useful and great men, they have produced
 1252 1253 l l l l 1254 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1255 l l l l 1256 l 1257 l l Mr. Bright here interrupted the hon. Member. l l 1258 l l l l l 1259 l l l l l l l l l l 1260 l l l l l l l l 1261 "The territorial finances of India have appropriated to themselves as large a sum of the commercial profits as has been appropriated to the payment of dividends on East India Stock. In fact, the China trade has been administered for the benefit of the finances of India." 1262 1263 1264 1265 Calcutta Review, 1266 "What strikes the eye most in any village or set of villages in a Bengal district, is the exuberant fertility of the soil—the sluttish plenty surrounding the cultivator's abode—the rich foliage—the fruit and timber trees, and the palpable evidence against anything like penury. Did any man ever go through a Bengalee village and find himself assailed by the cry of want or famine? Was he ever told that the ryot and his family did not know where to turn for a meal?—that they had no shade to shelter them—no tank to bathe in— no employment for their active limbs?" s. 6d. s. d. s. d. "If you want the strongest possible evidence of the misery of the people, I will give it to you. Salt is an absolute necessary of life: living as they do upon vegetable diet, they must have it; and yet I will show you that the consumption of salt has greatly diminished, and there cannot be a stronger proof of the misery of the people." Friend of India, Friend of India, 1267 "It has been pointed out to us that our article of last week upon the decrease in the consumption of salt contains a mistake so serious as to vitiate all the conclusions at which we had arrived. The importation for 1851–2 was not 18,50,000 maunds, but 29,43,463, exclusive of salt in bond; the former amount representing only the salt imported from Great Britain. The real figures stand thus:—
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the only object was to make the Bill as perfect as possible. It was desirable that the legislation as to both countries should be uniform. The clauses referred to had better be postponed until the new English Bill was ready.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that, finding the majority of the Irish lawyers in the House were opposed to him, be should not press the Amendment which he had suggested to a division.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that he must object to permitting service of the writ to be made at a man's house or place of business, or upon the members of his family, instead of personally as at present. This was especially objectionable when taken in connexion with the other clauses of the Bill, which enabled judgment to be obtained in a few days.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he did not wish to set himself in opposition to the views of so many of his learned Friends, particularly as his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General for Ireland thought the clause would be beneficial; but he must say he did not think his argument had been
 1287
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he objected to the expense which would be occasioned by requiring the cause of action to be set forth in the writ of summons. This was a retrogression, and a revival of the practice of proceeding by "special original," in which the cause of action was fully set forth.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, this subject had been brought before the Common Law Commission, and it was suggested that by adopting this clause a twofold process would be avoided: first, that of taking out a summons, and then filing a bill or plaint. The answer to that was, that in nineteen cases out of twenty the actions were settled on the issuing of the summons alone. In the twentieth case, no doubt, facility would be given by including in the summons the full particulars of the plaint; still, if it were thought that it would be better to adopt the summons merely, without the full particulars, he was quite prepared to support the proposition.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must oppose this.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said,
 1289
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, as one who had some practical experience of the working of Irish lawmaking in reference to matters between subject and subject, he wished to suggest that agents should be
 1291
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to trouble the Committee with a few observations, for the purpose of saying that he had never listened to a statement with more unfeigned satisfaction than to that in which the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Whiteside) had introduced the measure to the Committee; and he was rejoiced to find that the Bill had met with the support of Her Majesty's Ministers. It was exceedingly gratifying to find legal Gentlemen vying with each other in their endeavours to simplify the law, for he was quite old enough to remember when it was very different indeed. Time was when the only lawyer in the House that demanded legal reform was Mr. Michael Angelo Taylor, who, however, confined his efforts in that direction to an annual speech. He was most happy in expressing his cordial thanks to the hon. and learned Gentleman who had introduced the present Bill, and he only hoped, as Ireland had obtained justice in this matter, that Scotland's time was not far off.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must beg to explain, in reference to what had fallen from the hon. and learned Mem-
 1292
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he would not press his present Amendment to a division. He must, however, persevere with the Amendment of which he had given notice—namely, to substitute the word "declaration," in lieu of "affidavit," in this and the remaining clauses of the Bill.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would suggest to the hon. and learned Member for Ennis the propriety of withdrawing his Amendment, as it was not worth while to press it in the present case. The objection which he (the Attorney General) had to the multiplication of oaths was, because he attached so much impor-
 1293
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, the law would not remain as it stood; for two of the old Statutes were repealed by the Bill.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, if the law should remain as it stood in case the clause was omitted, there was no necessity to retain the clause at all; he should therefore support the Amendment.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he would not press his Amendment.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, this clause provided that in certain actions against sheriffs and other magistrates the trial should take place in the county where the act complained of had been committed. This gave to magistrates a protection not enjoyed by other classes of the community: he should therefore move that the clause be omitted.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  would only say that the law was a very bad one; and he saw no reason why it should be repeated in the present Bill.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he believed the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Ennis to be quite superfluous.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he would suggest that they should let the general law stand as it is in England; and with respect to cases of fraud, or going away to avoid service, there were subsequent clauses which would give perfect protection to creditors.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he would suggest that the clause should be altered by the insertion of words to the effect that the plaint should contain a true and succinct statement of the plaintiff's claim, instead of a narrative of it.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that this Bill, so far from being an ill-considered measure, as had been said, was the result of many months' deliberation on his part, and that it had been read and approved by many eminent lawyers and judges, amongst whom were the late Lord Chancellor Blackburne and Baron Greene. The system of procedure laid down by this clause was that adopted by the Supreme Court of New York.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that this clause only permitted that to be done without the order of a Judge which could now be done with such an order. It would, therefore, simplify the proceedings and save expense, without exposing the defendant to any new danger.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, nevertheless he must propose it at the proper time, in
 1285
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the proposal went to the very root of the Bill. In the summonses issued by the County Courts the plaint was set forth, and thereupon the party assigned his defence, upon which the adjudication immediately took place. The sum now charged by an attorney in Ireland for the issue of a writ was 21. l s. l. l., Vict, c
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to pass the Bill because it was not at all dependent upon the clauses referred to, which related to the amalgamation of law and equity, and did not conflict with the Bill. If on the third reading, however, any new clauses could be introduced, of course all the better.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the English Common Law Commission had recently made a second Report, portions of which had been anticipated in the Bill; other parts had been carried out in some new clauses, but other parts, perhaps, required more consideration. As to costs, the reduction would be great; as, for instance, the costs on judgment by default would be reduced from 12 l l
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that an ejectment to strip a man of his entire estate might be served in the manner proposed under the general orders of the Court, and he could not see why a process for the recovery of a small debt should not be served in the same way.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he should feel very considerable regret if the Committee gave its assent to the clause upon the principle that an experiment was to be tried in Ireland which it was impossible to introduce into England. Speaking from experience, he was able to say that pleadings were oftentimes no more the allegations of
 1290
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that everything that could reasonably be asked was provided for in the Bill.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the principle of the clause had existed for centuries, and he only followed the law on the subject that had existed since the days of Charles I., and which was affirmed in 1849. He could not, therefore, consent to the omission.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he concurred in the first part of the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Ennis, and he trusted that the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) would substitute a declaration in place of an oath. In respect to the other part of the Amendment, he scarcely thought that it could be carried out.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he would rather part with the clause altogether than consent to such an Amendment being introduced. He believed that the effect of permitting the party supposed to be best acquainted with the facts of any particular case to verify pleadings, would have anything but a tendency to advance the cause of justice in Ireland.
 MR. NAPIER  said, if the clause was negatived, it would only leave the law as it now stood. The clause contained nothing but what was already the law of England as well as of Ireland.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he wished to add a word in favour of pleas being verified upon oath.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he should support the clause, for he could not understand the objections of the hon. and learned Member for Ennis to extend a system which had worked so well in the inferior courts to the courts above. The Master of the Rolls in Ireland, in a valuable pamphlet he had lately written, had approved of the principle.
 MR. M. CHAMBERS  said, that he believed that the clause as it stood would materially increase and not diminish expense. The object of the clause was to make the writ of summons also in substance the declaration. Now, in all but the simplest cases, a special pleader or a barrister must be consulted to draw the writ of summons, which must increase the expense very materially. The result of the employment of special pleading at this stage of an action, would also, he thought, be to increase litigation, by leading to the defence of actions, not on their merits, but upon ingenious objections to the validity of the statement of the plaintiff's claims. The
 1288
 MR. CROWDER  said, he should support the clause as proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen. There was no doubt a class of conscientious persons who had scruples about taking an oath who did not fall within the class of persons for whom this Bill was intended. There was, however, a Bill already provided to meet their cases. Under these circumstances he thought it better to let the general law on the subject of oaths operate in this Bill.
 MR. CROWDER  said, he was disposed to agree with the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside), as he believed the clause as it at present stood was more in accordance with the scope and character of the Bill, and particularly with that part of it which related to the abolition of the forms of action.
 MR. CROWDER  said, he should wish to know if the Bill were to pass until these new improvements were introduced? It would be inconvenient to introduce a law only to be altered again next Session.
 MR. COLLIER  said, he thought there was a  primâ facie
 MR. ROSS MOORE  said, that the Amendment suggested by the hon. and learned Member for Ennis (Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald) would defeat some of the principal provisions of the Bill.
 MR. PHINN  said, there was always a suspicion of partiality when magistrates were tried on the scene of their alleged
 1294
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, he should support the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Ennis as the lesser of two evils, for he objected both to affidavits and declarations. In reference to the measure itself, he must protest against this experimental legislation in Ireland. The law officers of the Crown appeared to think that the measure would not do for this country, but said that it might be tried in Ireland—acting, as he supposed, upon the principle,  Novum experimentum in corpore vili.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that, notwithstanding he did not believe the introduction of these affidavits would bring about the golden age anticipated by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, he would not oppose the clause, as it was one upon which considerable doubt prevailed, and the more so as his right hon. and learned Colleague the Attorney General for Ireland approved of its introduction.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he would suggest that the hon. and learned Gentleman might meet the objection suggested by the hon. and learned Member for Ennis, where persons were accidentally absent from their residence.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he should support the Amendment. He saw no reason why the clause should be retained because it contained what had been the law for centuries. The same argument might be employed against the whole Bill.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he thought there could be but one wish in the Committee with respect to the administration of the
 1286 l
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, that this was a broader question than that of law; it was a question of morality. He thought that there was a great deal of morbid sentimentality about oaths. An oath, in his opinion, was only a solemn mode of pledging the conscience of an individual as to the truth of any statement. He Was of opinion that if they were to retain the system of affidavits at all, they were lowering the standard of morality by informing people that it was less binding on them to tell the truth when they were making a declaration than when they were taking an oath.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Control a question. In his speech the other night the right hon. Gentleman alluded to a despatch which he had received from Lord Dalhousie as a ground for inducing the Government to bring forward their Bill at the present time. Had the right hon. Gentleman any objection to lay that despatch before the House? He would also ask if the right hon. Gentleman would lay on the table the correspondence between the Government and the Board of Directors, which he understood the Directors were printing, and which ought to be produced for the information of the House?
 MR. MILES  appeared at the bar, and reported that the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the petition complaining of an undue return for the county of Clare had come to the following decision;—
 "That Sir John Forster Fitzgerald and Cornelius O'Brien, esquire, are not duly elected Knights of the Shire to serve in this present Parliament for the County of Clare. "That the last Election for the County of Clare is a void Election." "That a system of intimidation was organised at the late Election for the County of Clare, which resulted in a riot at Six-mile Bridge, deterring voters from exercising their franchise. "That it appears to the Committee that a mob, professing to be supporters of the Petitioner, created a riot in Kilrush, but that it has not been proved before the Committee that any Elector was prevented thereby from exercising his franchise. 1298 "That, from the evidence produced before the Committee, it appears that at the time when the riot took place at Six-mile Bridge, the Reverend John Burke, Roman Catholic Priest, excited the people, and took part himself in the riot. "That the Reverend Michael Clune, Roman Catholic Priest, excited the people to take part in the riot. "That there does not appear to have been any general undue interference on the part of the Roman Catholic Clergy at the late Election for the County of Clare. "That it appears to the Committee that Sir John Forster Fitzgerald and Cornelius O'Brien, esquire, did not in any way encourage or were cognizant of the riotous proceedings."
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he wished to inquire whether seven days' notice of this Motion ought not to be given?
 MR. MILES  said, that the feeling of the Committee was that there was no reason why the writ should not issue; but at the same time he thought it might be better that the House should have time to be put in possession of the evidence collected by the Committee before it should issue.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he thought some fixed rule should be laid down with regard to the issuing of writs in cases of this kind.
 MR. WARNER  said, as a Member of the Select Committee, he concurred in the view expressed by the Chairman (Mr. Miles) that in such an extraordinary case it was desirable that the House should have an opportunity of reading the evidence before issuing the writ.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, it was a matter of constitutional right that the writ should issue unless there was some Resolution of that House to the contrary. If bribery had been proved, seven days' notice must be given before the writ could issue; but nothing of that kind was alleged here.
 MR. SPEAKER  read the Order of the House, which provided that where any seat had been rendered void by reason of bribery or treating, no Motion for the issuing of a new writ could be made unless seven days' previous notice had been given. Neither bribery nor treating had been proved in this instance.
 MR. J. FITZGERALD  said, he thought it desirable that the Clare election should take place before the county assizes, which were to be held towards the close of the present month. If the election and the assizes came together, there might be the danger of a collision.
 MR. MILES  said, that he had no desire to press his objection. New Writ  ordered.
 MR. HUME  said, there was not a man, woman, or child, who was not benefited by oranges, and lemon juice was essential as a matter of medicine. He therefore wished the duty removed altogether. The amount was really trifling, and there was not a charge in the whole tariff the abolition of which would be a greater boon. The article came in competition with no one, and was beneficial to everybody.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, that he could not help feeling that from the course adopted with respect to the inquiry and proposed legislation, and from the little attention that had been paid to the various petitions from India, it would be thought throughout that country that sufficient care had not been taken of their interests and happiness by the British Government. In connexion with the question before them, he could not help looking at the composition of the Committee appointed to inquire into the Affairs of India. The Committee consisted of thirty-nine members, of whom thirty-one were either connected with the Government or with the East India Company, while of independent members, not connected with either, there were only eight. They had heard that night what were the views of the Chairman of the Committee with regard to this question; and everybody knew that when the Chairman of a Committee expressed decidedly a particular view, in which he was likely to be supported by a majority of the members, it was quite useless to bring witnesses before that Committee. It was an extraordinary fact, in connexion with the labours of this Committee, that having last year finished the question of the Home Government, it had been opened again, only three weeks ago, by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control. That certainly seemed to indicate that sufficient evidence had not been obtained on the subject of the Home Government; and yet the right
 1329 1330 Kaye's History of Affghanistan 1331 1332 Friend of India, Friend of India. "Very much so; more especially in the districts immediately around the Presidency. There used not to be, and perhaps at the present time there is scarcely, a night in which there are not two, three, or four dacoities perpetrated, and they are almost always committed with impunity. Two or three years ago the magistrates in five or six of the districts around Calcutta were obliged to confess that no man possessed of property to the value of 20 l. l. "That the youth of the magistrates; who are called 'boy magistrates' by the natives, from there being many of them under twenty-five years old, certainly was one cause of the inefficiency of the police in the lower Provinces, and that the natives have not the same confidence in them as they have in men of greater experience." 1333 s. 1334 Globe Morning Chronicle, Life of Olive, "The misgovernment of the English was carried to a point such as seemed hardly compatible with the existence of society. They forced the natives to buy dear and sell cheap. They insulted with impunity the tribunals, the police, and the fiscal authorities of the country. Enormous fortunes were thus rapidly accumulated at Calcutta, while 30,000,000 of human beings were reduced to the extremity of wretchedness. They had been accustomed to live under tyranny, but never under tyranny like this. They found the little finger of the Company thicker than Surajah Dowlah's loins. Under their old masters they had at least one resource;— when the evil became insupportable the people rose, and pulled down the Government. But the English Government was not to be so shaken off. That Government, oppressive as the most oppressive form of barbarian despotism, was strong with all the strength of civilisation. It resembled the government of evil genii rather than the government of human tyrants." exploited 1335 Kaye's History, "The Government of India is like a splendid team, every horse excellent, but altogether so abominably harnessed as to be deprived of half
 1336 "Vast heaps of humanity, festering in compulsory idleness, encumber the soil of India.…Idle India, let alone, may change in time to a mountain of gunpowder, which any wild spark may ignite.…Idle India, set to work, would be our treasure, our glory, our inseparable friend." l. 1337 Friend of India, 1338 1339 Calcutta Review, s. s. 11. s. d. 1340 Calcutta Review, "Out of an expenditure of 20,000,000 l. l. l. 1341 "The Natives see 3,500,000 l. employés, 1,1501. l. 1342 1343
 MR. HUME , like his hon. Friend who had just sat down, wished, before the present Government was destroyed, to see what was to be substituted for it; and he contended also, that the House ought to be informed of the result of the measure of 1833. The question, indeed, was, whether the Government established by the Act of 1833, which vested the management of India in the Company, had produced the results which were expected. Prior to that be did not want to go, because he regarded any observations relating to an earlier period as wholly inapplicable. He believed that much that had been said with regard to the past government of India was true. Much that might have been done had been left undone; but in his opinion much more had been done than some parties were willing to admit. He considered the present attempt to legislate for the government of India, while they were in perfect ignorance of all that had taken place since 1833, was premature and unstatesmanlike. It would have been wiser if they had followed the course pursued in 1831–32–33, and inquired closely into every department connected with the government of India. There ought to have been an inquiry last year and the year before. The Government had been asked twenty times since the Session commenced as to their intentions with respect to India, and until the 1st of June they refused all information, giving only evasive answers. He construed that evasion to mean that they would defer permanent legislation, and merely bring in a continuation Bill to 1854 or 1855, to enable full inquiry to be made by the Committee appointed on the subject. He could hardly believe that the Government had any serious idea of legislating permanently for India. On all other occasions the Government of the day had consulted with the Court of Directors before adopting any measures to be laid be-fore the House; but on this occasion the first communication made to the Court of Directors was only made on the 1st of June. In the letter of that date the Government informed the authorities in Leadenhall-street that it was intended to bring in a Bill entirely to change the nature of the Court of Directors. What the answer of the Court of Directors to that communication had been,
 1345 1346 l 1347 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1. 1348 l 1349 l. l "That this Court desires to express the opinion they have so repeatedly expressed, that some measure of publicity, to be exercised as a rule, not as a privilege, is necessary to preserve to the Directors, in the altered state of things, that degree of independence which they regard as necessary to perform their part in the government of India; and the Court entertain the confident expectation that Parliament will make suitable provision accordingly." 1350 l l 1351
 MR. HUME  said, he would submit to the House, that if a Minister in his place in Parliament made use of the authority of a public officer as the ground of a proceeding, he was bound to produce it; and
 1300
 MR. HUME : But it was on this authority the right hon. Gentleman took the course of introducing this Bill.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, that he felt the disadvantage of following on this occasion the able speech of the hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton (Sir J. W. Hogg), who had accurately described the position of several hon. Members, when he said they had parcelled out among themselves the various counts of the indictment against the East India Company; though he must say that, able as that speech unquestionably was, it had entirely failed to shake the case against the Company which had been made by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), and for Tavistock (Mr. Phillimore). He quite coincided, indeed, in one feeling which was expressed by the hon. Baronet towards the close of his speech—the desire that every possible information should be furnished to the public in connexion with the affairs of India. Having expressed that wish, he (Mr. Blackett) hoped the hon. Baronet would join with him in urging the strong complaints which, he thought, they had a right to make with respect to the very meagre information which Her Majesty's Government had laid before them. The 114th clause of the East India Company's Charter Act provided that the Indian accounts should be laid before Parliament within the first fourteen sitting days after the 1st of May. His hon. Friend the Secretary for the Treasury (Mr. Wilson), however, told him a few nights ago that for many years it had been found impossible to comply with that provision: that was, he admitted that for many years the East India Company had been in the habit of deliberately violating this Act—
 MR. BLACKETT  said, that he had then great fault to find with his hon. Friend the Secretary for the Treasury, who told him that it was impossible to comply with the provisions of the Charter Act. The hon. Baronet (Sir J. W. Hogg) disclaimed any wish on the part of the East India Company to keep back accounts or documents; but it was nevertheless a fact that certain accounts for the year 1852, to which Mr. Kaye had had access whilst writing his book, had not been laid on the table; and he thought they had a right to complain that the information which was given to the advocate of the Company, was not furnished to the House. Judging, however, from the documents which had been given to Members, the hon. Member for Manchester had not had much encouragement to proceed with his inquiries. It required much charity to suppose that the obscurity and mystification of the voluminous appendix to the second Report was quite unintentional. At page 320, Appendix 2, of the Commons Report of 1852, they had what purported to be the cost of the Indian home establishment. There were eight columns of figures, not one of them added up; the reason for which omission became very plain when they found that the total was 189,477 L. s. d. 1302 1303 1304 1305 L. 1306 L.; L., L. L., L. L. L., l l l l l 1307 l., l l. l l l l l l l l l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l l. l. l. l 1308 l 1309 l l. 1. 1. l. l. 1310 vis inertiæ 1311 l. 1312 1313 "One word as to the new arrangement which we propose with respect to patronage. It is intended to introduce the principle of competition in the disposal of writerships, and from this change I cannot but anticipate the happiest results. …It is proposed that for every vacancy in the civil service four candidates shall he named, and the host candidate be selected by examination. We conceive that under this system the persons sent out will be young men above par—young men superior either in talents or in diligence to the mass."—[3  Hansard, "There is one part of the Bill on which I feel myself irresistibly compelled to say a few words. I allude to that wise, that beneficent, that noble clause, which enacts that no native of our Indian empire shall, by reason of his colour, his descent, or his religion, be incapable of holding office. At the risk of being called by that nickname which is regarded as being the most opprobrious of all nicknames by men of selfish hearts and contracted minds—at the risk of being called a philosopher— I must say, that to the last day of my life I shall be proud of having been one of those who have
 1314 Hansard, 1315 l 1. l. "The present Charter Act has now been in force for 16 years, or four-fifths of its term, and no single native of India has been appointed to any of the covenanted services; the consequence is that the promise of the Charter Act is regarded by the natives of India as a mockery. It was not so intended by those who framed the Act." 1316 Code Napoleon 1317 "I state honestly and sincerely my conviction that it is most dangerous, with reference to our power and even financial prosperity in India, by our constant appropriations and resumptions of enams and rent-free lands, to lead the people at large to fear that we are really only anxious to make a government of officials on the one hand, and a nation of serfs on the other." "The strength of the British Government enables it to give to its subjects a degree of protection which those of no native Power enjoy. Its laws and institutions also afford them a security from domestic oppression unknown in those States; but these advantages are dearly bought. They are purchased by the sacrifice of independence, of national character, and of whatever renders a people respectable. The natives of the British provinces may without fear pursue their different occupations and enjoy the fruits of their labour in tranquillity; but none of them can aspire to anything beyond this mere animal state of thriving in peace; none of them can look forward to any share in the legislation or civil or military government of their country. The effect of this state of things is observable in all the British provinces, the inhabitants of which are certainly the most abject race in India. There is, perhaps, no example of any conquest in which the natives have been so completely excluded from all share of the government of their country as in British India." 1318
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIPPE  said, he would not press his Amendment to a division.
 MR. MOFFATT  objected to any distinction between the duty on currants and raisins, and moved, as an Amendment, that all currants imported into the kingdom be charged the same duty as raisins. He thought it unfair to levy a differential duty of 50 per cent against our own possessions, in favour of Spain and Turkey. The difference would be felt as a great grievance in the Ionian Islands, the staple produce of which was currants, the export duty on which was about one-fifth of their whole revenue. He trusted the Chancellor of the Exchequer would acquiesce in the justice of the Motion. The difficulty with respect to the revenue was sufficiently answered by the fact that since the Chancellor of the Exchequer stated that the loss by reducing the duty on raisins would be 70,000 l
 MR. MOFFATT  said, after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, he should not press his Amendment. s. d.
 MR. HUME  said he did not see why the duty was retained, as it interfered with the principle of free trade.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPS  regretted to say that there was no class in this country who laboured for so small a sum as the stockingers of Leicester and Nottingham. He was glad to find that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was disposed to apply the principle of protection at least to one class of the community.
 MR. HUME  said, that taunt was well deserved. He did not wish, however, to divide the Committee.
 MR. CARD WELL  reminded the hon. Gentleman that if foreign watches were cheaper in the home market, English watches enjoyed a greater reputation abroad. The question whether a new mark for gold of 12½ or 13 carats, should not be introduced, was under the consideration of the Board of Trade.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he wished to know whether they were to understand that a Commission as to the law of real property was to be issued as to Ireland?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, his first Amendment had remained on the paper by mistake. He had intended to make a Motion of that description, but being informed by Mr. Speaker that he could not make such a Motion consistently with the forms of the House, he abandoned it, and he now proposed that the writ should be suspended till the 20th of July. He was desirous, at the earliest possible period, of bringing forward a Motion for leave to bring in a Bill that all elections at Liverpool should be taken by ballot, and the earliest day he could make that Motion was the 19th of July, and he was desirous that the writ should be suspended till the House had had an opportunity of discussing that Motion. He was desirous of the elections being taken by ballot in Liverpool, not with a view of punishing that borough for corrupt practices, but that they might have experience of the ballot in a large constituency. He thought that would be a boon to the electors of Liverpool, and he believed there was throughout the country a wish that the ballot should be tried. Reference had been made in the recent debate on the ballot to the fact that at parochial contests in Marylebone the votes had lately been taken by ballot, and it was said that that did not prevent influence being exercised—
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he bowed to the decision of Mr. Speaker; but he must say that the course he was pursuing was one of constant occurrence.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  rose to order. The noble Lord was referring to a debate on another subject.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  seconded the Motion.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it was quite contrary to practice that Government should lay on the table private and unofficial communications. The statement referred to was not a public document, and could not, therefore, be produced to the House.
 MR. ARCHIBALD HASTIE  said, that as direct allusion had been made to him for having interrupted the hon. Gentleman, he would say he had done so because be had never heard such a tirade of fault-findings. But all he meant was to ask the hon. Gentleman what be intended to do, or what he wished to recommend, in order that India might be properly governed? Everything it was possible to say against the government of India for the last twenty years had been said, but no remedy had been suggested. As he represented a large manufacturing constituency, be was anxious, before the existing government was withdrawn, to understand the machinery that was to be substituted; but not a word had he heard upon the subject. Hon. Members had read tirades against the Indian Government, which came mainly from disappointed aspirants—some from lawyers, and others from editors of newspapers, who wrote to gain a livelihood; but not a single proof had been given. He was old enough to remember the first throwing open of the trade to India. In the year 1812 he was one among those who were called agitators and discontented, because they wanted to throw open the trade. It was thrown open in 1813, at which period the exports of cotton manufactures to India from this country amounted to only 130,000 l L. 1344
 MR. COWAN  said, he should have preferred the retention of a higher duty than that proposed; but he had no wish to divide the Committee, though he thought the manufacturer of paper had received very little consideration from successive Governments. They were still left under the odious thraldom of the Excise; but he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who adorned the office he so ably held, would ere long grant their entire emancipation.
 MR. COWAN  suggested the propriety of postponing it until they came to the consideration of the duty on foreign paper.
 MR. COWAN  said, that a statement had been made a short time ago that not one book out of three paid its expenses, and that not one pamphlet out of twenty was published without loss. This arose partly from the large amount of waste; and not long ago one publisher destroyed nearly 3,000 reams of paper in consequence of some error in the printing of a hook. Circulars had been received by the London booksellers from a company in Jersey, which had been formed for the purpose of printing at a lower rate than in London, which they would be able to do by saving the duty on paper. Persons abroad would have a decided advantage over the publishers at home, and under these circumstances he proposed that the rate of duty should be 1 l. s. d.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the noble Lord (Lord Dudley Stuart) was clearly irregular in his reference to what was said in that debate.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  remarked that
 1301
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that, in reply to his hon. Friend's questions, he had to say, in the first place, that he had certainly stated what Lord Dalhousie's opinion was, but that he did not state it was contained in a public despatch; on the contrary, the opinion to which he referred was not in a public despatch, and therefore he could not lay it on the table of the House. As to the other correspondence, it could be produced, if thought necessary.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, he would now move that a new writ be issued for the election of two Members for Liverpool, in the room of Mr. Turner and Mr. Forbes Mackenzie, who had been unseated on petition. He did not think it necessary to enter into the transactions of the last election. They underwent a most searching investigation before the Committee, and it would be sufficient for him to state the results to which the Committee bad arrived. The Committee found that refreshments were provided on the poll day at numerous public-houses where the voters had been directed to assemble for the purpose of being conveyed to the poll, but it did not appear that the treating that took place was of an extravagant character—that a number of the voters were bribed by the payment of 5 s. s. 941
 MR. J. WILSON  said, in reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman, that the subject was one of very considerable importance in relation to the present state of
 927 l., l. l. l. l. 928
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the instructions were ordered to be sent out to the Governors of the different islands by the next mail.
 MR. J. WILSON , being a freetrader, was not going to oppose the hon. Baronet's arguments, but would simply state the case. Hitherto the articles under consideration had been charged by the measure of the packages—an inconvenient mode. Now, not only had they reduced the duties, but they had also arranged to charge by the bushel; and, with regard to the rate fixed, they had seen a great many people connected with the trade, both wholesale and retail, who all thought the 8 d. 1353
 MR. BRIGHT  explained, that he had said he preferred nominees only without elected members; but that it would be unfortunate to have a Council entirely composed of persons who had resided in India.
 MR. TOLLEMACHE  said, he wished to know when these instructions were to be sent out?
 MR. TOLLEMACHE  said, he begged to ask the hon. Under Secretary of the Treasury a question on the subject of the Antigua loan, which loan had been advanced in consequence of an earthquake in that island. A letter had been addressed to the Chancellor of the Exchequer from a gentleman who was deeply interested in the question, in which he earnestly requested that it should be allowed, as a stipulation of this loan, that the same principle should be applied to it as had been applied to the repayment of advances made in this country for the drainage of estates —namely, the creation of a terminable rent-charge of 6½ per cent, by which the principle and interest would be paid off within the period of twenty-two years. He wished to know whether the Government were prepared to comply with the earnest request contained in that letter?
 SIR JOHN YOUNG : Yes.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he bad no objection to the second reading of the Bill; on the contrary, he thought the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Scully) was entitled to the thanks of the House for introducing it, and for the time and trouble he had bestowed upon its preparation. The subject was one of the greatest possible importance. It was important to all classes of the community, and he believed its operation would be to increase the value of the land to the seller, and to give security to the purchaser that he would not be disturbed in his pos-
 939
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he would, then, offer no objection. It was his object, as it was that of all parties in this country, to simplify the transfer of land, and to give security of title and facilities for sale; therefore, on the part of the Government, he certainly was not prepared to offer any opposition to the second reading of a Bill based on that principle.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he presumed the consent of the Government to the second reading did not pledge them as to their future course in regard to the Bill.
 MR. SPOONER  observed that by the 13  Geo. 1359
 MR. T. BARING  was glad to find the hon. Member had discovered that bankers and brewers, "and persons of that sort," were not as bad as he had once supposed them to be. It was gratifying to find that the hon. Member agreed with him in thinking there would be no wisdom in forming an administration from one class. Many persons would hesitate before giving in their adhesion to a government of lawyers; exception might even be taken to a mercantile administration; and, with due deference to the hon. Member for Manchester, he must express a doubt whether a cotton-spinners' administration would obtain general confidence. Persons who served in India for a considerable period usually returned with certain fixed ideas. They might have great knowledge of Indian, matters, but they lacked the knowledge which was essential in such a council—namely, of English affairs and English feelings—and sound sense, which could be acquired only by contact with English society and bodies of intelligent men in this country. If we were about to constitute the East India Company's electoral body, it, doubtless, would be possible to improve it; but, at any rate, it was not swayed by
 1323 1324
 MR. T. BARING  said, that his excuse for rising to trespass upon the attention of the House would be, that it was his wish not to detain them for any long time; for he felt that he had not the power which the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Blackett) seemed to think requisite to enable one to speak upon such a subject-— namely, "to swell the soul, and fire the imagination." As, however, it happened that he occupied the post of Chairman of the Committee which was now sitting upon Indian Affairs, he felt it his duty to offer some observations to the House. In the first place, then, he would state, that though the very last petition presented to that Committee prayed that legislation might
 1319 data 1320 1321 1322
 MR. BRAMSTON  appeared at the bar, and reported to the House that the Durham Election Committee had decided—
 "That Lord Adolphus Vane is not duly elected a Citizen to serve in this present Parliament for the City of Durham. "That the last Election for the said City is a Void Election." "That Lord Adolphus Vane was, by his agents, guilty of bribery at the last Election. "That it was proved to the Committee, that John Nicholson Atkinson was bribed by the payment of five pounds, but that it was not proved that such bribery was committed with the knowledge or consent of the Sitting Member."
 MR. SCULLY  said, he had mentioned the chief provisions of the Bill to the Solicitor General for England, and although he did not feel at liberty to state the views of that hon. and learned Gentleman, still he could say that he entirely approved of the Bill being referred to the Select Committee on the Registration of Assurances.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  rose to move the Second Reading of this Bill. Though a short it was a very important measure; and when the House gave him leave to introduce it a few weeks since, he stated that he reserved any statement which he might have felt called upon to make, until hon. Members should have had an opportunity of reading the measure. He had endeavoured to frame the Bill, which was one of a very comprehensive character, in language so simple that any person taking
 929 930 931 caveats 932 l., l. 933 Sophisms of Free Trade 934 Times "Day by day the opinion of mankind is tending more decidedly towards the abolition of the distinction between real and personal property. To* devise means by which land may be more easily transferred and rendered available for the purposes of commerce, is one of the greatest problems which can engage the attention of the statesman or philosopher." "Probably of all subjects connected with law reform there is none so important in itself and so eagerly desired by the nation as the simplification of the titles, and the facilitation of the transfer of land. It is felt that, by such a measure, the value of real property would be raised, and that not merely litigant parties, but every one possessed of an interest in the soil, would profit largely by the change…ֵThe belief is more and more gaining ground that the principle of our law of real property is radically and essentially faulty. That principle has been to fetter the land by saddling its title with every contract relating to its possession." Hero Worship, 935 936 l. l. 937 938 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that with regard to the hon. Member's proposal, that these articles should come in free, he thought that the hon. Gentleman had given several very good reasons for its being so, and that those very excellent reasons might likewise be applied to several articles, including tea. Not a word fell from the hon. Member which would not have equally applied to a proposal for taking the entire duty off tea; and though it would be a very desirable thing to set oranges free, they must condescend in this as in other cases to cut their coat according to their cloth. The question came to be this—do you think that in making the financial propositions of the year we have reserved too great a surplus of revenue? With operations of such extent as we are proposing, do you think the surplus too great? The reduction with regard to oranges and lemons was not insignificant in point of revenue. The produce of the duty, at present, was between 80,000 l l l. l. l l 1354
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was one thing what should be argued out of doors by those whose business it was to look at questions from a particular point of view, and to consider them abstractedly, and quite another thing
 1358
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the reason why he had thought it proper to retain a low duty upon stockings and gloves was, that these articles were made up in this country by a very poor and ill-paid class of people, with whom the House had always felt disposed to deal tenderly. The whole sum was very small; but if they refused to retain the low duty now proposed, they would have to go further and strike out a great many other duties. They could not afford to adopt such a course at present, and in his opinion their best plan was to go on gradually reducing duties from year to year, watching the effect of the changes they made, and shaping their course accordingly. It was more especially incumbent upon them to proceed with caution in dealing with the articles under discussion, inasmuch as they interfered with the labour of a class of people who were deserving of sympathy and encouragement, but who did not quite understand the philosophy of free trade.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, this question was one which entered into our treaties with foreign countries, and we must be prepared to alter our literary intercommunication with them if we tampered with books which were the subject of treaty.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought it undesirable to mix up the two questions. He did not think it desirable to levy any amount on books beyond what was necessary to cover the excise duty.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said it might be convenient if the duties charged were exactly adjusted to the subdivision of the coin; but a change at this moment in that respect might give way to another next year. The great question of a decimal coinage was now under serious consideration. A Committee was sitting to examine it, and many eminent men had expressed themselves strongly in favour of such a change, and it would be better to come to some conclusion on that point before readjusting the tariff.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  agreed in all the propositions laid down by his hon. Friend, but differed from him as to the application of those principles. For the same reasons, but applying with greater force, which governed the Committee on the last vote, he could not consent to a further reduction in the duty on currants. It was true the growth of currants was of immense importance to the commerce of the Ionian Islands; but that was not exactly a good argument for the reduction of our import duties. He admitted that nothing could be stronger than the claim of the Ionian Islands to a favourable consideration; but on the question of
 1355 s. L. l L. L
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  agreed with the hon. Member for Montrose, that the remission suggested would be a great boon to the poor, and trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on consideration, would be able to abolish these duties altogether.
 MR. CROSSLEY  expressed his surprise that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who he had always understood was a convert to free trade, should seek to retain a duty upon these articles. The right hon. Gentleman might say that the interests of the poor needlewomen of London required to be looked after; but that was the very reason why he wanted to see this protective duty removed altogether. He believed protection was an injury to them; and if the right hon. Gentleman did not agree with him in that opinion, he was not entitled to the name of a freetrader. He hoped the Committee would not continue protective duties on any kind of manufactured goods.
 MR. CAIRNS  drew the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the hardships of the paper makers arising out of the excise regulations, and suggested that the customs duty should be raised to 3 d.
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, that notwithstanding the arguments which had been urged, and the high authorities that had been cited, he had heard nothing that had shaken the conviction he had formerly expressed, that it would be more advisable to postpone legislation on India, at least until next year, than to pass such a measure as the right hon. Gentleman had proposed. From communications he had had with persons connected with India, especially with the British Association of India in Calcutta, in reference to the appointment of a fit person as their agent to promote their views, he satisfied himself upon this point—that there was no expectation
 1325 1326 igno tum in magnifico 1327 1328
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that he approved the change that had taken place in now charging them by the bushel; but he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer might have gone further than he had gone. Oranges and lemons deserved at least as much of his attention as apples, pears, or cherries, for they were enjoyed by the poor, and they did not interfere with any article of home growth; yet whilst those other articles were reduced one-half, oranges and lemons were reduced only about one-third. There was, on those grounds, no reason why he should deal with them otherwise than as he had dealt with other raw fruits; and, besides, it must be remembered that these were articles from foreign and distant lands—that there was a large and would be an increasing trade in them—and that the case was one in which all the advantages derivable from unrestricted trade would probably he derived. Whether, therefore, they looked upon these as articles not coming into competition with our own cottage and market gardens, or as a trade susceptible, by increased consumption, of considerable increase, cither way he thought they should be put on the same footing as the other fruits he had mentioned; and therefore his proposition was that the duty on them should be 6 d. d.
 MR. HUME  desired to know in what way the property of the country was to be registered for the purposes of the Act? He conceived that without a registry it would be impossible to secure the tax upon succession that was now proposed.
 Mr. HEADLAM  desired to know whether property vested in the Ecclesiastical Commissioners was to be entirely exempt, or whether any charge would be imposed on that description of property?
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether the funds left in certain cases for the payment of dissenting clergy would be put upon the same footing as the property of the clergy of the Establishment?
 MR. HUME  wished to ascertain whether funds provided for education and the payment of schoolmasters would come within the exemptions?
 CAPTAIN JONES  rose to move the rejection of so much of Clause 1 as imposes an addition of 8 d. 1388 s. d., d. s d. s. d. d., d. s. d.; s. d. s. d., s. 4d. 1389 l l l 1390 l Economist
 COLONEL DUNNE , as no Member of the Government would rise to meet the question which had been raised, must enter his protest against the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The effect of the proposed increase would inevitably be the increased consumption of illicit spirits, and, consequently, of the great demoralisation of the people of Ireland. For the last few years that country had been remarkable for its habits of temperance. But when corn was cheap, and the duty on spirits was high, it was impossible that the Government could prevent illicit distillation. He believed that the increased duties would not be worth the trouble of collection, and in a few years they would be obliged to follow the late Sir Robert Peel's course, and repeal those taxes. The men enlisted latterly in Ireland were of a much more sober character than they had been previously. He would refer particularly, as a proof of his assertion, to the gallant 88th Regiment, or Connaught Rangers. The hon. and gallant Member concluded by declaring his opposition to the measure of the Government.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, the question had been fully considered, and it was the opinion of the legal Gentlemen who had charge of the Bill that the office ought to be filled by a barrister. It was said that the Government desired to transfer patronage from the attorneys to the barristers, because the latter were, politically, more powerful. But the reverse was the fact, for attorneys were possessed of far greater
 1398
 MR. R. S. MOORE  also opposed the Amendment because it would exclude barristers from the office of taxing master. The question was, what would be best for the public and the suitors. It was best to have one of the officers a barrister and the other an attorney, but they ought to be placed perfectly upon a par.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  would have voted for the Amendment, had it been only to this effect, that the attorneys should be eligible; whereas it was to this extent, that they should be exclusively eligible. He denied that Irish barristers had their fair share of patronage in any department.
 MR. R. S. MOORE  then proposed an Amendment that the two masters should be placed on a par as to jurisdiction and powers.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he could not assent to this, as it would increase the salary of one of them. Moreover, this could not be done except in Committee.
 MR. I. BUTT  suggested that the Bill be recommitted for the purpose.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY , in the absence of Mr. George, moved an Amendment, that the yearly salary of the principal taxing officer should be 1,200 l l l l l l 1399 Standard. l l l l l l l
 MR. BROTHERTON  objected to this Amendment, as being an intended "pull at the Exchequer" on the part of the Irish Members. The duties which these officers had to discharge demanded no very high order of talent, and it should be remembered that part of their salaries came out of the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. WHITESIDE  complained that the arrangement recommended by public commissioners twenty-five years ago, to the effect that there should be two taxing officers, at salaries of 1,200 l 1400
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  approved of the distinction that was drawn by the Bill between the superior and the subordinate taxing officer—a distinction which was based upon a difference in the importance of their respective duties. He thought, however, that the principal officer's salary ought not to be less than 1,200 l
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  defended the original proposal of the Bill, fixing the salaries of the two taxing officers at 1,000 l l
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY , in reply, stated that the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Young) was mistaken in supposing that the costs taxed by the Irish taxing officer were less than 100,000 l l l
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that the distillers would not object to the increased duty on spirits if they were allowed to distil from malt.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, the House would feel indebted to the right hon. Gentleman for the very explicit statement he had made with respect to corporate property. He wished, however, to ask the right hon. Gentleman two or. three questions on the subject: first, he should like to know whether the proposal for imposing this tax upon corporations would form a part of the Succession Duties Bill now before the House, or whether it would come before them as a separate and distinct measure; and, if it was intended to introduce the proposal into the present measure, at what stage of the Bill it would be most convenient to bring forward the clause? He wished to know, also, whether, among the corporations aggregate liable to this tax, the right hon. Gentleman included municipal corporations in general, which, as the right hon. Gentleman would be aware, were possessed of very considerable property, though now that property was applied to public purposes. The last question he would ask was, as to how this tax upon corporations was intended to affect the corporation of the city of London?
 MR. SERJEANT MURPHY  said, he understood the allowance for waste was not to be made till after the passing of the Bill, while the increase of duty had already taken effect. As the one was considered as a set-off against the other, he thought the allowance ought to take place at the same time with the increase.
 MR. BAILLIE  could not believe that a Gentleman usually so well versed in statistics as the hon. Member for Glasgow (Mr. Macgregor) had upon the present occasion consulted them, otherwise he could never have stated that it was a matter of little importance to the people of Scotland that an additional duty of 2s. or 1s. per gallon upon spirits should be imposed. For, had
 1391 d.
 MR. BAILLIE : But if the hon. Member imagined that there was no illicit distillation now going on in Scotland, he was very much mistaken. Why, it was only last winter that a very large still had been discovered in the woods near his own residence, at which no less than sixteen men were engaged; and when the officers of excise made an attempt at seizure, they met with a defeat, and the distillation was still carried on.
 MR. M'CANN  candidly confessed that he was not opposed to this small increase of duty upon Irish spirits. He, however, implored of the Government not to employ that admirable force the constabulary in
 1393
 MR. GEORGE  complained that no answer had been given to Colonel Jones's statistics. The question had not been considered as one of Irish taxation at all. The important consideration was whether the proposed increase would have the effect of increasing or diminishing the revenue from Irish spirits. A tabular statement for the last 21 years showed that the amount of duty and the amount of revenue realised, were exactly in an inverse ratio to each
 1394 vice versâ. l l l
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  wished to explain that though illicit distillation went on in Scotland, it proceeded to a much greater extent in London, where the duty levied was much higher.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  admitted that an increase did then take place in the amount of illicit distillation.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he wished to see all spirit duties equalised, wherever the article was produced, whether the increase was 1 s. s.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, having given some considerable attention to this question, he had laid it down as a maxim, that from spirits and other articles, not being those of necessity, they should raise the highest possible duty. The principle that he went upon was to levy the same duty on all spirits, wherever produced, and from wherever imported. With regard to Ireland, he should like to see the duty raised to 5 s, s.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  admitted that great caution ought to be, and no doubt would be, used in employing the ordinary police for the collection of revenue. At present, no resolution had been come to of the kind which the hon. Gentleman supposed. He concurred with the hon. Gentleman in thinking that the Irish constabulary had the general confidence of the people; and this was owing to their uniform good conduct. The practice of illicit distillation had not at any time prevailed generally over Ireland. In some large counties—Meath, for instance—there had been scarcely any. It had been for the most part confined to the poorer and more hilly districts, where oats were extensively grown, and the people were generally poor. The want of roads in those districts had also stimulated illicit distillation, but in the last 20 years much had been done to remedy this. The people were now enabled to bring their oats to market, and there was no necessity for them to resort to illicit distillation. There were good grounds to hope that this very small increase of duty might be safely made. A few years ago there was great excitement about allowances being made for waste in bond; and it was said that if the distillers had this concession made, they were quite ready to submit to a shilling duty. This had been done; and taking the allowance at an average of 2 d. d., d.
 MR. M'MAHON  dissented totally from the doctrine of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and of the two hon. Gentlemen who last addressed the House. He (Mr. M'Mahon) contended that the imposition of this tax was for the purpose of carrying out the one-sided system of free trade, which enabled the manufacturers of this country to protect their own manufactures against foreign and colonial competition by high duties; to sell those manufactures in the dearest market, and then to buy the produce of agricultural labour—in a market cheapened to the lowest possible point by unlimited competition with foreign and colonial producers. Freedom of trade was a very good thing, but freedom of tillage was equally good. The whole system of free trade had tended to favour the foreign at the expense of the home producer. Throughout the whole Budget of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, no remission of duty was made to the agri-
 1392 l
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, the Scotch distillers enjoyed a great advantage over the Irish distillers in the matter of the drawback. In 17 years the former had received drawbacks to the amount of no less than 4,248,584 l l
 MR. WALPOLE  had understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say that he was going to bring in a similar measure to that by which property was liable to succession duty on the death of the owner, and that by a separate Bill the right hon. Gentleman was about to render corporate property and property in the hands of trustees, also, liable. He wished to ask whether the exemption of corporate property would begin at the same amount as the exemption contained in the Bill before the House, where parties succeeded upon the death of another? He saw that in the Bill before the House the amount at which the exemption was to commence was to be left in blank; and he wished to know whether, in the separate Bill, the amount would be the same, whatever it might be. The question was one of great importance in reference to the property of the smaller charities vested in trustees. Perhaps the right hon. Gentleman could state whether a similar exemption was to be made in respect to property held by the trustees of the small charities; and, if so, at what sum the exemption was to be considered as commencing?
 SIR TIMOTHY O'BRIEN  said, it was the practice of the Scotch distillers to ship their whisky to Ireland, and get the drawback there; the spirit remained in the warehouse perhaps ten years, and the distiller enjoyed the advantage all that time.
 1396
 SIR TIMOTHY O'BRIEN  asked whether any drawback would be allowed on the spirits that were now in bond, and for waste that had occurred previous to the passing of the Act?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was quite impossible to give the drawback any retrospective effect.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  explained that as the Bill was to allow only for the actual waste, that presupposed a close inspection of the spirits according to prescribed regulations, which could not be made till after the passing of the Bill. The Government was open, however, to a reconsideration of the question if any means could be shown by which the revenue would not be injured.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in answer to the hon. Member for Dublin, that the rule adopted with regard to foreign or colonial spirits might be a very good one for the Customs, and yet not suited for the Excise.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would now state the principle on which he proposed to allow for the waste in spirits. He understood from the hon. Member for Dundalk (Mr. Bowyer) that the Irish distillers complained they did not receive the same allowance for waste that the foreign and colonial distillers received. Now, that was not a very rational complaint, because much depended not only upon the nature of the spirit, but also upon the vessel in which the spirit was kept. If there were any difficulty in ascertaining the waste of home spirits, that might be a good reason for adopting the rule laid down in the case of foreign and colonial spirits; but, in truth, there was no difficulty whatever. The maximum allowance for waste provided for in the Bill was one gallon in the 100, and he could state, from a return he held in his hand, that during the quarter ending the 5th of January, 1853, out of 2,000,000 of gallons distilled by eleven distillers in England, the officers of excise had ascertained that the actual waste of spirits was one-third per cent. In Scotland, for the same period, out of 1,250,000 gallons, the waste was one-eighth per cent, and in Ireland, out of 1,500,000 gallons, the waste was one-fifth per cent. That being the case, and seeing there was no difficulty in ascertaining the facts, it was thought far better to ascertain the actual amount rather than resort to any imaginary standard, such as that of the home and colonial spirits.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the Members of the Committee, and especially Irish Members, would bear in mind the emphatic testimony to the moderation of his proposition which had been borne by the hon. Member for Glasgow. No doubt it was very difficult to make this question of spirit duties at all intelligible to the unitiated; he hardly knew a more hopeless task. A cruel contest had long been raging between Ireland and Scotland on the subject of the malt drawback enjoyed by the latter. He be-
 1395
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he thought, after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, it would be convenient to the House to commence the discussion which he had stated his intention to raise on going into Committee upon Monday next. He had only now to discharge a pledge which he had formerly given to the House, that he would on the second reading of the Bill state generally the proposals which Government intended to make with respect to corporate bodies. The Government were of opinion that, on the one hand, it was obviously just
 1381 d. 1382 d. 1383 1384
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the  minimum
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the question of the hon. Member for Montrose was, no doubt, an important one, and should receive the full attention of the House, and ample discussion during whatever debates might take place on the Bill. When asked on a former night whether it was intended by the Government that the Registry of Assurances Bill should be pressed upon the House, in order to have it passed into a law, to become the basis of this measure, he answered in the negative, and he now repeated that answer. The Government did not think it was necessary that there should be any general registration of property with a view to this Bill; their belief was that the tax which they meant to impose might be efficiently collected without any such general registration of property as the hon. Member referred to. Therefore, whatever course the Government had taken with reference to
 1386
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , taking the questions of the hon. and learned Gentleman in the inverse order in which they had been put, would first state that, with respect to the corporation of the city of London, the Bill would not make any distinction between the case of the city of London and other municipal corporations. Upon the other question put by the hon. and learned Gentleman, he thought he had stated, with respect to municipal corporations, that they would be brought under the action of this plan much as they were under the Act for levying the income tax—that they would be liable to pay the tax upon their realised property, but not upon the revenue derived from their taxing powers. With respect to the third question of the hon. and learned Gentleman, the view of the Government was, that it-would be decidedly more convenient to deal with this subject in a separate Bill, because the whole of the present Bill was founded upon the one idea of succession in consequence of death. That idea was not applicable to corporations; any clause applying to them would assume a different form from the rest of the measure, and it would be therefore more convenient that the subject should be treated in a separate Bill. That Bill he hoped to be in a condition to lay upon the table of the House in a few days.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was no general exemption of a provision for the purposes of education, in consequence of the difficulty they would have in framing the measure. They should be obliged to let in all eleemosynary cases, and the construction given to it would be so wide that the whole of the corporate property might escape.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that where there was an endowment for the purposes of a religious community other than the Established Church, which could be assimilated to that of a corporation sole, the same benefit would be extended, quite irrespective of the question what these religious denominations might be. In cases where the funds were held by trustees the matter was one of difficulty; but the Government would come as near as they could to the principle that where property was left to religious communities,  bond fide
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the question reminded him of an omission in his statement. The proposal of the Government would be that all ecclesiastical corporations aggregate should be liable to the tax; but the revenues of the Ecclesiastical Commission having been cut and parcelled into small amounts, or rather into given and definite amounts, which were limited as the provision for certain offices, he thought it clear that this property fell under the description, which the Government considered as attaching to the revenues of the corporations sole. Any portion, therefore, of the property which might be detached from
 1387
 MR. GROGAN  said, there was great dissatisfaction among the distillers on this point, and he could not understand why, if the actual waste was so easy to be ascertained, the same rule was not applied to foreign and colonial spirits.
 MR. BOWYER  said, there was a committee of distillers who sat last year who gave it as their opinion that, as a general rule, it would be impossible to ascertain the exact amount of waste.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , said that it had been his intention to resist the second reading of the Bill, and to have moved the usual amendment that it should be read a second time that day six months, because entertaining strong objections to it upon principle, he had intended to have availed himself of this the proper opportunity for opposing it on principle. But after what had occurred, he did not intend to adopt that course. He found that, in consequence of the manner in which this Bill had been postponed, his friends on that side of the House—not being at all aware when it would come on—had not anticipated its discussion until the schedules were prepared, and were therefore not now ready to enter upon it. Having consulted several of his friends who desired to express their opinions on the principle of the Bill, he thought that it would not be convenient to take the discussion that night, but to allow the Bill to be read a second time without opposition, distinctly reserving to themselves the right to discuss the principle of the Bill on the Motion that the Speaker do leave the chair, in order that the House might go into Committee upon the measure. He hoped there would be no misunderstanding as to the day when that debate would come on—that they would have that fair notice of it to which the House was entitled, and that in the meantime the schedules would be printed and distributed.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said he wished to ask the right hon. Secretary at War a question with respect to the case of a sentinel who was convicted by the magistrates of Portsmouth for having, while in the discharge of his duty, committed an assault; and, affecting as it did the character of magistrates, the House would perhaps allow him to give some explanation. The right hon. Gentleman had, in answer to a question which was put to him upon this subject a few days since by an hon. and gallant Member, stated that upon consideration he had thought it right to direct that a fine which had been imposed upon the soldier should be paid out of the public funds. That decision of the right hon. Gentleman, of course, by no means implied a reflection upon the decision of the magistrates; but in the report of his speech the right hon. Gentleman was stated to have declared that he considered the decision of the magistrates to have been erroneous. Under these circumstances, it was a serious reflection upon them that in the performance of their duties, they had given an erroneous decision; and, besides, in a place like Portsmouth, where they had to stand between the military and the civil powers, it would materially diminish their usefulness if such an opinion from so influential a quarter should go forth without some explanation. He wished, therefore, to ask
 59
 MR, CHARLES S. BUTLER  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department a question relating to the sewerage of a densely-populated district, of which he had given notice. 60
 MR, T. DUNCOMBE  said, that he regretted that there should exist any neces-
 62
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman should have felt it his duty to oppose the principle of this Bill; for though the right hon. Gentleman bad criticised some of the features of the measure, and complained of the inquisitorial character of its machinery, yet the Motion he made had not for its object to redress any portion of its alleged injustice, or to soften the rigour of its machinery, hut to negative all further proceeding with the Bill, and to put on record a protest against the imposition of any tax whatever on successions. He was the more surprised at a Motion of this kind, especially coming from the right hon. Gentleman who had been a Member of a Cabinet which had come to a determination to propose the imposition of a tax similar to the present. ["No, no!"] The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), speaking in the name of the late Government, said—
 "We have not neglected carefully to examine the question of the stamp duties and the probate duties, and we think it not impossible to bring forward, on the right occasion, a duty on successions that will reconcile contending interests, and terminate the system now so much complained of."—(3  Hansard,
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he did not know exactly what the contradiction of the right hon. Gentleman applied to. All he wished to insist upon was, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the Government of which the' right hon. Gentleman was a Member, made the statement which he had just read in the name of that Government; and it appeared to him plainly to intimate that they intended to propose a measure of this kind. He regretted that the right hon. Gentleman should have made the present Motion, not because he thought it would retard the passing of the Bill, which had been sanc-
 78 79 l l l
 MR, APSLEY PELLATT  said, the general feeling among his constituents was that the Budget of the present Chancellor of the Exchequer far exceeded in value that of any former Minister, Whig or Tory, for many years past. A meeting had been held in the borough which he represented (Southwark), and, although there was some dissatisfaction expressed at the tax upon licences, yet his constituents were reconciled to what they considered the defects of the Budget, by finding the burden made to fall upon shoulders that had for so many years contrived to escape it. His constituents thought the financial scheme of the right hon. Gentleman eminently entitled to be called the Poor Man's Budget. [ Laughter. 102
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he would now beg to move that a new writ be issued for the borough of Sligo.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he must remind the House that the decision of the Committee on the Sligo election was come to as many as ten days ago. The only ground on which the issue of the writ could be contested was, that the Committee had reported that bribery had existed; but all they reported upon that head was, that a person was promised the amount of an outstanding election account if he refrained from giving his vote; but that promise, the Committee said, was not proved to have been made with the knowledge or consent of Mr. Towneley, the Member. He, therefore, rested his Motion on the constitutional right of the parties, unaffected as they were by the law, or by the finding of the Committee. He was, however, willing to adjourn the debate until Thursday, in order that the evidence might be placed in the hands of Members. He disregarded the intimidation at the election, because he considered the sitting Member was not to be made responsible for that, and that it did not affect the issuing of the writ.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he felt called upon to express his opinion that though it did not necessarily follow that because the evidence was not printed the writ should be suspended, yet in the present case there were circumstances of a special nature. The same Member had been twice unseated in succession for bribery and corruption; and, in addition to that circumstance, there was a special Report relating to intimidation. Now, without wishing to establish the present case as a precedent in any other, he must say that the circumstances in this instance were special in their character, and fully warranted the application for the further postponement of the issue of the writ.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the rule of the House was, that seven days' notice should be given before the issuing of the new writ. The House was now called upon to establish a new rule, to the effect that when the Member was unseated for bribery or treating, no new writ should issue until the evidence taken before the Committee was printed. This rule made the issuing of the writ to some extent dependent upon the caprice or convenience of the printer.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that perhaps the House would recollect that when the hon. and gallant Member (Col. Dunne) asked his question with reference to this affair, he commenced it by stating that there had been an affray between a sentinel and a carter, who was endeavouring to take his cart across a place where instructions had been given that no heavy weights should traverse; and that the carter had struck the sentinel in the first instance. He (Mr. Herbert) took the liberty of correcting that statement, because it appeared to him, on the balance of evidence-—there being a dispute upon the subject—that the sentinel was the person who struck the first blow. He could not, however, have cast any imputation on the magistrates, because it was no part of his duty to act as a court of appeal on their decisions, and he was too well aware of the difficulty of judging from reading depositions of evidence that had been given  vivâ voce
 MR. W. E. DUNCOMBE  said, it had been proved distinctly that the landed property of the country had been exempted from the tax upon succession in consequence of the large additions which had been made made to local taxation. When, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer asked, why real property should not be dealt with in the same manner as personalty, he quite omitted to go through that long catalogue of rates and taxes to which that species of property was exclusively subjected. The right hon. Gentleman also stated that he extended the legacy duties to real property, in order to counterbalance the inequalities of the income tax; but he (Mr. Duncombe) was utterly unable to see how such a determination could tally with any degree of justice with his own acknowledgment, that the land of the country was charged as high as 9d. in the pound for income tax, while every other species of property was rated at but 7 d. 114
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he thought that the settlement of the general question of savings banks would pave the way for the compensation which his friends the Members for Dublin asked for.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, that, in consequence of the haste in which the notice of the issue of the writ had been given after the presentation of the Report, there had been barely seven days' notice of the Motion.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury (Mr. T. Duncombe) had given notice that he would On the following day make a Motion with respect to the occupation of Rome by French troops, and of certain other parts of Italy by Austrian troops. In the present state of public affairs, the discussion of such a Motion would be attended with inconvenience, and he hoped, therefore, that the hon. Member would consent to postpone it.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman who moved the Amendment (Sir J, Pakington) spoke with great vehemence upon the subject of this Bill, and seemed inclined to lead the House away from the simple question of its justice or the reverse, and to induce us to partake somewhat in the passion and warmth of feeling which he displayed on the subject. I am glad, however, to see that the speech of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has tended greatly to calm the temper of the House, and to bring us down to that tone of sober equanimity in which we can consider fairly what is the question before the House. It appears to me, Sir, that there really is very little cause for the Warmth which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) showed on this occasion. I think that the question itself—I am not now speaking of the clauses of the Bill before the House, but the question itself—that is, whether We shall now go into Committee on a Bill of this nature, is not one of a very difficult or Complicated character. For a consider able time past this House has been in the habit of hearing expressions in favour of a revision of taxation. These expressions have come from a part of this side of the House, and hare been echoed by hon Gen-
 109 110 111 112 l 113
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Orders were sent to the British Ambassador at Constantinople, giving him power under certain limitations, and in accordance with certain instructions, to call up the British fleet; and orders were likewise sent, by a different course, to the British Admiral at Malta, directing him to proceed to Besika Bay.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I have to state, in answer to the question of my hon. Friend, that the announcement contained in the  Moniteur Moniteur.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, an announcement has appeared in the  Moniteur, 58
 MR. DISRAELI : Perhaps the noble Lord will tell us whether the instructions were given directly to the British Admiral at Malta, or to the Ambassador at Constantinople?
 MR. GEACH  said, he would not oppose the second reading of the Bill, hut he hoped he would not be precluded thereby from opposing many of the provisions of the Bill which he thought objectionable.
 MR. DIVETT  said, he thought the best way of meeting the justice of the case was by acceding to the proposition of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston). Although great corruption was proved to prevail in the borough, yet he did not think the character of the borough was so seriously affected as to warrant the suspension of the writ.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, that in calling the attention of Her Majesty's Government to the habitual imprisonment of shipwrecked sailors and other British subjects, being persons of colour, by the authorities of South Carolina, he begged to move for copies of all correspondence on the subject with Her Majesty's Consul at Charleston. The law of South Carolina was, that no free person of colour should by any pretence enter that State; if they did, they were to be brought before a magistrate and give bail to quit the country within fifteen days. If they did not, they were then subject to corporal punishment, or to be sold as slaves. This and other equally stringent enactments, were, in his opinion, an outrage not only against the usages but against the rights of man as recognised by the universal world. It was not for the honour of a nation holding itself so high as America did, that it should act towards other nations in the spirit in which South Carolina acted. But this conduct was not only against the law of civilised nations, but was in direct contravention of treaties entered into between the Supreme Government of the United States and of Canada. The British Government had several times remonstrated strongly against the continuance of this law; and in 1850 Mr. Mathew was appointed consul at Charleston, and that gentleman, in his representations to the authorities of South Carolina, had dwelt strongly upon the injustice to which British subjects were exposed in consequence. What they asked of the State of South Carolina, had already been accorded by another State, and he was inclined to think that the Legislature of South Carolina had to a certain extent admitted the justice of the demand, and, if properly pressed, would doubtless grant the request made to them. The correspondence for which he moved would show that Mr, Mathew had discharged the duties he had been called upon to perform in connexion with this subject with great credit to himself and honour to the country which employed him.
 MR. H. HERBERT  thought the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Vance) was defeating his Own object by opposing the second reading of the Bill. If he wished the Bill to have a retrospective operation, the proper course was to allow the Bill to be read a second time and to move a clause in Committee to carry out his object.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he should move as an Amendment, that the writ be suspended for a fortnight, in order that Members may have an opportunity of seeing the evidence taken before the Committee, and which the House had directed to be printed. In making this Motion, he believed that he was adhering to what had been—with one exception, and that a most questionable one —the invariable practice of the House. He referred more particularly to the cases of Bridgenorth and Blackburn, in both of which there appeared to have been less ground for postponement than in the pre-
 126 "That the said Charles Towneley was, by his agents, guilty of bribery and treating at the last Election for the Borough of Sligo. "That Jeremiah Joyce O'Donovan, an Alderman of the Borough of Sligo, was bribed by Henry Stonor, by the promise of payment of 103 l., "That it was not proved that the acts of bribery and treating were committed with the knowledge and consent of the said Charles Towneley. "That the influence of the Roman Catholic priests was exercised in a manner inconsistent with their duty as ministers of religion, and destructive of freedom of choice on the part of the voters." 127
 MR. I, BUTT  said, that he understood the evidence could not be produced earlier than a fortnight. Adopting the precedent established in the case of Harwich, he wished to move that the writ should not issue for a fortnight. He should therefore move that the debate be adjourned to that day fortnight.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that after what had fallen from the noble Lord, he would not persist in his Motion.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he had attended to the newspaper reports of the proceedings before the Committee, and he was perfectly
 131
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Newcastle seemed less willing to undertake a defence of the measure, than to borrow for it the sanction of Lord Derby's Government, and at the same time to impart to his (Mr. Freshfield's) right hon. Friend, who had so ably supported the Amendment now before the House, the inconsistency of opposing a plan which the late Government, of which he was a Member, contemplated as proper to be proposed to Parliament; and it was not the first time the taunt had proceeded from opposite benches, but he (Mr. Freshfield) must say, with very slight, if any, foundation. It was true that in December last his right hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, near the end of one of the most splendid speeches which it had been his pleasure to hear, having fully treated of all the measures embraced by his Budget, said that the Government—
 "had not neglected carefully to examine the question of the stamp duties and the probate duties; [adding] and we think it not impossible to bring forward on the right occasion a duty on successions, that will reconcile contending in-
 80 Hansard, ad valorem 81 Geo. 82 ad valorem Geo. 83 That it will be expedient to this House at an early period to resolve itself Into a Committee of the whole House, for the purpose of considering the Act 55  Geo,  l l l 84 l s d. "A legacy duty was in its nature a peculiarly offensive and oppressive duty, operating as it did at times when families were suffering distresses,
 85 86 "Every past or future disposition of property by means whereof any person has or shall become beneficially entitled to any property, or the income thereof, upon the death of any person dying after the term appointed for the commencement of this Act, either immediately, or after any interval, either certainly, or contingently, and either originally, or by way of substitutive limitation, and every devolution by law of any beneficial interest, or property, or the income thereof, upon the death of any person dying after the time appointed for the commencement of this Act." 87 "Any person wilfully making a false statement to the Commissioners in relation to any account, (not merely to any account which might and probably would be something definite, but to any ac-
 88 89
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that with every respect for the hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie), he must deny that there was any such rule known in the practice of the House; that on no other ground but that of bribery being reported could the House suspend the issue of a writ. In former times, when intimidation had been proved, not only had the House suspended the writ, but had sent the guilty parties to gaol; and, in his opinion, the fittest thing the House could now do would be to send to gaol the parties mentioned in the Report of the Sligo election as having been guilty of corrupt practices. He trusted the hon. Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley), who was so anxious to prosecute a gallant gentleman, Sir Frederick Smith, for having sought for a Post-office post for one of his constituents, would bring forward a similar Motion in respect to the Sligo alderman and magistrate named in the Report. As the House had ordered the evidence to be printed, in order that Members might be informed on the subject, he conceived the writ ought in the meantime to be suspended.
 MR. VANCE  said, as bribery as well as priestly intimidation was proved to have existed at the election, he thought the writ,
 128
 MR. VANCE  said, he must object to the second reading without a full statement of the purposes and objects of the measure,
 125
 MR. MULLINGS  said, if the question raised by this Bill had been confined to the imposition of a legacy duty upon landed property, he should have been among the first to give it his support. But when he considered the nature of the proposed tax, that it was a tax upon all real and personal property, settled and unsettled, upon property settled by past and present and future documents, and the evils which would arise from it, he could not but feel alarm and apprehension. He should consider the Bill briefly under three heads: first, the nature, operation, and consequence of the tax;
 92 ex post facto ad valorem l l l l 93 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 3,166,666 l l l d. l l l 94 post mortem, very 95 "The Commissioners, for the purpose of ascertaining the duty payable upon any succession, may require any accountable party to afford to them such information as they may deem necessary, and also to produce before them or their officers such books and documents in the custody or control of such party as may be capable of affording any necessary information for that purpose, and they may make such extracts therefrom, and copies thereof, as they shall think necessary for the purposes of this Act." d. l 96
 MR. M. O'CONNELL  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. R. M. FOX  said, he wished to know whether the hon. and learned Gentleman intended to refer the matter to a Select Committee?
 MR. R. M. FOX  said, he could not see why the writ should be suspended, unless by the established rule of the House. He hoped his hon. and learned Friend would not give way.
 MR. SOTHERON  said, that as the Statements of the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) might be made on going into Committee, he hoped the House would allow the Bill to be read a second time then.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  moved the adjournment of the debate until that day week. In the meantime, the evidence would be printed, and in the hands of hon. Members. This course would fully satisfy every legitimate view that had been urged on either side. The issuing of the writ in the present case had been already delayed for a period of seven days, in compliance with
 130
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said it was a measure about which many persons felt particularly anxious; but it would be unreasonable in him, after the long debate they had just had, to detain the House with any statement of its general objects, the more so as he did not believe there was any intention to contest its principles. He wished to be governed by what might appear to be the general wish of the House, but he would suggest that the more convenient course would be to read the Bill a second time now, and to allow some time to elapse before the Committee, when he would propose to take the discussion.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had several times brought the subject of the exemption of real property from legacy duty before the House, and he had pointed out the great injustice of levying the tax upon personal property alone. He had shown that out of 26,400 persons, whose wills paid the legacy duty, in 1848, 17,600 left property of from 20 l l l s. d. l 97 l l l l l l Laughter. l l 98
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, he was anxious to avail himself of this opportunity to make a few brief observations as to the policy and justice of this measure, which the right hon. Gentleman had justly termed the pivot of his financial arrangements. He would preface his remarks by saying, that it was far from his wish to claim for the landed interest any exclusive privileges which were unshared by the other classes of the community; but, at the same time, he was prepared to contend, that in the revision of taxation which had been alluded to by the noble Lord the Member for London, it was the bounden duty, not only of the Government, but of that House, to provide, that all the great interests of the country should be placed on a footing of the most perfect equality. It was hardly possible to exaggerate the importance of the Bill now before the House: the amount which the right hon. Gentleman expected to realise by its adoption afforded no criterion of its real importance; because it was obvious that if the principle was once admitted, the amount was susceptible of
 115 d. 116 minimum Vict., C 117 l 500 l l 118 l l Will, 119 l 120 121
 MR. GROGAN  said, he hoped the appeal of his hon. Colleague (Mr. Vance) would meet with the attention of the House.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON,  in explanation, said he had throughout the whole of his observations drawn a marked distinction between rateable and personal property.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must give the most distinct contradiction to that statement. They had made no such proposal.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON,  in rising to more the Amendment of which he had given notice, said that on a former occasion be had referred not only to this tax, but still more to the machinery by which it was proposed to enforce it, in terms of the strongest possible disapprobation. He believed that if that House consented to pass this measure in the shape in which the Government now submitted it, they would abandon the first duty they owed to those who sent them to Parliament. If, however, the measure were to be forced upon the House'—if the opponents of the Bill were powerless to prevent its becoming the law of the land, and would thereby be prevented from saving the people of this country from its most objectionable machinery, it would be at least a satisfaction to place their opposition on record. He had already had to thank the House for its indulgent attention whilst, at considerable length, be stated his objections to the measure; but a long time bad elapsed since the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed the Resolution on which the Bill was founded. His (Sir J. Pakington's) speech on the former occasion was in reply to the observations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer enforcing the
 63 64 65 ex post facto ex post facto 66 67 l l l l l 68 l l 69 l l l l s. l l l s. 70 d. 71 72 73 "A full and true account of the property, for the duty whereon they shall respectively be accountable, and the value thereof, and of the deductions claimed by them, together with the names of the successor and predecessor, and their relation to each other, and all such other particulars as shall be necessary or proper for enabling the Commissioners fully and correctly to ascertain the duties due." "And the Commissioners," [proceeded the clause] "if dissatisfied with such account and estimate, to cause an account and estimate to be taken by any person or persons to be appointed by themselves for that purpose, and to assess the duty on the footing of such last-mentioned account and estimate, subject to appeal, as hereinafter provided; and if the duty so assessed shall exceed the duty assessable according to the return made to the Commissioners, and with which they shall have been dissatisfied, and if there shall be no appeal against such assessment, then it shall be in the discretion of the Commissioners, having regard to the merits of each case, to charge the whole or any part of the expenses incident to the taking of such last-mentioned account and estimate on the interest of the successor in respect whereof the duty shall be due, in increase of such duty, and to recover the same forthwith accordingly; and, if there shall be an appeal against such last-mentioned assessment, then the payment of such expenses shall be in the discretion of the court of appeal hereinafter appointed." 74 75 76
 Sir JOHN SHELLEY  said, he should
 129
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down argued this measure as if it were only one that affected gentlemen who were in possession of extensive estates. Now, as the representative of a county where there was, perhaps, the largest number of small proprietors in England, he hoped the House would bear with him for a very few minutes, while he endeavoured to state their case. The hon. Gentleman said the general taxation of the country amounted to 75,000,000 l l l 99 in capite; quietus 100 101 maximum
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he regretted that he had been compelled to be absent from the House when the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed his measures, for he must have derived some advantage from hearing those proposals expounded by the right hon. Gentleman himself. The right hon. Gentleman, in introducing his financial statement, had dwelt on the necessity of dealing with this question sooner or later. It required, said that right hon. Gentleman, a very limited degree of political foresight to see, that, in the course of some two or three years at the furthest, this tax must inevitably, by sheer force of public opinion, be enforced against the landed interest, But he (Sir J, Walsh) could not help thinking that the right hon. Gentleman was acting under a pressure of a far more urgent character than that to which he alluded, He could not help thinking, with the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich, (Sir J. Pakington), that the existence of the present Ministry depended upon the introduction of this measure. It was well known that the appeal made to the country by the Government of Lord Derby had failed in placing them in a majority in that House; and in consequence of the arrangements which followed their retirement from office, the present Ministry came into power. Now, there was a party of Gen-
 103 104 l 105 106 107 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 108
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  said, he could not see how the distinction had been made out. The right hon. Gentleman alluded to the alleged injustice of charging this duty upon timber grown for ornament, and he had dwelt upon the excessive cruelty of making this species of property pay legacy duty, on the ground that it was not grown for profit. But the right hon. Gentleman entirely overlooked the case of hereditary diamonds and plate. These paid duty upon successions, and would continue to pay it so long as the legacy tax remained. The right hon. Gentleman, in justifying his opposition to the present Bill, had relied upon
 91
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  said, he could not avoid remarking the strangeness of the contradiction made by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington), to the statement made by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Newcastle-upon-Tyne (Mr. Headlam). His hon. and learned Friend cited the speech of the late Chancellor of the Exchequer from  Hansard. 90
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the question, bearing upon a very important matter, was one of great difficulty, and he was afraid with regard to an early remedy that difficulty was insuperable. There was
 61
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he did not wish to enter into the merits or demerits of the last election for Sligo. He believed it would be better for the House to abstain from entering upon that question until the evidence of the Committee was in the hands of hon. Members, who could then be better judges of the merits of the case. But he thought that the very circumstance of the evidence having been laid upon the table of the House, and ordered to be printed, so that it might reach the hands of hon. Members, and its not being as yet delivered, ought naturally to lead the House to agree to the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Youghal (Mr. Butt), This course would be more consistent with the former proceedings of the House in such cases, and he therefore strongly advised the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Ennis (Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald) to agree to the Motion for postponing the writ.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would recommend the House to adjourn the question till Monday, which would be quite compatible with the ulterior views of the hon. and learned Gentleman. The Motion was not that the writ should issue on Monday next, but simply that it should not issue before that day. If by that time the evidence should not be printed, it would be perfectly competent for the hon. and learned Gentleman to make a Motion on the subject.
 MR. FERGUSON  said, he cordially seconded the Amendment. As a Member of the Select Committee which had inquired into the circumstances attending the last election, he believed that corrupt practices did extensively prevail in Harwich.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that he could not, as Chairman of the last Committee of Inquiry into corrupt Practices in the Borough of Harwich, agree with the hon. Member for North Essex (Sir J. Tyrell) in saying that there was no evidence of bribery having been committed there at the last election. One case was clearly established before the Committee, though it was at the same time true that it was not brought home to the sitting Member. The persons implicated in the bribery had ab-
 145
 SIT JOHN TYRBLL  said, that after what he had heard from hon. Members, he would beg to inform the House that he held in his hand a petition to the House of Commons from the mayor, aldermen, and burgesses of the borough of Harwich, in which they stated that they were ready to submit to any investigation which that House might prescribe, but they expressed a hope that in the meantime no delay might be suffered to deprive them of their constitutional rights. He would remind hon. Members, before they proceeded to harsh measures with regard to this borough, that it had sent to that House such illustrious men as Huskisson and Canning.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  rose, pursuant to notice, to ask leave to bring in a Bill to give to the electors of Great Britain and Ireland the protection of the ballot. When Lord Aberdeen's Ministry announced to the country their intention to bring forward a measure of reform, he had hoped that the ballot might have been a component part of their scheme, and that they would have deemed it necessary to protect the consciences and the persons, the minds and the bodies of electors at the polling booths. But finding a distinct intimation in the addresses of Lord John Russell and Sir James Graham to their constituents, that they were determined not to have anything to do with that measure, he, under a strong sense of duty, and by the counsel of friends for whose judgment he entertained a great respect, had deemed it necessary to ask permission to legislate on that subject. When he last addressed a House of Commons on that question, it was on the eve of a general election. Lord Derby had determined to throw himself on the country; and perhaps that might have suggested to Mr. Dickens the idea of Lord Doodle throwing himself upon the country in the shape of sovereigns and beer. The emissaries of the two great factions were on the alert. The springs for moving the constituencies were put in order; they had it in evidence that gentlemen high in office—for instance, the Right Hon. Wm. Bcres-ford—had taken counsel with Mr. Frail, of Derby notoriety, no doubt for the purpose of securing purity of election for the great Tory party; at the same time they had ocular demonstration that the Right Hon. Wm. Goodenough Hayter might be seen taking counsel with Mr. Coppock, of St. Albans celebrity, no doubt for the purpose of securing the same inestimable blessing for the Whig party. They had evidence that the masquerade shops had been ransacked; that wigs, whiskers, spectacles, and disguises had been put in requisition—that  aliases alibis 156 l 157 158 Hansard; Mem.: Mem.: Mem. Mem.: ad infinitum, 159 "Dear Sir—We are greatly obliged to you for your letter of the 28th of June, and for your kind exertions on the part of Mr. Wilson. Every vote that we can get will be wanted, and therefore I should be glad to hear of any addition to our strength. James Watson, of Brownlow, has not yet promised; and although we expect he will vote for Mr. Wilson, still a word from you will, perhaps, get a definite promise. They are putting on the screw with their tenants in all directions, and we must do the same in self-defence. Have you any other tenants voters? Mr. Sutcliffe Witham has a Joseph Green, who is all right, and a Tomlinson whom I should like you to see; in fact, any one you have any influence over. Of course you must charge me with your personal expenses and loss of time, which I shall be glad to pay.—With thanks, believe me yours truly, "W. WHEELER. "June 30, 1852, Clitheroe." 160 "Some amendment of our representative system is necessary; and, unquestionably, the result
 161 "I believe that the institutions of this country would be entirely impracticable—would entirely fail—would break to pieces in the working of the machinery, if it were not for the good sense, the moderation, and, I may say, the wisdom of the people; but I believe in that good sense, that moderation, that wisdom, we have a security for the future welfare and prosperity of those institutions."
 MR. H. BERKELEY  thought that the address to the electors of London was made when the noble Lord had joined the present Cabinet.
 Mr. H. BERKELEY : I am satisfied I am; but it does not much matter whether that is so or not, because all I wish to show is, that there was a discrepancy and a change of tone in the language used by the noble Lord on these different occasions. After extolling the good sense, moderation, and wisdom of the people, the noble Lord said, in fact, to the electors of London, "Oh, but I shall stand by and see the vote torn from good sense, moderation, and wisdom, and usurped by tyranny, oppression, and bigotry." The noble Lord at one moment said, that democracy had its rights, and that they depended on the good sense of the people for the existence of their institutions; but the next moment he refused to give them the free and uncontrolled use of their voices. If the noble Lord would listen to and hear the language of the people, he would find them saying, that in the team of reform the noble Lord was the best collared horse, but the moment he took office, he became restive, he turned "jibber," held back from his collar, and sat down on his breeching. He would now come to the speech which the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty, another great pillar of this Ministry of the composite order, delivered at Carlisle. The right hon. Baronet said—
 "No man can view with more disgust than I do the intimidation, bribery, and corrupt practices which have prevailed at elections, and even at the last general election in this country. It is cruel when men have a privilege which they ought to exercise freely and independently, for either landlords or employers to intimidate them by threats, or for customers to declare to tradesmen that if they do not vote in a particular way they shall be deprived of custom. It is unworthy of this free country that any man should be exposed to what I hold to be such tyranny and oppression." 163 164 et id genus omne. Hansard Times Times, 165 166 "You have been a land surveyor?—I have. In what counties?—Brecknock, Shropshire, Yorkshire, Oxfordshire, Middlesex; but my business has called me to many other parts of England. You have had an opportunity of knowing the opinions of farmers on most subjects?—My business has led me very much among that class of men. I wish you to confine yourself entirely to their political relations with their landlords, and with a view to that part of the subject I ask, among what class of tenants do you believe most independence is to be found?—Among those who have a leasehold tenure; but their independence is very much governed by circumstances. What circumstances?—The length of the lease, for instance. I have always remarked that farmers are more inclined to assert their political opinions at the commencement of their tenure than at its conclusion. I presume you mean in cases where they disagree in politics with their landlords?—Yes; and especially if the landlord be a strong politician. There are some landlords who do not interfere. Is that, in your opinion, a large class?—No, on the contrary, for if the landlord have no strong political bias of his own, in nine cases out of ten he interferes with his tenantry from the instigation of some neighbour who has. Do you consider that politics are liable to breed ill-will between landlord and tenant?—I do, especially when the tenants have leases. How? Where they are tenants-at-will?—Much less so, because tenants-at-will have no will, as far as politics are concerned; they know they must vote as their landlords please, and make up their minds to do so. Are there not exceptions to the rule?—There may be, but you will find them very rare. Have you found, generally, that tenants-at-will are contented to be thus governed?—I have observed that the most intelligent among that class, consequently the best agriculturists, are by no means contented; but they cannot help themselves; while those men, whose families have held their farms without being disturbed from generation to generation, are just as well satisfied to pay their votes to their landlords as their rents, and consider it much the same thing. Do you consider this class of men less intelligent?—I do. These are the same sort of men who oppose all improvements, and tell you that their fathers did so before them, and that things went on as well then as they do now. Do you think the tenantry of the country generally would like to vote by ballot?—A vast majority would; but there are a class of them who, I have no doubt, would have as much horror of the ballot as I have known them profess for subsoil drainage, and the drill plough. You have said that you think the majority of farmers- would prefer the ballot, how do you account for the fact that fewer petitions have been presented by that class of men to the House of Commons than any other in favour of it?—The reason appears to me plain. When you say farmers, I take it for granted you mean tenants-at-will. Well, then, a tenant-at-will no more dare sign a petition on a political subject, than he dare vote without the concurrence of his landlord; and the ballot is more dreaded by landlords than any other reform whatever. Then you think tenants-at-will dare
 167 Daily Express Belcamp, St. Dunlough's, Raheny, Aug. 17, 1852. Sir—Perhaps you will make use of the inclosed correspondence to suit the purposes of the day. John Murphy is a tenant on the lands of Skeborn, in the county of Monaghan. I asked him for his vote. He voted against me. I directed the subagent, Mr. Johnson, to enforce all rent justly due and payable, without pressure or hardship. He wrote the letter No. 1; this morning I received from Murphy the letter No. 2; I wrote my reply No. 3. You may make what editorial use of the subject and letters you please. If the landlords of the country (that is, the Conservative) would all do likewise, the priests would soon be considered by their own flocks as the political vampires they unquestionably are. "HENRY DE BURGH." "Snow Hill, Monaghan, Aug. 5, 1852. Sir—I have this day received instructions from Mr. De Burgh, to call on you for all rent and arrears of rent to be paid on your holdings up to May, 1852, otherwise to take the necessary proceedings for the recovery of it.—Your obedient, "JOHN JOHNSON." "Mr. John Murphy. "P.S. This must be settled next week.—J. J." "Skeborn, Aug. 10, 1852. Mr. De Burgh—Sir, inclosed I send you a note I got from Mr. Johnson, which will, I hope, bear my excuse for troubling you. I hope, Sir, you will not persevere, at this unusual season, to press for rent. What I would be able to accomplish in two months, without doing me any injury, would be a heavy loss to press for now, as I have grass taken for two of my cows. I would consequently lose their benefit for the three best months, as butter is 3 d. 168 "JOHN MURPHY. "Sir—If you favour me with a reply, direct 'in care of Mr. John Leghorn, Clones.'" "St. Dunlough's, Raheny, Aug. 16,1852. Sir—Yours of the 10th was forwarded here. Mr. Johnson has acted strictly according to his instructions. You refused your landlord the compliment of your vote. Be it so. Let there be no compliment between us. Vote as you please; but pay up your rents to the day they are usually payable, or I shall make you. No doubt but your political supporters will grant you the favour that I refuse, and enable you to pay your year's rent due on the 1st day of May, 1852.—Your obedient servant, "HENRY DE BURGH." "Mr. John Murphy, Scarvy, Slones." "Great as I apprehend the inconvenience of the ballot would be, yet if it come to this, that I must either adopt such a measure, or see the tenantry of England ranged at elections contrary to the feelings of themselves, I should have no doubt; I should at once renounce my previous opinion, and at once adopt the vote by ballot," 169 170 171 172
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY : I said it was indefensible, but it had redeeming qualities, while intimidation has not.
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY : I never said so.
 LORD ALEXANDER LENNOX  said, there was no Member of that House who gave the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bristol credit for more singleness of purpose or more honesty of conviction in bringing forward this Motion than he did, and if he could bring himself to believe that its being carried would produce the effect which the hon. Gentleman thought, he, for one, would most willingly support him; but, taking a considerable interest in the question, he had consulted the opinions of some of the most eminent men who had written and spoken upon the subject, both for and against, and he must say that the result of that investigation had confirmed the opinion he had originally formed, that
 193 "In all cases where there had been a contest, there would, of course, be conversation respecting it. The persons who had voted would talk upon the subject in their private walks, going to church, after church, and, above all, in the alehouse. Who then could tell him that such a person would be so much upon his guard as not to excite the slightest suspicion as to the manner in which he had voted? To observe such profound secrecy he must say nothing whatever to his wife—nothing whatever to his children—nothing to his dearest friend—nothing to his pot-companion. No, he
 194 vivâ voce, 195 "The idea of the ballot can have arisen but to avoid some improper influence, and I conceive it much more noble directly to check that influence, than indirectly to evade it by concealment or deceit. I am convinced that in things like this trivial circumstances tend greatly to form the national character, and I think it most consistent with the character of an Englishman that all his actions should be open and avowed, and that he should not be afraid of declaring in the face of his country whom he wishes to intrust with his interests." 196
 CAPTAIN KNOX  said, in reference to what the hon. Member for Manchester had stated as to his father's tenants, he would
 224
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had supposed the course he proposed to be the right one; but as the composition of the Committee did not seem to meet the approbation of the House, he was quite willing to accept the Amendment which had been moved.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would now beg to nominate the Members of the Select
 232
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : If the hon. Gentleman differs on what I have said, he will have the opportunity of setting me right. I am not certain, but my impression is, that there is but one State in the Union where there is compulsory secret voting. If there be not compulsory secret voting, the whole system of the ballot of course is a sham. In a country like the United States, it affords an easy and rapid means of taking a vast number of votes without reference to secrecy; but so distasteful is compulsory secret voting to the great majority of the people there, that it exists only in one State, and when it was was attempted to be introduced into other places, it was strongly and successfully opposed. The hon. Gentleman says, of course we shall have it compulsory. I should like to know how you are to prevent a man who acts in the face of day, proud of his undeviating consistency, braving the frowns of wealth, and resisting the blandishments of power, going up to the lot box and declaring how he votes. It is not in the nature of the English character to skulk behind a mask, in doing that of which, far from being ashamed, he is justly proud, because it is his duty. You must all remember the inimitable description of Sidney Smith. If the forms of the House permitted, I should be inclined to propose that it be read by the clerk at the table. It is infinitely better than anything anybody else ever said upon the subject. He very justly asks how in practice can you secure any secrecy whatever? A man must do more than conceal his vote. He must conceal his opinion. He must hurrah at the wrong speech, eat the wrong dinner, break the wrong heads; do everything to convince the public that he is acting in the interests of the opposite candidate. The hon. Gentleman says the English are not a garrulous people, and, therefore, he
 191 Il faut écraser Vindividu. 192
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Then I have been so unfortunate as to draw an inference from the premises of the hon. Gentleman. The moment you have secret voting, those who have no votes lose the opportunity of exercising influence on those who have, and there would naturally arise a clamour for extended suffrage. So I think there is much more truth than appears to the hon. Gentleman in the close alliance between universal suffrage and the ballot. But the hon. Gentleman quoted cases in foreign countries, which he says are arguments and proofs of how the ballot will work in this country. The hon. Gentleman need not have gone so far even as France to see how it works. The ballot is not confined to clubs in this country. It is used in an important parish in this metro-
 189 l "Instead of buying hundreds of votes," said the same writer, "the candidate has only to buy one or two judges with whom the election ultimately rests. How are the judges making false returns to be detected? A scrutiny of the box will afford no evidence." "The alarming increase of bribery in popular elections demands attention. The preservation of our liberties depends on the purity of the elective franchise, and its independent exercise by the citizens, and I trust such measures will be adopted as shall effectually protect the ballot box from all corrupting influences." 190
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : The hon. Member says bribery has redeeming qualities, while intimidation has not. The redeeming quality appears to be this, that if you get money dishonestly, but spend it for a good purpose, it throws a sort of halo round the transaction, and bribery under such circumstances is no longer a bad thing. Is it true that intimidation is the gigantic evil of our elective system? I appeal to the experience of every Gentleman who hears me, whether within the last twenty years intimidation has not been diminishing, and bribery has not been increasing? Since the Reform Bill the practice of intimidation has notoriously decreased. The expression of public opinion is stronger than Acts of Parliament, stronger than the denunciations of the hon. Gentleman, and has had its effects on intimidation; but on bribery it has has none. Need I ask the House to recollect the disgraceful cases we have had this Session, and which prove to us that as we have advanced in the last twenty years, this plague spot has spread in our elective system—bribery has become organised, more general, and apparently, not only the candidates, but the electors, consider it a very venial offence, which is not to be deprecated, provided it is not found out. The hon. Gentleman says we want the ballot, in consequence of the effect it would have in Ireland. Ireland suffers from a great degree of intimidation. Will the ballot in Ireland have the effect of preventing intimidation? I think not. The hon. and learned Member for Leominster (Mr. J. Phillimore) seys, "You object to bribery,
 186 187 l l 188
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT : Sir, in listening to the speech which the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. H. Berkeley) addressed to the House to-night, I was struck by one peculiarity, differing, I think, from his previous speeches on this subject, which appeared to me to imply a consciousness on his part that, however plausible the theory of the ballot may be for the purpose of suppressing intimidation, with regard to bribery it must prove totally inoperative. The hon. Gentleman based his case on intimidation, and for that purpose he went back a very considerable period. I think the principal evidence which he produced of the evils of intimidation—which no man can deny, and to the exercise of which no man is more opposed than I am—was derived from evidence given before a Committee of this House which sat not in 1853, but in 1835; and he accuses the noble Lord the Member for the City of London with having slept the sleep of  Rip Van Winkle, Rip Van Winkle, 184 185
 LORD EDWIN HILL  said, that with regard to the Rev. Mr. Ford, he was a gentleman in possession of property to the amount of about 7,000 l peccavi,
 LORD EDWIN HILL  said, he must deny  in toto
 LORD EDWIN HILL  rose to order, and begged to say, in the absence of his hon. Colleague, that the correspondence which was read by the hon. Gentleman had nothing at all to do with the present representation of the county of Down.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he must appeal to the noble Lord not to persist in his Motion for adjournment.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, after the speeches which have been made by my
 225
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I mean the hon. Gentleman who has brought this Motion forward. That hon Gentleman has proposed this Motion as a change by itself. My hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, as we all know, complains of the very limited number who have the right to vote, and proposes the ballot in connexion with some other measure; but, by the proposition before the House, the hon. Member
 226 227 228
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : All the ad-
 162
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I cannot agree with my hon. Friend who has just spoken, for I think this House has a right to suspend a writ—a right which has been exercised ever since the time of the Revolution. I believe, however, that our course upon the present occasion must be a good deal determined by the course which we have taken upon former occasions. At the commencement of the Session I gave it as my opinion, that in every case in which a Report of an Election Committee should be made to this House that a seat had been gained by bribery, and that a Member had been unseated, we should proceed to appoint a Select Committee to investigate the subject; and if it should appear to that Committee that extensive corruption had prevailed, that then the House, proceeding according to Act of Parliament, should inquire into the practice of the borough by a Commission. That, however, was not the opinion of the House; and it was very evident that a great majority were in favour of the issuing of the writ in those cases where the express words of the Act of Parliament were not reported by the Election Committees. I think, therefore, Sir, that it is very difficult, after the decision that was then come to, to single out a particular borough, and to say that this is a worse case than any other that has come before us, or that in this particular case circumstances are more aggravated or more condemnatory of the borough than in previous cases in which the writ has been issued. I find the great difficulty that I believe the present to be the strongest case that has yet come before us, much stronger than the case of Rye, which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir P. Thesiger) takes up with such great zeal. There is, however, another reason which should determine us in the course to be adopted, namely, that the hon. and learned Member for Newcastle-upon-Tyne (Mr. Headlam), who was Chairman of the Committee, has stated that in his opinion the writ ought to issue. Now, I own I give great weight to the authority of the hon. and learned Gentleman,
 152 153
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he should support the nomination of the Committee.
 MR. D. WADDINGTON  said, he hoped, as the representative of Harwich, he should be permitted to offer a few observations on the present occasion. It was not his intention to enter at this time upon the issue raised by the hon. Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley) as to the comparative corruption of large and small constituencies; but when the noble Lord the Member for the City of London should agitate that question in connexion with his promised Reform Bill, he would venture to give his opinion, founded on long experience, as to which class of constituency was most prone to be operated on by improper influences. That, however, was not the question now to be considered; neither was the question what Harwich had been, but what it now was—not what it was in 1841, but what it was in 1852. He asked the House whether it was prepared to deprive the electors of Harwich of the right to exercise their constitutional privileges according to their conscientious conviction? Was it because an individual, through the medium of his private solicitor, was reported to have entered into a pecuniary arrangement with Mr. Peacocke, that they would deprive the rest of the constituency of the elective franchise? He (Mr. Waddington) stood there as evidence that Mr. Attwood's influence was not requisite to return a Member for the borough of Harwich upon pure and independent principles. He had been called upon to stand for Harwich, and he had been told that unless he saw Mr. Attwood, and obtained his influence and that of his agent, that his return would be quite impossible. But he refused to do so; he maintained that refusal, and he had never seen either Mr. Attwood, his private solicitor, or his agent, until they appeared before the Committee of the House of Commons. But if he were to be told that he was not again to go to Harwich—and go again, let him say, he intended to do—because, forsooth, either Mr. Attwood or Mr. Peacocke had committed an indiscretion, he would say at once that this House was easting a slur upon the electors of Harwich, and upon all who desired to be returned upon pure and
 154 l
 MR. E. BALL  said, he should not have risen to engage in this debate had it not been for the allusion made to him by the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster. He congratulated Westminster on having found a new glory in the hon. Baronet; and hoped the constituency would forget the grace, the dignity, and the majesty of its old glory—Sir Francis Burdett—in its new pride. He had, indeed, forgotten that the question of the ballot was to be brought under the notice of the House to-night, otherwise be would have been prepared for the discussion. Much that he had heard from the preceding speakers was certainly unnecessary. Everybody, for in-
 175 176 s. 177
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, that he trusted the House would be of opinion that a new writ should issue for the borough of Harwich, and that they would not agree to the suggestion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley), who did not bring it forward as a substantive Motion, but as a substitute for the issuing of the writ. It might be quite true that Harwich had acquired a very bad reputation, but they must take care not to be misled by prejudices arising from that source. It was quite true that Mr. Attwood was unseated for bribery in 1841; but it was also true that the cases on which he was unseated having been subsequently investigated before a jury, verdicts adverse to the charge
 146 Geo.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that the case of Rye was not the only one which might be quoted as a precedent in favour of the issuing of this writ. The case of Plymouth was much stronger than that of Harwich; and yet, although the Election Committee had reassembled to inquire into the state of the borough, a new writ had been issued pending their investigations. Even, therefore, if they agreed to the appointment of the Committee moved for by the hon. Baronet the Member for Westmeath (Sir J. Shelley), that would be no reason for refusing to issue the writ.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he was unwilling to give a silent vote upon the subject under the consideration of the House; but, looking at the lateness of the hour, and considering the full manner in which the subject had already been discussed, he should confine his observations to a very small compass. It had been stated that on former occasions the arguments on this subject had all been on one
 213 214 Cries of 215
 MR. BRADY  said, he did not think that human legislation could apply a remedy to all the existing evils of the electoral system; but he advocated the ballot because he knew that the present system was a bad one, and could not be maintained, as it tended to demoralise society and destroy the independence of the electors. It tended to promote perjury in this country; and if any one doubted the fact of wide-spread immorality being the result of the system
 181 s. s. s. 182 l s. d., l s., 183
 MR. BRIGHT : You are right.
 MR. BRIGHT,  who rose amidst calls for
 216 217 Cries of 218 bonâ fide,
 MR. BRIGHT : I differ on what you have already said.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was rejoiced to say that Mr. Ker had not been driven out of the field by treatment of the kind he had described. He stood for the county; and, so far as he was concerned in this correspondence, he (Mr. Bright) would be glad to see a similar termination to every such attack. He had also a letter, which the hon. and gallant Member for Dungannon (Capt. Knox) was represented to have written to the tenants on the estate of his father, with regard to the county Down election. He said that as a contest was to take place in the county, he called upon the tenants to give their vote and interest to Lord Edwin Hill and Mr. Ker, and that as the tenantry had been always treated with consideration, they ought not to support the tenant-right candidate, Mr. Sharman Crauford, "whose vanity had got the better of his common sense." There was also a letter from Major Waring, who said that as a general election was about to take place, and as the interest of the tenants and of the landlord was insepara-
 219 220 221 l l l l 222 A laugh. 223 Leeds Mercury, exhibiting a paper exhibiting another paper
 MR. BRIGHT  explained. He said, that the Rev. Mr. Ford was reported to have been absent from home in consequence of pecuniary embarrassments.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had not addressed a single remark to that question which formed the prominent topic in the speech of the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. H. Berkeley). For himself, he never supposed that the ballot would prevent that species of corruption which was known as bribery. But he also looked upon intimidation as corruption, and corruption in its foulest and most loathsome shape, and he could not but see in the ballot a remedy against the specific evil of intimidation. He was at a loss to know whether the antagonists of the ballot would take the ground of saying that intimidation was no evil, or that the ballot was not a remedy for it. That intimidation was an evil, no one, he thought, would be bold enough to deny. That there was a legitimate influence attached to property, he would be the last person to deny; but intimidation, he contended, was calculated to shake the influence of all property, because it brought the feeling of respect for property into collision with other and more powerful antagonistic feelings; and, therefore, he thought that the man who wished well to the proper influence of property would take care
 178 179 "Cum flueret lutulentus erat quod tollere velles." 180 Vindicem tacilœ libertatis;
 MR. COBDEN : I beg the noble Lord's pardon, but I go much further than that.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he recollected that about nine years ago he had brought forward a Motion in that House, to which he had given more than usual time and attention, and which subsequent discussion and experience had shown to have been founded on true policy. He recollected that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. S. Herbert), who was in the Cabinet, and the Colleague of older and shrewder heads, was put forward to oppose that Motion, but upon which he had since avowed a total change of opinion. He must say, with all candour, that though the right hon. Gentleman must hare had considerable experience since then, he had hardly gained the wisdom by it that he might, for he was now again doing that which he did then for older and more sagacious Colleagues. The right hon. Gentleman was now taking up the defence of a cause which had been as thoroughly demolished by reason and argument as was the cause of protection in 1844; and he (Mr. Cobden) ventured to record his opinion that the right hon. Gentleman would live to make as manly a disavowal—after he had seen the result of the ballot—of the opinions he had expressed that night. He (Mr. Cobden) said that this question had been settled by reason and argument as triumphantly as anything ever was decided in that House. If they were discussing the ballot simply as a question affecting a body of men all of whom were on a social equality, there would not he one argument why the ballot should not be adopted; for, hide it as they might, conceal it from themselves if they could, the fact was they opposed the ballot because they always entered into a discussion of it with
 197 198 United Service Gazette, 199 200 201 202 203 204 l
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Stamford (Sir F. Thesiger) that the Amendment of the hon. Member for Westminster was not the best remedy that could be adopted in this case. Harwich, in his (Mr.
 147 "The Committee also find that the electors in number are 182. "That the sum of money expended by Mr. Attwood for the election of himself and Major Beresford was, as nearly as the Committee can ascertain, 6,300 l "That among thirty persons a sum of above 3,000 l "That Major Beresford paid no part of this sum, he not having contributed to the expenses of the election. "That the gross cost of the election on the part of Sir D. Le Marchant was, as nearly as can be ascertained, 1,500 l l "That the gross cost of the election to Mr. Bagshaw was 500 l "And it appears also that bills against Sir D. Le Marchant and Mr. Bagshaw, to the amount of between 300 l l "It would appear also that a large part of the whole constituency were bribed." "Previously to my going down to Harwich, I mentioned to two or three of my friends in town that I was invited to stand for Harwich. I told them that I was a, perfect stranger to the place; that if I could go in a proper manner, without acting in any dishonourable or improper way, I should go with my friend: but if I could not go In that way I would not go near the place; and my friends said,' We believe you have nothing to year about that,' or something like that. I said, then I would go. I will state to the Committee that when the first application was made to me or money, I was astonished at the amount. I
 148 "Are you, directly or indirectly, cognisant of any bribery at the last election, practised by your agents or local committee, or any member of it, on your behalf?—I have since the election heard that there has been bribery committed. I was not aware of it at the time. "Do you know, of your own knowledge, that a large number of the Harwich constituency received bribes at the last election?—Yes; I think the great majority of them. "Of your own knowledge?—I have seen those sort of documents which confirm me. I do not mean to say that I saw the money paid to them, but I think I could induce any Committee to believe that they were all bribed, directly or indirectly. "Have you, through Sir Denis Le Marchant, as late Secretary to the Treasury, or through any other source, procured any Government clerkships or other appointments for Harwich electors, or for relations of electors?—I should think about twenty or thirty have been procured within the last five years, but not through Sir Denis Le Marchant. Perhaps it would be amusing to the Committee to know that there are more people of Harwich employed in Government appointments at this instant than there were on the poll. "Your canvass was completed before Sir Denis le Marchant arrived?—Yes. "Had you made a successful canvass?—Most successful. "What majority did you think would be returned by you?—I polled 83 persons. I had 100 certain promises, and two persons that I did not reckon on voted for me. "Which would have given you a clear majority?—Yes; there were only 180 persons who could vote." 149 150
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he thought the House ought to deal with this case as that of Berwick had been dealt with.
 MR. PHINN  (who was met with shouts of "Divide, divide!") said, if hon. Gentlemen would only hear him for a moment they would learn that he wanted to spare them the trouble of dividing at all. He wanted to suggest to his hon. Friend the Member for Westminster the advisability of withdrawing his Amendment, after what had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for the City of London.
 MR. MASSEY  said, he quite agreed that though common fame might possibly be a good ground for disfranchising a borough, it was no ground whatever for withholding a writ. When such grave imputations were cast upon the constituency's discharge of the elective franchise, it would be hardly decent or hardly consistent with the constitutional usage of that House to issue the writ without further inquiry. Time was, no doubt, when candidates obtained seats openly and professedly by means of bribery: for instance, the late Sir Samuel Romilly found it much more convenient to enter Parliament by the payment of a sum of 3,000 l
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he hoped the noble Lord would persist in it. The question was one of vast importance, and Members representing large constituencies should have an opportunity of expressing their sentiments.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he thought it would be best to accede to the proposition of the hon. Member for Gateshead (Mr. Hutt).
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL   presented
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY,  under the circumstances, would do so. He begged to say, however, he would still vote against the issuing of the writ, and that it was his intention at a future day to move that the borough be disfranchised.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY,  in the absence of his hon. and gallant Colleague (Sir D, L. Evans) said, he would beg to move the Amendment of which notice had been given. He thought that if there was one place which stunk more than another in the nostrils of the people of this country, it was the borough of Harwich. There had been election petitions, and gentlemen unseated, at each of the general elections, in 1841, 1847, and 1852; and although perhaps only one case of bribery had been proved before the late Committee, it would not be right to draw from that any conclusion favourable to the borough, because the witnesses had absconded, and could not be discovered while the Committee was sitting, although they returned to their residences immediately after it had concluded its labours. He thought that this was in itself a sufficient reason why the. House should be in no hurry to issue the writ. Believing that there was no individual who could put his hand on his heart and say that he did not believe that Harwich was one of the most corrupt places in the kingdom, he begged to move the Amendment to which he had referred.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY,  in seconding the Motion, said that if it were difficult to find any new argument in favour of the adoption of the ballot, it must be still more difficult to urge any new arguments against it. It was curious to see how exactly the language used by Mr. Grote, when he brought the question forward in 1838, applied to the present occasion. Mr. Grote then said—
 "No one can deny that bribery and intimidation are serious evils; as little can any one deny that bribery and intimidation infect at this moment almost every vein and artery of our elective system, and that the securities which we possess against them are impotent and contemptible. That a remedy against such mischiefs is urgently needed, stands confessed and obvious to every one; and what second remedy, what other measure of any promise or efficiency, has ever been proposed even by those whose aversion to the ballot is most unconquerable? Admitting, even, that my reasonings carry with them nothing stronger than a considerable probability—admitting that my proposition presents only a fair chance of success, yet what is the alternative? Why, the alternative is, that bribery and intimidation must remain as they are now, epidemic evils permanently entailed upon us beyond all reach of cure. And I submit that this is a conclusion far too discouraging to be admitted by any reasonable man, or by any sincere patriot, while the expedient of the ballot remains untried."—[3  Hansard, 173 "It is said that it will weaken the influence of property. Now, there are two kinds of influence—legitimate influence and unlawful and improper influence. The improper and unlawful influence the ballot will undoubtedly destroy; wherever one man trembles at the frown of another—wherever money is used to corrupt poverty—wherever pro-
 174 Hansard, xl.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, the Amendment was not in accordance with the Act of Parliament, which determined the functions of the Committee of Selection, and he, as Chairman of it, was opposed to such a duty being devolved on it. Very dangerous and disagreeable precedents would be created if the present inconsistent proceedings with regard to Election Committees were continued.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, that, notwithstanding the petition just presented, and notwithstanding the charges of bribery and corruption brought from time to time against the borough of Harwich, it was a singular fact that there existed no evidence of a legal character upon which any lawyer could get up in that House and say that there ought to be any measure of punishment inflicted upon the electors of Harwich. Not one tittle of legal evidence had been adduced before the recent Committee of that House, and the borough of Harwich was quite immaculate and pure as compared with others for which writs had been issued. He had a petition to present from the Mayor, Aldermen, and burgesses of Harwich, in which they declared that, although it had been alleged in the Report of the Committee that there was a corrupt understanding between Mr. Attwood's agent and the late Member for Harwich, there was no evidence to show that any elector in the borough was cognisant of any such proceeding. He was quite sure that, if even handed justice was dealt out, there would be a new writ issued for the borough of Harwich immediately; and he would, therefore, not trouble the House further, but at once move the Resolution of which he had given notice.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he held that a constituency had an absolute right to send a representative to that House—a right only qualified by the Report of a Committee appointed to consider the circumstances of a former election. In the present instance all the circumstances were in favour of the issuing of the writ. The question was not what Harwich did in 1841 or 1847, but whether, in the circumstances of the last election, there was anything to justify the suspension of the writ. In the absence of such Report, he thought that,  ex debito justitice, 151
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that he had last year given a silent adhesion to a Motion in favour of the ballot, and he now rejoiced to have an opportunity of offering a few remarks in support of the present Motion. Since Mr. Grote first brought forward this Motion in the House of Commons, up to the present day, we had had powerful arguments in support of that measure which the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) had so ably advocated. He (Sir R. Peel) supported the ballot, not from any love of reform, pot from any desire to upset or unsettle the institutions of the country, but because it appeared to him calculated to promote the liberty and independence of the people-Vote by ballot seemed to him well calculated to promote purity of principle, while it must also tend to insure freedom of elec-
 205 Laughter. 206 207 Both Mr. Bright and Mr. Cob-den intimated dissent.' 208 réunion sabreurs, 209 210 Ultima Thule entente cordiale 211 212
 MR. HUTT  said, he objected to the list because there was not one Member on it, with the exception of Mr. Fellowes, who had been a Member of the House for more than twelve months. He should, therefore, move as an Amendment, that the Committee of Selection should be instructed to name five Members to inquire into the Durham Election Petitions.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he objected to the power given to the receiver under the Court of Chancery to make leases without the consent of the owner, or some one acting for him. He proposed, therefore, that there should be given the consent of the owner, or of the next in remainder, or guardian duly authorised to act for them in cases of lunacy or infancy.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that upon the Committee to whom the Bill had been referred there were noblemen and gentlemen of great experience in the management of property in Ireland; and it must not be forgotten that every lease to be executed under the powers of the Bill would be granted upon the best value that could be obtained without a fine. The object of the measure was to provide for an emergency, and to work out a great public good; and the receiver master would act but as the agent of the parties most interested.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was of opinion that the owner of the property ought to have a voice in the matter, and that where a lease was granted, it should be done with the joint consent of the owner and the person in possession.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished the hon. and learned Member for Weymouth to explain the nature and object of this clause.
 MR. G. M. BUTT  said, the present law in respect to the election for counties was that of the 25  Geo.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that this clause appeared to be re-enacting that which was already the existing law of the country. He thought the hon. and learned Gentleman ought first to repeal the existing, and then enact the proposed, alteration; otherwise there would be two existing laws upon the same subject. He thought the alteration for diminishing the time between the proclamation and the day of election for counties was very reasonable, and that there would be a great advantage in adopting it.
 MR. G. M. BUTT  said, he had not carried the Bill to the full extent of his own views on the subject, because he considered that the matter must come under the consideration of Parliament again when the Parliamentary Reform Bill, which was expected from the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, should be introduced.
 MR. FREWEN  said, he was of opinion that the sixth day after issuing the writ was too soon for the election to take place,
 234
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he would submit to the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite whether the reason he had given for not going as far as he thought proper—namely, the expected introduction of a Reform Bill, was not a reason equally good for postponing the Bill altogether. He put it to the House, and to the hon. and learned Gentleman, whether it was right to make such small changes, and to introduce piecemeal schemes of legislation, the only effect of which must be to create perplexity and confusion.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he could not assent to this view of the subject. He did not see any immediate prospect of a Reform Bill, and still less of any that would he satisfactory. The best way would be to pass small measures when it was possible. The Bill was brief certainly, but beneficial.
 MR. MALINS  said, he was sorry to see the small confidence placed by hon. Members opposite in the promises and professions of the leaders of their party. He was of opinion that the alteration now proposed could better be carried out in a general Bill.
 MR. G. M. BUTT  said, the clause had met with the approbation of the noble Lord opposite (Lord John Russell) so long ago as before the Easter recess, and it had then been suggested to him to introduce a distinct Bill on the subject. He had done so, and had stated the nature of the measure on the proper occasion. As to there being no complaints against the present system, he could say he had received a great many communications to the effect than the change he proposed was desirable, and that the old law of 1785 required alteration and amendment.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not object to the principle but to the form of the change, and thought the clause ought to be limited to simply reducing the number of days in the old Act. It would be better, in his opinion, to repeal the old Acts altogether, and then to bring in a new Bill, than to incur the risk of confusion by amending the words of the clauses of former statutes.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, that it appeared to him, if the sheriff of a county fixed a county election at the shortest period after the receipt of the writ named by
 235
 MR. G. M. BUTT  begged to explain that the Bill so reduced the number of days within which a borough election must take place, that it would render this impossible.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that he would not press the Amendment of which he had given notice, but would move that the blank should be filled up with twelve days instead of ten.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought it would be better to postpone all legislation on this subject until Her Majesty's Government introduced that general measure of electoral reform which they had promised. If, however, that did not meet the assent of the hon. and learned Gentleman and the Committee, he thought it would be better to repeal the present Act, and then enact another, dealing with the whole subject, than merely to amend the present law, and thus have one Act referring to another, which would very likely lead to difficulty and confusion.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he must oppose the postponement of legislation on this subject. The measure of general electoral reform promised by the Government might not pass, or, at all events, without a general election; and in the latter case it would be of great advantage that this Bill, which would save much expense, should have been passed previously.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he also would press the withdrawal of the Bill, as it was clearly the opinion of the Committee that the whole of this subject should be treated in one Act. If the Bill was pressed, there would be still greater objection to the second clause than to the first. The second clause proposed to diminish the notice to be given of a borough election from three days to two—a piece of infinitesimal legislation at which he was certainly surprised.
 MR. G. M. BUTT  said, he could not consent to withdraw the Bill. It would be of very great importance to pass the clauses in it, and he did not think this was the way to treat a measure to which there was no specific objection, and which every one acknowledged would introduce a very beneficial alteration in the law as it now stood. He had pledged himself to Members for counties, and other hon. Gentlemen, to bring in the Bill, and, after having done his best to make it a perfect measure, he
 236
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, the Committee were agreed as to the principle of the measure; but, if they were to keep to the old Bill, they ought to keep to the old words, as otherwise great confusion might arise. Perhaps the hon. and learned Member would not object to postpone the clause for the present, with the view to bring it up in an amended shape.
 MR. G. M. BUTT  said, he was ready to accede to that suggestion.
 LORD SEYMOUR  begged to ask the hon. and learned Member, whether it would not be bettor that the writ for a borough should be sent direct to the returning officer instead of being first sent to the sheriff of the county, the only effect of which was to render necessary the payment of certain fees to the sheriff or his deputy?
 MR. G. M. BUTT  said, he had intended to introduce a clause in order to meet that objection, and would attend to the suggestion of the noble Lord.
 MR. HUME  said, it was against the principle ordinarily laid down that the writ should not be sent to the sheriff in the first instance. He thought the borough writs should be sent to the sheriff of the country, because there might be different borough elections in one county, and the sheriff should be enabled to make arrangements in such a way that no inconvenience should arise in holding the different borough elections. With regard to the expense, the sheriff was not warranted in charging a shilling; and nine-tenths of the charges made by the sheriffs were altogether illegal.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, it was the returning officers of the different boroughs who appointed the day of election, and not the sheriff, and therefore it would
 237
 MR. G. M. BUTT  then brought up the following new clause:—
 "That the nomination of a Member or Members to serve in any future Parliament for the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge respectively, shall take place on such day as shall be fixed by the Vice Chancellor thereof, being not sooner than six nor later than twelve days after the writ shall have been received by such Vice Chancellor."
 MR. WIGRAM  said, he objected that the clause did not give sufficient notice of polling. He would suggest, therefore, that on the day of nomination notice should be given of the days of polling. He would also recommend that, instead of twelve days, the time should extend to fourteen days, in which case it would be impossible for the Vice Chancellor to make his arrangements so that the nomination should not interfere with the duties of any particular week—when the senate-house, for instance, might be otherwise required.
 MR. G. M. BUTT  said, he would now beg to introduce the following clause:—
 "That at every contested election of a Member or Members to serve in any future Parliament for the said Universities respectively, the polling shall commence on such day as shall be fixed by the Vice Chancellor thereof, being not sooner than six nor later than twelve days after the day of nomination; and such polling shall continue for five days only, such five days to be successive days in one week, and shall open at nine of the clock in the forenoon, and close at five of the clock in the afternoon of each day; provided always, that if Christmay-day or Good Friday shall happen to fall during the week fixed for such polling, such day shall not be reckoned as one of the five days for such polling; but the poll shall be adjourned from the day preceding to the day following such day, and shall then proceed as if such, day had not intervened."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished to call attention to the great length of time that might elapse before the election was concluded. Twenty-six days might pass over before the election began, and the five days for polling would extend the time to a month, so that if a Member for the Universities took office, an entire month might elapse before he could again take his seat in the House.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he must remind the right hon. Gentleman, that under the existing law the polling might be kept open for fifteen days; and he begged to say that if the Committee
 238
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that they had had a recent instance of the extent to which proceedings of this kind might be protracted, and he thought that a fortnight, instead of a month, would be sufficient time; but if the Members for the Universities did not object to the proceedings being protracted, he would not press his objection.
 MR. WIGRAM  said, he would suggest that the Vice Chancellor should have the power to keep open the poll beyond five o'clock, in order to meet the convenience of barristers and other parties resident in London, whose business detained them from appearing early at the poll. The last time that he had exercised his privilege as an elector of the University of Cambridge was on the occasion of the contest for the Chancellorship; and were it not that the Vice Chancellor kept the poll open until half-past eight o'clock, neither he nor many other persons residing in London would have been able to exercise their right.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, he thought that if the Vice Chancellor was vested with a discretionary power, that it might very frequently place him in an awkward position, as he might be subject to imputations of acting under party influences; it would be much better, therefore, to substitute a fixed hour.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he must complain that on the last election for the University of Oxford, he had gone down from London to register his vote, but on his arrival he found the polling adjourned, or the Vice Chancellor had gone to luncheon. Now, though he should be sorry to put the Vice Chancellor to any inconvenience, he would suggest that the poll should, on the occasion of a contested election, be always kept open.
 MR. G. M. BUTT  thought that if power were given to the Vice Chancellor to close the poll at a particular hour, it might give rise to a good deal of ill-feeling and imputations.
 Mr. R. PHILLIMORE  said, after the experience of the late election for the
 239
 MR. WIGRAM  said, he was quite sure that on one occasion he as well as many others would not have been able to exercise the franchise at Cambridge, if the poll had not been kept open until half-past eight o'clock. He had no apprehension that injurious consequences would follow from giving the discretionary power to the Vice Chancellor.
 MR. MILES  said, he believed that the difficulty of the case would be met by giving the Vice Chancellor a discretionary power to order that on certain days of the week, to be mentioned on the nomination day, the poll would be kept open up to a later hour than five o'clock, for the convenience of barristers and others who could not attend earlier.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would suggest the introduction of a provision by which the returning officer would be authorised to close the poll at any previous time in the day, on the consent of the candidates and their agents. It was quite possible that in some cases before the first day of polling was over, one of the candidates might desire to withdraw altogether; and unless such a proviso as he proposed was introduced, the Vice Chancellor would not feel himself at liberty to close the poll.
 MR. G. M. BUTT  then proposed the addition of the following clause:—
 "That at every such election the Vice Chancellor shall have power to appoint any number of pro-Vice Chancellors, any one of whom may receive the votes and decide upon all questions during the absence of such Vice Chancellor; and such Vice Chancellor shall have power to appoint any number of poll clerks and other officers, by one or more of whom the votes shall be entered in such number of poll hooks as shall be judged necessary by such Vice Chancellor: provided always,
 240
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished to call attention to the concluding lines of the clause, "Provided always that no vote shall be entered in more than one poll-book," and submitted that if the object was to prevent voters in the Universities from voting several times, it could be attained by substituting for those words the question now put to the voters in other places, namely, "Have you polled before at this election?"
 MR. FITZROY  said, he would suggest the omission of the words, "unless by consent of all the candidates, expressed in writing."
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, though approving of the clause, there might be this difficulty arising out of its adoption— that in some cases, of which he knew, where the poll wa3 at present taken at a town-hall, the lower part of which was actually used as a public-house, the town-hall could no longer be used as a polling place.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he thought inconvenience might arise in many cases by the omission of the words in question.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, if those words were retained, the clause would be entirely inoperative, for he could fancy candidates giving their consent to the poll being held in almost every place intended by the clause to be prohibited.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he must protest against the decision of the Select Committee being taken to bind him for a single moment. He had no confidence in that Committee, and should assert his right to discuss the question, even at the risk of detaining hon. Gentlemen; but he could not help that.
 SIR ROBERT FERGUSON  moved an Amendment in the first section of the clause, as regarded the retention of certain covenants in leases granted under the Bill.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the principle of the clause was this—that, under certain conditions, an encumbrancer should have the power of granting a lease; and to that principle there could be no objection. But the clause as it stood was, in his opinion, highly objectionable; for the power it conferred upon the encumbrancer was an unqualified power. He understood, however, that the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) wag ready to bring up hereafter, upon the Report, certain conditions and modifications, which should operate to place some limitation to the power of the encumbrancer. And subject to such a provision, the power was a very desirable one to give.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that he would give the hon. Member an answer if he put a question directly to him. But the hon. Member had put a question to the House in the shape of an Amendment.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, his opinion was, that the Bill, though at first introduced by
 242
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he did not see the use of the clause at all. It was on the part of the owners of property that he made this objection. They had the Encumbered Estates Act at work; and now the right hon. and learned Gentleman proposed that the receivers in the Court of Chancery should be competent to give leases, when it was universally admitted that they were totally incompetent for the discharge of such duties.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, the clause
 243
 MR. G. H. MOORE  said, he saw great difficulties in the way of deciding what was an improvident lease, and he considered the clause destructive to the rights of the owner.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he wag anxious that
 246
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he would withdraw his Amendment, upon the understanding that the discussion should be taken upon the bringing up of the Report.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, it was true that under the clause a lease could not be made at less than the best rent that could be received. But let the Committee see what discretion was to be vested in the person making the lease. For agricultural purposes, he might grant a lease for any term not exceeding thirty-one years; improvement leases for sixty-one years; mining leases for forty-one years; and building leases for ninety-nine years. And it struck him that this was a power which ought not to be given to an encumbrancer entering into possession. Why, any person who obtained a judgment against the owner of an estate for but one year's value of it might enter into possession; and what might he then do? He might grant a mining lease for forty-one years; a building lease for ninety-nine years; an improvement lease for sixty-one years; or an agricultural lease for thirty-one years. And was it right, he asked, that such discretion should be placed in the hands of a man who could not by possibility be more than one year in possession? Unfortunately, too, there would be no power in any Court to control him; and the owner would have to stand quietly by and see all this done without the means to prevent it. In his opinion it was a most objectionable principle of legislation. In conclusion, he would beg to move the insertion of words restraining the encumbrancer from granting a lease, except with the consent of the owner.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the Bill was framed on the principle that the person in possession should make the lease, whether it was 'the encumbrancer or the receiver. The receiver could only make the lease with the consent of the Receiver Master; and it was proposed, also, to limit, in some way, the power of the encumbrancer. He was not surprised at his right hon. and
 244
 MR. GEORGE  said, he approved of the suggestion made to omit the clause, which he regarded as being in direct opposition to the policy and practice of the Encumbered Estates Court. In his opinion, it would be better to carry out the law, and force every encumbrancer, not only to go into the Encumbered Estates Court, but to convert his encumbrance into a greater or lesser number of acres of the estate, thus giving him a legitimate power to make leases of the property. His objections to the clause were—first, that very frequently the receiver was a person of no station; and next, that the machinery for procuring the grant of a lease from the Court of Chancery was of a very complicated nature.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, there might be objections to the clause, but he hoped it would not be omitted. There was no doubt that receivers in Ireland had often acted ruinously to estates, but that was from want of the power given by this clause.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he would have cheerfully admitted that this Bill was a Government Bill, if to him had belonged the great credit which was eminently due to his right hon. and learned Friend opposite, the late Attorney General for Ireland (Mr. Napier), for the great labour and pains which he had bestowed on its preparation. But he denied that it was a Government Bill in the ordinary sense of the term.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he had projected the Bill long before he had had any connexion with the late Government. When he became connected with the late Government, he felt, no doubt, the same interest in it. He thought that the measure should be treated as one that had been substantially projected by a private individual.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he did not see why the encumbrancer, in receipt of the rent and in the position of owner, should be deprived of the power of dealing beneficially with the property. He expressed his readiness, however, to consider all suggestions,
 245
 MR. NAPIER  said, there was this restriction in the case of a receiver, that he was subject to the control of the Receiver Master in the Court of Chancery.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he would suggest, that, as he had had no notice from his hon. and learned Friend that he would move such a proviso, it had better be deferred until the Motion for the third reading of the Bill.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he was quite ready to consider the suggestions which had been made, and to take the discussion upon bringing up the Report.
 MR. NAPIER  said, the Amendment pertained more to conveyancing than to common sense; and therefore it would be more for the convenience of the conveyancer if the clause were left as it stood.
 MR. M'MAHON  was of opinion that all leases under the Bill should include the covenants in question.
 MR. MALINS  said, as the clause at present stood, it conferred leasing powers upon any encumbrancer, however small in amount, or short time in possession; and the owners of land would very naturally look upon such powers with very grave apprehension. Now, if an encumbrancer had been in possession for a considerable portion of time, it would afford this evidence—that the owner of the estate was either unwilling or unable to redeem. If unwilling, it showed that he considered the property of no value to him; and if unable, the encumbrancer ought to be looked upon in the position of owner; and the interests of society required that the person in possession of an estate should have all the incidents of ownership in the management of that estate. He begged, therefore, to suggest, whether a qualification might not with advantage be introduced into the clause, to the effect that the powers proposed to be conferred upon the encumbrancer should be exercised only where he had been in possession for the space of, say three years.
 MR. ROSS MOORE  said, he was ready to accede to the suggestion of the right hon. and learned Gentleman.
 MR. ROSS MOORE  said, by the clause as it then stood, a creditor who got into possession of an estate which had been mortgaged or incumbered, might, by virtue of an elegit or otherwise, saddle the property with a lease, although he might be paid off the very day after. He would, therefore, beg to move the addition of a proviso with the view to prevent such an event taking place.
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he thought a distinction ought to be drawn between the owner and the receiver acting on the part of the owner.
 MR. CONOLLY  said, that if the clause were retained in the Bill, it ought to be very much modified; for, as it stood, it would tend to introduce a system of tenancy which could never be approved of by the real owner, and would act very prejudicially to the estate.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he would ask the right hon. and learned Gentleman, whether, if he were still in office, he would persevere in pressing forward this Bill on a Wednesday?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he should like to have the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman the Speaker, as to whether this should be considered a Government Bill or not?
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he would prefer taking the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman upon the question as to whether this was or was not a Government Bill.
 MR. T. DUNCOMBE  said, he rose to order. He begged to submit that this was a Government Bill to all intents and purposes, and it had, therefore, no right to take priority of the Bills of independent Members. The Bill had been introduced by the Attorney and Solicitor General of the late Government. Their names, together
 241
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, he was convinced that in those cases where the owner had so encumbered his property as to retain a merely nominal interest, the power of withholding his consent would be abused. He preferred vesting the power in the Court of Chancery.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he should support the clause, which he thought had been well considered by the Committee that had sat upon the Bill. He was for passing the clause as it stood, for if they went on talking at this rate, they would never pass the measure through the House at all.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that in as much as the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin could not now command any of the Government days, he (Sir G. Grey) would advise him to give up the Bill altogether if he were prevented going on with it on a Wednesday.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, if they waited until the owner and encumbrancer concurred in granting a lease, he feared that, in a great many cases, which they desired to provide for, they would have to wait a long time. He would take the liberty of suggesting, that the encumbrancer in possession, who wanted to grant a lease, should give notice to the owner, with all particulars, and that at the expiration of six months, if the owner had not in the meantime taken steps either to pay off the encumbrance or prevent his making the lease, the encumbrancer should have full power to grant it. In that case, he conceived there would be no ground for complaint on the part of the owner.
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, he took a different view of the question to that of the hon. Member for Roscommon (Mr. French), and in doing so he thought he was representing the interests of the community at large.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was not about to renew the painful personalities they had heard throughout the discussion; but could not help saying, the effect of it out of doors would be to create an impression that the House was in the habit of wasting a great deal of time on comparatively unimportant matters, and postponing important matters —in fact, that they were always ready to strain at a gnat, and to swallow a camel. He held this opinion on two grounds. Accusations of a much graver nature than the present had been preferred against hon. Gentlemen Members of that House, and even against persons holding a high position in the Government, which remained unanswered to this day; and yet they had devoted three hours to a debate on a matter comparatively of much less importance. The hon. and learned Gentleman opposite had been accused—out of, if not in, the House—of having pledged himself, in the most distinct and solemn manner, not only never to hold office under, but never to tolerate the existence of any Government which was not prepared to comply with certain conditions he mentioned. These conditions had not been fulfilled, and the hon. and learned Gentleman nevertheless held office under the present Government, which had not even made an attempt to fulfil them. The hon. and learned Gentleman might be, he doubted not, fully prepared to acquit himself from that charge; but, while endeavouring to absolve himself from charges of a minor character, he had left untouched matters of much greater importance with respect to his own character as an individual and as a Member of that House. This was his first reason for his entertaining the opinion he had expressed. The second reason he had for thinking the country would be under the impression he had mentioned, was, that a considerable number of weeks had now elapsed since much graver charges were made against the Government as a body, and yet they
 306
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL,  in reply, said, that if the property were administered in England, he would be liable, but not otherwise.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the rule of law was, that a man's personal property was administered according to the law of the country in which he was domiciled. But if a man by his will gave a successive interest in his property to a person living in another country, then the property would be administered according to the law of the country in which the right vested, and would, of course, be subject to any tax existing in that country applicable to such property.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he must repeat, that if a person died abroad, and his property was administered abroad, that property would not be subject to duty; but if the property of such person was brought to this country and then administered here, it would become subject to duty.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the first clause comprehended both leaseholds for lives and leaseholds for years. Leaseholds for lives would henceforth be exempted from the operation of the legacy duty, but not from that of the probate duty.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he was very glad to be able to remove the ap- prehensions of hon. Gentlemen opposite. The clause would apply only where the reversioner became beneficially interested. He would take a case which generally happened. Supposing a man granted a tenement on a lease for three lives. If one life dropped, the reversioner did not become beneficially entitled, because two lives were remaining; and if he followed the custom of the country, he would renew the lease, and put in another life. [ Cries of 319
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he wished to remove the impression on the mind of the hon. Member. If a lease was for a rackrent, then the determination of that lease would not confer any property, because the clause touched on nothing but on property acquired by reason of death; and if a man was already, during a lease for a life or lives, in possession of a rackrent yielded by the property, the determination of the lease would not give him any additional property.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL : Where the disposition had been made by the landlord himself of the property which he again came into possession of, he did not pay this tax.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL : A man granted a lease and it terminated in his own life, then, in the language of the Bill, he was his own predecessor; but if a lease granted by his father for lives terminated in his own life, then he paid the tax.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the case was expressly provided for by a subsequent clause of the Bill. The party purchasing would pay the duty which would have been paid by the grantor, supposing there had been no alienees.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that a verbal amendment having been introduced, it would be irregular to postpone the clause.
 COLONEL BLAIR  said, he should support the Motion of the hon. Member for Lanarkshire (Mr. W. Lockhart).
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I trust that the House will not lose sight of what I think a material result of this discussion. Hon. Gentlemen, and the noble Lord especially, the Member for Coleraine (Lord Naas) have complained that private conversations have been repeated, and private letters have been read; but be it remembered that the whole of these discussions have arisen from a personal attack upon an hon. and learned Gentleman holding the high and responsible office of Solicitor General for Ireland—an office than which there is hardly any that requires more the confidence of the public at large in order that its functions may be discharged with advantage. With respect to an hon. and learned Gentleman who holds that situation, a person of no less station and dignity than one who was lately the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, under the Earl of Derby,
 293 294 295 296
 LORD NAAS : Sir, I rise under circumstances of a very extraordinary nature, to claim the attention of the House, not for an hour and ten minutes, as the hon. and learned Gentleman has done, but rather for a very much shorter space of time, and for the purpose of making a statement which shall be as unornamented with the tropes and figures of rhetoric, as it will be undistinguished by those eloquent and lofty tones which graced the address of the hon. and learned Gentleman; for my address will convey nothing beyond a simple statement of the truth—and as such, and such alone, I bespeak for it your attention. Sir, I have listened for the last hour and five minutes to a betrayal of private confidence —I have listened to a betrayal of private
 275 276 277 Laughter. 278 279 Times 280 281
 MR. DUNLOP : Certainly not.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that bonds on heritable property had always been considered in Scotland as real property. They not only descended exclusively to the heir, but they gave the party holding them a right in the land as much as the owner of the soil. If the Committee should now determine to consider these bonds as personal property, they would overturn the whole course of legal decisions in Scotland.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he proposed to omit this clause, with the view of afterwards inserting other clauses. However, whether his Amendment should be carried or not, he admitted that the Bill would be of very great value in simplifying and improving the whole course of law procedure in Scotland. By the practice which the clause would continue, proofs would be taken from the witnesses, recorded by the sheriff substitute, and referred to a single judge, who had not heard or seen the witnesses. It was a vicious principle that the reviewing judge should have none of the advantages possessed by the judge whose decision be reviewed, He (Mr. Dunlop) proposed, that when a proof was ordered, it should not be taken by the sheriff substitute, but should
 327 l.
 MR. DISRAELI : There is no Motion, Sir, before the House; but I thought, as my name has been introduced very frequently in this discussion, that I should, perhaps, not be considered intrusive if I presumed to offer a few observations. The House will recollect that really the question before us is one which I think ought never hardly to be introduced. The real question is as to the veracity of two Members of this House—because I do not suppose that any Gentleman will for a moment pretend that there were any circumstances which did not justify the late Administration to offer office to the hon. and learned Gentleman if they thought proper. I beg the House to recollect the circumstances under which the hon. and learned Gentleman was placed with regard to the great body of Gentlemen who were sitting on this side of the House at the time when the Government of the noble Lord the Member for London was broken up. The hon. and learned Gentleman was, I think, returned first to the Parliament of 1847. He was returned as the only Roman Catholic Member who entertained Conservative opinions; and, of course, that alone was a combination of circumstances which gave him almost a position when he entered the House—a position which he sustained by his abilities. The hon. and learned Gentleman took his seat, of course, among the Conservative ranks, and he became a member, as most Gentlemen who profess Conservative opinions do, of the Carlton Club. He upheld the commercial policy of Sir Robert Peel; but at the same time he sat with us, and there were many questions on which he acted with us. He was in communication with my late lamented friend Lord George Bentinck, who had a high opinion of his abilities, and at the very moment when the Government of the noble Lord the Member for Loudon broke up, he was in personal communication with the noble Lord the Member for Coleraine (Lord Naas), as the manager of what may be fairly styled a party question. The Government of the noble Lord the Member for London within twenty-four hours of the then debate
 289 290 291 292
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had no wish to take an unfair advantage of any understanding between the House and the Government, but, at the same time, he thought it might, without detriment to their own position, or their avowed objects, assent to the substantive proposal made by the hon. Baronet (Sir W. Jolliffe). He wished that the right hon. Gentleman would follow the example of Mr. Pitt, and commute this proposed succession tax into a property tax of general application. If it was thought right that real property should hear more taxation than it was at present subject to, he asked that it should be levied in a manner the least onerous. An efficient tax upon real property was included under the income tax, and was in course of re-enactment with the advantages that assessors and collectors had gained experience and information, while the people had become habituated to it; and it had been proved that many of the gross abuses, and much of the inequality of the income tax, did disgrace the property tax under Schedule A. At present there was a tax at 9 d. d., d. 311
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he hoped that the noble Lord would press his Motion. He (Colonel Sibthorp) entertained a similar opinion with the noble Lord of this Bill. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was trying to smuggle through clause after clause, and was supported in the attempt by the Manchester school, of whom he (Colonel Sibthorp) had no very high opinion. He had lately returned from discharging an important duty, and had found a very obedient corps of militiamen, and he should be glad to assist now in drilling the Chancellor of the Exchequer into a somewhat better sense of his duty to the country.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he wished to ask whether the course of pleading might not be very much more simplified than by the process provided by this clause?
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he had been unable to be present on the Committee. He did not see why the pursuer should have the right of stopping the pleadings, or determining that they should go on, It was, in fact, making him the lawyer. He should move an Amendment conferring the power of closing the record upon the sheriff alone.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he begged to call attention to the circumstance that, inasmuch as appeals were not abolished, the evidence would still require to be taken  ad longam,
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he hoped they would go on with the Bill. Though he was by no means satisfied with the Bill as it stood, he, nevertheless, thought no delay should take place in passing it through the House.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he thought that portions of the clause were of a very tyrannical nature.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, that persons who granted life annuities, charged upon their estates, would have to pay the succession tax upon the falling in of those annuities. He therefore wished to know whether public assurance companies would also be charged with the tax on the falling in of any annuities they had granted; because, if they were not, they would thus enjoy an unfair advantage as compared with individuals.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he wished to point out that there was a peculiar class of property, called "customary freehold," which might, by mistake, have been overlooked in the framing of the Bill.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he understood
 313
 MR. H. HERBERT  wished to know how the Bill would affect cases where leases were given, concurrently for lives and for years, that being a most common form of tenure in Ireland?
 MR. I. BUTT : Although I am reluctant to make any observations upon the
 287 288
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he thought the mode of taking down the evidence proposed by this Bill a decided improvement. Formerly evidence was taken  ad longam,
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he hoped his hon. Friend would not press his Motion. It was quite possible to get through a good many of the clauses that night, omitting any clause on which there were notices of Amendment by hon. Members who were not now present.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he regretted the absence of the hon. and learned Member from the Committee, but he could not on that account assent to his Amendment. There had been upon the Committee who had considered this question the Solicitor General for England, the late Attorney General for Ireland, the right hon. and learned Member for Midhurst, the present sheriff of Midlothian, the sheriff substitute of Lanarkshire, and others.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, the clause had been very carefully considered by the Select Committee, and he must insist on its being retained as it stood.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that that very question had been fully considered before the Select Committee, and the result was, that the clause as it now stood had met with their unanimous approbation.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had alluded to a subject which he (Mr. Whiteside) never expected to hear again mentioned in that House; and that was the Motion of the noble Lord (Lord Naas) on the subject of the conduct of the Earl of Clarendon, one of his present Colleagues, while Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. Now, he happened to be one of the members of the bar who conducted the case against the Earl of Clarendon, and not having been long a Member of that House when the question was under discussion there, and not knowing that it would be consistent with the etiquette of the House in such circumstances to offer any observations, he declined to speak on that account, understanding, however, that it was the intention of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Keogh) to address the House upon the subject. But he could never listen to a Minister of the Crown, in a country where public morality and public principle were professed to be respected, eulogising and justifying that transaction, without giving to that justification an indignant denial—a denial of its propriety— a denial of its justice. He could not forget that he had heard it proved that Lord Clarendon, being at the time the Lord Lieutenant of a kingdom, rolled out gold to a newspaper writer for the purpose of obtaining from him panegyrics on his go-
 304 305
 MR. VANCE  said, it was very seldom he differed in opinion with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, to support whose Administration he had been sent into that House. But he certainly could not assent to one of his observations. The right hon. Gentleman said, he should not have been surprised or displeased if office had been conferred upon the hon. and learned Member for Athlone by the Administration with which he was connected. He (Mr. Vance) could only say, that the constituency he represented, and who had returned him by a majority of 1,400 votes, would have been both surprised and displeased if office had been conferred upon the hon. and learned Gentleman in preference to the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Trinity College (Mr. Napier), or in preference to the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside), both of whom had supported with consummate ability the opinions of the party with which the right hon. Gentleman had all along been connected. There were also further and graver objections to the hon. and learned Gentleman receiving any appointment in the Administration of Lord Derby, in the Ultramontane opinions he had always maintained.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to put this case: Supposing an Englishman possessed property in America, and was domiciled in America, and left it to his son, who was living in England, was it intended that that son should pay the succession duty?
 MR. HENLEY  said, it had been truly said, that the details of the Bill would prove worse than the principle. It was truly termed robbery. That language, though strong, was not at all too strong to describe it. He thought it most unjust to make those pay the tax who succeeded to property upon the determination of lives, while such persons as the Duke of Bedford and the Marquess of Westminster would pay nothing upon their immense estates, granted on lease for ninety-nine years. That was not, he thought, making what was sauce for the goose sauce for the gander also.
 MR. HENLEY  thought, it would be sufficient to provide for the difficulty that had been raised hereafter.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not ask about property which would vest in this country, but about property that was possessed in America.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to know whether a foreigner, residing in this country, and succeeding to property abroad according to the law of that country, would be liable to the tax?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would yield to the request of the right hon. Gentleman, and allow the Committee to proceed with the discussion of one clause or so more. The object of Clause 6, as he understood it, was to prevent persons from reserving to themselves a certain interest in an estate which they made over to another; so that in point of fact they made a kind of fraudulent grant in order to evade the tax. But, according to this clause, if, as was frequently the case, a clergyman should grant a lease for his own life, the grantee would seem to be liable to the succession duty on the death of the grantor. This, surely, could not be intended.
 MR. HENLEY  moved that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he would be bound by the hon. Gentleman's answer to this question, Did not the money secured
 314
 MR. MULLINGS  said, under those circumstances he would not press his Amendment.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he had no objection whatever to this tax, but he did object that they should have an Act of Parliament so incomplete in so many respects. This clause enacted that, "every past or future disposition of property, by reason whereof any person had or should become entitled to any property upon the death of any person dying after the commencement of the Act," should be deemed to confer a "succession," and the term "successor" should denote the person so entitled. Now, mark how this would operate. Let them suppose that, ten years ago, a settlement of 20,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 315
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he wished to revert to the words in the clause which treated mortgages on heritable bonds in Scotland as real property, while mortgages in England were treated as personal property; he should move that the words which made that distinction be omitted from the Bill.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that he certainly should divide the Committee on the Amendment he had proposed, as he considered
 318
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he had on Monday night appealed to the Government not to go into Committee that night, and had given notice of certain Amendments which it was his intention to move, and he should move them as soon as he had the opportunity. He would himself prefer a tax upon real property of 6 d.
 MR. NAPIER : I must ask the attention of the House for a few moments while I explain a matter which is open to some misapprehension. It has been commented upon by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and by the public press, as a singular circumstance that Lord Derby should have stated in the House of Lords that he had heard the rumour before, and had given authority to contradict it; whereas the Earl of Eglinton stated that he heard it then for the first time. I belive that I was the
 286
 MR. BUCK  said, he considered that, after what had fallen from the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newde-gate), the country party could not be ac-
 312
 MR. BAINES  said, he could not help saying that the object which the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton had in view, was a reasonable one. It had come to his knowledge in several cases that when a vestry was likely to be held, a rate had been made almost immediately before the meeting, in consequence of which many persons had been disfranchised from not having paid rates of which they had no knowledge till perhaps the morning of the meeting. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Trollope), however, that six months was too long, and in Committee they might shorten the period to two, three, or four months.
 MR. KENDALL  said, his property was entirely leased for three lives, and it would be an enormous tax upon him if he had to pay on the falling in of each life, while the Marquess of Westminster, in the way he granted leases, went free. He appealed to the honesty and fair dealing of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to remedy so marked an injustice.
 MR. MALINS  said, he must complain that, while such landlords as the Duke of Bedford and the Marquess of Westminster, who granted leases for ninety-nine years, would be exempted from the succession tax on the expiration of those leases, persons who granted leases for three lives, which was a common practice in the west of England, would have to pay the tax on the fnlling-in of cach life. He thought the Bill should be so framed as to do equal justice in all cases.
 MR. MALINS  said, if a gentleman granted a lease, the tenant was said to be in possession during the lease, and the reversion to be in the landlord, but the possession came to the landlord at the termination of the lease. Now, the principle of the clause was, that if he deprived himself of his land for three lives, when he
 320
 MR. MALINS  said, he was glad to hear that the right hon. Gentleman was ready to take into consideration the point he had raised, and would therefore suggest the postponement of the clause with that view.
 MR. MALINS : That did not apply to a lease by his ancestor.
 MR. MALINS  said, he considered that the right hon. Gentleman had very much overstated the number of settlements made to evade the probate duty. His experience had led him to know that the number of voluntary settlements made to evade the duty were very few indeed, and in the course of a not inconsiderable practice, he believed he had not been called upon to draw a deed of the kind more than once in a year. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to think, also, that these settlements were a fraud upon the law; but the Court of Chancery had decided that they were perfectly legal. The public were, therefore, entitled to act upon the law. The payment of 10 per cent legacy duty had driven many persons to make voluntary settlements. The Bill of the Government would operate upon those settlements, and the man who, perhaps, had saved 7,000 l. l l. l.
 MR. SPOONER  wished to ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer how he intended to deal with the case of property vested in trustees to wind up businesses, and at the expiration of a given term the result to be divided among the heirs? The business might turn out unprofitable, and he would like to know when and how the succession tax would be levied? He also wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman did not think, that under this Bill there would be a great difficulty in obtaining trustees to act? He had been informed by a professional friend, who was a trustee, that if this Bill passed he should be obliged to resign his trust.
 MR. BOOKER  said, that a great part of the Duchies of Cornwall and Lancaster was let on leases of lives. If it should so happen that the reversioner took a fine on the death, that was a beneficial interest, he presumed. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman had taken care of the interests of the Crown.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must deprecate the use of such strong language. The use of such terms as robbery was highly improper as applied to Acts of Parliament. It was impossible, perhaps, to carry out the measure with perfect equality; but the reproaches levied against the Bill might more fairly be applied to the law as it stood. The object of the Government was to maintain the immediate and effectual application of this measure in its principle—the principle of taxing successions upon death to all property. That point had already been questioned and affirmed by the Committee by a considerable majority. It was, however, open to the Government to consider, and they were willing to consider, questions compatible with the fair operation of this principle. He did not deny that there were great difficulties in adjusting the details of a Bill like this, and he was perfectly willing to consider the point which had been suggested. The Government wished to preserve the framework of the Bill, and did not wish to commit themselves under pressure to any concession, until they had had an opportunity
 321
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, this clause was the foundation of the whole Bill. If it passed now, no prejudice would ensue to the proposal of the hon, and learned Gentleman; and the modifications he suggested might be provided for by subsequent alterations.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman had stated the case with great fairness, and had raised a broad principle involved in the Bill. The hon. Gentleman said they had no right, consistently with equitable considerations, to pass a retrospective piece of legislation. He would not quarrel with the term, as they all knew what was meant by it. The hon. Gentleman said that all settlements and other kinds of property now existing, all cases where a title to future property had been created, should be exempted from the operation of this Bill. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) adverted to this subject on a former night, but in doing so he totally misstated what he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had declared as to the views of the Government. The right hon. Gentleman said that the only reason the Government had for not exempting existing settlements was, that they could not afford it. Now, the right hon. Baronet must have an exceedingly short memory; because he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) stated deliberately and distinctly other reasons irrespective of the pecuniary difficulty. He denied the title of these settlements to be exempted from the operation of this principle. It was true that the application of the principle to the case in hand would be an exceedingly inconvenient one; for it would exempt many properties from the operation of the Bill for more than two generations. But he did not admit the soundness of the principle itself. With respect to the instances which the hon. Member (Mr. Mullings) had cited, he would put out of view the case of the policy of insurances, because the Government was about to propose a measure with regard to insurances, which he apprehended would go far to meet the views of the hon. Gentleman himself. With regard to the case of reversionary interest, he would not enter into the amount of duty to be paid, because that was not the ground of the hon. Gentleman's opposition. The question raised was, whether it was fair in principle. The hon. Gentleman said that the party, on the faith of the existing law, made a purchase of a reversion, and that the tax now proposed might make the whole difference between that transaction being a profitable and an unprofitable one. Now, what he
 316 prima facie 317 s.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was not in his power to prevent any hon. Gentleman from availing himself of any constructions he might put upon his formal rights as a Member of that House; but it would be a clear breach of duty on his part if he were to become a party to departing from the understanding of Monday, which was laid down, not for the convenience of the Government, but for that of hon. Members.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved that the House should re-
 307
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was very sorry that, in compliance with his absolute duty, he must entirely decline to discuss the principle and general bearing of the operation of the Bill; and this upon grounds of a very simple character. On Monday night the regular Motion for going into Committee upon the Bill was made; it was debated at considerable length, and the debate came to its natural termination. No Member proposed its adjournment, and Mr. Speaker left the chair. The House was then in Committee. The natural course for him to have taken then would have been to have moved that the Chairman report progress; and then Mr. Speaker would at once have left the chair to-day; but there were certain Amendments, very slight in comparison with the importance of the Bill, which the Government intended to move. It appeared to him, therefore, that it would be for the convenience of Members to have the Bill in their hands, in its exact state as it came from the Committee. He, therefore, rose in his place and said, if that was the view of the House, and they were prepared to go into Committee on Thursday, just as if progress had been reported on Monday night, he would move that it be committed  pro forma,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Member would find the answer to his question in the 19th clause. The case would, of course, be regulated by the general rules applicable to property held in perpetuity or fee simple, the succession commencing on the death of the testator.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought, if the hon, and learned Gentleman had heard the answer he gave on this subject on Friday night, he would hardly have found it necessary to put the questions now addressed to him. Government intended to deal with  quasi quasi
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would suggest that the discussion of this point should be postponed until they came to the 16th clause, which referred more particularly to the subject of assurances.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  urged the importance, in the present state of public business, of the Committee going on with the Bill that night, and hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not persevere in his opposition.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the matter should be taken into consideration, and if the difficulty which the right hon. Gentleman apprehended should be found to exist, it should be provided for.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that was not the intention of the clause. In the case supposed by the hon. Member, the purchaser would only pay duty according to the previous relations of the estate.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if there was a disposition on the part of hon. Members opposite to press the Motion that the Chairman do now report progress, the Government would not oppose it. He hoped that the noble Lord and the hon. and gallant Member, having taken an opportunity of speaking out their sentiments, felt much relieved by doing so, and that they would allow the discussion on the particular clause before the Committee to proceed to-morrow without interruption.
 MR. BARROW  said, he would suggest that if the clause could not be postponed it should be rejected by the Committee, and then the right hon. Gentleman might bring up an amended clause on the Report.
 MR. BARROW  complained that, under this clause, if a man bought an estate subject to an annuity of 100 l.
 MR. BARROW  said, he did not understand why money payable upon mortgages in Scotland was to be treated in a more favourable manner than money payable upon mortgages in England. This, however, would be the effect of the exemption from the duty of money secured by heritable bond in Scotland.
 MR. BERESFORD : Sir, I have listened with serious attention to the lengthened speech of the hon. and learned Member for Athlone; and I have also attended to the explanation which my noble Friend has given upon this occasion. I
 282 283 284 285 Morning Chronicle
 MR. KEOGH : Mr. Speaker, in rising to make the statement of which I have given notice, I am sure I shall not ask in vain for the indulgent attention of both sides of the House, whilst I endeavour to defend myself against charges impeaching my veracity, and derogatory to my personal honour: and I have that confidence, because I have always observed that, no matter what may be our individual and party conflicts, this House receives fairly, kindly, and with a generous disposition, any explanations which any of its Members may be driven to make in vindication of his character. I am not indeed, Sir, without a conviction that discussions of this nature are irksome and tedious, and disagreeable to the House. I am not without a conviction—to me a most unpleasant one—that altercations of a personal nature have too often arisen between the representatives of Ireland. But this I wish to remind both sides of the House—and I hope justice will be done to me in regard to this, at least— that in this case I am not the aggressor— that I have not sought or originated this cause of quarrel—that it has been put upon me under circumstances which I do think that every Member of this House, when they are fully explained, will believe are inconsistent with that fair play and just consideration which is conceded to every political opponent, and which I have never known to be denied by any generous man to an absent individual. Sir, it will be in the recollection of hon. Members that upon Friday last, in another place (the House of Lords), a discussion occurred in
 258 259 260 261 "My dear Keogh—You wish to know whether I can remember the circumstance of Lord Naas calling at the Reform Club and making inquiries respecting your residence, at that particular period of last year when Lord Derby was forming his Administration. I have a distinct recollection of meeting Lord Naas in the Reform Club during that period. The fact of his visit to the Reform Club was the more impressed on my mind from the peculiar position of parties at that moment, especially as it was shortly afterwards commonly reported that you had been asked if you were willing to accept office under Lord Derby's Government. This impression was subsequently confirmed by your stating to me that Lord Naas had expressly asked if you were disposed to take office under the new Administration of Lord Derby. —I am, very truly yours, "R. B. OSBORNE. " June 15, 1853." 262 "Reform Club, Friday Evening. "Dear Lord Naas—I have just returned from the bar of the House of Lords, where I heard Lord Eglinton state that he considered my nomination to the office I now hold the least reputable of those made by the present Government. Upon hearing this, I at once communicated with the Duke of Newcastle, and authorised him to state that immediately upon the change of Government in the year 1852, and before the Ministerial arrangements of Lord Derby had been completed, I was asked by your Lordship whether I would accept office under Lord Derby's Government; a question which I had answered in the negative. The Duke of Newcastle stated this to their Lordships, and, thereupon, Lord Derby, in the most explicit manner, denied that he had ever authorised any such proceeding; and I, therefore, at once address you upon the subject. It will be in your recollection, that, shortly after Lord Derby had undertaken the formation of his Ministry, you called at my club at least twice on the one day, leaving on each occasion your card, and subsequently a note, requesting to see me at your house upon the following morning. I called, but did not see you, as you afterwards informed me by some mistake on the part of your servant, and you again wrote requesting that I should call upon you. I did so, and after some conversation of no importance, you stated that you had been directed to ask me whether I would accept office under Lord Derby. I jestingly asked you if you intended to make me Chancellor of the Exchequer, President of the Board of Control, or some such office? You replied that you had asked me a serious question, and expected a serious answer. I reminded you that you had not stated by whose authority you put the question; and you replied at Major Beresford's desire, adding, that he was in communication with Lord Derby. I then told you that it was impossible for me to join Lord Derby's Government. Major Beresford having subsequently spoken to me in a deprecating tone of the opposition I thought it my duty to give to Lord Derby's Government in the House of Commons, reminded me, when I expressed my surprise at his remonstrance, that I had been asked to take office by you, and that he felt my hostility the more as he was the person who had spoken with Lord Derby in reference to my name. With the distinct recollection of these facts on my mind, I need scarcely say how much Lord Derby's decla-
 263 "Reform Club, Monday. "Dear Lord Naas—I addressed a letter to you on Friday evening to the Carlton, and on inquiry on Saturday and yesterday, was informed that you had not been in town. I called this day at your house, and was told that you are still absent. May I beg the favour of a reply as soon as possible after your arrival?—Dear Lord Naas, truly yours, "WILLIAM KEOGH." 264 "4, Grosvenor-place, Tuesday. "Dear Sir—I only received your note last night on my return to town, after an absence of some days. I distinctly deny that, either directly or in directly, I made an offer of office to yourself or to any of your friends, or that I had, or that I assumed I had, authority from any one so to do. As to the interview which took place between us about the period to which you refer, my recollection of it so essentially differs from the version given by yourself, that I cannot admit its accuracy, or the deductions you seem to have drawn from it.—Truly yours, "NAAS." 265 "I heard it had been put about by Mr. Keogli's friends that a certain offer had been made, and I lost no time in authorising every person who might hear that to state upon my authority that I did not know, nor have I ever authorised, nor did I then believe, nor do I now believe, that any such offer, proposition, suggestion, or hint was ever made to Mr. Keogh by any person." 266 eo instanti 267 268 eo instanti "I distinctly deny that either directly or indirectly I made an offer of office to yourself or any of your friends, or that I had, or that I assumed I had, authority from any one so to do. As to the interview which took place between us about the period to which you refer, my recollection of it so essentially differs from the version given by yourself, that I cannot admit its accuracy, or the deductions you seem to have drawn from it." 269 270 "37, Jermyn-street, June 15, 1853. "My dear Keogh—I-have a perfect recollection of the conversation between me and Lord Naas, to which you refer as having been communicated to you shortly after its occurrence. It took place during a journey to Ireland last summer, when we were both going over to our, respective elections, lie spoke in terms of much disappointment and regret at, what he considered your ungrateful conduct in making an attack a few evenings previous in the House on Mr. Disraeli, as they had deserved a kinder consideration from you after the feeling evinced in his having sent for you and asked you whether you would take office under the Government of Lord Derby." "Lord Naas never mentioned to, me whether or not he made this offer by direction of any other person, but he dwelt much on Mr. Disraeli's kind feeling towards you, and said that the step he had taken entitled them at least to have asked for a more generous forbearance. "I thought he desired his remarks to be conveyed to you, and I mentioned them when I saw
 271 272 273 274
 MR. KEOGH : I am sure the House will indulge me for a few moments, after the statement just made by the right hon. Gentleman. But before I proceed, allow me to return my thanks to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks (Mr. Disraeli) for the extremely kind, most generous, and, I fear, undeserved expressions he was pleased to use towards me. For those expressions I am most thankful to the right hon. Gentleman. I feel that, as to my personal character, the language of the right hon. Gentleman is an ample vindication, and a complete compensation for any attack made upon me elsewhere. And I cannot but admire how, after we have been engaged in discussing so insignificant a subject as my personal character fur three hours—after I came down prepared to meet the issue between myself and the noble Lord—after the right hon. Gentleman opposite has expressed his full and complete vindication of the propriety of offering me office—for he was pleased to say he had watched my career, and he would not have been surprised or dissatisfied at my being offered office by the Government of which he was so distinguished a Member — another right hon. Gentleman, a Colleague of his, should have abandoned the ground taken by the right hon. Gentleman; and brought forward a
 301 302 303
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, he objected to their proceeding further with the Bill at that late hour (a quarter to one o'clock). Many of the Scotch Members had left, having no idea that the Bill would be proceeded with that night. He should, therefore, move that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. MICHELL  wished to know if a person purchased freehold property held on a lease for lives what percentage he would be bound to pay for the succession?
 MR. MICHELL  said, he was in favour of the principle of the Bill, but the details of it were such as ought not, and, he believed, never could pass. He denied the right of that House to allow large landlords in towns, like the Marquess of Westminster and the Duke of Bedford, to escape the tax, while smaller landlords in the country districts, who adopted the mode of giving leases for lives, would have to pay it. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not give a satisfactory answer upon this point, he should feel it his duty to divide the Committee on the clause.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he wished for some explanation as to the effect of this clause on corporations, and individuals in the nature of corporations sole. He understood the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer on Friday night to say that it was the intention of Government to look on such individuals as persons having duties to perform, rather than as persons enjoying a beneficial interest in property, without having any trust annexed to it. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman what provision there was in this Bill to meet the case of corporations sole? He did not find anything of the kind at present in the Bill, and therefore wished to ask if he proposed to extend any such provision to the case of persons who were not legally corporations sole, because not connected with the Established Church—he meant clergymen of the Roman Catholic Church or the various dissenting denominations? He understood that dissenting clergymen, who hod the benefit of endowments, would be liable to the tax; whereas a clergyman of the Established Church on
 322 quasi quasi
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to know if leasehold property was to be taken out of the category of personal, and placed in that of real property; and, if so, would it pay the same amount of duty, and would it he exempted from probate duty?
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he considered that the clause should be postponed till the different questions which arose out of it had been fully considered. If the clause were not now postponed, he would divide the Committee on it.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had complained of the delay which had taken place in the progress of this Bill, but there was no one to thank for it but the right hon. Gentleman himself. The course which the right hon. Gentleman had pursued was not only unusual, but it was the most extraordinary one he had ever known; for he had allowed a long debate on the principle of his Bill without condescending to take any notice of any single one of the objections which had been urged against the measure, and several of those objections he would challenge the Government to answer; and, without wishing to advert to those which had fallen from himself, he must say that he had never heard a speech which more required an answer than the one delivered by the hon. Member for Cirencester (Mr. Mullings) on a previous occasion; and he should have thought that those who had charge of the Bill would have considered it necessary to defend it from the objections which had been urged against it; and indeed, in his opinion, it was the duty of the Minister who proposed the Bill to reply to those objections.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The noble Lord, in the address which he has just delivered to the House, has assumed a tone which I think the circumstances by no means justify. And I must say that he is the more open to remark, and I feel the more bound to meet that speech with some observations, in consequence of the marked difference between the tone of the speech of the noble Lord and that of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli). Anything more judicious, more conciliatory, or, in my humble judgment, more consistent with the facts, than the speech of my right hon. Friend, I never heard in this House. Nor did I never hear a tone of triumph less justified, or a tone of sarcasm less called for, than that which has constituted so remarkable a feature in the speech of the noble Lord. The latter part of the speech of the noble Lord was directed against my noble Friend (Lord Naas), in terms of harshness and of censure to which I think my noble Friend is not open upon any account, but least of all upon account of the speech he has delivered this evening. My noble Friend replied to the elaborate and carefully-prepared speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Keogh), by avowing that he was not used to the habits of debate in this House, and by telling a plain tale in a tone and manner consistent with the facts of the case—in a manner, I say, that must have carried conviction home to the mind of every man who heard him. I agree with my right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli) that, as regards the statements we have heard this evening—the one made by the hon. and learned Gentleman, and the other by my noble Friend— there is nothing irreconcilable between them. My right hon. Friend has referred to the question as one of veracity, as between my noble Friend and the hon. and learned Gentleman. But I should be inclined to put it even more mildly than that, for, after having listened attentively to the whole of this discussion, I should regard it as simply a question of memory between them. My noble Friend does not deny certain expressions having reference to the possibility of his being offered office, which he addressed to the hon. and learned Gentleman; but he states—and there is nothing in what the hon. and learned Gentle-
 297 298 299 300
 Sir JOHN TROLLOPE  said, his objection would be obviated if the time were shortened.
 Sir JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he must oppose the Bill. The hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Sir G. Pechell), who brought in the Bill, proposed to give a period of six months in which to pay rates. That would cause great confusion, and therefore he should oppose the Bill.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  was under-stood to declare that he had been ignorant what course the Government meant to pursue, and that on the question that the preamble be postponed, he should have made the same appeal that he had done that evening.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he had entered into no understanding upon the subject.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, before Mr. Speaker left the chair, he wished to make an appeal to the Government. He desired to put aside everything in the shape of accusation that the Bill was the result of a compact made with any portion of the supporters of the Government, few or many, as a means of securing to the very unpopular project of the income tax, support it would not have otherwise received, as the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had stated; and he would endeavour to persuade himself, against his own convictions, and the statement of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, that the Government believed the burdens of taxation were not fairly borne by rateable property; that it was necessary, in their opinion, to equalise the proportions of taxation borne by different portions of the community; that the land was not sufficiently taxed; and that it was necessary, on the grounds of justice, that additional taxation should be imposed on it. But he entreated them to pause before they proceeded further, as it was quite clear to him that if landed property were to be subjected to all the provisions of the Bill, it would be most disastrous to it. He had listened with pain to the arguments which had been Urged by Government in reply to the able statements of that side of the House the other night. The right hon. Gentleman, indeed, said that certain spiritual persons in another place had approved of the Bill, and perhaps they might not object to the mediaeval predilections of the Chancellor of the Exchequer for benefit of clergy; but he could not join in their approbation. After ah extensive experience with rateable property from an early age on his own account, and as trustee and guardian for others, all he could say was, the result of his experience led him to believe that, bad as the legacy duty was—pressing as it did generally with great severity, and being a cruel and most ungenerous mode of levying taxation—its pressure would be much exaggerated if legal aid was necessary to make proper arrangements on the part of executors. If they passed that elaborate Bill, with all those extraordinary provisions, they would inflict on rateable property a degree of expense, inconvenience, and tyranny, which had never existed under any tax in this country. He would suggest, therefore, that the Government should postpone the Committee, and
 308 3d. 6d.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  moved that the Chairman report progress and ask leave to sit again. He considered that the Bill, as a whole, was downright robbery, and he was perfectly satisfied that it would never have been brought forward by the Chancellor of the Exchequer but for certain Gentlemen on his right hand. It might be very well for the right hon. Gentleman to endeavour to please those parties at the expense of the landed interest, but as a small landed proprietor, living up to his income, he begged to protest against it.
 325 Laughter.
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, it appeared from the explanation of the hon. and learned Solicitor General, that they were really about to be taxed by a fiction of the law. If he understood his explanation, it was this—that a landlord, by a legal fiction, was considered in possession when his tenant held by a term of years, but that when he held at a rackrent, or for a term of lives, which was precisely the same as far as the landlord was concerned, he was not considered in legal possession, but that he came into such possession on the death of the last life, and that he would then be subject to the succession tax. That did not appear to him to be a fair application of the principle of the Bill. If the Committee went to a division, he should certainly vote against the clause.
 MR. HUME  said, he must also express his disapproval of the practice of mutilating official documents, which were, in fact, the "raw materials" of history. He had been authoritatively informed that two despatches of Sir Alexander Burnes, which entirely exculpated Dost Mahomed from the charge of having provoked the Affghan war, bad been mutilated in a most disgraceful manner. He had no language to express his disgust and indignation at conduct so unworthy and dishonourable. In the Navy estimates he found that provision was made for a pension of 150 l.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he thought the words of the clause were sufficiently explicit, and, except from the desire of multiplying words, there could be no objection to the adoption of the clause as it stood. If his hon. and learned Friend had observed the words of the clause, he thought he could not entertain any difficulty about the matter. Wherever property wa3 given absolutely, though given with an honourable and moral engagement, as distinct from a legal and equitable contract, that honourable and moral engagement would not come within the meaning of this Bill. When his hon. and learned Friend had accomplished the task of defining every variety and mode that were used to accomplish frauds, then he might hope to express in a definite enactment the means of preventing them; but at present legislators were obliged to have recourse to general provisions to meet such cases. If the father should give his son a property out-and-out, and therefore became  bond fide
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was a general enactment in general terms, not meant or calculated to give any court a right to make the law, but a right of saying whether the facts of a case came within the law already made.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, it would be observed that the portion of the clause contemplated an instrument that was to be set aside, and for that purpose an appeal must of necessity be made to a court of equity. That court of equity might be the Court of Exchequer, which in matters of this kind still exercised an equitable jurisdiction, or the Court of Chancery. If any person was alarmed at the words "court of competent jurisdiction," there could be no difficulty in altering the words into "court of law or equity." An infinite variety of cases might be pointed out in which attempts would be made to evade this duty. This provision, however, was one which had existed for years in connexion with the legacy duty—it would only be administered in the Superior Courts at Westminster Hall, by the Judges of the land— it was a branch of jurisprudence already well known to our laws; and, therefore, he thought it ought not to excite alarm among hon. Members.
 MR. TATTON EGERTON  said, the Committee had been told what the law on legacies was as established by the decisions of the courts for a long series of years; but it should be remembered that they were now dealing with the whole property of the country at the present moment, and, although he voted for the principle of the Bill, yet he held himself bound to see that that principle was fairly and justly carried out. He very much feared that the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) was about to introduce a fresh principle and a fresh law, not only as regarded real property, but as affected personal property also. It might take a long series of years to establish the law by a course of uniform judgments on the subjects; and during the interval every person disposing of property would be subject to have his family arrangements disputed and disturbed. In many instances the successor would be liable to be brought before a Court of Law to determine whether disposition was fraudulent or not. In all these cases heavy costs would be incurred, because in no case where the Crown prosecuted were costs allowed. They all knew that the officers of the Crown who would have to carry out this measure would not be affected by any decision that might be come to. They saw what had been done in the recent cases of custom-house prosecutions; and he feared the same consequences would follow from these succession-duty prosecutions. Under these circumstances he hoped his right hon. Friend would consider the proposition which had been made to him, and that he would, at
 392
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman must be aware that many trusts were created for the purpose of avoiding the legacy duty. As to omitting the word "fraudulently" from the clause, if that were done the power conferred would be most fearful. It was not intended to render the word "fraudulently" more elastic or comprehensive than it was at present understood by the law.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, according to his view of the Bill the intention of its framers was, that although a disposition of property should  de facto
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he should be exceedingly happy to give an answer if his mind was sufficiently comprehensive to have every variety of circumstance that could occur before it. How could he determine what these circumstances might be? Wherever doubt was introduced into the disposition of property, wherever a  malus animus bond fide
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was glad of this opportunity of being enabled to state that he had received the authority of Her Majesty's Government for'
 395
 The CHANCELLOR or the EXCHEQUER : Is it real or personal property the hon. Member speaks of?
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the subject was under consideration on the part of the Government, including the whole question of leases.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that that was not the intention and would not be the effect of the clause.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  agreed to insert such words as would clear up the difficulty.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that as this clause originally stood, the only policies of assurance exempted from the operation of the tax were those effected by persons on their own lives. In consequence, however, of the arguments which had been urged by various hon. and learned Gentlemen in that House, the Government had determined to amend the clause so as to extend the exemption to all policies of assurance, whether for the lives of the assurers or not. Policies of assurance effected by purchasers in reversion would be exempt; but of course any policy that was treated as property would, like any other property, be charged with this tax,
 SIR JOHN PAKIGTON  said, it appeared from what the right hon. Gentleman had stated that hard words were used in three instances, and the right hon. Gentleman had acknowledged that he (Sir J. Pakington) was right in two of them. The third, he confessed, he had not recollected.
 MR. PIGOTT  said, he was afraid the Committee would lose sight of the important clause then under discussion in their attempt to fix the precise meaning of words which had been used in a former debate. He was sorry to say that the reply of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not succeeded in removing the impression which had been produced upon his mind by the objection of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole), and therefore he would suggest whether it would not be advisable to take more time for the consideration of the clause. He had been disappointed that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Midhurst had concluded without moving an Amendment, or suggesting any alternative by which the difficulty might be got rid of.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said no obligation would be thrown on any trustee by virtue of this Bill, unless he happened to be the trustee actually in the possession of the property; and, therefore, in ninety-nine of the cases which his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) seemed to apprehend, there would be no new duty, in point of effect, cast upon trustees. Where the trustee was actually the recipient of the rents and profits, he would, no doubt, be liable to pay the duty; but that was an obligation which was small indeed as compared with the onerous obligations which
 408
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he thought, as the Bill progressed, the apprehensions of the right hon. Gentleman would be greatly relieved. The duty would be imposed on the successor, the individual who took the beneficial interest. Whenever a successor was in possession, that successor would be liable to the duty. The duty was thrown upon trustees only by the 43rd clause. When the successor was of full age, and in the enjoyment of the property, he was the person liable to pay the duty. The trustee was liable only where he was actually in the receipt and in enjoyment, holding upon trust for some person, described in the Bill as infant, ward, person under age, curator, &c.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would suggest that the discussion of those points should be deferred until they came to the consideration of the 43rd clause, which referred to the liabilities of trustees.
 MR. HEADLAM  wished to know, under this clause, whether a landlord would be liable for succession duty in respect to the increased value of an estate by the falling in of leases after he had come into possession?
 MR. TATTON EGERTON  said, he would suggest the case of a person succeeding to property held under leases, which at the termination of those leases would become much improved in value;— would the successor be charged on the present value or on the prospective value?
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  replied, that he would be charged on the present value.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he would beg to advise that the clause should be reconsidered, in order to put an end to all doubts on the subject.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the clause was intended merely to define the time when the duty should be payable, and not to impose the duty or describe the persons liable to the payment of it.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he quite agreed with every word of the hon. Member who had last spoken. He could not conceive that anything more injurious to the character and efficiency of the constabulary could be invented than the proposed plan of making them collect information for the revenue police.
 CAPTAIN JONES  said, he fully concurred in all the objections which had been urged against the employment of the police in collecting the revenue. As to the spirit duties, he must tell the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer that it was the Act of Sir Robert Peel in 1841 which had reduced the revenue in 1841, and had increased illicit distillation. In 1841 the number of detections was 1,801; of persons in gaol, 171. In 1842, when the Act had had time to work, the number of detections was 1,895; of persons in gaol, 441. Next year the first head had increased to 3,456, the second to 911; and the spirits brought to duty fell off 5,546,000 gallons. Last year the number of detections was 2,904; of persons in gaol, 557. Every attempt to increase the duty was attended with increase of crime and of illicit distillation, and with a reduction of the revenue. He believed that at the present time about 3,000,000 gallons of spirits consumed in Ireland was supplied by illicit distillation. The state of the mountain districts was just the same now as when Sir Robert Peel brought in his measure, and the low selling price of oats, compared with the high duty, gave a premium on illicit distillation.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, it might be very right to transfer the duties of the revenue force to the ordinary police, but to make the one the detectors to the other was the very worst system that could be devised. The right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Young) had explained the plan, which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had refused to do; and all he could say of it was the right hon. Baronet had better have imitated the conduct of his Colleague, and kept it concealed. He did not think, however, that Sir Duncan M'Gregor was a better judge of the matter than the Irish country gentlemen who were in communication with the people, and who administered the laws; though he doubted much whether that gentleman would give an opinion which would have the effect of making the force he commanded a set of spies.
 COLONEL DUNNE  moved, "That the House do now adjourn."
 CAPTAIN KNOX  said, that the whole of these proceedings had been occasioned by the taunting and sneering manner of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he had a question to ask the noble Lord the Member for the City of London with regard to the administration of justice in this country. The House would remember that at an early part of the Session a witness was committed to the custody of the Sergeant at Arms for refusing to take an oath before one of the Committees of that House; and upon that occasion he took the opportunity of calling attention to the anomalous state of the law upon the subject, reminding the House that by the present state of the law Quakers, Moravians, Separatists, or persons who had been members of those creeds, were exempted from taking the oaths, and allowed to give evidence upon affirmation; but that other persons, although they might entertain conscientious objections on the subject, were not allowed to substitute an affirmation for an oath. He had then suggested that power should be given to the tribunals of this country to allow an affirmation to be substituted for an oath where it appeared to them that the refusal to take the oath proceeded from conscientious motives. Since that time the Common Law Commissioners had in their second Report recommended that very measure, together with several other important changes in procedure. There had been also last night, as he saw by the public papers,
 384
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman had read them a lecture about minorities ruling majorities: would the right hon. Gentleman consent to take the opinion of the majority of Irish Members?
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he would suggest that the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster (Sir J. Shelley) should give the House his lucid views upon the subject.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he must protest against the introduction of such topics at such an hour, and the language in which they were clothed. He demanded as a right that the right hon. Gentleman should consent to the adjournment of the House, or, at all events, if he would not consent to that course, let the Government have the decency to listen to the objections of the Irish Members to their measure.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he must remind the right hon. Gentleman, that, in his great Budget speech it was intimated that the Government meant to make some new arrangement on the subject of wastage. With regard to the employment of the constabulary force, his objection to that scheme was not in a fiscal but in a social and moral point of view. The House was certainly entitled to some explanation with regard to the arrangements for the combination of the existing revenue police and the constabulary, for the right hon. Gentleman had acknowledged the propriety of not involving the constabulary in the unpopularity attached to the revenue police. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not introduce a new source of moral disorganisation in Ireland; He did not wish for delay merely to defeat this measure, but he desired the third reading to be postponed, in order that time might be afforded to consider whether the proposed scheme was calculated to benefit the country in a moral and social point of view.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not think that the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) would coincide in the opinion that the views of Sir Duncan M'Gregor were valueless, for if such were the case, the right hon. and learned Gentleman would scarcely have looked for them. He thought the best course to he adopted was to read the Bill now a third time, and take the further discussion on the final stage.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, any one who has had experience in this House knows that when a minority—however small, and however unreasonable may be their views — choose to go on dividing through the night, there is probably no advantage to be gained by persisting in opposing them. Therefore, seeing that we should only have a recurrence of angry speeches and divisions, I certainly should think it would now be the wiser course for this House not to proceed to the consideration of the third reading of this Bill. What the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Phinn) who has just spoken has said, is perfectly true. There was one person (Mr. Napier) on the opposite side of the House who took a fair and reasonable course. I can say for him what I cannot say for others—that he was not factious. He stated his objections, and an answer having been given to them, he withdrew from the House, to show that he would not give any further coun-
 425
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he could not, on the instant, state what course the Government would pursue on this question; but the suggestion of the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. S. Wortley) should receive their consideration.
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to propose any legislation on the subject of the amalgamation of the constabulary and revenue police during the present Session, for he assumed that an Act of Parliament would be necessary on the subject before they could employ the constabulary in the collection of the revenue?
 LORD NAAS  said, he must deny the imputation of factiousness, for his question was relative to the incorporation of the two branches of the police force in Ireland, and was a natural corollary to the measure of the Government. He was sufficiently acquainted with the state of the law to be able to say that it was absolutely necessary for the Government to introduce a new Bill before they could call on the constabulary force of Ireland to act under the regulations of this Bill.
 LORD NAAS  said, there were two points for consideration before the House. The first point was, as to the policy of the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer; the second point was, as to the amount of allowance for collection. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had laid before them nothing more than a vague plan for enlisting the services of the constabulary in the collection of information. Now, he maintained that the addition of even a penny a gallon to the existing duty upon spirits, without a very considerable addition to the powers at present enjoyed by the Excise for collection, would be, not only dangerous, but impossible. If the right hon. Gentleman opposite was not prepared to show that he could employ the constabulary in the collection of the revenue, in the same manner in which the revenue police were now employed, he (Lord Naas) was of opinion that it would be perfectly absurd to think that they would secure by any other means a sufficient guarantee that the additional duty proposed could be collected. He thought that they ought not to proceed any further
 417
 LORD NAAS  said, he must complain that the House had heard no statement of the duties which the Irish constabulary were to discharge with reference to the collection of the revenue. The right hon. Gentleman ought to give them a minute and detailed explanation of the nature of the service on which that noble force was to be employed—not a statement made now, and on the spur of the moment, but a clear, definite, and satisfactory statement on some future and fitting opportunity. Till that was done, he would oppose the third reading of the Bill, and he now moved the adjournment of the House.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he begged to ask the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury whether, on any future occasion, side by side with the foreigners, who could under the new duties introduce soap at the rate of  8d.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he must admit that he had, on the previous evening, attempted to stop the progress of this most iniquitous Bill, by moving that the Chairman report progress. He had no hesitation in using the word "plunder" in reference to this Bill; for he did not by any means consider that to be too strong an expression. It was a decided attempt to plunder the aristocracy and the landed proprietors of this country. It was an attempt (which would probably succeed) made by Her Majesty's Government to please a multitude, who cared nothing at all about them, who would laugh at them out of that House, and who would attempt to undermine that which was the best safeguard and security of the Crown and constitution, about which, in his opinion, the Government cared very little. This Bill had been brought forward to please the Manchester school, without which the Government could not hold their places, and by which they were held in the greatest contempt. The Manchester school was composed of people who, of all others, most delighted in undermining; they wore two faces under a hood; they were true moles underground. The Government ought to be independent, and not to be at the beck of a set of people that did not hesitate to plunder their best friends, in order that they might gain the support of the Manchester school. The Chancellor of the Exchequer would, by the operation of this Bill, become the recipient of stolen goods; and there was very little difference between the thieves who stole and those who received the stolen goods.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he would not allow the Irish Members, for whom he had great respect, to be bullied by the Government.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the ob-
 393 bonâ fide bond fide
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that he could not answer the particular question which had been put to him by the hon. Gentleman; but he was sorry to say that it was certainly true that there had been considerable mortality amongst the troops in Burmah; those stationed at Rangoon had continued in good health, but amongst those at Prome there had been very great mortality.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : It is my duty as President of the Board of Control, I believe, to answer the question put to me by the hon. Member for the West Riding; and in reply I have to state that the despatches on the subject of the Burmese war were prepared at the Board of Control, and that the President of the Board of Control at the time the extracts were prepared is responsible for them. I have no reason to complain of the speech of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cobden), as my conduct is not impugned; but I rather agree with the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Baillie) that it is inconvenient that the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman the late President of the Board of Control (Mr. Herries) should have been impugned as it has been to-night, more or less, without his having the slightest notice that it would be questioned.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  was understood to reply that it was not his intention to provide for that point by legislation in this country.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that was the case that was put; and he wanted to know, before the clause was agreed to, what was the description of case which the Government meant and intended should amount to a fraud under this Bill, if it were passed into a law?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to know whether it was intended by this clause to impose a tax where there was a present gift of the property, but accompanied by a secret trust or reservation. He would suppose that a father, with the purpose of evading the legacy duty, made a present of a certain amount of property to his son in his lifetime, or when he believed himself to be near his death. The money or the estate was received and became the property of the son, with a secret understanding and reservation that the son should for the rest of the lifetime of the father give him the interest of that property. On the death of the father the money or the estate became absolutely the property of the son; and he wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government that a Court of Law should decide in these cases, when it was admitted that the intention of both father and son was to evade the legacy duty? If this clause passed in its present shape, it would be years and years before the Courts of Law or the court of last resort would finally put a judicial construction upon the exact meaning of this clause. One Judge would say that there had been no fraud, and another would decide the reverse.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would suggest the introduction of words to give full effect to the intentions of the Government, thus at once putting an end to all doubt as to the meaning of the clause, but leaving, of course, the question open as to the policy of the enactment. Was it really the intention of the Government to enact a law that no parent should give to his children any amount of property when he knew his death was approaching, without such act being considered as an intention to commit a fraud? If such were the meaning of the Government, they should state it.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should move as an Amendment that children born without marriage whose parents married subsequently, should pay a duty of only one per cent.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he thought there was one case of peculiar hardship—that of natural children whose parents had subsequently married. He thought their case deserved the serious attention of the Committee, for they were often brought up along with the legitimate children, and treated as members of the same family, and he saw no reason why they should be punished for the faults of others. In Scotland, as they were aware, such children were legitimised, and they would be treated by this Bill as relations by blood; he could not see why they should be treated differently in England.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he would now move the omission of the words of which he had given notice.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he considered that the Opposition had been most unjustly treated in this matter, and he should support the Motion for the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, he did not know what power the Law Courts might have in this country, but it would be found very difficult to carry the law into effect in the Courts of Scotland. The writers to the signet of Edinburgh had sent to London a case in which they stated that it was impossible to understand the Bill, and that the law terms were to them quite unintelligible.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, it was not his intention to enter into any discussion with the hon. Member in respect to the policy which all Governments adopted, rightly or wrongly, of withholding such portions of papers asked for as they might deem it expedient to produce. He thought the practice of cutting out extracts of despatches was very often abused. He remembered that when he brought before the House the subject of the Affghan war, he pointed out that the despatches of Sir Alexander Burnes had been mutilated to such an extent that in many cases the letters he wrote were made to express an opinion precisely the contrary of that which he really entertained. He must complain, however, of the course taken on the present occasion by the hon. Member, who had put on the notice paper a simple question—who was responsible for the selection of the extracts laid before Parliament? Of course, the simple answer was, that the then President of the Board of Control was responsible; but he complained that the hon. Member should have taken an opportunity of making statements with respect to those de-
 380
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he would suggest that an answer should be given to the question of the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), with respect to
 389 ipse dixit.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, though not at all wishing to retard the progress of the Bill, still, he thought, some little forbearance should be shown to those who wished to have further time for consideration, as the employment of the constabulary force in the collection of the revenue was a matter of serious importance. In the county he had the honour to represent, and which was one of the counties in Ireland which had never been disgraced by outrage, an extra police force was sent down in 1845, in consequence of the state of things caused by the famine. Two years ago the grand jury memorialised the Lord Lieutenant to remove that additional force, which cost the county 1,200 l.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that in consequence of having seen the statement of the writers to the signet, he had gone carefully through the Bill, and he certainly could not understand why the Bill should he considered so unintelligible, because he found that the addition of a dozen words would make the law perfectly applicable to Scotland. The right hon. and learned Member for Leeds (Mr. Baines) was of the
 390
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that inasmuch as if this point were not clearly understood it might lead to extensive losses, the House would, perhaps, excuse him if he gave a detailed answer to the question of the hon. Member for Southwark. The hon. Gentleman would be aware that, according to the Resolution of this House, the Excise duty upon soap would expire on the 5th of July next. He would be also aware that, according to the Resolution of this House, the import duty upon soap had been reduced from a corresponding rate to that of the Excise duty—namely, to 8 d. 383 d.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he had seen a private letter from an officer in the India Company's service, which gave a most appalling account of the mortality amongst the troops engaged in Burmah. It stated that one regiment had lost—not in action, but from the effect of the climate and the inconveniences to which the troops were exposed—no fewer than 400 men; and there were three, or at any rate two other regiments, which had been reduced to mere skeletons by the operation of the same causes. Now, although he was not particularly fond of soldiering, he thought that the lives of soldiers were just as valuable as the lives of Members of that House, or of any other persons who remained at home; and when he read these statements he could not help asking what this war was all about, and what we, or the Burmese, or any one else, had to gain from it? He thought the House had a right to complain of the manner in which information on this subject had been laid before them. The despatches were so mutilated that, generally, they were without the head and the tail, and in some cases they did not contain the middle completely. It seemed to him evident that a deception had been intended to be practised on the House; and that, whoever might be responsible for it, the course which had been taken with respect to these despatches was such as, if it had been practised in common life, or with respect to commercial transactions, would have excluded those who had been guilty of it from respectable life over afterwards. He hoped that if the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control had to prepare any papers he would do so on a better plan than that which had been pursued by his predecessors. If a person were to judge from these papers, he would certainly believe the Marquess of Dalhousie to be a much less able man than he was generally supposed to be; and if he (Mr. Bright) were a personal friend of that nobleman, he should demand that the papers should be given  in extenso, 382
 MR. COBBETT  said, he wished to draw the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the case of step-children, who were to be taxed, according to this Bill, in the same way as strangers, though he
 399
 MR. PHILIPPS : Both.
 MR. PHILIPPS : I have no objection whatever to extend it to personalty.
 MR. PHILIPPS  said, he begged to move as an Amendment that the duty should be at the rate of 2 l., l. 396
 MR. PHILIPPS : I said four sisters in five years.
 MR. WALTER  said, he would not preface the question he was about to ask with any observations, but he begged to ask the hon. and learned Solicitor General whether or not a family arrangement which should have the effect of evading the legacy duty, though not designedly made for that purpose, would, under this Act, be considered as fraudulent; and, if not, under what circumstances it would be held to hear a fraudulent character?
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, there seemed to be much misapprehension as to the intentions of the Government with regard to
 416
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he had had something to do with consulting Sir Duncan M'Gregor and others of the police officers under him in Ireland upon this subject. Sir Duncan M'Gregor stated that some years ago his opinion had been very adverse to any consolidation of these two forces, but that in consequence of the opinions to the contrary given by some of the best-informed officers, and by men most conversant with the districts in which illicit distillation was carried on, he had yielded up his own opinions, and was now not adverse to the consolidation of the two forces. Upon full consideration of the subject, however, it did not appear to the Government desirable that that consolidation should take place at once. There were various reasons why that consolidation should not take place; but this, it was stated, might fairly be done without in any way damaging the  morale
 MR. HENLEY  said, if he understood rightly the interpretation which had been given of the clause, a new succession duty would have to be paid upon every falling in of a lease if the property should be let again at an increased rent. With regard to the liability of trustees, the hon. and learned Solicitor General had argued that a trustee would be in no worse position under this Bill than under a will at present. But he would put this case, which was a very common one:—Persons having a life interest in estates had settled them in trustees. Upon that life interest, before the trusts were settled, there had been various charges, many under old family settlements, still not discharged from the estates, and payable out of the life interest. Would the trustees, under such circumstances, be liable to look after the succession of the persons who took those charges? He (Mr. Henley) could not see his way under this Bill, and had taken serious advice as to whether it would not be expedient for him to resign the trusts which he held.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to understand what the operation of this clause would be in the following case. Suppose a father and son were to grant a joint lease of a farm to a tenant for a period of that tenant's life. In course of time the father died, and the son would, of course, pay the duty on succeeding to this farm as well as on the other portions of the estate. But the tenant died a few years afterwards, and the farm reverted into the hands of the son: would the son then have to pay upon any increased value which the farm might have derived during the occupancy of the tenant? He believed that was not the intention of the Government; but he feared that as the clause now stood that would be its effect. He was afraid the terms of the clause would inflict the hardship of the tax upon those who let their land for lives; whereas those who let it for a term of years would be exempt. He hoped the case would be provided for by the Government.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he considered that various meanings might be attached to this clause; but, without expressing his opinion as to whether the words ought to be expunged, he would wish to ask, what was meant by the words "court of competent jurisdiction?"
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he differed most entirely from the hon. and learned Solicitor General in regard to the application of the law. He would challenge the hon. and learned Gentleman to point out to him a single case in which a life interest having been given, with a power of revocation, the legacy duty could be made to apply.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he wished to know, in respect to funds in reversion received and disposed of, the estate not having fallen in, whether or not it was to be continually liable at all times for the amount of duty arising on these successions?
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he had also looked at this clause, and felt considerable hesitation as to what would be its probable effect. He thought some alteration ought to be made so as to do away with all obscurity and ambiguity.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he thought it a reasonable request made by the noble Lord, especially as he understood, from what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the
 419
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, that, while adhering to the opinion he had formerly expressed, that illicit distillation would be greatly increased by this measure, yet, considering that on the second reading of the Bill, and when in Committee, the objections to it might have been made, he did not think hon. Members would be justified in taking a division on the third reading of the Bill. Still, there was the question of wastage in bond; that was one
 415
 MR. COBDEN  said, that he had no intention of impugning the conduct either of the late or the present President of the Board of Control; for he never yet met with any one who could tell him who was responsible for the garbling of despatches.
 381
 MR. COBDEN  said, he rose to move that the House at its rising should adjourn to Monday next, that he might have an opportunity of making some remarks in reference to the documents which had been presented to the House relating to the Burmese war. It could not but have been observed by those who bad read with attention the despatches and correspondence in question, that nearly all the more important documents were not given in full, but that only extracts of them were furnished. When they had papers referring to communications with civilised countries with which they were engaged in war laid on the table, it might be impolitic to give information to the enemy, and there might also be risk of giving additional offence by the publication of the whole of the documents which might contain irritating matter; but he could not understand how these reasons could apply to Burmah, any more than they could apply to the papers in reference to the war with the Kafir tribes. It was not likely the Burmese Government could get access to our blue books, and he did not know of any great evil that could arise even if they did. He therefore asked, how could the House judge of the character and conduct of those by whom we had been involved in this war, unless they had all the
 378 "I cannot, indeed, suppress the utterance of my abhorrence of this system of garbling the official correspondence of public men; sending the letters of a stateman or diplomatist into the world mutilated, emasculated, the very pith and substance of them cut out by the unsparing hand of the State anatomist. The dishonesty by which lie by lie is palmed upon the world, has not one redeeming feature. If public men are, without reprehension, to be permitted to lie in the face of nations—wilfully, elaborately, and maliciously to bear false witness against their neighbours—what hope is there for private veracity? I care not whose knife, whose hand did the work of mutilation; and, indeed, I do not know. I deal with
 379
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought it would be found that the words which the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Vansittart) proposed to omit, were altogether unnecessary. He thought they were called upon to pass a penal enactment, when human ingenuity could not state a case to which it would apply.
 MR. MALINS  said, that no case had been suggested to which these words would apply; and the Committee had a right to assume that there was no such case, and that the words were unnecessary. The only case which could occur was the same as had arisen under the legacy duty, that of a man making himself merely tenant for life of his own property, in order to evade the duty payable on his death; and this was sufficiently provided for.
 MR. MALINS  said, though entirely
 411
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he was of opinion that it was very essential to define what was or was not a fraudulent evasion. As far as he understood, if a man gave his son an estate, and the son by any instrument settled that estate upon his father, it was a fraudulent evasion.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he must confess that from what had just fallen from the hon. and learned Solicitor General, he thought that great doubt would be thrown upon the subject by the adoption of this clause. He understood (he hon, and learned
 394 in articulo mortis
 MR. ROSS MOORE  said, he objected to proceeding with the measure without deliberation.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, that in referring to a discussion on the previous night on the subject of leases, it had struck him that this section of the Bill really met the whole case of leases in every instance in which the succession took place after the Act came into operation, and that it would be wholly unnecessary to introduce into it any provision to meet the falling in of leases for lives, unless in the single instance in which that event had occurred before the Act came into operation He wished to make one suggestion which ra-
 409
 MR. WALPOLE : Under the Legacy Duties Act there was always a person who on the death of another was known to be the representative of the whole of the personal estate, and he was the sole accounting party. He was known by the Government, and nothing more was required than for that person to give a full account of all the property he had. But how was it when they came to deal with a question of succession? When a person died, how
 404
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to call attention to what he conceived to be one of the points in the Bill which would operate so oppressively that, when it came to be practically worked, it would be found that such a tax could not be and ought not to be permanent. He was not now going to raise the question of the whole principle of the Bill. He agreed to a tax on legacies of personal estate, and thought there was nothing unreasonable in the taxation of successions to landed estate. He agreed also that if they wished to extend the tax to settled realty and to settled personalty, in principle he could see no absolute objection to it. But what he wished to impress upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer was a point which he (Mr. Walpole) felt most strongly. He believed that in the end they would destroy to a great extent that system of trusts in this country which to his mind was one of the most advantageous systems ever established in any country. The present clause provided that when a duty was payable upon a succession, such duty should be paid when the
 403 "the duty in respect of the increased Value accruing upon the determination of such charge, estate, or interest, should, if not previously paid, compounded for, or commuted, be paid at the time of such determination."
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had omitted to read the first part of the clause, which stated that—
 "The following persons shall be held accountable to Her Majesty for duty payable in respect
 410
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he felt alarmed at the explanation of the hon. and learned Solicitor General. It was not, it appeared, a fraud to part with property, in evasion of the Act, when  in articulo mortis.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought, as this was a Bill which could not be altered by the House of Lords, it was of paramount importance that its provisions should be clearly settled in that House. Besides
 401
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to know how the clause would operate in another case. Suppose a man left 2,500 l
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was of opinion
 388
 MR. CONOLLY  said he hoped the third reading would not be gone into at that late hour (25 minutes past 12), as it involved questions of great importance, and he had given notice of an Amendment, to read it a third time in six months.
 MR. CONOLLY,  amid loud cries of "Divide, divide!" said, he wished to say
 422
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he thought that the question was one of too great importance to be disposed of at that late hour, for it was not, he considered, a mere fiscal
 413
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he thought that individually he had been ill-treated by the Government, who had acted in a tyrannical and unjust manner.
 MR. PHINN  said, that the best practical reproof which the noble Lord (Lord Naas) and hon. Gentlemen on the other side had received was conveyed to them by the conduct of the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier), who, having put to the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question, and having received a reply which must be satisfactory to every candid man in that House, had withdrawn himself from their company, and had desisted from an opposition which he seemed to think not warranted either by the forms or the spirit of the House.
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, that though this was a great question about spirits, and though he was an Irish Gentleman, he confessed he was not very full of the subject. He thought, however, they ought all to concur in the view that as it was now half-past two o'clock in the morning, it was high time they should be permitted to retire to repose. When the Gentlemen opposite were in office, it had been their constant habit to introduce important Irish questions at very late hours; and when he had often protested against that practice, they had invariably imputed to him that he was offering a factious opposition to necessary measures of their Government. They had since changed their position, and were themselves now engaged in a course similar to that which they had formerly condemned. For his own part, he had then stated that no matter what Government might be in office, he would equally object to proceeding with important Irish business at an unreasonably late hour, and he would therefore now concur in requesting of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to consent to a postponement of the debate upon the Bill before the House. He believed that time would be gained by adopting that course, for already there had been nearly two hours consumed in discussing the mere question of adjourning the debate. The hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. P. O'Brien), who was well acquainted with the subject of the present Bill, had stated that there was an important matter upon which he and other Irish Members were anxious to express their views, in regard to the question of wastage of spirits in bond; and he
 421 l. A Fortnight in Ireland,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the very reasonable request of the noble Lord was, that a minute and detailed account should be given of every little point in connexion with the service of the constabulary with regard to the collection of the revenue. Now, he could assure the noble Lord,, that neither that night nor on the spur of the moment, nor any other night, would he receive from him, or the Government, a statement of the kind he had asked for. And the reason why he would not give such a statement was, that they must be guided solely by experience in the matter, as this was a case in which the judgments of the most experienced and responsible persons could only lead them up to a certain point. They must proceed very cautiously in adopting the services of the constabulary for this purpose, and therefore it was impossible to give such a minute explanation as the noble Lord required. The request of the noble Lord was most unreasonable: it was equivalent to saying, you shall not go into the water till you have learned to swim. He was afraid that if this Bill was not to be read a third time till that request was complied with, the Session would be prolonged to a period far beyond the ordinary limits.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that the hon. Member for Donegal had given the best possible answer to his own opinion, that it was not practicable at that hour to discuss the merits of the Bill, by himself commencing a discussion on the subject. Although he was unable to concur in the view of the hon. Gentleman as regarded this measure, he was willing to allow its great importance; but, without wishing to disparage the motives of the hon. Gentleman in entering into this discussion, he must say that he thought that his remarks would apply more to the county which he represented than to the whole of Ireland; but, in considering a measure of finance, it was not expedient to consider only the condition of one county but of the whole country. It had been said that the Government had now reproduced the measure submitted to Parliament by Sir Robert Peel in 1841. But they did not propose the same measure, and the measure which they did propose was brought forward under different circumstances. Sir Robert Peel proposed to increase the duty on spirits 1s. per gallon. The present measure, deducting the allowance for wastage, increased the duty little more than 6 d. 414
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that of course leases for years would not be subject to the tax, no succession occurring in those terms.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not accede to there-quest to appoint a night for the third reading of the Bill. A night had already been appointed for discussion, and on that occasion the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Conolly) did not think fit to make his appearance. The great mass of financial and other business now remaining to be disposed of, made it impossible for the Government to appoint another night for the discussion of this question.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that it was not the intention of the Government to propose any such measure during the present Session.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not feel justified in supplying the House with the detailed information required, for it would be very impolitic to do so.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken had at an early period stated his strong objections to this Bill; and to those objections he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) bad given his best attention. Upon the last occasion on which this question was discussed, the hon. Gentleman, who professed great interest in the matter, had not thought it worth his while to attend to give his vote; and he put it to the hon. Gentleman now, whether if the Succession Tax Bill had been concluded by ten o'clock, the hon. Gentleman would have been in his place to vote upon this subject, which he said so deeply interested his constituents. The hon. Gentleman had not spent the whole day in anxious discussion of public matters. He had not made his appearance until midnight, and then he came in that garb which showed that he had been engaged in convivial occupations. In fact, the hon. Member had come fresh into the field to oppose those who had been engaged for eight hours in the pastime of discussion. The hon, Gentleman had been playing the stale game of converting a minority into a
 426
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied that, as regarded the separation of the machinery from the Bill, that was effected already. The House was not called upon to give any sanction to the employment of the constabulary. The whole arrangement would take place under the authority of the Executive, upon their own responsibility, subject to the obligation of coming to that House for the purpose of sanctioning whatever they did.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was no doubt as regarded the intention of the Government. It was not to include the case of leases in this clause. The purpose of the clause was to point out the time when the duty was payable; but, after what had been said, it would deserve further consideration, whether, for the purpose of obviating such an effect as that referred to by the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth, some alteration should not be made in the clause.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : How is the trustee damnified any more than an executor under the present Legacy Duties Act?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman complained that they were doing a great injustice by making leasehold property pay probate as well as succession duty by this Bill. Why, he might as well object that it did leasehold property an injustice, by making it pay income tax. The Bill did not touch the probate duty, and they were not able to reform everything at once. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would not oppose this clause, which was a clause entirely of relief to the class of property which he befriended.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as although there was no doubt as to the object proposed, there might be some as to the precise words by
 402
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, though his right hon. Friend had spoken with great candour and plainness on this subject, he had really left him very much in the dark as to the course which he thought ought to be pursued. He was glad, however, to find that he was not prepared to state that the extension to real property of the duty now paid by unsettled personalty constituted an act of robbery, and in certain cases an act of plunder—a declaration which was made on the other side of the House, amidst vociferous cheering on the last night of the debate. He did not mean to say that the opinion was entertained by all those who sat on the opposite side, but it was entertained not by an inconsiderable section; it was energetically entertained by them, and boisterously supported. His right hon. Friend did not say he was prepared to abandon the 2,500,000 l. 405
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had challenged the accuracy of his statement in a matter on which, if he had been inaccurate, he should have been highly culpable. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that he had used the word "plunder" himself, hut only in a particular acceptation, and with reference to a particular clause. Now, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) never said that the right hon. Gentleman had used it with reference to the Bill at large. It was also true that the word "robbery" was used by the hon. Member for Bodmin (Mr. Michell) with re-
 407
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not persevere with his suggestion, which opened a large question. He was well aware that it was hard to punish innocent parties; but if privation of benefit was punishment, he feared that society teemed with such instances. If the hon.
 400
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : This opens a very wide question indeed. They must now confine themselves entirely to the question before the Committee, which regarded the duty upon successions. The scale of duties upon successions was the vital part of the measure. The 3 per cent rate legacy duty had been a most productive one. In 1852, whilst the duty upon direct successions paid in legacy duty, at 1 per cent 238,000 l., l. 398
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : What we are here dealing with is real property. The Committee should recollect, however, that by this Bill they were dealing with real property and settled personalty, upon which, so far from its operation being severe, in all probability it would not be felt at all. There must be an interval in life interests before the duty would accrue; and if the party succeeding died before twelve months had elapsed, the claim for duty would fall to the ground. The extreme rapidity of succession, therefore, qualified itself in a great degree. Every time a new succession accrued to a life interest or realty, in five years the unpaid portion of the duty dropped altogether. But in his opinion the Committee could not consent to lighten the percentage of duty on the succession of brothers and sisters under this Bill, and leave the legacy duties unmitigated. Would the hon.
 397
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was impossible to accede to the suggestion. No doubt particular cases would arise where the application of the scale laid down might seem to involve hardship, and he did not think that the hon. and learned Gentleman had taken the strongest of these cases. There was no reason which would admit step-children, and exclude adopted children. But there was a case which was stronger than either —that of natural children, and there was the case of a sister or brother-in-law, who were treated by this Bill as strangers. He would recommend the Committee not to take up isolated cases which might come under the notice of an individual Member, and strike him with a force disproportioned to its importance; but if they proposed to alter the scale at all, then to consider and revise it in all its bearings.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must admit the fairness with which this question had been raised —a question which, though as it stood upon the paper appeared unimportant, was in reality of extreme importance. As regarded what the hon. Gentleman said about the symmetry of the measure, he would be willing to make a concession to him on that score. The hon. Gentleman spoke of a succession of four sisters or brothers in four or five years—
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the moral feelings of the country were not in the smallest danger of being shocked or annoyed at all by this clause. In fact, the question had nothing to do with moral feelings—considered on either side of the alternative he had put. The right hon. Gentleman said, either this was a declaratory enactment, or it was the creation of a new offence. Now, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) begged to answer that it was neither one nor the other. It was no declaratory enactment, and it was no
 391
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if he struck out the word "fraudulently" it would be a most fatal gain to his hon. Friend. The fear of his hon. Friend was this, that an honourable arrangement made for family purposes might come within the operation of this portion of the clause. He did not think there was much foundation for that fear as the clause now stood; for he did not believe that any court of competent jurisdiction would declare any arrangement for purposes of an honourable character was fraudulently intended to evade the duty. He thought the word "fraudulently" would operate as a protection to such transactions. Certainly, if the word "fraudulently" were left out, it would subject family arrangements to be questioned, especially whenever mixed motives might be reasonably assigned. It would, therefore, be dangerous to omit the word "fraudulently," as it had a definite meaning in law, and which, if retained, would confine the court strictly to the question of intention to evade the duty.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he considered that it would not be advisable to omit the words. It seemed to him very necessary to make provision that a court of competent jurisdiction should have power to decide whether any disposition had been fraudulently made to evade the duty. It might be necessary to have to encounter fraud of the most ingenious character, and it was, therefore, their duty to adopt every possible precaution against it; but if the latter part of the clause were struck out, there would be no security against anything but an engagement, secret trust, or arrangement capable of being proved in a court of law. If they wished to stultify their own proceedings by passing an Act that every man would be able to drive a coach and four through, they would adopt the Amendment.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : No; that is not our meaning.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon., and learned Gentleman had put to him two questions which he bad illustrated with cases, and he must say that he thought that the questions of the hon. and learned Gentleman would be much clearer without the illustrations. The
 386 l., l. prima facie,
 MR. BARROW  said, he considered the proposition of his hon. Friend near him (Mr. Philipps) was a most reasonable one. He thought the succession of brother and sister had not much to do with the 10 per cent succession of perfect strangers, seeing that the children of the same parent were almost as nearly connected as parent and child. He was anxious to correct the impression that the succession duties would be levied so rarely as the right hon. Gentleman supposed. In the instance mentioned by the hon. Member (Mr. Philipps) the duty would have been paid four times over within a very short period indeed, for the subsequent clause in the Bill only limited the case to life interests, and left the duty payable on successions in absolute right repayable, whether the party lived two years or seven. He (Mr. Barrow) believed this measure would materially affect the interests of the middle classes of society to which he belonged, and which he represented in that House. It was rot a question whether the eldest son should be taxed or not, but whether the tax would not fall with extreme hardship upon the middle class of society, amongst whom direct successions were not perpetuated. Numerous families eked out a moderate income by three or four sisters living together, and upon the death of each of these this tax would come into operation with very great severity. If he wished to see this Bill hereafter repealed, he should not urge upon the right hon. Gentleman the alteration of the percentage, because he was certain it would help materially to create a feeling out of doors which, sooner or later, would produce a repeal of this and of all other succession taxes.
 MR. BARROW  said, he wished to know whether a son succeeding to his father's property in a few years was or was not, upon the expiration of building leases, to pay duty on the increased value of the property?
 MR. EWART  put the question of which he had given notice, to inquire of the President of the Board of Control whether the Legislative Council which it is intended to appoint in India will be a council open to the public, or having its proceedings made known by being reported to the public?
 CAPTAIN MAGAN  said, he thought the suggestion of the noble Lord a very fair one. He wished, however, to refer for one moment to what had occurred that evening in another place. He had very great respect for the noble Earl the late Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, but he could not help saying that he had felt the greatest pity for that noble Lord on that afternoon as he heard him reading the affidavit of a certain James Bourke, one of the greatest malefactors that ever lived. He would undertake to say that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would but place at his disposal a sum of 5 s. 423
 MR. MICHELL  said, be must complain that small leasehold estates were taxed double what large landed estates had to pay, because they were subjected to probate and succession duty, and to stamp duty as well. This was an injustice from which leasehold property ought to be relieved.
 MR. MICHELL  said, he should not propose the verbal Amendment of which he had given notice, relative to leases determinable on lives or ninety-nine years; but if an alteration were not made, he should, at another stage of the Bill, bring up a clause to meet the unfairness of which he complained. It was unfair to put the tax on one class of men, and take it off others. He could only regard such a proceeding as another sop to county Members who gave their support to the Government.
 SIR ARTHUR BROOKE  said, he begged to ask if the right hon. Gentleman would assent to the reasonable proposition of the hon. Member for Dundalk (Mr, Bowver).
 MR. GROGAN  said, he should support the appeal of the hon. Member (Mr. Conolly). The Bill was of the greatest importance to the Irish distillers, and they complained of the injustice of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's measure. The effect of the Bill would be to render the exportation of Irish whisky impossible. He held in his hand tables showing that the decrease by leakage was double that which the Government proposed to allow for.
 MR. GRENVILLE BERKELEY  said, that on the 16th June orders were given by the Home Secretary to close 106 graveyards in the metropolis. He wished to know how many new burial grounds or cemeteries were being provided under the Act of last year to replace those ordered to be closed?
 MR. BOWYER  said, he would suggest that the Bill should be now read a third time, reserving the question as to the machinery and as to the employment or non-employment of the police force. He and his friends were strongly opposed to this measure, but they had seen that they could not defeat the Bill, and they might depend upon it if it were not read a third time now that it would be upon some future occasion.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he was opposed to the employment of the constabulary in the collection of spirit duties, as that would tend to lower the moral position of the force. But, bad as that plan would be, what was now proposed was worse, for it was contemplated to make the constabulary common spies and informers for the revenue department in every village throughout Ireland. No respect, no safety even, could be expected for the constabulary under such circumstances; and, for the sake of the peace of Ireland, he asked the House not to make them spies and informers.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he hoped when they came to the 43rd clause, that the Bill would be put in some shape, so as to afford protection to trustees. As regarded the objection of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Plymouth (Mr. R. Palmer), he must say that he did not think the clause to which he referred applied to leases; but he must say that he was of opinion that the principle of the Bill ought to be extended to what the hon. and learned Gentleman termed the shifting clauses.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he concurred in the suggestion, and moved that the Chairman report progress.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had fallen into a great inaccuracy with regard to the language which had been used on that (the Opposition) side of the House, which he felt bound, as a matter of justice, to correct. The right hon. Gentleman had drawn a contrast between the language which had just been used by his right hon. Friend the Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole), and that which had previously been used by other Members on the same side of the House, who had described the extension of the legacy duty to real property as an act of robbery or plunder. Now, he (Sir J. Pakington) begged distinctly to state that the right hon. Gentleman was completely mistaken. Neither the word "robbery," nor the word "plunder," had been applied by any one to the extension of the legacy
 406 ex post facto
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the present was a most important point, not only for the House hut for the public to consider. The essential point raised by the hon. and learned Member for East Suffolk (Sir F. Kelly) remained unexplained — namely, why, and with what meaning, was the word "fraudulently" used in the latter part of this clause. The meaning of the right hon. Chancellor of the Exehequer no one could misunderstand. The more odious a tax was likely to be, the more necessary it became to fence and guard the collection of that tax by the most stringent powers. But no feeling of that kind could justify the Government in calling that fraudulent which the law of England had not declared to be fraudulent; and this was the point he wished to have explained. Was the clause intended to be declaratory of the existing law, or was it intended to be the creation of a new offence? If it were intended to be declaratory, then he would ask whether the Government was justified in saying that it was now fraudulent to make an arrangement by which to seek to evade the tax. No doubt every species of ingenuity would be resorted to to protect the public from the imposition of this most grievous burden; but he disputed the right of the Government to interpose words in this Bill which declared that to be fraudulent which the law had not declared to be so; still more did he dispute their right to declare that, hereafter, that should be considered fraudulent which the law had hitherto not deemed so. He would warn the Committee whether it was wise, for the sake of the convenience of the Government, to run counter to the moral feelings of the country, by attempting to declare that to be an offence at law which was not an offence.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he could only characterise the conduct of those who
 424
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he considered that the clause as it stood would give rise to a great deal of difficulty, and would be very liable to misconstruction. The latter part of the clause appeared to him not to convey the same meaning as the former part, and he was of opinion that the omission of the words proposed to be omitted would be desirable.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, he had often been asked what the law was upon a given subject, and he had answered that he did not pretend to understand the law, but he hoped he was able to understand what the intention of the Legislature was, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not so stultify this matter as that the country should not be able to understand it.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, that if the construction of the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth (Mr. R. Palmer) was correct, great complication would follow in the working of the measure; and then two questions would arise. The hon. and learned Gentleman said the succession duty would become payable upon all leaseholds, whenever they terminated, whether they were for terms of years or for lives. That was wholly at variance with the discussion on the previous night. The other question was at what period the increased value was to take place.
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  said, he thought that a very strong case existed for an alteration in the duty to be paid by natural children. The law relative to natural children was peculiar to England, the law of other countries recognising adopted children as well as natural children.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, if the Committee consented to pass the latter part of the clause, they opened the door to oppression and tyranny such as never had been sanctioned by Parliament for a hundred years back. It evidently aimed at this—that oral evidence should be considered sufficient proof of fraud. Let the Committee just look at the inducement to heirs-at-law to get up evidence of this kind in cases where those to whom they were heirs had made gifts shortly before their decease—to illegitimate children, for example—and to prove fraud.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he thought the clause, as it stood, clearly applied to building leases.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  hoped, for the sake of Mr. Speaker, if from no other motive, the Government would accede to the proposal for adjourning the House.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, that as one who had not an acre of land in Ireland, he perhaps might be listened to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer when he suggested to him to adjourn the debate, seeing the
 418
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that his hon. Friend was quite correct in stating the number of graveyards which had been closed by Order in Council. Other graveyards in the metropolis were under examination, and the rest would probably be closed at no distant period. The Act of last year gave the Home Secretary power to close graveyards, the continuance of which was injurious to the public health, but it did not vest in him any power to provide new graveyards. That arrangement was left to the parishes concerned, and he was not therefore able to state to his hon. Friend exactly what arrangement had been made by the parishes to provide new means of interment. He did, however, happen to know that several parishes were engaged in providing new places of interment, and he
 385
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, of which he had given him notice, relative to certain alleged altercations between the Governments of Turkey and Greece on the occupation by the former of some villages on the Greek, frontier, whether any steps had been taken to arbitrate between the two Governments; and whether, if any correspondence had taken place on the subject, the noble Lord would object to its production?
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he was willing to accede to this latter suggestion.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, the two classes of leases which had been referred to were very different. In the one case the increased value on the renewal of a lease would be very small, having arisen only from cultivation or similar causes, and the tax ought not to be charged. In the other case, the increased value arising from the falling in of building leases would be very great, and ought to be taxed.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the Committee would recollect that a proviso had been introduced into the clause by his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) upon the suggestion of the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) to obviate the difficulty which might arise between the Commissioners and the owners of property, in the case of estimating the value of the property as higher than represented by the lease; and the object of the proviso was to guard the possessor of land against being charged with duty for any value which was not indicated by the rent reserved. It provided that where land was let upon lease, at a rackrent—that was, upon the consideration of the rent alone—no increase of duty should be made proportionately to the increased value of the land.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he considered that it must be allowed that wherever it became necessary to draw a line there were several cases which came very near the line on either side; and why the line had been drawn as it had been in the present case was, that the two descriptions of property came under different categories of law; and, in his opinion, if in the exemption leases held otherwise than uponrack rent were to be included, it would be perfectly impossible to determine where the limit should be fixed.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, if the right hon. Gentleman would do him the favour to give him a copy of the case, or a statement of the circumstances to which he had referred, he should endeavour to give him an answer. In the meantime he might say, by the Bill, as he understood it, any addition made to the value of the property in the form stated by the owner, of the reversion not accruing to the benefit of himself, would not be felt as a new acquisition of property by the reversioner on the death of the party in possession. As he understood the right hon. Gentleman, a remainderman, who was now entitled to an estate, subject to the life estate of a widow, proposed for his own benefit alone to build a house on the estate. He would thereby, with his own money, greatly augment the value of the property; but he did not intend that that augmentation of value should enure to the benefit of the widow; it was probably a thing done under an arrangement with her. It would not, in that case, accrue to the widow as part of her estate, and would not, therefore, be included in the value of the succession on the determination of her estate.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, in the case put by the right hon. Gentleman, it would be easy, by the mere stroke of a pen, by an agreement between the widow and the owner of the reversion, to prevent the possibility of any duty attaching; because, if the widow was willing to surrender any right of property she might have in the house proposed to be built on the estate, nothing more was requisite than to reduce that to writing, and it would operate,  pro tanto,
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he could imagine a great evil that would arise if the alterations of this Bill were to prevent the remainderman or reversioner from making improvements in an estate during
 437
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the Legislature were compelled on various occasions to adopt phraseology which, though vague in itself, had already received a judicial and recognised interpretation in the Courts of Law and Equity. In the present case, the phrase "necessary outgoings" was one which was in common and familiar use, particularly in Courts of Equity, which settled the accounts of trustees. The phrase might he explained to mean those outgoings which would be allowed as between a trustee in the possession and management of an estate, and the beneficial owner to whom he was responsible. Take the case of draining, for instance. That might be a speculative improvement, and would not, therefore, be regarded as falling within the ordinary power and authority of a trustee. "Necessary outgoings" might, therefore, be defined as those outgoings which were necessary to the due and ordinary administration of property; and the rule which already existed in the Courts of Law in corresponding cases would readily be resorted to in order to determine the meaning of the words.
 SIR JOHN HANMER  said, he could not help thinking that the explanation which had just been given by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General was a great deal more ingenious than satisfactory. For himself, he had not yet been able to get over the difficulty of understanding what was really meant by "ornamental timber," or whether or not it was to be exempted from taxation at all. He, for one, objected to the taxation of timber under any shape or for any reason whatever; but since it was acknowledged that only some species of timber, for some reason or other, was to be exempted, it was important that they should understand clearly and exactly what that
 450 Times,
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman's proposal was to make an allowance to the successor to an estate for the money he might expend in drainage. The estate, however, would be valued at the time when it came into his possession, and it was upon that valuation that he would he taxed under the operation of the measure which they were then discussing. He (the Solicitor General) did not deem it, therefore, a reasonable proposal to make a deduction in favour of the successor to a property in consequence of any expenditure which he might incur in making improvements by drainage upon his estate, the fruits of which improvements he would enjoy some four or five years after the period of his succession
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he was disposed to support the insertion of the words suggested by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, provided he would consent to leave out the last—"agency."Agency was only a charge upon large estates, and its deduction would be extremely invidious and partial.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he did not think that the modifications just proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer would help the Committee very much. He also doubted whether the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Trollope) would answer the purpose he had in view. If the latter part of the clause were expunged, all property yielding income would still be liable, and he was afraid that timber would come in as property yielding income, If it were intended to exempt timber, that should be done by express words.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, though they adopted the Amendment of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Trollope), timber would, under the early part of the clause, be still subject to the duty. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exche-
 462
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that a question had been put upon the Amendment, and that question must be put. If the Amendment were withdrawn, the clause could be postponed, otherwise it could not be.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he was prepared to leave out the words requiring an estimate. Still the assessor ought to have an option. If, however, that were objected to, the clause might run thus:—"There shall be included, in the case of timber, the monies actually received on the sale of such timber trees only as shall be held and sold during the term of such possessor."
 The EARL of MARCH  said, he hoped that upon a question like this, involving interests of the gravest importance, and upon which there was great difference of opinion, the noble Lord would not refuse to allow the Chairman to leave the chair. He should move that the Chairman do now leave the chair.
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he could not deny that there was some justice in taxing timber when they were imposing a succession duty upon every species of property; but at the same time there were objections to the mode in which this clause dealt with the question; and he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would take the suggestions of the hon. Baronet (Sir T. Acland) into his serious consideration, as he (Lord H. Vane) thought they in a great measure met the justice of the case. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in assigning as a reason for taxing timber that it was a sign of wealth, luxury, and grandeur, had gone infinitely beyond the principle of his own Bill, which proposed to exempt merely ornamental timber from taxation.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he thought that as the Committee had been discussing the point all night, it ought not to adjourn without coming to some real decision. The proposition now made by the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Trollope) was a very fair and distinct one; and if that was agreed to, then there would be an end of the question as regarded whether the tax was to be imposed on timber. On the other hand, if that proposition should not be acceded to by the Committee, then progress would properly be reported, and it would remain for the Government—it might be by means of the Resolution of the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Shelley)—to arrange the manner in which it might be necessary to alter the plan of the tax.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it was very desirable that the Committee should know what was the nature of the question they were going to vote upon. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Trollope) said it was not enough to leave out certain words, but that there should be words introduced for the purpose of excluding timber from the tax; whilst the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) understood it differently, and admitted that it might be very proper to subject timber to taxation. The right hon. Baronet proposed that timber should be ex-
 464 465
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the drift of his hon. Friend's (Mr. Aglionby's) statement was, that they ought that night to come to some decision. Well, the right hon. Gentleman opposite stated as fairly as possible that his object was to prevent timber being liable at all under this tax; but his hon. Friend's vote was given with a totally opposite intention. Now, what he would submit to the Committee to decide was, not whether the tax should apply to this or that particular description of timber, but whether timber should be included at all under its operation. All he wanted the Committee to decide then was, whether timber was to be taxed.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he rose for the purpose of ascertaining the exact position in which the Government now stood with regard to this question. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Trollope) would have brought the matter to a clear issue in the Motion which he had now withdrawn. His meaning in withdrawing that
 471
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : With respect, Sir, to the first question of the right hon. Gentleman, I have to state that despatches have been received at the Colonial Office
 430
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that there had been no arbitration upon the differences between the Governments of Greece and Turkey relative to the possession of certain villages on the frontier. The Turkish Government claimed the occupation of these villages, and had expressed their intention of sending troops to occupy them. The Greek Government disputed the claim, and intimated their intention of despatching, and they did, in fact, despatch a force to the frontier to prevent the Turks from taking possession of the villages. The English Government, in conjunction with the representatives of the other Powers at Constantinople, intimated their wish to the Turkish Government that no forcible measures should be taken until the question had been consider-
 431
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he must complain that successors to real property would only pay half the percentage which successors to personal property would be called on to pay, and that a remission of instalments due, if the person died, should be made in the one case and not in the other.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he wanted to know whether this was not a church rate transferred to the Imperial Treasury?
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, the soap trade complained that they had not been allowed a drawback upon their stocks, as had been done in previous remissions of duties; but as the Government had decided against that, he thought the course mentioned by the hon. Gentleman was the best that could be taken.
 MR. COWAN  said, that nobody would rejoice more than he should if the expectations of the right hon. and learned Lord should be fulfilled by the passing of the
 472
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, that an English sage, Dr. Johnson, when he visited Scotland, reproached that country with its want of timber. Scotchmen since that time had been endeavouring to remove that reproach by raising plantations; and now the right hon. Gentleman opposite had the conscience to point particularly to Scotland as a country where profit was made out of timber. The object ought to be to cover the waste lands of that country with plantations. Anything more impolitic, unstatesmanlike, and unfair, he was at a loss to imagine. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would consent to expunge the latter part of the clause.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that at such an hour (ten minutes to one) the Government ought to consent to report progress.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that he had confined his suggestions to the clause; but if there were personal property of any description whatever, which could be enjoyed under the same circumstances, he meant his suggestions to apply equally to that.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he must beg to explain that in selecting the case of a child of four years old, he was governed merely by the convenience of dealing with round numbers, the life interest being calculated at about twenty years, but the principle was the same; and he might just as easily have illustrated his argument by taking a person at the age of thirty-three, and thus got rid of what had been so facetiously urged by the right hon. Gentleman.
 444
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, the substance of this clause was—that the whole amount of the tax to be assessed in respect to the interest of a successor should be payable by eight equal half-yearly instalments—the first upon the expiration of twelve months after the succession. Whatever might be the precise period at which the first payment was to take place, the whole aggregate amount of the tax was to be paid in five, or at most in six, years from the time of succession. [An Hon. MEMBER: Or in four years and a half.] Or, as an hon. Member suggested, it might be wholly paid in four years and a half. Now, he considered that this clause, as it stood, went to introduce and to apply to this new law inequalities as unjust and as mischievous as the worst of those that were to be found in the income tax, of which he had repeatedly, though in vain, complained. He would take a case under this clause, and consider it with regard to the tables in the schedule. He would suppose that an estate of the net value of 1,000 l. l. 439 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 440 l.,
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to know what the right hon. Gentleman
 432 l., l.,
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would suggest the propriety of further consideration before the entire language of the clause was settled. As it stood at present it would give rise to difficulty in every case in which property let upon lease had increased in value, and become subject to the
 434
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he willingly admitted the difficulty of framing the clause so as to meet the objection. A Court of Equity would not have to construe the Act, but the Court of Exchequer would have to try the issue of facts. The meaning of "necessary outgoings" would vary according to circumstances, and the addition of any words, as proposed, would not lead to any precise construction.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he entertained strong doubts as to the latter part of the clause. With regard to the words under discussion it was proposed to add, after the words "necessary outgoings," the words "such as insurance, drainage, and repairs;" he could not conceive any words more calculated to cause litigation. The words might enable the successor to lay out money at a larger interest than the outlay was worth, by arrangement with his tenant, and yet he would be entitled to a reduction under the Act. He preferred the words "necessary outgoings" to the vagueness of the terms of the Legacy Act.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he thought it rather extraordinary that after the matter had been the subject of serious discussion, and that further consideration of the subject had been postponed, so many hon. Gentlemen who had heard nothing of the debate should come in and discuss it over again, and get up an opposition. As a deliberative body he did not think that was creditable to them. He should be glad to know whether the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would accept the proposition of the right hon. Baronet opposite. He believed the clause as it was framed would form a serious stumblingblock in the progress of the measure. The idea of putting a succession duty upon that ornamental timber which grew in parks was repugnant to his feelings. The timber of the parks of our nobility and gentry was not only an ornament and shelter to the mansion, but an ornament to the whole of the country, and it was abhorrent from his feelings to make it the subject of a succession tax.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he was of opinion that no undue concession was given to the land. A measure for the efficient and
 447
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that in the late division he had both spoken and voted against his party. Hon. Gentlemen opposite might think they had achieved a party triumph; but the vote had been obtained by the assistance of those who sat on his (Mr. Aglionby's) side of the House. Not being concerned with either party, he desired no party triumph. He denied that several of those who voted with the hon. Baronet voted against the tax on timber. For himself he approved of a tax on timber, but not of the plan proposed by the Government. He would suggest to the noble Lord to withdraw the clause, and quietly consider what words he should substitute in lieu of the present ones. If the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Trollope), however, should press his Amendment, he should vote against it; but if, on the contrary, an Amendment was produced which defined the timber to be taxed under the Bill to be that only which produced profit, it should most certainly receive his support.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that every word which the hon. Member (Mr. Cobden) had spoken had been as much against the clause as it stood, as against the Amendment of the right hon. Baronet. What he would now suggest to the Chancellor of the Exchequer was, that he should come down on the next occasion with a definite proposition, that would raise the whole question, that every class of timber, whether ornamental or mercantile, should be subject to taxation.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he wanted to know how it was intended to value such houses as Castle Howard or Woburn Abbey. Then, again, he wanted to know what was the meaning of ornamental timber. He did
 448
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, if a "factious opposition" had any meaning at all, which he very much doubted, it meant the taking advantage of some technical phraseology to throw out a clause. There had been no such opposition to this Bill. The discussions had been directed to discover exactly what the Government meant, and to see that the Bill expressed exactly what they said it meant. He merely rose to inquire if the words "equal to the annual value of such property," were to be taken in conjunction with the clause following?
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he must complain of Gentlemen speaking without understanding the operation of the clause.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, if the hon. Gentleman (Mr. W. Williams) had favoured the Committee with his attendance on Friday evening, when they were in discussion on the provisions of this Bill, he might possibly have understood something of the meaning of the clause now before them; and he would have found it was very likely that, without some explanations on the part of the Government, the very transaction mentioned by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington) would have come within the meaning of the words "fraudulent evasion of the duty," though he (Mr. Drummond) did not mean to say that that was the construction to be put on it.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he was afraid that the difficulty belonged to the subject itself, and he doubted whether he could devise words that would meet the justice of the case. Generally speaking, timber was worse managed than any other description of property, and the Crown lands worse than all. He did not know what was meant by trees being fit for cutting. He had timber in his possession which had not increased an inch in thickness in thirty years. There would be the greatest difficulty in giving an estimate of the value of timber. Why were not hop-poles to be included in the valuation as timber? In many cases, if the timber were taken away, the land would be perfectly useless. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer said that all timber that was sold should pay, that would be something tangible, but on what principle could they tax the value of the land and the value of the crop together? He would rather trust to the ingenuity of the right hon. Gentleman to modify the clause.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he did not see much advantage in adding the words proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He came from a part of the country where
 459
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he thought
 469
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, it struck him that difficulties would arise as to whether a lease had or had not been at rackrent.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that it would not be necessary to make any such statement till the second reading. He also wished to remark that the Government were quite open to receive any suggestions for the improvement of the Bill.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that this annuity tax was a charge imposed upon the occupiers of houses within certain districts of the city of Edinburgh. The amount of the tax was about 6 per cent, and it had given rise to a great deal of bad feeling. It was proposed by the Bill he wished to introduce to apply certain ecclesiastical revenues in the hands of the Crown, which were now employed in maintaining sinecure offices called Deaneries of the Chapel Royal, to the payment of this tax; but until that could be done a rate of 1 per cent (as we understood) would be charged upon the inhabitants of Edinburgh. Eventually, however, the ministers of the city of Edinburgh who received aid from this tax would obtain their stipends, not from the occupiers who now paid the amount, but from the Consolidated Fund, and the charge upon that fund would be made up from the source he had mentioned.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, in proposing a Resolution to enable him to bring in a Bill with regard to it, he must explain that the object of the measure was to settle a most vexatious question regarding the payment of the Edinburgh clergy. Whether rightly or wrongly, the fact was that agitation and irritation with regard to the collection of this tax had long prevailed to an extent that was most injurious not only to the peace but to the best interests of the Church and religion in Edinburgh. Without going generally into the provisions of the Bill, he thought it would be enough to say that he did not propose to pay the money out of the Consolidated Fund, but merely that the city of Edinburgh should make certain payments into the Exchequer, and that corresponding payments should be made out of the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he had to propose a material alteration in these duties, which it was necessary that the public should be made aware of. It was proposed that the excise duties upon soap should determine on the 5th of July. In consequence of a question the other night, it appeared that an extensive arrangement was being made for the purpose of exporting soap under the drawback prior to the 5th of July, in order to reimport it after the 5th of July free of duty. The Government had no wish to interfere with the legitimate right on the part of the manufacturer up to the 5th of July to export any quantity of soap he pleased, provided it was intended for foreign consumption, and not intended to be reimported into this country. The Government had two plans before them to effect this object—in respect to one of which it was competent for them to ask the House to pass a Resolution at once to suspend the remainder of the period during which the drawback would be given on soap. But on the whole they thought it better not to interfere with the privilege of the old stocks for the drawback for the legitimate right of the export trade. The only other plan was to postpone the reduction of the duty for such period of time as was not likely to induce those operations to which he had referred. Therefore, in regard to foreign soap, the Government proposed to enact that foreign soap duties should take effect from and after the 5th of July, 1854; also in regard to the importation of soap from Ireland, they also proposed that the privilege of importing soap duty free from Ireland should take effect after the same date. If the Government found that there was no considerable quantity of soap under drawback, it would be quite competent to the House to amend these propositions.
 MR. PHILIPPS  said, he considered that the land ought to be less heavily burdened than personal property, as it decreased so much in value under a forced sale, which would be often necessary to meet the tax.
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  said, it was clear the hon. Member for Lambeth had misunderstood the case referred to by the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to know what was meant by the words "necessary outgoings" in the clause. The right hon. Gentleman had admitted that repairs and insurance were necessary outgoings; but he had said nothing about agency or cost of drainage or fencing. Some clear definition ought to be given, for the taxpayer would have one opinion, and the tax-gatherer another.
 MR. HENLEY  said, He did not think
 452
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was quite willing to agree to the request of the right hon. Member.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that his sole object in proposing the additional words was to raise a discussion upon them, and elicit the opinions of hon. and learned Gentlemen on both sides of the House. Under the present Legacy Act there had not been much litigation; and if the Bill now under discussion was administered in the same way, he trusted the result would not be so different as he at one time anticipated. He therefore would not press his Amendment.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would admit that the proviso would do away with a good deal of the ambiguity that had attached to the clause. Did the right hon. Gentleman intend to extend the same principle to leases for lives and leases for years?
 MR. HENLEY  said, the question before the Committee on the Amendment was, not whether timber should be taxed, but whether it should be taxed in the mode proposed by these clauses. He did not deny that timber should be taxed, but it was not wise to impose on taxpayers so much inconvenience and expense as the proposed method would. He asserted that it would not be possible to levy the tax as imposed by this Bill. When woods were not fit to be cut, how could they be valued? He was prepared to vote against the clause as it stood, though perfectly ready to consider the question with reference to a better and less unfair mode of raising a tax upon timber. He had known timber on a property which was now worth less than it was thirty years ago, and from which no profit had during all that time been acquired. Upon the whole he thought the proposition of the hon. Baronet the Member for North Devonshire (Sir T. Acland) the best that could be suggested.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that this proviso would leave its supporters in exactly the same position that they were before. It
 467
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he thought that
 466
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he would beg the Committee only to consider the position of trustees and executors, who would be obliged under the provisions of this Bill to have an account kept open of all the timber cut from time to time.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he would beg to move that the following words be added to the proviso, "Or for a fine, or partly for a fine, and partly for a reserved rent."
 MR. MULLINGS  said, in that case he would suggest the words, "Or as to a lease granted after the commencement of this Act."
 MR. NAPIER  said, he must confess that his difficulties would be very much cleared away if he saw the question of the practicability of taxing timber at all distinctly determined. He had understood that the hon. and learned Solicitor General had been considering this very clause, and he (Mr. Napier) must own he was very anxious to see the plan produced by so eminent a hand. For himself, he would tell the Committee at once that he was utterly Unable
 468
 MR. COBDEN  said, that much had been said on behalf of those who were the owners of timber; but he wished to say one word on behalf of those who were not so fortunate. He could not for the life of him ascertain what mysterious cause was operating to remove timber out of that category in which every other description of property, real and personal, was to be found. He wanted to caution the Chancellor of the Exchequer from attempting to conciliate his opponents by any kind of compromise; and he thought the course pursued by hon. Gentlemen opposite showed that nothing was to be gained by that kind of policy. He went further than to say that copse wood and forest wood ought to be taxed, for he saw no reason why ornamental timber should not be taxed. No arguments applied to the exemption of ornamental timber, which did not apply to other objects of luxury. Why was ornamental timber kept, but for the purpose of luxury and enjoyment? Did not the possession of a park add as much to the dignity and importance of the owner as the possession of a mansion? And if hon. Gentlemen advocated the remission in the case of ornamental timber, why not in the case of pictures and the plateau on their sideboards? He would lay down this proposition, that anything which could be brought into the Encumbered Estates Court and sold, was fairly liable to taxation under this Bill. He might be told that ornamental timber was not an article of merchandise. Why was it kept and not cut for sale, but because the proprietor preferred to enjoy the ornament and luxury, rather than convert it to purposes of utility by selling it? It argued great wealth for any one to be able to keep so large an amount for luxury and enjoyment. Having agreed that everything else should be taxed, was it desirable to make a stand on this article of timber?
 470
 MR. MALINS  said, he was not one of those who would contend that landed property ought to be exempted from this tax, but he considered that it ought not to pay so much, because of the great difficulty of raising it. As a proof that he was not actuated by factious opposition, he was totally unable to assent to the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for East Suffolk (Sir F. Kelly), because the case he put was fully answered by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the difference arose from the accidents of human life; and if the principle were applied to this tax, it must be extended to the existing tax on personal property. He was no admirer of the legacy duty. If the revenue would allow it, he should be glad to see it taken off altogether. He thought the length of the discussion on the proposed application of that tax to real property must have made the right hon. Gentleman regret that he had not had recourse to some other means than the succession duty. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER made a gesture of dissent.] However that might be, he thought he might possibly shorten the present discussion by intimating, on the part of himself and several hon. Members near him, that they did not concur in the views of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir F. Kelly), and hoped he would not press his Amendment to a division.
 MR. MALINS  said, he concurred with the hon. and learned Solicitor General that the words "necessary outgoings" had, to a considerable extent, been well defined by the Courts of Law and Equity, and there would be very little difficulty in determining what could be deducted under those words. He recommended the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire not to press the Amendment.
 MR. MALINS  said, he did not agree with the hon. Member (Mr. Henley) that the proviso was sufficient. If a landowner granted a piece of land upon building lease, at a rackrent, at the expiration of the lease succession duty would not have to be paid in proportion to the increased value; but if he were to grant the same plot of ground for a fixed sum of money at first, it would become liable; now, it appeared to him that there was no reason why one should pay any more duty than the other, and he objected to such fine distinctions being drawn.
 MR. HILDYARD  said, he would request the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say what was to determine the annual value. Clearly it was not intended that it should be the rent. He believed that a larger sum would be paid to surveyors and valuators for a certain number of years, than would find its way into the pocket of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  would venture to say, that if the clause remained in its present form, there was no case in which a valuation would not take place. The successor to an estate, when called upon to make a return, would be able to form a good idea of the value of the land from the rent-roll; but the value of the timber was almost sure to be disputed by the officer employed to collect the tax, and nothing could be more obtrusive than such a valuation. The only way which he saw out of the difficulty was to exclude the clause altogether.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he could hardly conceive anything more injurious to the landed interests than the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire. The effect of inserting the proposed words would be that the Courts of Law, when they came to construe and interpret the Act, would only allow the deductions enumerated, though there might be many other necessary outgoings for which allowance ought to be made. One of the most fertile sources of litigation in connexion with the construction of wills and settlements consisted in general terms, fitted to serve every useful purpose, being cut down and denned by subsequent enumeration. The same would be the result here if the proposed words were inserted in the clause.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he regarded the proviso as excluding any value which might accrue at a future period, in consequence of building leases dropping in.
 MR. PHINN  said, he begged to ask the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 427
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I think that it will be a great convenience to the House if, in answering the question that has been put to me by the hon. and learned Gentleman, I take this opportunity to advert to the position of several of the financial measures of the Government which have not been mentioned in this House, and to state the course which we propose to take in regard to them. In the first place, as respects the licences, which are the immediate subject of the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman, upon an examination of the circumstances attending the probable operation of the scale that was originally proposed, it was soon obvious that great inconvenience, and even in particular cases what might be called oppression, would be caused by putting it in force. I therefore made it my business to consider how that scale could be revised, and in what shape it could be put, so as to operate in a manner free from those objections. But the effect of that was materially to reduce the proceeds of any such scale, and in some degree to raise the question whether, supposing we were in a position to dispense with the money we expected to derive from it, it would be desirable to stir the subject at all now, or whether it would not be more expedient on the whole to let the matter stand over until it could be considered in connexion with that which is the great and capital item in our licensing system, the publicans' licences, and all the family of licences, as I may call them, that belong to that class. The way in which the matter now stands is this. It is impossible, until I know the decision of the House with regard to several questions that are pending, and with regard to which notices have been given by hon. Gentlemen, which would affect the Exchequer, that I should give any absolute pledge on the subject of these licences. The Government have not, therefore, come to any absolute decision on that subject; but I think I may venture to say that, provided that no other inroad is made on the funds available for the public service, it may be in our power to dispense altogether from making any proposal with regard to licences, and that in that case no such proposal will be made. Of course I
 428 429
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the clause would make no distinction whatever between leases for lives and years. Another question, as the right hon. Gentleman was aware, relating to leases for lives, stood over. It related to persons now in possession, or who should be in possession before the time appointed for the commencement of the operation of this Act. That stood over to be disposed of by a separate clause.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not know whether the hon. and learned Gentleman was acquainted with the operation of the present law. Their intention was that the new law should operate in the same way, and therefore that the increased value into the enjoyment of which the successor came at the termination of leases should then be chargeable with duty.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that a most important question was raised upon this clause, with reference to the improved value in the case of, and on the determination of, leases; and he was about to propose the addition of a proviso (not a very long one) to the clause, which he thought would leave the law in a satisfactory state, and analogous to that which now applied under the Legacy Duties Act:—
 "Provided that no duty shall be payable upon the determination of any lease purporting at the date thereof to be a lease at rackrent, in respect to the interest accruing to the successor on such determination."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was a very obvious distinction between the case contemplated by the proviso, and that contemplated by the proposed addition. In the former all the tax that was justly due would have been paid; whereas in the latter case the duty on the increased value would remain unsatisfied.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the same point arose under the existing law, and was to be determined by the simple fact whether or not there was any other consideration named in the lease. If there was not, it would be assumed that it was at rackrent.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the principle of the Bill was this, that where there had been an alienation of a property, and in consequence of the alienation the alienee became liable to the succession duty, the succession duty which he would have to pay would be determined by the relation in which the alienor stood to the property.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that with reference to this part of the Bill, more safeguards had been taken than had ever been had recourse to in any former Bill. Everything that came under the operation of the present Legacy Duty Act was valued without any precise test of value being laid down by which it should be tried. But in the present Bill they had fixed that it was the annual value that should be taken, and that the party himself should be the one to render an account of the value, and a guide was provided that he might know what deductions he was to make, namely, necessary outlay. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could not conceive in what way it would be possible to be more distinct and specific as to the mode of finding the annual value.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he objected to the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Henley). He could not see, with respect to the case of "agency," for instance, how any rule making deductions with respect to it could be laid down beforehand. The law did not contemplate that a man should not manage his own estate, or that he should engage the services of another for that purpose. There was no better illustration of the danger of enumerating de-
 453
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the timber which was to be excepted from valuation as timber under this clause as it stood printed, was "timber planted or left standing for the shelter or ornament of a mansion-house, and valued therewith." He proposed to substitute for these latter words the words, "and entering into the valuation thereof
 449
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was not difficult to explain what was meant by the words "property capable of yielding income." A house in
 451
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was glad that the right hon. Gentleman had made this Motion, because it fairly raised a question which ought to be considered by the Committee. The right hon. Gentleman had said that there would be difficulties in levying the tax on timber, and that great injustice would be done. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) agreed that there would be a great deal of difficulty, and also considerable injustice, if the tax were levied with rigour; but he ventured to predict that the injustice would be done, if at all, to the Exchequer. Although at this moment the bulk of the real property of the country was not subject to the legacy duty, yet a great part of it was; and all estates that came under the operation of the duty had had their timber valued and taxed. But it was never heard that injustice had been done in such cases; and the truth was, that the tax on the timber was very little more than nominal. In this he founded his opinion upon the practice which had hitherto prevailed in the present valuation of timber, in which he was not aware that it had ever been found that injustice had ever been done to individuals. But the question was not at the present moment what particular provisions the Committee should adopt as to the valuation of timber. That was a matter open to debate, and he was perfectly ready to receive suggestions upon that subject; but the right hon. Gentleman's broad proposition was, that timber ought to be exempted altogether from the operation of this tax. Now, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) did not mean to say that it was vital to the financial efficiency of this measure that timber should be taxed, for he had already stated that only a very small sum would be derived from it; but this was more a question of principle than anything else. The Committee were not now considering whether the tax should be levied upon timber planted as an ornament or a shelter to land, and in which it might be essential to its letting value, nor how far growing timber should be subject to the tax. They were not now considering any point of detail whatever. The question before them was—should they strike out of the Bill timber altogether? Without exaggerating the importance of the question, he would call upon the Committee not to allow this to be struck out of the Bill, It would be better to insert
 457
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the question had been so broadly raised, that he at first thought it best to take the sense of the Committee upon it. But, upon consultation with his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, he thought that it might be some improvement to the clause if, after the words "computed value of such timber," they inserted the words "as is fit and proper to be cut." His own view was, that the tax on timber ought to be made so as to work easily, and, above all, not to involve the necessity of resorting to these expensive valuations.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the question upon which the Committee had to decide was not as to the particular words, or the particular manner in which timber should be taxed, but as to whether it should be taxed at all. It was too late to postpone the clause, as an Amendment had been moved. After the clause then before them had been disposed of, the form in which the tax should be imposed still remained for consideration. On that point he had already said that the
 461
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he concurred in the principle laid down by the right hon. Baronet, and assured him that in every syllable he had uttered he had been strictly and rigidly accurate. What he said was, that the extremes of payment were represented by twenty and by one—the one meaning the direct succession to land, and the twenty
 446
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the one clause was intended to lead to the other.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it appeared to him that the hon. and learned Gentleman did not seem to have well considered the nature and consequences of his own suggestion. He said he proposed it in the case of realty, but he did not object to treat personalty in the same manner under similar circumstances. The hon. and learned Gentleman said, he thought it most urgent that, on the ground of injustice, as the Bill now stood, this change should be made. But if it were urgent with respect to realty, surely it was much more so as to personalty. The hon. and learned Gentleman had represented the case of two children, one of whom lived only five years and the other fifty, as a piteous case of inequality; but if the hon.
 441 442 l. 443
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not imagine that the words "ornamental timber" admitted well of any definition further than was conveyed by the term itself. He thought, perhaps, however, that "timber left standing for ornament," was a better definition than "ornamental timber." With respect to the valuation of land and houses, that was an old perpetual standing difficulty, but it was not in any sense a difficulty peculiar to this Bill. Houses would be valued for the purposes of this Bill as they were now valued for the purposes of the Legacy Duties Act, or as they were valued for the house duty.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that this charge, with regard to the tables, was quite a mistake. The fact was, that the Northampton tables were out of date, and were superseded by the tables lately constructed at the National Debt Office; the last report from that office stated, as a remarkable proof of the accuracy of their tables, that the identical number of deaths which were computed for the last few years had actually taken place.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in cases of annuities payable out of personalty the same favour was granted.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not comprehend from the observations of the hon. and learned Gentleman whether he proposed to include personal as well as real property in his proposition or not.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, what he had observed all along was this—that a great number of provisions of law which were now in operation without the slightest mitigation, and of which he had not heard one word of complaint from the right hon. Baronet or his friends, but which fell upon the poorer classes of the community, were now found to be particularly oppressive. The truth was, the case which the right hon. Baronet supposed was a case that might happen to leasehold property under the present law. He did not want to use this fact as an  argumentum ad hominem,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must remind the Committee that the question on which they were going to vote was, whether they would allow certain words to stand part of the clause. In these words there was not comprised anything objectionable, if there was anything objectionable in the Government proposition. His hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General had employed his labour during the last hour to devise a remedy, and he proposed to introduce words which he thought would give effect to the principle that had been contended for by one of his hon. friends. He did not propose, however, that it should be the exclusive mode of proceeding, but that a person should have the option, if he thought fit, to elect to pay on the average value.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the last vote had placed the Government in this difficulty—that they could not make a proposal as to plan until they knew the general view of the Committee as to principle. It had been distinctly stated by numbers of those who had subsequently voted for the right hon. Baronet's (Sir J. Trollope's) Amendment, that it was not their intention to vote against a tax on timber, but that their intention was merely confined to a partial condemnation of the plan of the tax; and, that being so, this fruit ought at least to be reaped from the prolonged discussion— that it should be known what was the view of the Committee on the principle. If the proposition now made by the right hon. Baronet was agreed to, then the Government would know that the meaning of the Committee was to put a negative on the tax on timber. If the Committee rejected this proviso, the Government would know what form to give to the proposition. Certainly if progress was now reported, the whole evening would have been lost.
 MR. BARROW  said, he must complain of the difficulty of understanding the exact meaning which words introduced into the clause would convey from only hearing them read at the table, and considered explanation would be desirable.
 MR. MICHELL  said, he thought he had a right to complain that the tables were too high; that Mr. Trevor had calculated them at seventeen years: that the tables in the Bill were not the same tables, but were computed at least five years higher. In some instances the effect of this change would be very nearly to double the rate of duty which otherwise would be paid.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would not oppose the Bill going through Committee; but when the Report was brought up, he would attempt to remove the inequality of the Bill in levying the duty within twenty-one days on personal property, and on real property extending the payment of the duty over four and a half years.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had admitted one very important principle, namely, that personal ought to be placed on the same footing as real property. He (Mr. Williams) decidedly objected to the clause, though for a very different reason from that of the hon. and learned Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had brought on himself this factious opposition to the proposed tax, by giving landowners a concession of 50 per cent. Had he placed real property on precisely the same footing as personal, such opposition could not have been offered. The amount of duty in the case of the first degree of consanguinity was only half per cent, and that would be the case of nine-tenths of the real property which would come under the operation of the Act. A distinction of half per cent between the two kinds of property appeared to him most unjust. He ought not, perhaps, to make any complaint against the Chancellor of the Exchequer; he knew the right hon. Gentleman's difficulties, and was sensible that he had exhibited a degree of courage to be found in few public men. Still he hoped he would reconsider the clause with a view to amendment. It should be recollected that personal property would pay probate duty, 3 per cent for all property under 30,000 l., l 445
 MR. WILLIAMS  said, that if a poor widow had been left 20 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he could not but admire the care taken to protect real property under this Bill. Real property, it should be remembered, paid only half the duty that would be paid by other property. If the gentleman referred to by the right hon. Baronet had invested his money in funds or the shares, he would have been taxed much more heavily. There was not a servant in the right hon. Baronet's employ who would not have to pay on a legacy of 20 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must explain, that his remarks had been addressed, as he had previously stated, rather to the observations of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington), than to the clause itself.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, his observations were in reply to the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington), and were not intended to apply to the clause itself.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the case he had mentioned, and the answer it had elicited from the hon. and learned Gentleman, made him the more doubt the wisdom of extending this tax to real property merely because personal property was now liable to a similar duty.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman would have it inferred that the injustice of the legacy duties was passed by without complaint by hon. Members on that (the Opposition) side of the House, so long as it bore only upon other classes of the community. Why, they had never been called on to express an opinion upon the existing legacy duties. If they had, he, for one, should certainly not have hesitated in the opinion which he should have expressed. He should have said that no sort of tax was more oppressive, more painful, or more objectionable than that tax. He would have appealed, as he had done before, to the language of the highest authorities with regard to it. He would have appealed to the Dutch law, which altogether exempted direct descendants. He would have appealed to the highest political authorities, who, in the strongest language, had dilated upon the cruelty of imposing a tax on direct succession where the property came from father to son. He would have appealed to Lord Grey, who had characterised the tax as "a tax upon misfortune." He had no
 438
 SIR J. PAKINGTON  begged to thank the hon. and learned Gentleman. Nothing could be more satisfactory than the answer he had given to the question.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought it incumbent on them to be correct in statements, and to avoid the appearance of exaggeration. He did not wish to imply that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would intentionally be guilty either of inaccuracy or exaggeration; but the right hon. Gentleman had been led into a statement which might lead to misapprehension on the part of many persons not conversant with the details of the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman drew a comparison between payments by realty and payments by personalty—in the ease of realty taking direct succession at 1 per cent, and in the case of personalty taking the case of a stranger at 10 per cent. The hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) had still further exaggerated the comparison, by stating the comparison at 20 per cent against half per cent. He felt bound, therefore, to express his opinion that it would be fairer to compare direct descent in the case of land with direct descent in the case of money, and inheritance by strangers in the one case with inheritance by strangers in the other.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to put a question to the hon. and learned Solicitor General. He (Sir J. Pakington) had received a letter from a gentleman who inherited an estate from his uncle, subject to the life of the uncle's wife. The aunt was now in possession of the estate; but the future convenience and comfort of that gentleman required that he should build a mansion house on the estate; and he had actually completed all his arrangement for building such a house, when the newspapers informed him of the views of the Chancellor of the Exchequer in this respect. He (Sir J. Pakington) wished now to ask the hon. and learned Gentleman, whether in the event of his correspondent spending his money in build-
 435
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, there might possibly be such an arrangement with the widow. He was not prepared to say that that lady might not be allowed to reside in the house after it was completed, with the permission of the remainderman. But he wanted to know whether or no, if she was excluded from the occupation of the house, the duty would be payable in respect of such house on her decease by the remainderman?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he rose to put to the hon. Gentleman the Under-Secretary of the Colonies, or to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, the question which stood in his name upon the paper. It referred to that collision between the House of Assembly, and the Legislative Council and the Governor on the other hand, which was publicly stated to have occurred in the island of Jamaica, and to have led to a very important political and financial crisis in that island. He begged to ask Her Majesty's Government, whether despatches had been received at the Colonial Office relating to a recent political and financial crisis in the island of Jamaica; whether Her Majesty's Government intended to propose any changes in the constitution of Jamaica, and especially with reference to the financial powers now exercised by the House of Assembly; and, lastly, whether they would have any objection to lay upon the table of the House such papers as had been received?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he conceived, as there was already in reference to the present clause one proposition before the Committee, as another was given notice of by the hon. Baronet opposite, and as in all probability the Government would suggest a proposition of their own, the Chairman had better report progress, and before the next sitting of the Committee the various propositions should be printed on the notice paper.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, as the hour was late he would not enter into the main question, whether timber should be taxed, further than to say that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had fallen into a mistake by mixing together timber and underwood. He considered the division which was about to be taken to have reference to the latter part of the clause; and in the event of that being negatived, it would be open to his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Trollope) to move his proviso, and to the Chancellor of the Exchequer to make any proposal he pleased.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was sorry that the noble Lord should have so completely misapprehended his right hon. Friend. It was still the intention of his right hon. Friend to bring forward the proviso unless the Government should in the meantime bring forward some plan that would prove acceptable to the Committee; and he did not think that the noble Lord was acting fairly by his right hon. Friend in refusing him leave to withdraw his proviso, which his right hon. Friend had first moved in accordance with the suggestion of a right hon. Gentlemen opposite.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought that the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had for gotten the circumstances under which the proviso of his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Trollope) was proposed. His right hon. Friend had suggested, that if the latter part of this clause were omitted that timber would remain to be taxed without specification as to how it was to be levied; and in order to get over that difficulty, and not to induce the Committee to come to a decision not to tax timber, he introduced his words. Now, he (Sir J. Pakington) would submit to the Committee that they could not come to a decision whether timber was to be taxed or not, unless they had before them the specific proposition, or manner according to which it was to be taxed. The measure was the measure of the Government, and they were responsible to the Committee for its details.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he agreed that the question at present before the Committee was, whether timber ought to be taxed or not. He believed, however, that the only proper course was his Amendment, namely, to make a difference between ornamental timber and timber capable of being turned to a mercantile account.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, the noble Lord appeared to have entirely misunderstood what fell from him. He had alluded particularly to his own case as one in which there could be no difficulty, as his successor would clearly be liable to pay duty for the timber; but he also put the case of those who had an annual sale, and remarked that timber standing in the middle of grass lands was part and parcel of the farm. As regarded the question whether timber should be liable to the tax or not, he had no hesitation in saying that he should vote in the affirmative, because he held that what produced income ought to be taxed. Believing that the difficulty could be got over, he should propose hereafter to make timber standing in woods liable to the tax, and to exempt other timber.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he felt that if he voted for the propositions of the right hon. Baronet, he should be voting that timber should not be taxed, whereas there were many, and he himself was one, who had derived an annual income from timber and underwood, and therefore he could not conscientiously say that those who succeeded him were not bound to pay a succession duty on that as well as any other portion of the estate. It was therefore impossible for him to vote for the Amendment of the right hon. Baronet; but at the same time he felt great difficulty in voting for the clause as it stood, because injustice would be done under it in many instances. The great proportion of timber left standing on farms was as essential to the growth of stock and the thriving of crops, as the large woods raised to break the force of the wind were to the shelter of the mansion-house. To avoid any question as to the word shelter, he would suggest that the words "but standing in coppices" should be added. Wishing to see the succession duty fairly adjusted, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would reconsider this question, and would postpone the clauses regarding timber for the present.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he should propose that the remainder of the clause, after the word "outgoings," be left out entirely. The Levitical law subjected such articles as "mint, and anise, and cummin," to payment of a tithe, but he had never heard that it was proposed to tax the cedars of Lebanon; and though the fathers of our Church took care to tax the smallest articles, he never found they attempted to lay a tax or a tithe upon timber. Nobody had ever attempted, either, to rate growing timber to the relief of the poor, and, therefore, the same principle as had always applied to it ought to be applied to it now. From what he knew on the subject, he thought it would be very difficult to lay down any possible principle which could govern this tax. Besides, it would be exceedingly difficult to define what was taxable timber, or to say what was for ornament and what was for shelter. There were places where the cutting down of trees would render the land utterly valueless. If, for instance, the timber were removed from places on the coast of Norfolk, the soil would be absolutely blown away. There were, moreover, insuperable legal difficulties in the proposed mode of assessing the tax. Great injustice would be done by this clause, and discouragement shown to those gentlemen who now took a pride in improving their estates and ornamenting the country, by planting timber.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he coincided in opinion with the observations of the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond). He hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give way upon this point, and that there would be no necessity for dividing the Committee.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that there had always been considerable difficulty in assessing the house tax on large mansions, and the rule had been not to assess them at the rent which they might be expected to let at, if they could have been let. There would be no difficulty in this case, because the valuation would be taken on a nominal value, and not with reference to the expense of their erection. With regard to timber, he should like to know whether the vast ranges of plantation in Scotland, which had been planted for the purpose of affording shelter, and also whether the old oaks in the parks of England, were to be considered as coming within the exception. He thought the right hon. Gentleman would find some difficulty in carrying the ornamental-timber clause into execution.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  then proposed the following proviso to the clause:—"Provided always, that the value of any timber growing or standing on the said lands should not be included in the said estimate."
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that these words would not meet his objection, for how were those persons to be dealt with who had only periodical and not annual sales of timber? By what machinery did the right hon. Gentleman propose to levy the tax on them? He should be willing to add a proviso to his Amendment, which would meet the objections of the noble Lord (Lord Seymour) and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. V. Smith).
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he had moved the addition of the proviso simply to make his proposition clear; but as the Government had agreed to take the whole subject into consideration, it was but fair to give them time for consideration; and he should, therefore, accede to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman to withdraw the Amendment.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made so many admissions, and agreed to so many alterations, that it was impossible to know what the Government really intended. Did the right hon. Gentleman mean to assent to the words "fit and proper to be cut?"["No, no!"] Then what was the position of the clause? No Amendment had been carried, so that the clause could be postponed; and it appeared to him that the postponement would be the best course to pursue.
 SIR ROBERT PRICE  said, he wished also to leave the matter for the consideration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. They had always been told it was desirable to encourage the growth of timber, and now it was proposed to lay a special tax upon it. He recommended the right hon. Gentleman to see how far it was possible to modify the clause. He could not vote for doing away altogether with the duty
 460
 MR. THOMAS ACLAND  said, he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that if all property, real or personal, was to be taxed, he did not know what exemption any man had a right to claim in respect to timber. On that ground, therefore, he was not prepared to support the Amendment; but he was not much better pleased with the mode in which his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) proposed to assess the tax upon timber, than his right hon. Friend near him (Sir J. Trollope. The system proposed would be one full of inconveniences, both to those who paid the tax and those who levied it, and it would also entail considerable injustice. When he sold his timber, he was willing to pay his proportion of the tax; but he was not willing to pay beforehand, when, in order to ascertain the value of the timber, he was exposed to so many difficulties. All these would be avoided if an assessment were made at the time of every sale of timber, and a declaration were required from the owner.
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  said, he could not approve of the Amendments of the
 454
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  said, there was following the words "But there shall be included," these words, "in such estimate." Now he objected to these latter words. He could not agree to any estimate, which he was persuaded would be impracticable.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he must complain that it was impossible to discover upon what principle the value was to be ascertained, or the deductions were to be made.
 MR. FERGUSON  said, he had been requested by a large number of the working clergy to convey their complaints to that House, and to state that they could not maintain themselves as they ought to do on the pittance allowed to them. The inequality of the revenues received by the different classes of the clergy operated much against the Church, and injured the rich even more than the poorer clergy, for it tended to make them care more for the things of this world than they should. Within the last few years a great change had come over the spirit of the Church. She had shaken off her coldness and apathy, and that change was entirely owing to the working clergy, who were the real successors of the Apostles, and who did the work of the Apostles, devoting themselves heart and soul to their sacred calling. He believed there was sufficient property possessed by the Church for the maintenance of all her ministers, if it was properly divided; and he thanked the noble Marquess most sincerely for his efforts to effect that object, and hoped he would meet with that success which his efforts so well deserved.
 MR. APSLEY PBLLATT  said, it afforded him much pleasure in concurring in the tribute of praise which had been so deservedly bestowed on the noble Marquess for having introduced this Bill. He sympathised with the distresses of the working clergy of the Church of England, but, at the same time, there were clergymen in the enjoyment of large incomes for which they did little in return. He thought there ought to be a most searching inquiry into those incomes, and into the management of Church property. As a Nonconformist, he thought he was entitled to claim a part of the merit for the Nonconformist clergy in helping to bring about the improved state of things which the noble Marquess referred to.
 The MARQUESS of BLANDFORD   presented l. 150 l. 506 l. Viet, Vict. Vict. Vict. 507 508 Hen. "That the King our Sovereign Lord, his heirs, successors, Kings of this realm, shall be taken, accepted, and reputed the only supreme head on earth of the Church of England, and shall have and enjoy annexed to the Imperial Crown of this realm, as well the style and title thereof, as all honours, dignities, pre-eminences, jurisdictions, & c, to the said dignity of supreme head of the Church belonging and appertaining, and shall have power, from time to time, to visit, repress, redress, reform, order, correct, restrain, and amend all such errors, heresies, abuses, offences, contempts, and enormities, whatsoever they be, which by any manner of spiritual authority or jurisdiction may lawfully be reformed, repressed, ordered, redressed, corrected, restrained, and amended most to the pleasure of Almighty God, the increase in virtue in Christ's religion, and for the conservation of the peace, unity, and tranquillity of this realm, any usage, custom, foreign laws, foreign authority, prescription, or any other thing to the contrary notwithstanding." "To preserve and maintain inviolable the settlement of the Church of England, and the doctrine, worship, discipline, and government thereof, as by law established." "King, Lords temporal, and Commons, did in God's name require all archbishops, and bishops, and their ordinaries, to endeavour in the due execution of that Act as they would answer before God." 509 "To compare the Book of Common Prayer sent down from the Lords, and the book sent up from this House, and to make their report thereon with all speed they can." "That this House will in all matters immediately relating to religion, and the welfare of the Established Church, have a particular regard to such applications as shall at any time be made to them from the clergy in convocation assembled, according to ancient usage, together with the Parliament." 510 "They felt from the first that the possession of these estates, especially to so large an amount, involved the duty of carefully considering the principle
 511 "Your Committee are prepared confidently to assert, that the system of raising revenue by fines, always improvident, is peculiarly disadvantageous to the church lessor, from the peculiarity of his tenure; and the objections to it are felt in leases for terms, and aggravated most materially in leases for lives." "the abolition of the injurious system of fines upon leases for lives, and also upon leases for terms; the substitution of a fee-simple for a leasehold tenure throughout the property of the Church; and an Act to provide for the conversion of Church leasehold into fee-simple, commonly called enfranchisement." 512 513 "Do you see any objection to their being the actual proprietors at rackrents?—I do not see any other difficulty than that they might not look sufficiently well after the property. "That would be obviated by their having a good agent?—Yes, if they looked well after him. "It would be necessary for them to have a surplus fund to meet the demands that would be made upon them?—Yes. "In what way do the chapter now carry on the arrangement of such estates as they do look after? Do they meet frequently for the purpose?—They only meet twice a year. "Do they look minutely into all the circumstances of their several estates?—Certainly not. "They are not aware precisely of the condition of the properties?—No, very rarely, indeed, are they so. "If you converted them into immediate landlords they would, probably, look more carefully into their affairs?—Yes, the colleges do so, and I do not see why the chapters should not. "Is there not a difficulty in comparing a chapter with a college in this point of view—that there is always a constant body resident in a college, whereas in the existing condition of the chapters the members are only successively resident, and therefore you have not any constant body always at hand?—The property of the college is almost entirely managed by the head of the college and the bursar; probably only by one person. "Suppose in the month of January there is a communication from a tenant, Canon A. being then resident; and the next communication between the same tenant and the chapter is in the month of April, when Canon B. is resident, would not that give rise to difficulty?—Yes; it must be done by one person, and that person would naturally be the dean. "You say that the present system is inconvenient, and sometimes places the chapter in a difficult position. Would not the yearly communications, and the almost daily communications which must pass between the tenants at rackrents and the chapter, be still more inconvenient than the still more infrequent communications which now take place relative to the renewal of leases? —They might. "Would not they trespass more upon the time of the functionaries?—They certainly would. "Might not they occasionally place them in situations of inconvenient collision with the ten-
 514 "Situations of collision would be inconsistent with the position and the dignity of the chapter? —I think they might have that effect. "Do you not think that where land is held at rackrent, there necessarily arises between the landlord and the tenant a continual cause of pecuniary discussion and negotiation, which it would be very desirable to avoid between the clergy and the laity?—I was bursar of Baliol College for two years, and I never experienced any such difficulty, nor did I ever hear of any on the part of the master and fellows. "Is there not a considerable distinction between a body of clergy who are acting in the capacity of a college, and a body of clergy in general who are acting in their spiritual capacity of ministers of religion towards the community at largo?—I suppose there is. "So that it might not be inconvenient that there should be these daily pecuniary negotiations between a college and the laity; but great inconvenience might still arise if these pecuniary negotiations existed between the working clergy generally and the laity?—Yes." 515 "It appears, from the Report of the Ecclesiastical Revenues Commission, that there are no less than 3,528 benefices under 1502. per annum. In every one of these benefices it is desirable that there should be a resident clergyman; but unless their value be augmented, it will in many cases be impossible to secure this advantage. The neces-
 516 l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. Vict., 517 "That those benefices which have of late years come into existence under the Church Building Acts, or by the operation of other causes, being for the most part inadequately endowed, having, in numerous cases, no more than the lowest legal endowment of 13 l. 518 l., l. "I have a widely-scattered population of 700, necessitating a horse to visit the sick. There is no place nearer than two miles where we can obtain the necessaries of life. The endowment of my church is 36 l. s. d. 519 l. s. d. "I am a perpetual curate of one of the churches under Sir Robert Peel's Act, with an endowment of 150 l. l. l. l. l. 520 "Whereas a sufficient provision for the clergy had not yet been made, by reason whereof divers men and stipendiary curates are depending for their necessary maintenance on the good will of their flock—that they are consequently under great temptation of suiting their doctrines to the humours of those who contributed to their maintenance, thereby giving occasion to great faction and schism, and generating contempt for the minister," Vict., l, 521 l., l. Vict. l. l. l. l. 522 l, l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 523 
 
 Archbishops and Bishops £152,200 
 Deans 36,000 
 Canons 89,800 
 Minor Canons (150 l. 31,750 
 Cathedral expenses on returned average 54,000 
 £363,750 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. 524 l., l., l., l., l. l. 525 526 527 Vict, 528 "This was to put to silence that insult of the common enemy, who abroad and at home upbraided us with the poverty and contempt of the English clergy, and this was to rebuke the spirit of profaneness which delighted in the same objection; and therefore Her Majesty prepared to consecrate the only ecclesiastical branch of her revenues to these pious uses—for God and His Church and Ministers; that so she might accomplish the wishes and desires of her Royal predecessors, and finish the good work that had been often recommended: that beyond any precedent in former reigns she might honour God, and promote His public worship, and countenance and confirm religion by repairing the supports of it: that she might vindicate the ministerial office, and restore the decent respects due unto that holy character: that she might extend her charity to the souls of all her people, by better exciting and rewarding the pastoral care of them: in a words, that she might bless the present age, and transmit that blessing to posterity."
 MR. HUME  said, he begged to express his satisfaction at the Bill itself, but he did not agree with all the principles laid down by the noble Marquess. He did not think that that House should assent to the payment of any more of the public money for the building of churches. He regretted that he did not hear the noble Marquess allude to the necessity of educating the humbler classes. Neither had he alluded to a point which also was of great importance. The noble Marquess seemed to think that Church property could only be applied to one sect. He should, however, recollect that when the Church property was first bestowed for religious purposes, it was intended to educate all the people. Since then one-half of the people had left the Church; and the question naturally arose whether one-half of the money taken from this religion might not be applied to the purpose of giving a good secular education to the people. He did not agree with the noble Marquess in all his propositions; but he thought he was, nevertheless, entitled to very great credit. The noble Marquess had shown, by his statements, that he well understood the subject; and he (Mr. Hume) was perfectly satisfied that, as the result of his efforts, a great and an important service would be done.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he willingly gave his cordial concurrence in the objects which the noble Marquess had in view; and he was of opinion that the Bill he proposed to introduce would effect a real and practicable improvement in the administration of Church property. But he had risen to point out some of the defects and anomalies of recent legislation in diverting the funds belonging to the Church in one district, from being applied to the wants of the Church in that district, and making them applicable to the country at large. In the diocese of Durham there were large funds applicable to the Church, and great necessities on the part of the people; but it was proposed to distribute them, not in the locality, but in the country at large. In Newcastle and Gateshead, both very large towns, this was peculiarly the case-Gateshead contained 113,000 inhabitants, yet there were really less funds applicable to the spiritual wants of the population than in many other places where there was not so large an aggregate of human beings; whilst in Newcastle the inhabitants
 530
 The MARQUESS of BLANDFORD  said, he begged to tender his thanks to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) for the manner in which he had received the Bill. It was, indeed, matter for congratulation that a measure of this nature should be allowed by the Government to be laid on the table of the House, and to go to a first reading; and he quite agreed with his hon. Friend (Sir B. Hall) that it was a sign of very great advance—an advance which, he trusted, whilst we experienced its benefits, would, as far as he (the Marquess of Blandford) was concerned, be tempered with that moderation which would forbid departure from the principles of the constitution. He would not detain the House further than to say, that, whatever time or labour he had bestowed upon this measure, he had been abundantly repaid for it by the cordial manner in which the measure had been received, and which would be an ample encouragement to him to proceed with it to the end.
 MR. HUME  rose, and said, he would put it to his noble Friend whether in the then state of the House, looking at the prospect before them, and considering that during the late discussion on the ballot there seemed to be a general wish that as the Government had undertaken to bring in a measure of Parliamentary reform next Session, the time of the House should not
 534
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he was very reluctant to defer a Motion of such great importance as that of which he had given notice; at the same time he was desirous of attaching every weight to the opinion of that old, tried, and steady reformer, his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. He was quite sensible that at any time he laboured under great disadvantage in proposing this Motion, and especially so on the present occasion, in consequence of the thin state of the House, which had been produced by peculiar circumstances. It was unfortunate for him that his Motion was called upon at precisely the most critical hour in the day— [ it was now half-past seven o'clock
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the noble Marquess had devoted a great deal of labour to this subject, and he believed that the noble Marquess was animated by a very great regard for the good of the Church, and the spiritual welfare of her people. With respect to the particular purpose of the noble Marquess, and the details of his Bill, he (Lord John Russell) thought it was far better that the House should assent to the Bill being brought in, and that they should thus have a full opportunity of considering its details, than that they should then enter into any discussion of the statement which the noble Marquess had made. It was evident that many of the propositions of the Bill were of great importance, and that there were some to which objections might be made. He quite agreed with the noble Marquess that the House should not consider the Acts which had been passed from 1836 to the present time as forming a complete system, but that they should from time to time remove the objections, and extend the benefits of those Acts. With those few words he heartily concurred in the Motion for leave to introduce the Bill; and he trusted the noble Marquess would not unduly press a measure of such importance at a period of the Session when
 529
 MR. SPEAKER  having called upon Lord Dudley Stuart, who had a Motion on the paper for to-night for the repeal of the Septennial Act,
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  said, that pluralities were rapidly disappearing, and by
 533
 MR. INGHAM  brought up the Report of the Select Committee. "That Charles Turner and William Forbes Mackenzie, esquires, were not duly elected Burgesses to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Liverpool. "That the last Election for the said Borough is a void Election."
 MR. EWART  said, he must express his concurrence in the approbation which had been bestowed on the Motion of the noble Marquess, and as a Churchman begged to thank him for his exertions and services. He hoped to see such changes
 532
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  congratulated the Church on the progress which reform was making in reference to abuses of which he had long complained. He was aware that those who took an active part some years ago in bringing these questions forward were subjected to much obloquy and opprobrium; but he, for his part, was always determined to persevere until he could bring the matter so prominently before the public mind that he might be quite sure it would be impossible to go on without the correction of those vast abuses in the distribution of the temporalities of the Church which had been a source of the deepest regret to all friends of the Establishment. He did not expect, however, that in the course of three or four years he should see the House of Commons acquiescing in the proposition of his noble Friend (the Marquess of Blandford), and permitting him to bring in a Bill which certainly wont further than any proposition he (Sir B. Hall) had ever ventured to make in that House. He congratulated his noble Friend on the success which had thus far attended his praiseworthy endeavours; and as it seemed to be the wish of the noble Lord the leader of that House (Lord J. Russell), and of the House generally, that no discussion should take place upon the proposition made by his noble Friend, he should bow at once to that wish. Nor was it necessary
 531
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I own I regret that this question does not come before the House simply in the form in which the hon. and learned Gentleman who introduced the Bill at first placed it. The Bill itself appears to mo to admit of hon. Members easily making up their minds with regard to the course they shall pursue. For my part, I must confess that I agree with the statement made by the hon. and learned Member who moved the Amendment, and the hon. and learned Member who seconded it, and who used most powerful arguments against the provisions of this Bill. In the first place, I am somewhat surprised to find my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis) endeavouring to prove that the Habeas Corpus Act, which has been the security of the personal liberty of the subject for upwards of 170 years, is an Act which provides in no way for the liberty of the subject; that it is totally inefficient in its provisions, and that, unless we adopt the Bill now before the House, we have no security for personal liberty whatever. In the next place, I own I consider that the Bill should state in its preamble some real case on which it is founded; whereas I find in the preamble of this Bill nothing but allegations which appear to me totally destitute of truth. But when I come to the remedy provided by this Bill, I own I should be much astonished if the House were ever to consent to the passing of such a measure. It does not, indeed, empower the Secretary of State to name persons who shall visit those convents; but it does empower the Lord Chancellor—who, besides being a great Judge, is likewise a Member of the Executive Government—to name Commissioners; and any one of those Commissioners, on seeing reasonable ground to suppose that any female is detained in any house or building against her will, is empowered and required, with the assistance of the justices of the peace, to make forcible entrance into such a building. I ask, if you pass this Bill, where is the safety of our houses after such a provision? I speak not now of convents, or of detention in convents; but, I say, what oppression may be exercised if a Commissioner named by the
 570 571 "Provided that nothing so enacted shall be considered, or made to extend to, or to affect any religious order or community consisting of females bound by religious or monastic vows." 572 573 574 575
 MR. HENCHY  said, he felt that the Eoman Catholics of Ireland were indebted to the Protestants for obtaining Catholic emancipation; and for that, and for many other reasons, he was opposed to the style and language adopted by the hon. Member for Mayo (Mr. G. Moore). There was not one member of his (Mr. Henley's) immediate relatives who had not been educated
 580
 MR. WARNER : Sir, I should be very unwilling to detain the House from a division at this late hour, but I think it necessary to say a very few words to justify the vote which I intend to give. I cannot altogether approve of this Bill, chiefly because I think it does not go far enough, and is not nearly so efficient as it might have been framed to be. I am one of those who would much rather vote for the total suppression of monastic institutions. I agree, too, in many of the objections which have been urged against this Bill by the hon. Member for Bath. But I consider that this Bill has one great merit—that it recognises the fact that priestly influences are encroaching rapidly on the civil authority in this country, and that Parliament must look that fact in the face, and be prepared to deal with it. The main question before us seems to me to have been very little touched upon in this debate. It is this: Will you maintain your free institutions, and vindicate the majesty of the law and the supremacy of Parliament? Or
 578 imperium in imperio ad misericordiam, 579
 MR. G. H. MOORE  said, that he should be utterly belying his own opinions if he affected to recognise the sincerity or the good faith of a single feature of the present Bill—of a single profession of the hon. and learned Gentleman by whom the Bill was introduced—or of a single profession or sentiment that had been uttered in its support since the commencement of the discussion. The very title of the Bill was a prevarication. Its first reading had been obtained by pettifogging fraud; and it had been set forth, argued, and agitated for with an amount of insincerity and dishonest seeming which the measureless hypocrisy of this pharisee of nations could alone have supplied. It was extraordinary that, while on other questions the English were the most scrupulously truthful people in the world, they appeared on the single subject of religion to be wholly reckless as to the truth or falsehood of their assertions. Nothing could be lower than the standard of morality of religious journalism; nor did men care what they said of each other in social life upon religious matters. England was just now in one of those bursts of Protestant insanity which had periodically marked her history from the time of the Reformation, and which closely resembled the fits of phrensy to which naturalists stated that the grave and sagacious elephant was subject, He was
 576 577
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that he did not mean to apply the words "cowardly and unmanly course of legislation" to the introducers of this Bill, but to the character of the Bill itself, which, while its object was to regulate convents, did not do so directly, but by implication.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he rose with great pleasure to second the Amendment, and he trusted the House would bear with him if even at this early stage of the discussion he stated his reasons for taking this course. He must say that he did not concur in all that had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Bath. Perhaps it was better that it should appear that two Members of that House, differing upon many political subjects, could yet concur in asking the House to reject a Bill which appeared to them a direct violation of the constitution, and a departure from all the principles of freedom upon which, hitherto, British legislation had been founded. He did not take this course from any favour to conventual institutions, nor yet, let him say, from any tenderness towards that religious system of which, exercising his honest judgment, he believed those institutions to be not the least objectionable feature; but because, in order to attain an interference with these institutions the Bill vested in Government officials a power utterly subversive of the free spirit of our law. From the time he had first read this Bill, he entertained insuperable objections to its passing. The Bill in reality having a particular object professed a general one. His hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford had found a merit in this. He stated it as a recommendation of the measure, that while it was really aimed at the Roman Catholic convents, it never once mentioned either the Roman Catholic religion, or the existence of convents. Now, he (Mr. Butt) thought this the strongest objection to the Bill. Aiming at regulations intended to affect convents, it proposed enactments that affected the home of every man in the three kingdoms. He must say he did not like this shrinking from the true question. He did not like the proposal to legislate for one thing, while he meant another. Why should they not mention both the Roman Catholic religion and convents too, if these institutions were the true objects of their measure? This mode of legislation was unmanly—he meant no affront to the hon. author of the Bill if he said it was cowardly. If they meant to regulate convents, let them boldly say
 551 552 553 554 555 556 557
 MR. NAPIER  said, that he had entertained the hope that all sides would have accepted the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Bath (Mr. Phinn), and have consented to an inquiry, with the view of meeting evils which he deemed to be of a grave character, and involving very difficult and delicate subjects. But, as they were now told that the Amendment was not to be accepted by a certain portion of the House, he was anxious to state the grounds upon which he should give his support to that Amendment; and in doing this, he must say that he could not concur in the criticism of the hon. and learned Gentleman near him (Mr. Butt) that the Bill under consideration was either cowardly or unmanly. In his opinion, the hon. and learned Member for Hertford (Mr. T. Chambers) stated his case with clearness and candour when he introduced the Bill; and this he said, although he (Mr. Napier) did not on that occasion give his vote either for or against the measure. His objection to the Bill was, that it would be utterly inadequate to meet the evil that it professed to deal with. He had also great objections to some of its details; but his main objection was that it was inadequate to meet the evil—that it did not touch the most important part of the question, namely, the free distribution of property, and that the system of inspection proposed would not be any safeguard with reference to cases where personal liberty was interfered with. At the same time he admitted that the existing provisions of the Habeas Corpus Act did not meet what he considered to be the evil; because the provisions of that Act required that application should
 562 563 v. "In the year 1825 this young woman, the plaintiff in this cause, entered into the establishment of the defendants as a lodger, and unquestionably not as a person who had irrevocably bound herself to take the veil. That this was so is quite manifest, independent of the express evidence of what was stipulated at the time she entered the convent. And what is that which was so stipulated, and which ought to be done without express arrangement? Namely, that she was not to be professed until she attained the age of 21; nor even then without communicating with her friends. That is the evidence of one of the witnesses (Mr. Henry). It is not denied, nor can there be a doubt thrown upon it. Under that stipulation she entered the convent; and it was further agreed that she was to pay 40 l. l. l. l. 564 "The said Maria and Catherine are professed nuns, according to the rules, regulations, and canons of the Roman Catholic Church." "I say that if they were inclined to dispose of their properties in favour of their relations or civil friends, they would not have power to do so, consistently with the laws or rules of the community, which alone prevent them." "Defendant Jane saith, that the said Maria told her that she, the said Maria, wept most bitterly the whole night previously to her signing the said deed, and that no member of the family had half the affection she felt for her brothers and sisters, but that, having made vows, she could not express what her real and unbiassed wishes were; and her hands were so completely tied up by her vows, that were even a brother or sister dying of starvation, and that if a loaf of bread could save them, she could not give it without the permission of her superioress." 565 "I have full experience and knowledge of the rules of the said institution, and of other similar institutions, in Ireland as elsewhere. There is a vow of religious poverty, or, in other words, that there is nothing over which she can have dominion, taken by ladies becoming members of the said institution or of similar institutions. Any property to which a nun may become entitled, the individual has no control over it, and such is the well-known and understood effect and result of such vow. The Roman Catholic bishop of the diocese, in his capacity of such bishop or superior of any convent, according to the usages and discipline of the Roman Catholic Church and such institutions, has no right, power, or authority, to dispense with the vow of poverty—a vow taken upon her profession by every member of such community. The Church of Rome reserves that power to itself with regard to dispensing with any solemn vow." "I say that my sister Catherine, previous to her signing the deed in favour of the convent, told me in the presence of the said Maria, and of the said Jane, and Alexander (my brother), that if she was obliged to sign a deed it would be like the act of a dead person, and that she would have no more power over her will or act than a dead person would have; in fact, that it would be as if a pen were held in the hand of a dead person, and that it was out of her power to avoid signing the deed in consequence of the strictness of her vow, the operation of which upon her she complained of, or likened to the effect of a presentation of a pistol by a highwayman about to rob another." "His sister Catherine told him she feared she would be obliged to sign the deed, in compliance with her vows, and that we had no idea of the mental training that they went through, and that she would be obliged to state that her acts were free and voluntary; and that everything done by her as a  réligieuse 566 "It appears by the evidence that the society is so framed that the members of it are bound by the vows they have taken on themselves, and the construction of those vows is declared by the society to be that its members are no longer, from the moment of taking them, free agents in the distribution of their property. They are enslaved to the rules and regulations of the community which they have joined, and are without the possibility of relieving themselves by any act of volition from their vow. Whatever be their condition in society, whatever their connexions with others—whatever their relations in life—regardless of every obligation of nature and society— they must adhere to these vows. Whether they be isolated individuals or members of a family, whether they be persons having no ties of kindred to bind them to the world, no objects to attach their feelings, to claim their affection and bounty, and entitled to their care, or whether they be the reverse of this, and having the nearest ties of blood—even children (for widows, after they have become such, may enter these communities), or, at least, relatives in the next degree of kindred—yet it makes no difference. By the rules of the institution they must cast all such considerations to the winds; and, willing or unwilling, freely offering it or not, of their own accord or under coercion of their vow, they must devote all their property to the benefit of the community, and execute deeds to transfer it. On such considerations I can well understand and perfectly concur in the policy of the ancient law which placed persons thus circumstanced in the position of civil death. No difficulty, such as I have referred to, then occurred. The law made the system harmonious and complete. They were left separated from the world to pursue the dictates of their consciences, and follow the line of life which they had chosen; but they were not placed in this dreadful position of being forced to tear their property from the persons whom they were most bound to regard and provide for, and to give it to the members of a community for whom they might have no personal regard whatsoever." 567 568
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER,  who rose amidst general calls for a division, said, he would not detain them at that late hour for more than a very few minutes. He did not wish to give a silent vote, because he intended to act in accordance with the statement which he made on a former occasion, that he considered a measure for the regulation of conventual establishments to be, if wanted, right in principle. He should, therefore, mark his opinion on that subject by not voting for the second reading of this Bill, which he conceived it was utterly impossible that House could sanction, but by voting for the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Bath (Mr. Phinn), which appeared to him—whether the terms were or were not so entirely comprehensive as might be wished, or whether or not it might have been more orderly to have
 581 582
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he was glad to see the temper of the House, as it must satisfy hon. Members that a Bill so odious and tyrannical ought not to be proceeded with. The Bill was an inquisition into religious houses—into establishments where those who took refuge in them were actuated by motives of the most exalted piety. The Amendment was to the same effect, and on that ground he was of opinion it ought to be resisted as ssrenuously as the Bill itself.
 MR. PHINN  begged to state the reasons why he conceived the course which he intended to propose was a more judicious one than the course which had been proposed by the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford. Apart from the other objections that had been taken to the Bill, he contended that as regarded the infringement of the liberty of the subject, it was as unconstitutional in its nature as any measure that ever had been brought before the House. He felt humiliated that any lawyer should submit to the House a measure that began with a false recital, and terminated with a provision which must be considered destructive of the first principle of the English law, namely, that "every man's house is his castle." It was objectionable that a measure which was intended to apply to a particular body should be brought in under a general denomination; and he would take the liberty of saying, as a lawyer, that he entirely disclaimed the statement of the hon. Baronet who last addressed the House. He had looked over the books with the most painful and anxious attention, and he did not believe that any such case as had been referred to by the hon. Baronet had been decided on an application for a writ of Habeas Corpus. If such a decision had been made, it had escaped his research;
 543 Geo. 544 â priori, 545 Geo. 546 547 548 "Now, my Lords, if any ten or twenty, or a
 549 pro con Ergo, Hansard's Parl. History, 550
 MR. FAGAN  said, he regretted that a measure so offensive to the feelings of the religious community to which he belonged, should have been referred to the representatives of the people. He could only account for it by remembering that the people of this country had had their morbid feelings against Roman Catholics lately excited by the doctrine recently promulgated by a high authority in that House, that the Roman Catholic religion—which was professed by one-third of Her Majesty's subjects, and by upwards of 200,000,000 of the human race, and which taught the doctrines of their common Christianity—was a mere political system. While giving credit for good intentions to both—the hon. Baronet who had moved the second reading of the Bill, and the hon. and learned Gentleman who had moved the Amendment— he had an objection to both propositions. He himself had the honour of being a Roman Catholic, and he must beg to deny the imputation cast upon the Roman Catholic ladies in the conventual establishments, that they had not sufficient spirit to resist coercion on the part of the persons who had the control of those establishments. A demand for inquiry necessarily implied that there was a case which required it, and he would ask who were the persons against whom it was proposed to institute that inquiry? With regard to the benefits conferred by these institutions, the large body of the poorer Roman Catholics derived their education from that source. There were two orders into which these establishments might be divided—the contemplative and the active order. The contemplative order spent part of their time in meditation and prayer, but at the same time a great deal was employed in the work of education. Nearly every Roman Catholic family in these dominions had re-
 558 559 560 561
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished only to explain that it was his intention to vote both against the second reading and the Amendment. He should therefore vote that the words "this Bill be read a second time" stand part of the question, in order to vote against the second reading of the Bill when the Amendment was disposed of.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that, speaking for a vast number of Gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House, after what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Hertford (Mr. T. Chambers), that he accepted the Amendment, he begged to say that he intended to vote against the Bill, in order, with the concurrence of the hon. and learned Gentleman, to vote for the Amendment.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he would now beg to move the Second Reading of this Bill, which was a Bill for the recovery
 535 Ironical cries of 536 â priori â priori 537 538 539 "But those countries, or the greater part of them, are all Roman Catholic, and we do not mind what our own co-religionists may do; they at least will be tender in their investigations; our dread is from the conduct of those who are not of our own religion, and who have no sympathy with those whose exclusion you profess to deplore." 540 bonâfide 541 "That the readiness with which a large portion of the English nation allows itself to be inflamed against convents is the natural expression of the Protestant Reformation"— "against poverty, chastity, and obedience, to which it preferred plunder, lust, and rebellion in the person and conduct of the sacrilegious tyrant King Henry VIII. and his illegitimate daughter, who murdered the lawful inheritor to the throne of England." 542
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he accepted with the utmost satisfaction every single ssue raised upon the Bill he was submitting to Parliament. He was glad some issue had at length been raised on the Bill so submitted by him, for it was impossible to avoid remarking, or to overlook the significant circumstance, that notwithstanding all the careful and anxious scrutiny which had been made into it—notwithstanding all the earnest, eager, and impassioned orations at public meetings here and in Ireland on the subject of the Bill—there was not a single argument on which he. had grounded his measure overthrown—nay, he would say much more—not even assailed. In the experience which the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair had had from presiding over the deliberations of Parliament, one inference more strongly than any other must have been drawn from the discussions, that it was absolutely and imperatively necessary in every debate, that he who originated the debate must restate the
 583 584 ad captandum, Cries of 585
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, he was the Chairman of the Committee, and they had no counsel before them to oppose the Bill; but there were two very intelligent men, constituents of his hon. Colleague and himself, who occupied a good deal of their time, who would have withdrawn their opposition if they could have got a clause inserted to exempt them from being rated. Due notice was given to the millowners in the valley of Holmfirth, who would be rated in support of the reservoir, and he thought the promoters made out an exceedingly strong case for the Bill. It was true a certain number of millowners might by possibility, if there was another break down, be affected by damage, as they were before, but there was no good reason for supposing that would be the case. It was a melancholy thing to have to state that an expenditure of 5 l. l.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, the Bill contained a clause directing the proceeds of the rates to he raised under it to be applied—first, to the expenses of management; and, secondly, to the repair of the reservoir; and as the Commissioners would have the power to raise rates to the amount of 1,200 l. 603
 MR. HUME  said, he thought this was a question which deserved the attention of Her Majesty's Ministers. Some individual ought to be appointed by them to travel through the country, from time to time, to inspect the condition of reservoirs and canals.
 MR. BLACKETT : Sir, I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, the questions of which I have given notice. The 45th section of the last Charter invested the Legis-
 604 l.,
 LORD STANLEY  explained that he had spoken of an actual case, not an imaginary one, of a particular cargo which had come out at that rate, but he did not know under what circumstances; there was probably some further expense.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that in rising to move the Amendment of which he had given notice, he could, in the first place, assure the House that it was not as a mere matter of form or custom, but from a deep sense of his own inadequacy, that he ventured to solicit from hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House an indulgence, on which, as they were aware, he did not often trespass. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir C. Wood), on the occasion when he introduced the Bill which they were now discussing, certainly did not, either by the provisions of the measure itself, or by the statements with which he introduced and supported it, lay himself open to the charge of not having expressed his views upon every question relating to India with sufficient plainness and distinctness. The right hon. Gentleman went through, and reviewed certainly with great ability and ingenuity, the whole history of Indian administration in all its branches. Although, however, no one could feel more deeply than he (Lord Stanley) did the importance of interests involved in this subject, though he was not disposed in any manner to overrate its magnitude, yet he might relieve hon. Gentlemen from some apprehension they might entertain, by stating at the outset that it was not his intention, as it was not his duty, to follow the right hon. Gentleman through the greater part, or even through a considerable part, of the subjects on which he had thought it necessary to dilate. The Amendment of which he had given notice did not deal, and did not profess to deal, with the question which, sooner or later, they would have to solve— namely, how the future Government of India was to be carried on? He did not ask the House to pass any verdict retrospectively, either of censure or acquittal, on the administration of the East India Company—he did not ask the House, look-
 606 607 608 609 610 611 primâ facie 612 613 614 615 616 "By the Reports of the Committees of this and the other House of Parliament, Her Majesty's Government are ready to be guided in the course they will pursue; and to those Committees must be deputed the important task of considering how the affairs of India shall hereafter be best conducted." "There was one of three courses to be pursued by Parliament and by the Government of the country for the time being. One was to suffer the Act to expire; another, to propose to Parliament the renewal of the Act without further inquiry; the third was to propose, as was now proposed, a Committee of Inquiry preliminary to the determination whether or not the Act of 1833 should be continued. Her Majesty's late Government resolved to adopt the course of submitting the subject to Committees of both Houses of Parliament, and, after most mature reflection, Her Majesty's present Government had also come to the judgment that such would be the course most becoming the importance of the subject, and also most befitting the respect which, on so great a subject, it was becoming in them to pay to the opinion of Parliament." 617 618 619 620 621 622 l. 623 624 625 l., l. l., l. l. l., l. l., l., l., 626 l. l. l. l., l. 627 d. s. s. 628 629 l. l., l., 630 "To leave out from the word 'That' to the end of the Question, in order to add the words" in the opinion of this House, further information is necessary, to enable Parliament to legislate with advantage for the permanent Government of India; and, that, at this late period of the Session, it is inexpedient to proceed with a measure which, while it disturbs existing arrangements, cannot be considered as a final settlement' — instead thereof."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUEY  said, the allowances in the Bill had been framed with great care, and in conjunction with the distillers of spirits, whose representatives in London had gone through them, and declared that they were such as the distillers were satisfied with. They were founded on a principle of a rate of allowances which it was thought would contribute to the advantage of the trade, and would also greatly simplify the operations of the revenue officer.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, the only allegation of bribery was, that a person had been promised the payment of an old debt of 103 l.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he hoped the House would not divide. No reason had been shown why the writ should not issue. What, then could be the object of an adjournment? Was it to renew a discussion of the topics they had heard that night? The only question was, whether the writ should issue. Nothing had been urged why it should be suspended. The House, on reflection, must see that they were committing a violation of a constitutional principle in suspending a writ merely upon a personal and collateral question.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  said, that deprecating religious discussions in that House, he had a suggestion to offer, which he hoped would meet the approval even of the Catholic Members who were so hostile to this Bill. It was, that instead of a Select Committee, a Commission should be appointed similar to that which already existed with reference to Maynooth College. He wished to know whether his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Bath would object to such a proceeding?
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he must object to the adjournment on the ground that it was unjust to debar the electors of Sligo from the exercise of their privilege of election longer than was necessary, merely because the Chairman of the Committee had gone to bed.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he must urge the inconvenience of reviewing the decision of the Committee, and he would take that opportunity of declaring his opinion that there was no ground for delaying the issue of the writ.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he thought that the great difference of opinion which existed among hon. Gentlemen was sufficient reason for adjourning the further consideration of the question.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, that if increased duties were to be thrown on the police force, their number must be increased, else their efficiency would be impaired; and if the number were increased, half of the additional expense must, according to law, be thrown on the county in which that increase took place. Would the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer introduce a proviso in his Bill, or in any other measure concurrent with it, to secure the counties from being saddled with any excess of expense which might be occasioned by the additional duty imposed upon the police? It was certainly quite a new thing to employ officers out of the county cess.
 MR. HINDLEY  said, that as one of the
 681
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he should have preferred the Motion to be adjourned till the Chairman of the Committee was in his place. With respect to Mr. Stonor, he thought injustice had been done him, though not intentionally, and that the letter of November 11, 1848, was not properly in evidence. He entirely acquitted Mr. Stonor of any improper conduct, and did not think that the least imputation had been cast upon his character. He thought there was no reason to defer the writ.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that with however little favour the hon. and learned Member's Amendment might be regarded by himself, it had not the approval of a majority of that House, whoso property it now was. He would suggest that the hon. and learned Member should name Wednesday the 20th, as the County Rates Bill was fixed for Wednesday the 13th of July.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : In answer to the first question of the hon. Member, I have to say that it is not usual to lay upon the table of the House the opinions on cases submitted to the law officers of the Crown. I must, therefore, decline to accede to that request. In answer to the second question of the hon. Gentleman, I have no objection to furnish him with those returns.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Not having heard from Lord Dalhousie what his intentions are, or what he proposes to do, it would be premature to give an answer at present to the question of the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer adhered to his determination of employing the police in carrying out the provisions of this Bill? The law as it stood at present prevented the use of the police in levying the Customs and Excise Duties.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he thought it would not be expedient to proceed with the debate in the absence of the Chairman, and should therefore move that it be adjourned till Tuesday next.
 MR. G. H. MOORE  said, he intended to vote against the writ, but that, after the speech of the hon. Member for the city of Dublin (Mr. Vance), he must vote the other way.
 MR. G. H. MOORE  said, he should move as an Amendment on the original Motion, that the debate be adjourned to that day six months.
 MR. MUNTZ  said, he thought it was quite capable to construct a reservoir with perfect safety to the public. It was only to a want of ordinary care that the late fatal accident at Holmfirth ought to be attributed.
 MR. BAILLIE  said, it was not his intention to enter into the controversy urged so warmly on both sides the House as to the past administration of India; not that, had he been so disposed, it would have been difficult for him to have dressed up a case either favourable or unfavourable to the present system. Of this they had had a remarkable instance when the Bill was introduced. On that occasion two distinguished advocates appeared before them. One, the right hon. President of the Board of Control (Sir Charles Wood), who drew a glowing picture of all the advantages and the benefits India had derived from the acts of our Government; while the other, the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) placed before them all the evils and the miseries which the people of India had suffered under what he called that ill-constructed system. Both were masters of the subject, both supported their preposltions by evidence it was impossible
 662
 MR. BAILLIE  had no wish to misrepresent the hon. and learned Gentleman, but he certainly understood him to express an opinion to that effect. He (Mr. Baillie) admitted the inconvenience of delay, and felt the uneasiness which prolonged doubt and uncertainty would create in India; but he would ask whether it would not be an evil worse than inconvenience, if a general feeling should prevail in this country as well as in India that the Government had forced their crude legislation on the House at a late period of the Session, without waiting even for the reports of their own Committees, and without, he feared, that mature deliberation which the vast importance of the subject imperatively required. The case would have been different if the Government had come forward and said
 663 664 665 "Do you believe that the present system deters proper candidates from offering themselves to the proprietors for election?—I have no doubt about it. "On what grounds do you entertain that opinion?—They will not condescend to undergo the ordeal of soliciting persons in various grades of life for a period of seven years, which was my
 666 "Do you consider that the change that was made by the last Act, of allowing proprietors to vote by proxy, has been beneficial, or otherwise? —I think it has been beneficial, on the principle that it enlarges the constituency, and therefore renders the action of knots of interests less influential. "You stated that the expenditure of a candidate must be great; in what way is it great?—In travelling about the country, and in having committees; and a candidate is obliged to have a, permanent clerk to keep his books; the cost to me was 2,228 l "You have stated that your aggregate expense for a seven years' contest was 2,228 l. "What situations have you filled in India?— I arrived in India in 1803, and after passing through the college I was appointed to Benares, where I remained about a dozen years in the judicial department; in 1821 I was appointed to the special commission at Cawnpore and Allahabad, for revising sales of land, brought about by undue influence; after that I came to the Presidency, and was appointed to the Resumption Commission. I then became a Member of the Board of Revenue, and was subsequently appointed to the Board of Customs, Salt, and Opium; I then succeeded to Council; and while in Council I was four or five times Deputy Governor of Bengal. I became also President of the Council; and I held the office of Governor General from the time of Lord Ellenborough's recall till the arrival of Lord Hardinge. "As you, from your long and eminent service in India, are probably acquainted with the feelings of the civil members of the East India Company's service, can you state your opinion whether the mode of election and canvass for Directors in this country deters them from being ambitious of that honour?—I cannot answer for others; but with regard to myself, I can say that I have been deterred from offering myself for the direction by the immense time that it takes to canvass, and by the difficulty that, at my advanced period of life, I should have experienced in obtaining a seat; and I suppose that the same feeling animates a number of others, though not all." 667 668 669
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, this was a question of considerable difficulty to the House. In matters of private interest he would pay deference to a Committee; but he thought in this case they ought to have an assurance from the Chairman of the Committee that they had considered the public safety.
 MR. M'CANN  said, he would rather see the police directly and openly engaged in still-hunting, than employed privately to assist others. He hoped the Government would not destroy that admirable body of police, which they certainly would, if they employed them in the manner proposed.
 MR. FLOYER  said, he fully concurred in the hon. Member's (Mr. Hume's) views. It was the opinion of the Committee that a more effectual supervision of reservoirs should be introduced.
 MR. HERRIES  said, that the question before the House was, in the first place, the second reading of the Bill for the regulation of the Government of India; but between their decision upon that point had been introduced a Motion, supported with great ability by his noble Friend the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley), the object of which was to induce the House to abstain from any legislation at the present time. In what a position would the House be placed if they agreed to this Amendment? His noble Friend had, in-
 670 671 672 673 "In contemplating the extent of legislative power conferred on our Supreme Government— in reflecting how many millions of men may, by the manner in which it shall in the present instance be exercised, be rendered happy or miserable—in adverting to the countless variety of interests to be studied and of difficulties to be overcome in the execution of this mighty trust, we own that we feel oppressed by the weight of the responsibility under which we arc conjointly laid. Whatever means or efforts can be employed on the occasion—whatever can be effected by free and active discussion, or by profound and conscientious deliberation—whatever aids can be derived from extrinsic counsel or intelligence—all, at the utmost, will be barely commensurate with the magnitude of the sphere to be occupied, and of the service to he performed. We feel confident that to this undertaking your best thoughts and care will be immediately and perseveringly applied; and we invite the full, the constant, and the early communication of your sentiments in relation to it. On our part, we can venture to affirm that no endeavour shall be wanting in promoting your views and in perfecting your plans. And we trust that, by the blessing of Divine Providence on our united labours, the just and beneficent intentions of the country, in delegating to our hands the legislative as well as the executive administration of the mightiest, the most important of its transmarine possessions, will be happily accomplished. "I have just marched to this place along the strip of country reaching from the Sutlej to the Jumna by Hansi and Hissar. You must remember that country when it was inhabited by a wild and lawless set of people, whom no one could manage. Native chiefs would not take the land as a gift. Our own troops were frequently repulsed by the communities of Rangurs and Bhuttees, and others, who lived in large fortified villages, and subsisted by plunder. Now, the country is thickly inhabited, and well cultivated, and the most peaceful possible. This year the khurreef has failed entirely, and very little rubba has been sown, and yet the revenue has been paid up without a balance, and has occasioned no perceptible
 674
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE : I beg to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Control whether it is the intention of
 605
 MR. VANCE  said, this evidence had only been before the House forty-eight hours, and it was impossible, therefore, for them to determine whether it would be right to issue a Commission. There was one remarkable omission in this evidence, in addition to the non-insertion of the letter complained of. He had been present at the sitting of the Committee, who had ocular demonstration of the intimidation of the Roman Catholic priesthood, which was carried into the very Committee room. He observed a Roman Catholic priest place himself opposite to the witnesses while they were giving their evidence, and the counsel for the petitioners at last requested that this gentleman should be removed. The Committee, however, could not believe that anybody in the garb of a gentleman, much less in that of a clergyman, could act in such a manner as that described. But the Chairman at length perceived that, by threatening motions and other gesticulations, the witnesses were prevented by this person from giving their evidence, and then the Chairman ordered him to be removed from the position he occupied. The reputation of the borough of Sligo, as regarded bribery and priestly intimidation, was notorious. He thought they ought to pause before they issued this writ, and, with the view of giving the House time to deliberate upon the matter, he would move that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. BROTHERTON  said, that the opponents of the Bill supported the Amendment on the ground of humanity; but the engineer who had been examined stated that the reservoir would be perfectly safe.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he would remind the House that it was now two o'clock, and that the House would be called upon to sit again in a few hours.
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, he felt himself called upon to deprecate hon. Gentlemen making charges against the Catholic clergy of Ireland at two or three o'clock in the morning, when the House was not disposed to hear hon. Gentlemen in their defence. He challenged the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Vance) to repeat his observations at a period when he could receive that reply which they deserved.
 MR. P. O'BRIEN  said, he did not think that the difference which was to be allowed in reference to the wasteage of spirits was properly carried out by this Bill. The statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Dundalk (Mr. Bowyer) was not got up for the purposes of this discussion, but had been printed, and under the attention of the Commissioners of Inland Revenue for some time. He did
 676
 MR. COBDEN  said, that if the Bill were recommitted, more stringent precautions might be taken, which would satisfy the public mind on this subject.
 MR. COBDEN   presented l l. 601 602 l.
 MR. LOWE  denied that he had made any statement of the kind.
 MR. LOWE  said, he hoped that the words which had just been read by the Speaker would recall the attention of the House to the real question under consideration, because the latter part of the noble Lord's speech appeared to him to have considerably diverted attention from it. The question raised by the Motion for the second reading of the Bill was no less than the manner in which they were to deal with the future government of India; but the question raised by the noble Lord in his Amendment was the preliminary one, whether they should go into that question at all. He had no doubt the noble Lord was acting in conformity with a strict sense of duty in bringing forward the Amendment; but he could not but regret, and he thought the House would have cause to regret too, that he should have moved it, because, owing to it, they would have to discuss continually, first, whether they were to go into the debate at all, and next, whether they should go into the discussion,; as the noble Lord had, of many matters in the propriety of which they could not concur. So that they would be bandied backwards and forwards—first, from the main subject of debate to the propriety of debating it, and then from the propriety of debating it back to the main subject, and so on over the whole range of the topics of discussion, when it would have been expedient, if they could, to have kept plainly and clearly to the one point at issue. But he had a further complaint against the noble Lord. Not only had he embarrassed the question with a preliminary discussion, but, having given such arguments as he thought fit in support of the Amendment, he had diverged into a number of subjects collateral to both, which, however interesting in themselves as illustrative of the admirable use which the noble Lord made of his time when he visited India, were quite beside the question the House had to set-
 631 632 quasi 633 634 bonâ fide 635 casus belli 636 637 prestige prestige prestige, 638 639 640 disciplines arcana; 641 s. s. l.
 MR. LOWE  continued: He thought he had shown that the noble Lord bad made out no case for delay in this instance. He was not arguing whether this Bill was good or bad, or whether it was fit for the House to adopt it or not; but he said it was a question fit to entertain, and that, although it was important, considering the number of persons who took an interest in the question, and wished to express their opin-
 642 prestige
 MR. CONOLLY  said, that when on a former evening he had opposed the further progress of this Bill, he had been charged with factious motives; but he had been actuated solely by a feeling of what was due to the constituents whom he represented, and to the country to which he belonged. It was absolutely impossible for him to allow this Bill to pass its final stage without entering his most decided protest against it. He was not opposed to any particular clause of the Bill merely, but he objected to the measure in its entirety; and in saying that he begged to rebut the taunts thrown out against him by the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), who had charged him with not being in his place to discuss the details of the Bill, although he knew that he was opposed to its whole spirit and principle. He (Mr. Conolly) could say that he had never preferred his personal ease to his public duty, and he did not deserve at the hands of Her Majesty's Government the obloquy that had gone forth among his constituents, to the effect that he neglected their interests. With regard to his coming down to the House at a late hour, and under particular circumstances, that was an insinuation which was unworthy of the right Gentleman; and he must say that when Irish business was taken at a late hour of the night, Irish Members who were anxious to protect the interests of their constituents ought not to be met with frivolous and vexatious taunts of that sort, which partook of an offensive familiarity of which he did not approve. But putting aside all
 677 Laughter.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he, being a friend of Mr. Towneley and of Mr. Stonor, had naturally looked into the evidence upon which Mr. Towneley had been unseated. He found that the main ground for this course was a bribe said to have been given by Mr. Stonor to a man named Donovan. The only evidence given against Mr. Stonor was a letter dated 11th November, 1851, which, however, did not appear in the printed evidence. He wished to ask the Chairman, or any Member of the Committee who might be present, how it was that a letter which had played such an important part in this investigation, as it had caused the sitting Member, Mr. Towneley, to be unseated, had not been printed in the minutes of the evidence? He thought, in justice to Mr. Stonor, it ought to be produced. He did not wish to oppose the issuing of the writ, but merely asked the question for information.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, his only object had been to get some explanation about the letter written by Mr. Stonor, which ought to have appeared among the evidence.
 MR. PHINN  said, he would assent to this suggestion, and would move that the debate be adjourned to Wednesday the 20th. He begged to say in explanation, that, in saying he was not enamoured with his Amendment, he had not intended to give a pretext for the suspicion that he had not proposed it in good faith. What he meant was, that he was not in love with the first portion of it. He had received suggestions from all sides of the House to limit the Amendment simply to the second portion, which had reference to the prevention of undue influence in the alienation of property; and he was given to understand that if the Amendment were so restricted, it would probably be accepted by the House.
 MR. PHINN  moved that the debate be adjourned till Wednesday 13th July.
 MR. PHINN  said, he was in the hands of the House. He confessed he was not very much in love with his own Amendment, and would gladly accede to any kind of inquiry which might be likely to obtain the approbation of the House.
 MR. PHINN  said, his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Lowe) had used every argument to persuade the House that the noble Lord's Amendment was inappropriate, and not justified by the case he had adduced; but he had failed to discuss the provisions of the Bill, or to enforce its utility, as they might have expected from his official position he would have done. He was not surprised at that, because he believed if the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) and his
 643 644 onus 645 646 Calcutta Review "Unhappily, a large number of proprietors have come to set a price upon their votes, and have learned how to turn them to the best account as marketable commodities. They have learnt the dangerous art of combination. A single vote will not fetch its price, but a bundle of votes will, and so a party of friendly proprietors agree together to club their votes. It becomes a matter of arrangement among them as to who, in the first instance, is to represent the collective body, and obtain the required 'consideration' for himself. This is probably decided with reference to the respective ages of the sons, nephews, or other relatives for whom writerships or cadetships are sought. Mr. Smith's son is 18 years of age; it is time that he was on his way to India, so Sir. Smith takes the bag of votes in his hand, and makes the best bargain that he can. Captain Jones's eldest boy is but 14—he can afford to wait till the next election; and as for Miss Brown, she has a nephew and godson only 12 years old; she can nothing for him at present, but, by lending her two votes to Mr. Smith and Captain Jones, and the other proprietors in turn with whom she has clubbed, she can accumulate a little stock of votes against the time when her  protegé 647 648 s. s. l., l. 649 650 debris 651 652 "We must not conceal from ourselves the causes which have combined to exclude the natives from any share in the administration of India. It is an overweening sense of our own superiority, a love of power, and an alarm which I deem groundless, that, as their interests are advanced, those of European agents will be deteriorated. But, if I am right in believing, as I conscientiously do, that, unless they are treated with more confidence, elevated by more distinction, and admitted to higher employment, we cannot hope to preserve for any longer period our dominions in this country, no feelings or considerations should be allowed to oppose their gradual progress to every civil function and employ. By raising the most active and eminent of the natives of India in their own estimation and that of others, we shall reconcile them, and, through them, the population at large, to a Government which, daring to confide in its own justice and wisdom, casts off the common, narrow, and depressing rules of foreign conquerors." "Under a native government, independent of the mutual adaptation of the institutions and the people, there is a connected chain throughout the society, and a free communication between the different parts. Notwithstanding the distinctions of caste, there is no country where men rise with more ease from the lowest rank to the highest. The first Nabob of Oude was a petty merchant, the first Peishwa a village accountant. The ancestors of Holkar were goatherds, and those of Scindiah slaves. All these, and many other instances, took place within the last century. Promotions from among the common people to all the ranks of civil and military employment, short of sovereignty, are of daily occurrence under native States; and this keeps up the spirit of the people, and, in that respect, partially supplies the place of popular institutions. The free intercourse of different ranks also keeps up a sort of circulation
 653 "Nam postquam respublica in paucorum potentium jus atque ditionem concessit, semper illis reges, tetrarchæ vectigales esse; populi, nationes, stipendia pendere; cæteri omnes, strenui, boni, nobiles atque ignobiles, vulgus fuimus; sine gratiâ, sine auctoritate, his obnoxii quibus, si respublica valeret, formidini essemus. Itaque omnes gratia, potentia, honos, divitiâp, apud illus sunt, ant ubi illi volunt; nobis reliquerunt, pericula, repulsas, judicia, egestatem." 654 655
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, that the animus of the Committee all through the inquiry was shown by the fact, that in all the divisions the numbers were three to two. He saw nothing in the evidence to connect Mr. Stonor with anything dishonourable or illegal.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Government had certainly not changed their intention of making use of the services of the constabulary in the collection of the revenue; but as he had stated on a former evening, the Government did not require to be reminded of the other services which that body had to perform in Ireland, and with which their new duties would not be allowed in any degree to interfere. They would only be made available so far as might be found compat-
 678 in transitu,
 MR. EVELYN  begged to say, having
 683
 MR. EVELYN  said, he begged to express his entire concurrence with the hon. Member (Mr. Hindley), as to the case of Mr. Stonor.
 SIR EDWARD FILMER , as one of the Committee, said that, although reference had been made to a particular letter, as though the case against the Member unseated rested solely upon that, he must state plainly, that his vote was not given merely upon any particular letter, but upon the whole evidence as it struck his mind, and from the testimony of Donovan himself. As to the letter in question, he could not see what that had to do with the issue of the writ.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he did not think the right hon. Gentleman was fully sensible of the injustice under which the Irish dealers laboured, or he would not persevere with this part of his Bill.
 MR. BOWYER  said, he objected to the unequal operation of the 17th and 28th clauses. When the Bill was introduced, he asked the right hon. Gentleman the; Chancellor of the Exchequer why the same allowance was not made for Irish and Scotch spirits in bond as was made in regard to foreign spirits. He asked now that the same principle should be applied to the
 675 "That from and after the passing of this Act the Duties of Excise payable on all British Spirits, when taken from warehouse for Home Consumption, shall be charged on the quantity, ascertained by the Measure and Strength of the same, actually delivered; save and except, that when such Spirits are not in a warehouse of special security, no greater abatement on account of the quantity or strength, as ascertained at the time the said Spirits were warehoused, shall be made, than shall he after the several rates of allowance following, that is to say— "For every one hundred gallons hydrometer proof:— "For any time not exceeding three months, two gallons; "For any time exceeding three months and not exceeding six months, three gallons; "For any time exceeding six and not exceeding twelve months, four gallons; "And for every additional six months, one gallon."
 MR. BOWYER  said, he thought it very important that, though this House was not to impugn the decision of its Committees, still some opinion should be expressed in case of a miscarriage by them, and a more extraordinary miscarriage had never occurred in any court or tribunal than had occurred in this instance.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that after the decision in the Harwich case, it appeared to be very necessary that this question should be inquired into. As far as he could see, the decision seemed to have been arrived at upon a letter which was not in the evidence at all. He certainly thought it behoved the House to know whether this Committee had acted contrary to all the rules of evidence, or without any evidence at all.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that feeling objections both to the measure introduced by the Government and to the Amendment of the noble Lord, and having no reason, therefore, to expect support or sympathy either from the Government or from his hon. Friends opposite, or those around him, he, nevertheless, wished to state very briefly the grounds on which his objections were founded. But, in the first place, he might notice that this was not the only instance in which the attention given by the House of Commons to any subject was almost in the exact inverse proportion to its importance and its real interest. Seventy years ago, when the greatest of philosophers and orators adorned that House, even in the days of Burke, India was the dinner-bell of the House of Commons; and it was not too much to say, as a matter of history—for no man could now verify the fact—that it was a signal for Members leaving the House, when the most eloquent man and the most magnificent philosopher rose to address the House on the subject of India; there-
 656 657 658 659 "It does one good to see so many men of talent and rank, all intent on their work, and all alive, and progressing onward, and sparing no labour, of either body or mind, to perform their end. Everything here is on the alert. Men are on their Arab horses, and off, at a moment's notice, anywhere, add at a rate that would terrify some in England. Others go out and spend six months at a time in tents, and think nothing of either the hot sun by day or the cold frosts by night, as they travel along, administering justice from town to town. They have sometimes to leave a station at a week's notice, and, selling off all, go to a distant part of the country. And if men gladly do all these things as soldiers or rulers, surely we ought not to be behind in a better cause. They seem here to have their eyes open to everything that is going on in the whole country—making roads and canals, erecting bridges, settling the revenue, building cantonments, planting trees, and looking into the minutiae of everything. But we want more men, for the Members of the Government are doing all they possibly can to encourage us, and probably there are few countries where such an opening presents itself." "Looking at the state of the country politically,
 660 661
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he thought the House ought to be satisfied that the Committee had come to a right conclusion in this matter. The Committee were unanimously of opinion that the reservoir might be restored with perfect safety to the public.
 MR. HUTT  appeared at the bar of the House, and brought up the Report of the Committee. House informed, that the Committee had determined—
 "That Sir John William Ramsden, baronet, is duly elected a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Taunton."
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, he had received a number of communications, all in favour of the Bill; but a gentleman who opposed the Bill stated to him that in consequence of the rating it would be a loss to him personally.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that, as he had expressed an opinion the other day that it would be better to postpone the writ, he was bound to say now that it seemed to him there was no longer any reason why the writ should not be issued. He had thought it better, at first, considering what had passed, that the writ should not issue until the evidence had been placed in the hands of Members.
 682
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would suggest that there might be such a thing as collusion between the lesser and lessee to defraud the remainderman. He thought that the hon. Member's (Mr. Moore's) sug-
 728
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he thought that it would be a valuable enactment to make the tenant liable, as it were, to a penalty if he undertook improvements and capriciously threw them up; but he ought to be compensated for what he had done with a  bonâ fide
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he must remind the Committee that it was introduced for the benefit of the cottier himself. It made no alteration whatever in the law as it now stood, for a landlord could take care that the tenancy should be weekly or monthly, as he thought proper, and then a week or a month would be quite sufficient to turn the tenant out.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he thought there would be a great deal of hardship if a landlord had the power of turning out this class of tenants at a month's notice in the middle of the winter.
 MR. HUME , who rose amid some impatience, and cries for the right hon. Member for Edinburgh, said, it was all very well for those hon. Members who were determined to support the Bill of the Government, to call for their friend; but it did not seem at all fair to take a course so unusual as to call up a Member of that House in opposition to one who had moved the adjournment of the debate on the previous evening, and who, therefore, by their rules of debate, was in possession of the House. He (Mr. Hume) would relieve those Gentlemen who were so impatient by stating that he should not occupy the attention of the House for any great length of time. Having been so long connected with India, and having directed much of his attention to the subject of administering its affairs— as much, perhaps, as any private individual Member in that House—he could not allow the present occasion to pass without offering his opinion upon the question before them. He would submit that it was a mere mockery, and contrary to all the ordinary usage of the House, to proceed with this Bill until they had before them the report of the Committee now investigating the affairs of India upstairs. An hon. Gentleman had just presented a petition referring to one of the most important branches of inquiry determined upon by the Committee, and had asked that it should be referred to that Committee; but he did not believe it would ever come under their consideration. What was the use of presenting petitions when the Government had brought in a Bill without any information—without ascertaining from the parties concerned how far their interests were attended to? It was a perfect mockery. He had entreated the Government not to press a question which required the most grave consideration of that House without full information—and in what state was inquiry before the Committee? They had only got through three or four heads out of eight. A great deal had been said about the interests of the millions intrusted to their government—altogether 150,000,000 of persons—for whom they were about to legislate; and they had had petitions from Madras, from Bengal, and from Bombay, natives and Europeans of all classes, praying for inquiry; and he himself had moved in the Committee that some of the petitioners should be requested to appear themselves, or by their agents,
 736 737 l., l. 738 l. "Do yon correspond with the Governor General of India, and with those other high functionaries the Governors of Madras and Bombay, directly, without the intervention of the chairman or deputy-chairman of the India House?—Of course I do, privately. "Have you any official correspondence with them which does not go through the India House? —Certainly; the letters from the Secret Committee are written by myself—they go, indeed, from the India House, but not from the Court of Direc tors." 739
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he did not rise to combat the eloquent speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, but to call attention to the extraordinary conduct of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control. He was aware that one, who like himself, derived his knowledge of Parliamentary usages from books, was liable to mistake in discussing a point of Parliamentary precedent or law. He ventured, however, to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman had taken a Parliamentary or constitutional course when, in introducing his measure, he quoted the authority of Lord Dalhousie in support of it, and then refused to lay on the table of the House the despatches to which he had referred? The right hon. Gentleman, in reply to the hon. Member for Montrose, said it was not so much a despatch as a private letter. But when in a similar manner, at the period of the Canadian rebellion, Lord Glenelg spoke of a despatch as a private communication, Lord Brougham said, that whether a document began "My Lord," or "My dear Lord," was immaterial; the main fact was whether the matter of the despatch related to the public service. He would also ask the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, whether he recollected the occasion when, in 1808, Mr. Canning fell into the same fault by quoting a despatch from our Minister at Copenhagen which he refused to lay upon the table. On that occasion Mr. Adair, supported by the Whigs of that day, moved a vote of censure upon the right hon. Gentleman; and so sensible were Mr. Canning's Tory colleagues that he had offended against the laws of Parliament, that they only met the vote of censure by moving the previous question. The proceeding of the right hon. President of the Board of Control was not more defensible than that of Mr. Canning; and he wished to see whether the Whig Ministry of 1853 were as zealous guardians of Parliamentary practice as the Whig Opposition of 1808. In addressing himself
 760 Memoirs of Fox, 761 762 lex loci 763
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he must own that he differed very much from the hon. Gentleman. He had always thought that it was a matter of great satisfaction to consider that that House did, in fact, perform more business, and go through more important duties, than he believed any other Legislative Assembly had ever
 734
 MR. ADDERLEY  rose for the purpose of making a suggestion, which he thought would put the question before the House in that simple position in which it seemed to him it really ought to present itself to their minds, and which, besides, offered the advantage of a much smaller field of discussion than that over which the debate had hitherto travelled. He could not but think, indeed, that if the question were simply, succinctly, and clearly placed before the House on its true merits, no independent or unbiassed Member could possibly hesitate to prefer the Amendment to the Motion. He fully agreed in all that had been said by those who had gone before him with regard to the great importance of the subject they were discussing; and he believed that upon the wise treatment of the question of the government of India would depend their retention of that great dependency. The question was, would they accept the Bill proposed by the Government, or would they accept the alternative proposed by the noble Lord? There were some, however, who seemed to think that a third course might be taken, because they did not think the bearing of the noble Lord's Amendment. The right hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis) thought that they might condemn both the Bill of the Government and the Amendment of the noble Lord, and yet so alter the Bill in Committee that he could arrive at the object he had in view; hut in the course of the speech of the right hon. Baronet, it was clear that he contemplated the cutting up of the Bill in such a manner that nothing essential of the Government Bill would remain, and he would end by virtually having the same measure as that which was proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Lynn—namely, nothing more or less than a Continuance Bill. It appeared to him that certain hon. Members who had spoken were not aware of the full bearing of the noble Lord's Amendment—
 774 775 776
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, that he thought they might congratulate themselves upon the manner in which a House composed almost entirely of Irish Members had conducted the discussion on this measure.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he should support the clause. The machinery for assessing the compensation might be added to the 29th clause.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he was glad to hear from the Chief Secretary of Ireland that the Government were determined to urge forward both the measures in question, for he believed that they would confer immense benefits upon Ireland.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that he had given notice that on this Motion he would call the attention of the House and Her Majesty's Ministers to the state in which the law in Ireland with reference to the possession of arms would he placed by the expiration of the Act popularly known as the Crime and Outrage Act. In putting to the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland the question of which he had given notice, he would ask the attention of the House for a few minutes to the state of things to which that question referred. Last year, the House might recollect, they had renewed the Crime and Outrage Act for one year. It would expire on the 30th of August. He (Mr. Butt) did not wish, if it could be avoided, to renew the provisions of that Act. But upon its expiration there would be no law in force restricting either the importation of arms into Ireland, the sale of them in the country, or the acquisition of them by the people. Now, this would be the first time for 150 years, with one disastrous exception, in which there had been such a state of things. For 150 years they had constantly had laws, more or less severe, restricting the possession of arms in Ireland. In 1846, the noble Lord the Member for London (Lord John Russell) was placed at the head of the Government. Coming into office very late in the Session, he introduced, on the 10th of August, a temporary renewal of the Arms Act, justifying the proposal by the fact that Ireland had never been without such regulations for a century and a half. The opposition made to the proposal by his own supporters was so strong, that on the 17th he abandoned it. The noble Lord, in giving up the Bill, said that he did so with great hesitation—that he felt he was taking a very great responsibility. Then let the House see the result of the experiment. It was undertaken under the most favourable circumstances. The noble Lord said in 1846 that Ireland was then in a state of unexampled tranquillity; that the previous assizes had presented almost a total cessation of crime. Nay, more—Lord Bessborough, then Lord Lieutenant—a nobleman whose name he (Mr. Butt) would never mention without respect, and who had governed Ireland as ably and impartially as any Lord Lieutenant of any party ever did—that nobleman had said that he was willing to undertake
 732
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he should give notice that on the first Committee of Supply, he should move a Resolution that it was the duty of the Parliament to turn their attention to the state of the law relating to the possession of arms in Ireland.
 MR. J. WILSON  moved that the House, at its rising, do adjourn until Monday next.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he considered the clause intrusted a harsh and tyrannical power to the landlords, and he should most strenuously resist it.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that the clause as it stood was already more stringent in favour of the landlord than of the tenant. If the words which had been excepted against were omitted, the Committee would be sanctioning the grossest act of robbery. MB. NAPIER said, he would not press his Amendment now, but he trusted that his objection would be met at the bringing up of the Report.
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  said, that he could not allow the House to resume without expressing his sense of the great ability, good sense, discreet and admirable temper, which had been displayed by the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) in the conduct of this Bill.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he denied that the Government had ever vacillated with respect to the measure. Nothing could be more certain than their intention to pass it with some slight amendments; and also to pass the Tenants' Compensation Bill, and the Landlords' Improvement Bill. The Government were perfectly united on this point, and he was in a position to state that they meant to carry all these three Bills. He also believed that by this Bill much would be done to enable parties to make such leases as would give the tenant full and fair compensation for the improvements which he had made. Reference had been made to the rights of property, and it had been intimated that this Bill was opposed to them. But he would ask whether the landlords' property was the only property that had rights? He believed that it was quite as much for the interest of the country that the property of the tenant should be protected, as that that of the landlord should be guarded.
 MR. HENLEY  thought that two months Would be sufficient.
 MR. NAPIER  said, the object of the clause was to encourage the improvement of labourers' dwellings. Many landlords were now prepared to erect such improved dwellings, if they were furnished with powers which would enable them to get rid of their tenants at a moderate notice. The clause did not relate to cottier tenants in general, but only to hired agricultural labourers, and he hoped the Committee would not reject it.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that the portion of the Bill with which they had hitherto been
 729
 MR. NAPIER  said, that by this clause
 727
 MR. NAPIER  said, he must still maintain, in opposition to the hon. Member for Newry (Mr. Kirk), that where the re-entry of a landlord was caused by the default of a tenant, the latter was not entitled to compensation for improvements; such was the principle of the Scotch law.
 MR. BAINES  said, that at present a rate might be made on a Saturday, and published on the church door on Sunday, so that a person attending a vestry meeting held on the following day might have it demanded of him, and he would be disfranchised unless he was prepared to pay it on the spot. The object of the Bill was to enable persons to vote if they had paid all rates made within six months previous to the holding of the vestry. He thought, however, that three months would be a sufficiently long period, and he begged
 779
 MR. M'MAHON  said, this was a clause most undesirably affecting the position of
 730 l.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that he could not assent to the objection to these words, which was founded upon the embarrassment they would cause to the landlords, because it was quite optional with the owner of land whether he gave such a lease or not.
 MR. MANGLES  said, he would not have spoken on the question were it not that his silence might have been misconstrued, and that it might be considered he was willing; to allow judgment against the Court of Directors to go by default. From one section of the House he certainly thought he was entitled to a fair hearing —he meant those Gentlemen who clustered so closely below the gangway, and who went by the name of "Young India," because he had always been an earnest and laborious reformer, and had never attempted to conceal the errors and shortcomings of the East India Company, with which it was the pride of his life to be connected, but, on the contrary, had always done his best to remedy them. But the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had taken advantage of his candour, and, in alluding to his evidence, had carefully suppressed the fact that his (Mr. Mangles') preponderating conviction had been expressed in favour of the Company, although he had never failed to point out the blots in our Indian administration. And here he must observe that the only good argument in favour of delay came from the almost incredible ignorance of Indian affairs exhibited by some of the Gentlemen who had spoken on this question. He believed that the Indian Government had nothing to gain from concealment; but that, on the contrary, the better it was known the more favourable would be the judgment formed of it. If the East India Company had committed no errors, then it would be very unlike any government that ever existed; but he honestly believed that it was the best government of a great dependency that the world had ever seen, and he was satisfied that impartial history would not fail to do it full justice. He did not think that he was called upon to defend the measure of the Government; and, for his part, he should be ashamed to make any objections to that part of their scheme
 777 l. l l. l. 778 l. delirunt reges, plectuntur Achivi.
 MR. ROSS MOORE  said, he thought that while on the one hand a tenant who was prevented by some unforeseen casualty from fulfilling the contract he had entered into by his lease, was entitled to compensation for the improvements which he had made; on the other hand a tenant who had undertaken the reclamation of more land than he could complete, or had in any way failed to fulfil his contract by his own default, should not be so entitled.
 MR. MACAULAY : Sir, I shall vote for the second reading of the Bill; and, even if I had not determined to take that course, I should not vote for the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord. That Amend-ment appears to me to be not much mended by the speech of the hon. Member who has just sat down. He certainly cannot tell us that he has not all the information he can desire, or that he has not sufficiently made up his mind on the subject. He has made up his mind not only that the present Bill is a bad one, but also that it is desirable to adopt—even in its most minute details—a plan of government which he himself recommends. He has sketched out the complete plan of a government, fixing the relations between the Board of Control and the Court of Directors, and disposing of the patronage of India in a manner certainly very different from that proposed by the Bill. After having given this complete sketch of an entirely new plan of a government for India, that the hon. Member should call upon us to pass a Resolution declaring that the information is not at present accessible which alone can enable us to legislate for India, does, I confess,
 740 741 742 743 744 745 746 747 l. l. 748 l. choret, l. 749 750 751 Cambridge Calendar. Oxford Calendar; 752 Musœ Cantabrigienses "A scholard when first from his college broke loose Can hardly tell how to cry  boh! Your Noveds and Bluturchs, and Omurs and stuff, By George, they don't signify this pinch of snuff; To give a young gentleman right education, The army's the only good school in the nation." A laugh. "My schoolmaster called me a dunce and a fool, But at cuffs I was always the cock of the school." 753 754 755 756 757 758 759
 MR. KENNEDY  said, that considering the clause as an act of oppression towards the class of tenants in question, he should wish to see it expunged.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, if he was not mistaken, provision was made in another Bill that compensation should be awarded to a tenant if he was turned out at the very time when he expected to reap the advantage of the labour which he had expended on his garden. Of what use then would it be to strike this clause out? None whatever. On the contrary, it would be a disadvantage to the small tenantry of Ireland; because, as the law now stood, landlords were deprived from letting garden allotments, by reason of their being compelled to resort to an action of ejectment to recover possession of their land, in the event of the tenant not paying his rent.
 MR. KIRK  said, he should support its retention, on the ground that it was only just that, if any improvements were made, the landlord should make compensation for them.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he begged to call attention to the manner in which the public business of the country was conducted. He never knew it to have been conducted in a manner so objectionable as during this Session. Night after night they had been sitting until two or three o'clock in the morning passing Bills of very great public importance, without scarcely any person being present except some hon. Members whom the Government could induce to remain. The time allowed to Members after such a long attendance in the House was not sufficient, and, what was still more worthy of attention, Bills of great importance, and Reports, were presented to the House, and no time was allowed for the consideration of any one of them, so that Bills of great public consequence were frequently passed which six Members of the House had never read through. The Members of that House were held responsible by their constituents for the passing of any Bills that were injurious to the country at large, though it was impossible for them to attend to them. They adjourned this morning at three o'clock; they sat again at twelve o'clock; they might expect that that would be a common occurrence during the remainder of the Session; and he hoped Her Majesty's Government would take the matter into their serious consideration.
 SIR ARTHUR BROOKE  said, that, as a landlord, if they really wished the condition of Ireland to be permanently improved, they must give  bonâ fide
 MR OTWAY  said, that throughout all the various speeches that had been made in the present debate, he observed a universal concurrence as to the importance of the question that was now engaging the attention of the House. That question was one of such magnitude that he would almost have shrunk from obtruding on the House the opinions of a Member so inexperienced as himself; but since the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn had been moved, the question had assumed a somewhat different aspect. It no longer referred exclusively to the determination of a form of government for India; but they had the alternative offered to them of delaying a decision, and were thereby afforded an opportunity of acquiring further information on this subject. He had heard nothing to induce him to alter the opinion he expressed in the
 770 771 l., Times 772 773
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he must defend the original proposition. He knew very well that there was no use in resisting the Amendment, though he certainly did not approve of it; and he had no alternative but to consent to the limitation of three months, if it was insisted on by the right hon. President of the Poor Law Board.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, that having often brought forward Indian questions, he was desirous of addressing the House on this occasion; and of doing so, not in a party spirit, but with a wish to do justice to the subject; and while acknowledging the defects and demerits of the Indian Government, to give it credit for what deserved approval in its administration; the only object he had in view being to point out the best mode of improving that Government. The present, perhaps, was a fortunate period for bringing forward the subject, because the disruption of party ties had left the House at liberty to consider the subject in an unbiassed frame of mind. It was most important to consider it in a fair and impartial spirit. The representatives of a free people, who were proud and jealous of their constitutional privileges, were about to legislate for a people wholly destitute of these advantages, and to give them a despotic Government— the only Government they were capable of receiving. When the British Parliament was about to form a Government for India on the principles of despotism, it was their duty to frame such a Government in a paternal spirit, and as much as possible adapted to the wants and wishes of the people. In framing a Government for India, it was necessary to look back to her past history, for in the history of a people we could trace the character of the race For centuries India had been subject to strife and invasion, and had found under our rule the blessings of security and peace. The rise and progress of our own rule in India was one of the marvels of history. Scarcely a century ago we were only a company of merchants on a hostile shore; since then our empire had extended and expanded almost against the wishes of our rulers. It was clear that a far higher power than human will had destined the vast extension of our Indian rule; and therefore our object ought to be, not so much to prepare the natives of India for self-government, as to prepare them to take part with us in her internal administration, and teach them the blessings of a Christian rule. He was sorry that, though there were few points of difference in principle between himself and his noble Friend (Lord Stanley), he felt compelled to vote against his noble Friend's Amendment. He could not, however, do otherwise, considering, as he had stated a few weeks ago, that Parliament already possessed sufficient evidence to enable them to form a Government for
 765 766 l. l. l., l. 767 768 769
 VISCOUNT MONCK  moved that the Chairman do report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the matter to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had called the attention of the House, was one, no doubt, of very considerable importance, and might well be supposed to have occupied, and to occupy, the attention of Government. All he could say on that occasion was, that due notice would be given to the House of the course the Government might think fit to pursue.
 LORD STANLEY : Pardon me — you have rather misunderstood me. What I said was this—I did not know what were the words employed by Lord Dalhousie, hut I apprehended they came to no more than this—If you have a measure ready and fit to be carried, the sooner it is carried, the better.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, that if the question were pressed to a decision that night, he would move that the Bill be read a third time that day six months. It was only last Friday that he became aware that a Bill of this nature was before the House, and he objected to the principle of it, involving, as it appeared to him, retrospective legislation. It was his opinion that the Bill had been introduced at the suggestion of the hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Russell), because some property had been destroyed in the city which he represented at the last election.
 MR. HARDINGE  said, after the eloquent speeches which had been addressed to the House that evening, it would be presumptuous for him to detain them above a very few moments. He should vote cordially in support of the second reading of this Bill, because it proposed to continue the system of double government, and to legislate immediately. He was strongly in favour of the double government, because he believed that the interposition of the Court of Directors between the Crown in this country and the Government in India, had proved a bar to Parliamentary and political influence in that country, which was much to be deprecated, as Mr. Halliday had stated in evidence. He was also in favour of immediate legislation, because he had great faith in the opinion of Lord Dalhousie, great faith in the opinion of one whose name he was proud to bear, and -great faith, also, in the opinion of Lord Ellenborough, who had expressed his belief that it was high time to put their house in order, and to legislate immediately. The effect of postponement would be to occasion a most mischievous agitation; and on this subject he found that Mr. Marshman, in his pamphlet, addressed to the hon. Member for Manchester, said—
 "It is difficult to overestimate the mischief of keeping open the question of the future government of India for two or three years, and thus unsettling the minds of men in India, and encouraging that feeling of excitement which cannot fail to weaken and embarrass the Government." "Parliament is, therefore, sufficiently in possession of the views of the Native community, as well as of the opinion of Europeans acquainted with Indian subjects, regarding the construction of the future Government, to be justified in proceeding at once to legislation." 889 "He thought there was much exaggeration and misunderstanding in some of the statements in the petition. The petitioners stated that India had been left by its present Government in a state of extreme misery, which was utterly disgraceful to its rulers…But that which was considered misery in England, particularly at Manchester, was not perhaps considered misery in India…The petitioners stated that under the British Government the progress of the people in industry and wealth had been retarded, When any of our provinces in India had come under their dominion, he apprehended that none of them could be considered to be in a state of progress; at best, they were in a stationary state."—[3  Hansard, "Do you think the statements we sometimes hear made of the abject poverty of Natives of India are exaggerated, or otherwise?" "I am perfectly certain they are invented, not exaggerated, speaking of the people with whom I am acquainted." Calcutta Review "The last two years have been fertile in measures for the physical improvement of the country. The administration of civil justice has been simplified, technicalities have been abjured, reference to arbitration has been resorted to under sufficient checks and regulations, and, to save both time and money to the parties, Native local officers have been extensively vested with judicial power to try petty suits." Calcutta Review l., 890
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he begged to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Control whether it was the intention of the Government, in the event of the passing of the India Bill, that the inquiries of the Committee on India shall be terminated, or whether they should be continued until the Committee agreed to a final report?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he believed he had stated on frequent occasions that he saw no reason why legislation upon the important subject of India should preclude further inquiry in the matter. He saw no reason whatever why that inquiry should not proceed.
 MR. LUCAS  said, there was no such law in England as that proposed by the Bill. It contemplated giving compensation for the destruction of any article whatever, wholly irrespective of house property.
 MR. BAILLIE : I said nothing of the kind. I said that bankers received the proxies of their customers; and a friend of mine told me that he had been solicited by a gentleman who had received fifty or sixty proxies to join his vote with theirs for the purpose of stipulating for patronage.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, it had been found, on going into the matter, that the Acts of the Isle of Man were so simple and so short that they would only occupy four clauses in the Customs Act; and the convenience of all parties, it was found, would be best consulted by putting them into the General Consolidated Act. A letter had been written three weeks ago, stating this determination, and he believed it had met with the approbation of the people of that island. With regard to the Bill generally, the greatest possible care had been taken in framing it to simplify as much as possible the various laws which regulated the Customs, and to render intelligible to the community every technical phrase and term. The Bill was necessarily one of considerable length; but, compared with the length of the Acts which it consolidated, it occupied not more than one-fourth of the space which the present Acts occupied. The Bill would be printed and in the hands of Members on Wednesday, and it would be before the country for three weeks, in order to give an opportunity for the examination of its details.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the question before them was one which, as much as possible, they ought to adhere to; but he suspected that the hon. Member for Pontefract had been indulging in a little of that fancy for which he was distinguished, in dealing with what ought to be a practical question. The question was, whether they would take the Bill offered by the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control, or delay all permanent legislation for India for two years—that was to say, pass a mere Continuance Bill, extending the duration of the present Act from the 30th of April, 1854, to the 30th of April, 1856; for that was practically the result of the noble Lord's (Lord Stanley's) Amendment, if it was adopted by the House. He was not himself less strongly of opinion than before, after all he had heard, that it would not be wise in them to refuse agreeing to the proposition of the noble Lord, rather than to the Bill before the House. He was not at all certain, even though the Bill were less objectionable than it was, that it would not be desirable to have such delay as the noble Lord proposed; and he put it to the House whether, the week before the right hon. Baronet brought forward his measure, it was not the general opinion that legislation should be put off for two years, and whether this was not also the opinion of the country, so far as that opinion could be gathered from the expressions of the public press? There could not be a doubt that the great majority of the most widely-circulated and most ably-written newspapers were in favour of delaying legislation for the present; and he believed that had been the opinion of the Government itself, for there was strong reason to believe that a week before the right hon. Gentleman brought in his Bill, they had come to the conclusion that legislation this Session should only be temporary, and that a permanent measure should be put off till Parliament had time
 871 Friend of India "But it will be impossible to obtain a sufficient body of evidence, in so brief a period, on all the various and complicated questions connected with the administration of India; and it would be an act of superlative injustice to legislate for this country for twenty years to come, without a searching and complete investigation of the present system. The natives of the country, who have made greater strides in knowledge during the last twenty years than in the 1,000 years which preceded them, ought to be fully heard before the Committee. The great interests at stake in this magnificent dependency of the Crown require that mature examination for which there will be no longer any adequate leisure or opportunity before the expiration of the old Charter. The most advisable course would be to pass a brief Act, extending the present arrangement for two years longer, with the exception of one measure—that of appointing a separate Governor for Bengal, and then to appropriate 1853 and 1854 to the collection of evidence by a Committee, and the year 1855 to the calm and deliberate discussion of the improvements required in the Government." Friend of India 872 873 874 bonâ fide Calcutta Review. Calcutta Review Review 875 "There can be no doubt upon the mind of any unprejudiced person, that the wealth of the country is fast and visibly declining, and that the temporal circumstances of the poor are wretched in the extreme; and this decline is especially marked in its most fatal results upon the industry of the country and the condition of the peasantry." Review "These combinations of causes, working for many years, have brought one of the richest countries of the world into the very extremest state of poverty, which finds a kind of relief in the devastations of periodic famines." "It is not impossible that the the report of this engagement may be somewhat exaggerated; but there is nothing in the known and acknowledged condition of native society in the interior to render it improbable that two zemindars should bring a large body of armed men into the field to fight out their quarrels, and that the casualties should be heavy. These events are of such constant occurrence, that they have long ceased to attract any attention, except when, as on the present occasion, the combatants introduce the innovation of guns and pistols. The peace of districts is broken at night by organised dacoits, and in the day by the armed retainers of the zemindars. There must be something radically vicious in our institutions when we cannot prevent the assemblage of armed bands to break the peace, in districts so pacific as those in the lower provinces, and at the bidding of men so utterly pusillanimous as Bengalee zemindars." 876 "We will venture to assert, without the fear of contradiction, that more dacoities are now committed in Bengal in a single year than were perpetrated in five years of Aliverdy's reign a century ago." "The longer we possess any province the more common and grave does perjury become, and the more difficult to deal with. "There is a great deterioration in course of time, and hence I infer that the lying and perjury so much complained of are quite as much due to our judicial institutions as to the people." "It may, perhaps, in answer to his (Sir Charles Wood's) observations on the excellence of the Courts, do to ask him how it comes that the people of the hill provinces of Kumaon and Gurhwal, who were remarkable for telling the truth, have become since, and in consequence of, the introduction of our Courts, as bad as the rest of India for giving false evidence. It is well for Sir Charles Wood to talk of the mendacity of the natives; but much of it is created by our Courts, and any good revenue officer will tell you that he can get the people to tell truth enough out of the Courts and in the villages, which same people, as a matter of
 877 l. l. l. l. l. 878 l. "We have thus, within a province larger than all England, a province which is drained annually by Government of half a million sterling in the shape of land tax alone, and part of which has paid its full proportion of that half million for the last fifty years, but about twenty-four miles of made road—an aggregate length scarcely equal to the distance between London and Gravesend. And, as if all the more forcibly to illustrate the great sin of omission in this respect of which the Government has been guilty towards the province, the whole of this miserable pittance of made road, which so ludicrously contrasts with the crying wants of the country, has, with the exception of the four miles of rough causeway from Surat to Variow, and the three quarters of a mile between Keemchokee and the Keem, been constructed either with a military object in view, or for the mere purposes of pleasure. As for a bridge, with the exception of the wooden one already alluded to as spanning the narrow deep stream near Kaira, such a thing is not to be met with along the line of any highway in Guzerat." 879 880 l. l. l. l 881 l., l. 882 883 l. 884 l. 885 "Some people attribute every evil to the Court of Directors, and some to the Board of Control; but there is a notion certainly in India that the one is hostile and antagonistic to the other, and that by their mutual antagonism obstructions and difficulties are thrown in the way of good government. I think among tolerably informed persons in India there is a wish that the two could he made to net with greater harmony and unanimity—as one
 886 "If brought into contact, if writing were abolished, Government would acquire greater weight and authority; that the decisions would be more instructed and weighty decisions; and, instead of being occasionally open to the imputation that they are dictated or suggested by irresponsible persons in one or other of the two offices of the Indian Government in London, they would be looked upon as the result of careful deliberation and full information, possessed by the one Government acting in harmony and with the authority also of the Crown." "I speak entirely as the opinion in India, and the view taken of the Government in India, and, so speaking, I have no hesitation in saying that the acts of the Government thus constituted would be received in India as of much greater weight and authority than the acts of the Government as it is constituted at present, by natives as well as by Europeans." "That those three important members of the Court of Directors do, in fact, in signing those despatches, perform what is apt to be considered as a somewhat degrading office, for they certainly are made to sign what they never wrote, as if it was theirs; and it has become notorious, or is supposed necessarily to follow, that in a number of cases they sign what they actually disapprove of. The prevalence of such a notion in India with regard to an important function, in an important department, of the three most important members of the Court of Directors, cannot fail to lower those members, and through them the Court, and through them the Government, in the eyes of the natives of India. The truth in these matters will become more and more known every day." "I should wish that the Government should be carried on avowedly in the name of the Crown." "I think it would very much increase the weight and authority of the Government in India." "He thinks there is a practical loss of power to the Government of India by its being carried on in the name of the Company." "Every day is seen, in India, among the natives, a disposition to exalt anything which belongs to the Crown over anything that belongs to the Company. Officers are proud of being in the Queen's army. Queen's Judges and all officers belonging to the Crown are looked upon in a higher light than officers belonging to the Company." 887 888
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he felt impelled by a strong sense of duty, which he hoped he shared in common with all those Gentlemen who had endeavoured to master this great subject, to express his views on the present occasion. It would not, therefore, be true if he were to tell the House that his motive in rising was to reply to the perpetual allusions which had been made to the speech which he had made on this subject on a former occasion, or to point out the misrepresentation of it which had been made by the hon. Member for Honiton (Sir J. Hogg). No personal consideration of any kind mingled with the desire he felt to prevent the House, if possible, from perpetrating what he could not but consider a course of injustice to the Natives of India. With regard to the speech of the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), who had spoken that night, he had never heard a speech more calculated to mislead the House from the consideration of the subject really before them. The right hon. Gentleman, with great acuteness, and with all the aid which sophistry could impart, had endeavoured to turn the attention of the House from the main point at issue by dwelling on the abilities and achievements of some of those distinguished men who had adorned the Indian service. But, he would ask, could any man doubt that in a great service, and one opening a large field for the display of capability, out of 800 persons chosen from
 863 Friend of India, "A whole century will be scarcely sufficient to remedy the evils of that perpetual settlement, and we have not yet begun the task. Under its baneful influence a population of more than 20,000,000 have been reduced to a state of such utter wretchedness of condition and such abjectness of feeling as it would be difficult to parallel in any other country." "We shudder to contemplate the condition of the tenants in Bengal, who are given over to worse than Egyptian bondage. The truth is, the power of coercion placed in the hands of zemindars is in the highest degree oppressive." l. 864 Calcutta Review, Calcutta Review "With one more case from this report of the superintendence, we must close our string of offi-
 865 "' One of the cases here entered is that dreadful case of torture by Bholanauth Gungolee Daro-gah and others, the police officers of Thannah Mirzapore, to extort a confession from one Ram-doolub Raie, of a dacoity which bad never been committed, in which, from the consequences of the horrid treatment which he received, and the subsequent detention at the Thannah to evade detection, the toes and fingers of the poor victim rotted off, and he is left a cripple and a pensioner on the bounty of the Government for life. The fingers and the toes of the man were first tied together, and wedges being driven between them to the greatest extent of tension, he was laid out on his back in the sun. This not producing the desired effect, his bands and feet were dipped into boiling water; then the ligatures were unloosened, and bandages dipped in oil tied round the fingers of both hands and the toes of the left foot, and lighted; and this not forcing him to confess, be was, as if to prevent any hope of his recovery, detained several days at the Thannah, without any remedies being applied, and when brought in by the orders of the magistrate to whose knowledge the ease had been brought, his hands and feet were in a state of mortification, and ultimately his fingers and toes rotted off. This is, perhaps, an extreme case of torture, and I am happy to say that all the police officers, though not the others concerned, have been severely punished. But acts of torture by Bansdollah, and other brutal and indecent means, are of frequent, too frequent, occurrence by the police; and what can be said of that system of total want of check and control which could admit of a Daro-gah, with other police officers, adopting such measures towards a party falsely charged, to his knowledge, of being engaged in a dacoity, with any hope of non-detection and escape? Before the poor victim was sent in, he was compelled to sign a paper, stating that his hands and feet had been injured by severe binding, without the knowledge of the Darogah. Only the cases of oppression and petty assault which have been carried through, have been entered under the misce-laneous heading, and in these 105 persons were brought in, thirty released, fifty punished, and seventeen remained.'" 866 Friend of India, "All these precautions, however, would be of little effect in securing the happiness of the people, if they were not accompanied by a corresponding degree of liberality in the actual settlement of the amount of yearly assessment. We know of nothing more wonderful in the history of taxation, and of nothing which to our mind so perplexes the whole question of land assessment, as the sudden and almost irremediable ruin which overspreads an Indian district when an over-assessment has been placed upon it. A few turns of the revenue screw, the change of a moderate for a rigid commissioner, will convert a flourishing province into a desolate pauper warren. The people of Bundelcund have scarcely yet forgotten the hated name of Warin Saheb,' whose 'settlement' actually reduced the population of the province; and even in our own day Chittagong has suffered most severely from the injudicious severity of an honest commissioner." Calcutta Review 867 "We take up the salt revenue as presenting an evil by which the health and lives of the community are seriously affected. Salt is a main essential of health and life in a tropical climate; to deny it to the human frame, or to deprive it of the necessary supply, is as certain an evil as the want of food or water. In Indian languages, to 'eat one's salt' has the same import as in English to eat one's bread …ֵThe curse which this tax thus proves to the country is manifest to every one intimately acquainted with the condition of the poor; not only do they suffer from the ruinous price at which it is sold, but from its deleterious character. They eat, but they are not satisfied; they heap on salt, for which they have paid dearly, but there is no savour in the rice; and those who cannot afford to purify it are compelled, in violence to their habitual cleanliness in diet, to consume a large proportion of injurious sand and filth. Disease is the inevitable result, especially in a low country, and where vegetable diet is the universal food…ֵWe object, then, to this monopoly from its inhumane operation upon the lives of the people. We cannot, however, politically see the necessity or expediency of the tax. It chiefly works for the advantage, not of the revenue, but of an iniquitous trade, the Company having only 300 per cent, and the trade 800 or 1,000. But even did the Government gain the whole nine millions a year, which the people probably pay for salt, it would ill compensate for the human misery and loss of life now entailed. But it is objected that the important tax raised from salt is necessary for the maintenance of the revenue. It is granted that the necessary revenue must be raised; but would it not be wiser to obtain such revenue from any other source, which does not affect the health and lives of the subjects?" 868
 MR. NAPIER  said, he fully concurred in the propriety of the Bill. He had been requested by the Irish Judges, when in office, to bring in such a measure.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he did not know whether he should have deemed it necessary himself to address the House but for the circumstance of his having served upon the Committee appointed to inquire into the subject of the Government of our Indian territories; but, before troubling the House with the few remarks which he felt bound to make, he should wish to offer an observation on the question which had just been asked by his hon. Friend the Member for Ashton under Lyne (Mr. Hindley). With regard to the conduct of that Committee, allusion had been made to its proceedings during the last Parliament, and it
 815 816 817 Friend of India, "In seeking to acquaint yourself with the form of Government for India, you would resort exclusively to the Act of Parliament under which the present Government of India is constituted?— Yes. "Do you find that by this Act of Parliament any discretionary powers are vested in the Court of Directors, except with reference to the disposal of the patronage?— I should think they are responsible to the Board of Control. "Admitting that the Court of Directors have no uncontrolled power in the Government of India, how can you make them responsible either to Parliament or to the people of India?—Yet it was the intention of the Act to confer certain powers upon them, and to give a control over the exercise of those powers to the Board of Control. "You admit that, unless a party has power intrusted to it, it cannot be responsible for the exercise of its power?—No; I can therefore only say that they are responsible for the exercise of all the powers given to them in that Act. "You say still that this Act was intended to vest a certain power in the East India Company? —There must have been some object in view in creating the present Government of the East India Company. "You say you believe that the intention of Parliament was to give certain powers to the East India Company; having admitted that no such powers exist, except in the disposal of patronage, you would admit that, if Parliament had such object, it has failed to accomplish it?—That very
 818 "To the extent of the disposal of patronage?—Not merely to the extent of the disposal of patronage, because the patronage of the Court of Directors consists only in appointment to service, and not in appointment to office. The great patronage lies in the hands of the Governor General and the governors of the various Presidencies. All the patronage which the Court has to dispose of is the appointment to writerships and cadet-ships. "Will you explain to the Committee what power the Court of Directors have under this Charter Act beyond the disposal of the patronage?—I cannot exactly speak to that, because I have not seen the interior working of the system of either the Court of Directors or the Board of Control. "I only wish for an answer founded upon this Act of Parliament for the government of India? —All I can say is, if this Act of Parliament was intended to give them no power whatever except the disposal of patronage, it could not be considered an Act for vesting the administration of affairs in the hands of the East India Company." "You used the expression, 'farming the Government;' do you believe the people of India think the Government of India is farmed to the Company in the same sense that the taxes were farmed at the period you allude to?—They use precisely the same word in speaking of the renewal of the Charter. They will talk with you
 819 "Is that not merely through the infirmity of their language; have they any word which signifies 'delegation?'—They may have; I speak of the fact, and their use of the term carries with it a corresponding idea. "How would you translate 'delegation' into Hindoostanee; might not 'jarch' be a fair translation of that term?—It would rather signify farm or lease. "You said, that, in fact, the government was that of the Crown, and that the natives, as they become more enlightened, will more and more understand it to be so?—It is the case. "As they become more and more enlightened, will not the mischief which you consider arises from their notion of a farm disappear of itself?— It may be in that sense, no doubt, and does; and yet there arises a proportionate weakness to the Government from their seeing that the body held up as their apparent governors are not their real governors. Without wishing to speak irreverently, it has somewhat the appearance of a sham." "If you were to change the system, and to govern India in the name of the Crown, you would immensely add to the reverence which the people of India would have for your government, and increase the stability of your empire in the Eastern world." 820 821 "In the exercise of a wise and sound policy the British Government were bound not to put aside such rightful opportunities of acquiring territory or revenue as might from time to time present themselves." 822 "Every one out of England is now ready to acknowledge that the whole of Asia, from the Indus to the See of Ochotzk, is destined to become the patrimony of that race which the Normans thought, six centuries ago, they had finally crushed, but which now stands at the head of European civilisation. We are placed, it is said, by the mysterious hut unmistakable designs of Providence, in command of Asia; and the people of England must not lay the flattering unction to their souls that they can escape from the responsibility of this lofty and important position by simply denouncing the means by which England has attained it." "It may be not at present, but it will be a good central station when we extend our dominion eastward." "How are the English people to know it, if the Court of Directors do not know it?" his reply was—"Till it comes back from India, till it is a  fait accompli, 823 l. l. l. 824 l. l 825 l. l. 826 827 l. 828 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l., l., 829 l. "The gross revenue had increased nearly 9,000,000 l., l, Hansard, c 830 "The cultivation of opium was, he believed, about to be legalised in China; and, if that were so, it would have a considerable effect upon the finances of India, and the House ought, under such circumstances, to hesitate before assigning India entirely to the Crown with its liabilities and its debts." "Will you, with the Burmese war on hand, and with the prospect of losing the opium revenue, take upon yourselves all the responsibilities involved in governing India?" "Seeing," he said, "into what a debt the East India Company has fallen, do you think it would be a pleasant thing for me to announce to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that he would have this deficit to provide for in his financial scheme?" History of the Administration of the East India Company. "The Punjaub is not yet remunerative. Some little time must elapse before the revenues of the country can be made to exceed the cost of its protective and administrative establishments. The
 831 i 832 833
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he should confine himself in his remarks to such information as he had been able to derive from the best works on India, having no personal knowledge of the country. He felt that the general question was an immense and complicated one; but the one now before the House was, whether they had had sufficient information to enable them to make up their minds. He was of opinion that the House was in possession of sufficient information to enable it to legislate, and that no case had been made out for changing the present Government of India, for, after all, that was the question which they were called on to decide. They found in the history of the British administration in India a continual series of lessons that ought to inspire them with the deepest humility. They found the best men constantly exerting themselves to bring about the happiest results; and yet how often were their transactions doomed to disappointment. In a letter from Sir John Malcolm to Mr. Barlow, soon after the permanent settlement of Bengal, there was a most favourable account of the condition of the country, and the system under which it was ruled was described as the most benevolent plan that ever had been devised. In a memorandum of Sir Thomas Munro, a similar opinion was expressed with regard to the ryotwar system; but it was found that both the systems so lauded had very great defects. They should be careful, therefore, not to form any rash judgment on the matter. The English Government of India was the only instance in the world of the westward
 869 870
 MR. ALCOCK  requested that the measure might be postponed, in deference to the expressed wish of the City of London, as the proposed alterations would interfere with the navigation of the river.
 MR. EWART  said, from communications with which he had been intrusted, he also believed the Bill was viewed with dissatisfaction in the island, and he should take the first opportunity of laying the statements on the subject in his possession before the House.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he must defend the Bill as a measure that was intended to prevent the destruction of property. As the law previously stood, compensation was only given to parties when their property was totally demolished, and by this measure it was proposed that compensation should also be awarded where the property of the person was only partially destroyed. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald) was mistaken if he thought that the Bill was introduced at the instance of the hon. Member for Limerick, the fact being that Judge Perrin had advised the introduction of it.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : Lord Dalhousie says more than that; he says—"It is your duty to propose a measure, and there is no safety in delay in preparing a measure;" but, as I understand the noble Lord, he says—"If you have really prepared a measure, there is no safety in delay in carrying it." I again repeat, on the part of the Government, that this declaration, on the part of Lord Dalhousie, was not in answer to any question put to him by any Member of the Government, but it was an opinion which, in the discharge of his duty, he thought it proper and necessary to give; and, though not in an official shape, yet, in a matter of this description, an opinion from so high a quarter having been conveyed to us, I say we should have greatly failed in our duty if we had not acted upon it, and, acting upon it, if we had not avowed our authority. The noble Lord says there is no insurrection—that there never has been any insurrection except that at Vellore—and that what was asked was only a temporary suspension, which had never before produced any disturbance. I am not prepared to run any such risk, and I will remind the noble Lord that there has never been any such suspension as is now proposed. For seventy years the same system of government, corrected from time to time, has existed. We have invariably been obliged before the time of the limited grant of renewal has expired, to pursue the same course; and now, for the first time, what I think is the dangerous experiment of suspension is to be tried, and we are to take our chance and to run the risk of insurrection. That is a course which I, for one, am not prepared to agree to. Again, the noble Lord says —"I approve of many of the provisions of the Bill." There are, I think, forty-three or forty-four clauses in the Bill, and, so far as I collect from the noble Lord's speech,
 838 ex-officio veto 839 840 841 842 843 onus 844 Friend of India. "Small Cause Court established; municipal institutions introduced; cognizance of all suits intrusted to native judges; civilians instructed and examined in native languages; liberty of unlicensed printing established." Friend of India "Native languages restored in courts of justice; Suttee and infanticide suppressed; State lotteries forbidden; slavery abolished; railroads begun; electric telegraph in progress; uniform and cheap postage introduced." 845 846 "What are the advantages of the division of the Home Government of India into two distinct bodies, the Court of Directors and the Board of Control?" "It affords, I think, a great additional security for discussion and consideration. By rendering the consent of two distinct authorities necessary, you, in the first place, secure discussion between those two. The initiative being given to one body, and a veto to the other, and the body over which the veto can be exercised having in reality no substantial power except that which it derives from the force of its reasons, it is under very strong inducements to put reason on its side if it can. If the despatches which originate with the Court of Directors are not well grounded in reason, they carry no weight with the Board. The Court of Directors does not and cannot exercise any effective share in the Government, except in so far as it takes care to have reason on its side. Having this instrument of power, and no other, it has the strongest motive to use that instrument to the utmost; and in doing so it is a most efficient cheek upon the body which has the ultimate power, because that body being sure to have all subjects brought before it, with the result of the full consideration and concentrated judgment of a body which, from its constitution, has commonly that special knowledge and information which the President of the Board of Control in general has not, the President is under great inducement not to set aside the judgment of this comparatively well-informed body, unless he can give as strong or stronger reasons on the contrary side." 847 "Would the same benefits be realised, in your opinion, if India were to be governed by the two bodies merged into one, and by endeavouring to form a single body which should unite the advantage of both, such as a Council of India presided over by a Minister of the Crown?" "I think that such a system would be far preferable to a government merely by a Secretary of State; but that the advantages now derived from the division of the governing body into two parts, the one having the initiative, and the other the ultimate control, would not be obtained under the system of a Minister and Council. In the first place, there is now not only an examination by two authorities, but successive examinations by two sets of competent subordinates." "If the body were but one, there would be only one set of subordinates; and that is not a trifling consideration, but in practice a very important one. In the next place, if the Minister of the Crown were president of the co-ordinate body, whether it were called Court of Directors or Council of India, he would have, not as at present, substantially a mere veto, but substantially the initiative, as the chairman now has; and in that case the council would not be under anything like the same responsibility, and would not exercise anything like the same power, that the Court of Directors do. When the Council are obliged to consider the subject first, and to make up their
 848 849 morale Cunctando restituit rem. —"Super at Garamantas at Indos Proferit imperium." 850 851 852 Fox 853 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 854 55 octroi "Curibus parvis at paupere terra Missus in imperium magnum." 855 pabulum 856  priori, l. l.  maximum, l. minimum; l. 857
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : I hope the House will allow me to make a few remarks on the question under consideration, as I have long given my attention to the subject, and as I had on the last occasion of the renewal of the Indian Charter the honour to be a member of Earl Grey's Government, and a member, also, of the Cabinet Committee, in which, associated with Lord Lansdowne, Sir James Mackintosh, and my right hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay), whose voice, in common with the rest of the House, I rejoiced to hear in the present discussion a few nights ago—I assisted in preparing the measure for the government of India at that time submitted to the consideration of Parliament; and whatever may have been the merit of that measure, it was adopted by the united voice of many of the most distinguished members of the Administration of which I have now the honour to be a member. I do not conceive that a more grave, difficult, or important question than the one now before the House can be discussed by any Legislature. Its importance is not to be exaggerated, and I am happy to observe that, though much difference of opinion may exist, there has not, up to the present moment, been mingled with the debate the slightest tincture of party or factious feeling. The gravity of the matter is far too great to allow any paltry motives to obtrude themselves. The question which we, as a deliberative assembly, have to decide, for good or for evil, is, how we shall provide for the government, and the maintenance — I was about to say the preservation—to the Crown of England of one of its brightest ornaments. It has been won by men of pre-eminent talent in a series of years, and it would be a sad disgrace to this country if, by any hasty error or mistaken policy, that jewel should be suddenly wrested from us. We are now discussing a question intimately connected, I think, with the safety and the maintenance of our empire in India. I have said the matter is important—but it is also most difficult. We are legislat-
 834 835 836 837
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  hoped, that after the speech of the hon. Member for Manchester, in which he had been so often personally alluded to, he might, even at that late hour, claim for a short time the kind indulgence of the House. The hon. Member had commenced more mildly and in somewhat a more piano tone than was usual with him. He stated that he should confine himself strictly to the provisions
 891 l. 892 in extenso 893
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  had understood
 894 mere l. l. Will. 895 l., "I start with two simple propositions—first,
 896 —"liable to more severe punishment than, under the evidence and all the circumstances of the case should appear to the Foujdarry Adawlut to be just and equitable, they are empowered to mitigate or remit the punishment, as may appear to them proper." ex debito justitice, 897 excerpta, l., 898 899 900 naive, 901 902 903
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he Could deny that the Bill was satisfactory to
 904
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he must complain that the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury, after authorising him to state that there would be a separate Bill for the Isle of Man, had combined the new regulations respecting that island with the general Bill.
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, there was some portion of this measure which he thought a vast improvement upon the existing system. He approved of the proposition for depriving the individual Directors, he might say, of the right of nominating the actual administrators of the Government of India, and for throwing open to public competition the appointments in the civil service. That, he was convinced, was a step in the right direction. It met the great difficulty which had been apprehended of the patronage of India, if taken from the Directors, becoming a dangerous instrument in the hands of a corrupt Minister of the Crown. But he should be glad to see the system proposed by the Bill carried much further, and a larger portion of the military patronage than the scientific appointments in the army taken from the Directors; and he thought that one-half of the military appointments might be thrown open to public competition. It was said that if appointments in the civil service were given to studious perons—mere bookworms—they would be found deficient in the energy of mind and activity of body essential to the performance of the duties of civil servants in India. But he confessed that he saw no likelihood of any difficulty herein. It was the fashion with some to eulogise the civil service of India more than it probably deserved; by others, in-
 858 859 l. l., l. l., l. l., 860 l. 861 Bacon, Locke, Milton, Shakespeare; 862
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that the Bill had been carefully considered by the Select Committee. The navigation of the river would not be interfered with by the proposed bridge, and the traffic over the present bridge was so great that no further delay ought to take place in the construction of a more convenient structure. The number of vehicles passing over the present bridge upon an average of four days, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., was 8,441 vehicles per day, drawn by 9,600 horses. The traffic under the bridge was much less considerable, consisting, on an average of four days, of 468 vessels per day, 144 of which were steamboats, and 52 were sailing barges and billyboys. The only vessels that could possibly be affected by the diminished elevation of the proposed bridge were the straw barges, of which there was but one a day. These barges would require either to have the means of lowering their masts, or would have to wait a short period for the falling of the tide. The gradients of the new bridge would exhibit a great improvement as compared with those of the present bridge, and would greatly diminish the load at present borne by the horses in crossing the bridge.
 MR. HUME  said, it was unfortunate for the people of Scotland to have a Lord Advocate whose views on law reform seemed to be so limited as those of the right hon. and learned Gentleman. On the Committee there were eleven hon. Members against four—eleven pledged to refuse discussion on the point upon which the people of Scotland looked with more interest than upon any other—and that was, whether the sinecure sheriffs should continue or not. Some of his hon. Friends had declined to serve in consequence of the constitution of the Committee; but he had attended it with the view of effecting what improvements he could. He had moved in the Committee the following Resolution:—
 "That, inasmuch as no reform of the Sheriff Courts can be satisfactory to the people of Scotland which does not abolish the office of Sheriff Depute, and so do away with the system of double sheriff, it is the opinion of this Committee that application should be made to the House for leave to take evidence, and to send for persons, papers, and records with reference to that question." animus
 MR. HUME  said, it was his intention to move an Amendment to the effect that no such retiring allowance should be granted to the sheriff depute, inasmuch as he was in many cases a practising barrister.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he greatly objected to have the ballot treated after the fashion proposed by the hon. Gentleman. He objected to such home opathic treatment—he objected to such infinitesimal doses. He should merely refer to one observation of the hon. Member who had just sat down. He could not permit the observation to pass that it had been ever admitted by any friend of the ballot that it was inoperative against bribery; for they all stated their belief that in any fair-sized constituency it was the best preventive of that practice. As to intimidation, which used to be disputed, that ground was given up long since. The ballot was a perfect cure for intimidation, and it would be a decided preventive of bribery. He should not vote against the Motion, and he certainly could not vote for it; therefore he should take the middle course of walking out of the House.
 COLONEL BLAIR  said, he could not feel justified in departing from the decision of the Select Committee.
 MR. CHARTERIS  said, that in accordance with the profession he had made upon the hustings, he was an earnest advocate of law reform, and it was as an earnest advocate of law reform that he supported
 915
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he was one of those who had voted for the hearing of further evidence before the Committee, and he regretted that that course had not been taken, believing that it would have been more satisfactory to the people of Scotland. As, however, the Committee had reported, he considered himself bound by the labours of that Committee, and he felt great difficulty in making any attempt to disturb the arrangement to which they had come. The effect of the Amendment moved by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Craufurd) was, that in place of extending the summary jurisdiction to 12 1., 1. 918
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he must confess, notwithstanding what had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, that the Bill had come out of the Select Committee greatly improved, and that it effected a considerable improvement in the present state of the law.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he thought it was eminently for the advantage of the country that gentlemen holding the office in question, many of whom had attained an advanced period of life, should have a fair retiring allowance after a full period of service, more especially as on being appointed to the office, they generally ceased from practising as advocates. He would therefore cordially support the clause as it stood.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  begged to express the great obligations under which the Scotch Members lay to the right hon. Member (Mr. Walpole) for his attendance upon the Committee, and the attention he had given to this subject. It would, however, be an injustice to the Lord Advocate not to state that, although the Bill contained many features to which he felt a strong objection, yet that he viewed the Bill as a great improvement upon the present law.
 MR. COWAN  said, it was his intention to vote against the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman; and he thought the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) had made an unmerited attack upon his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate, whom he believed to be most sincere in his wish to introduce a measure of ample reform.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he placed too high an estimate upon the right of appeal to accept the Amendment, and thereby limit its application as regarded Scotland. He thought the people of Scotland were under very great obligations to the right hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite, the Lord Advocate, and he hoped the Committee would receive the Bill in its entirety.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he wished to move an Amendment extending the jurisdiction of the Court from 12 l. l. "Provided always that the parties, or any of them, shall be entitled to appear and plead by a procurator of court; but no such procurator shall
 914 l. s. d.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he believed that the House had no disposition to go on with this debate. Seeing there was not a Minister of the Crown present, from a cause which they all knew, and as they were aware that Mr. Speaker had also a call elsewhere [ the hon. Member was understood to refer to the Royal christening
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he was of opinion that the clause in effect gave a man 500 l
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he considered that the principles of this Bill had already been sufficiently discussed, and he must take the liberty of saying that this was the first time within the memory of the present Parliament that a Bill relating to Scotland, after having passed through the ordeal of a Select Committee, in which the clauses were gone over and agreed to without division, had again to be discussed clause by clause in a Committee of the whole House. The House would be aware that a Select Committee, having the advantage of the best assistance which could be procured, would be more competent to consider the clauses of this Bill, than a Committee of the whole House. The hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to think that the Committee were not in a position to judge of this matter—[Mr. CRAUFURD: Hear, hear!]—but, he would say it with great respect, he thought that was because he had himself not served on it. The hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to think that everything belonging to the County Court system was good. Now, he must say that he considered the system as yet to be in a very crude state; but the present measure was not a measure for extending the County Court system to Scotland; it was a measure for the improvement of the Sheriff Courts. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that the Judge must decide the case upon the spot, whether he had materials for his decision or not; while his (the Lord Advocate's) Bill declared, that if the Judge wanted further materials to enable him to come to a decision, he was to have the opportunity of procuring them. He considered this one of the most essential parts of the Bill. If the Motion of the hon. and learned Gentleman were carried, it would be useless for him (the Lord Advocate) to attempt any longer to reform the Sheriff Courts in Scotland, and it would be almost unnecessary for him to proceed further with the Bill, which he believed, as it stood, would be a great boon to the people of Scotland.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, that before proposing that the Order of the Day for the Second Reading of this Bill should be postponed, he begged to make a statement in reference to an alteration which he proposed to make in the Bill. He was in great hopes that the question had reached the point at which they might hope for a settlement that would be satisfactory to all parties. Communications had been made to him on the part of gentlemen who had hitherto opposed the views he had taken on the subject of the University tests, for the purpose of seeing whether, in the present state of public feeling, and after the amount of discussion the question had undergone, they might not find some middle arrangement in which they could agree. The present test excluded every person who did not profess the faith that had been established in Scotland, and conform to the worship of the Established Church in that country; and the Bill which he introduced, while it did away with that test, provided a declaration by which every professor on his admission was to declare that he would not exercise the functions of his office to subvert or prejudice the Church of Scotland as by law established. Two views were taken of this proposition. On the one hand, some hon. friends of his thought that such a declaration was almost as bad as a test; but he owned that he had no sympathy for that opinion, because he could not see it was imposing on any party anything of which he could complain to require of him not to do that which, as an honest man, he was bound not to do. It was suggested, on the other hand, to propose a test that would exclude parties professing certain religious opinions; to that proposition, however, he could not agree. As regarded the declaration made by the professor, he had
 913 "I, A. B. do solemnly and sincerely declare, that as professor of—, and in discharge of the duties of the said office, I will never endeavour, directly or indirectly, to teach or inculcate any opinions opposed to the divine authority of the Holy Scriptures or the Westminster  Confession of Faith,
 The LORD ADVOCATE : If the other Order of the Day is finished in time, I will move the second reading to-day.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he was bound to give the flattest contradiction to the statement that this Bill had been referred to a packed Committee. The Committee considered that the question of the double sheriffs had already been decided by that House, and that it was unnecessary to take evidence upon that point. They then determined to go through the Bill clause by clause, and to take evidence upon any clause upon which further information seemed desirable. After having made considerable progress with the Bill, it seemed unnecessary to take any evidence, and the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) himself acquiesced in that opinion. The hon. Member for Montrose had stated that he (the Lord Advocate) would not earn the character of a legal reformer by this Bill. He intended to do his duty to the best of his ability, and that was all that any one need be very anxious about. That duty he should continue to perform by refusing to yield to what he knew to be an ignorant, although it might be a popular, clamour.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, he should not detain the House very long whilst he introduced a subject which he believed would be found of a simple and practical nature, and to which he thought no objection would be made. He proposed to ask leave to bring in
 "A Bill to provide that whenever a Commission to inquire into the corrupt praetices at any election for any county, division of a county, city, borough, university, or place, in the United Kingdom, shall have issued, under the provisions of the Act of the 15th & 16th years of Her present Majesty, the votes at the two elections next subsequent thereupon in any such place shall be taken by ballot." 921 922 923
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  trusted that the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Craufurd) would not divide upon the Amendment he had submitted to the Committee. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), and the right hon. and learned Gentleman who had last spoken, with respect to the want of appeals as affecting the County Courts, which was a defect in the present system. Taking the Bill as it stood, and believing it to be an immense improvement upon the present state of the law, he trusted the Committee would pass the clause without going to a division. He must protest, however, against the limitation in the amount of salaries paid to the Sheriffs, which he considered was not worthy of this country, or of the duties required of men who must have received the best legal education in order to make them capable of filling the situations to which they were appointed.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, the practice would appear to have been, if an objection were made on the part of the parent of a single child, the reading of the book objected to was relegated to the hours of separate religious instruction in the way he had described.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he was obliged to confess that it was extremely difficult to give anything like an explicit answer to the questions just put to him by the right hon. Gentleman, at that moment, He believed, however, that the practice obtaining had been pretty much in accordance with what the right hon. Gentleman had stated; and he thought that there would be a general uniformity of opinion as to the importance of the subject brought under the notice of the House. No doubt it would be very unfortunate indeed if it were found that any portion of the Commissioners' arrangements, which had been organised with a view to the promotion of a united system of education, had been so disturbed as to impede that unity of action which was so desirable. The House must, however, recollect the basis upon which this system was built. When the Earl of Derby, then Lord Stanley, established it, it was intended that it should afford the means of a combined literary, but separate religious, instruction for the people of Ireland. So early as the year 1842, the resolution to which the right hon. Gentleman had adverted was established. In answer, however, to the question of the right hon. Gentleman, he was enabled to inform the House, that though no formal decision had been as yet come to by the Commissioners, means had been taken to ascertain the deliberate opinion of the various members of the Board upon the point at issue. The rule, then, upon which the Commissioners acted was this: they did not insist upon the Scriptural lessons being read in any National school, nor did they allow them to be read during the hours of secular instruction in any school where the parents or guardians objected to their being read; and in such cases the Commissioners prohibited their use, except at the times of religious instruction, when persons giving the instruction might use them or not, as they thought
 911 Evidences of Christianity Evidences of Christianity, First Book of Lessons, Easy Lessons upon Christianity,
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the first question had been answered in this way—though
 912 Evidences of Christianity
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland with reference to the proceedings of the National Board of Education in Ireland; and in order that the question might be fully understood, he begged to call attention to the eighth rule established by the Commissioners:—
 "The Commissioners do not insist on the  Scripture Lessons, Lessons on the Truth of Christianity, Sacred Poetry, Evidences of Christianity 910 Evidences of Christianity,
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could not think that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hume)
 916 1.; 1. 1.; 1. 1., 1. 1., 1. 1. 1. s. d., 917 1.; 1.,
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought it would be the most impolitic thing in the world to exclude a sheriff-depute from a retiring allowance.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that in the absence of other Members of the Government, whose attendance was required elsewhere, the duty had devolved upon him of asking the House not to consent to the introduction of this Bill. His noble Friend the Member for the City of London {Lord J. Russell) had spoken to him upon the subject of this measure; and he would endeavour to state one or two reasons which occurred to him as objections to the proposal, and which he hoped would pre-
 924 925
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : Do I understand that this question is considered to be decided by the speech of my right hon. and learned Friend?
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he always felt considerable diffidence in intruding himself upon the attention of the House upon any question, but he felt it the more in addressing them on the present occasion on a question not only affecting the interests of his constituents, but of several millions of his fellow creatures. He had lately had the honour to present a petition from the corporation of Sunderland, praying that the House would pause in its legislation on this subject, and that it would not pass any Bill for the future government of India till there was time and opportunity given for the taking the evidence of the natives of India. Now, if shipping were the child of commerce, and if commerce were the result of prosperity and peace, and if prosperity and peace depended upon good government, it would not surprise the House that his constituents in Sunderland, themselves intimately connected with shipping, should take a deep interest in the result of this debate. He had himself, after well considering the matter, arrived at the conclusion that the Amendment proposed by the noble Lord
 1010 "I have the most confident expectation that the system of government thus established, will prove to have been wisely framed for the improvement and happiness of the natives of India." 1011 1012 l., l., l. l. "Depend upon it, if the credit of India should become disordered, if some great exertion should become necessary, then the credit of England must be brought forward in its support, and the collateral and indirect effects of disorders in Indian finances would be felt extensively in this country." l., l. "There cannot be a doubt that India will be able to fulfil any expectations that may be formed of her. We are now at peace, and may well expect that the future resources of India will have an opportunity of developing themselves undisturbed by the miseries of war." 1013 l, l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1014 l. s. d. 1015 Friend of India, "A previous mail brought us the report of a speech delivered by the Chairman of the East India Company, relating to the expenditure on public works. We venture to say that no statement from India has been received in this country with greater astonishment and incredulity. We have made it our business carefully and diligently to notice every public work executed in India during the period under review; from their extreme rarity they can scarcely escape notice; and we can appeal to any one whether, if he were told that even one-half the sum had been expended between 1837 and 1846 on these subjects, he would not consider a very unreasonable demand had been made upon his credulity." "A gentleman high in the service of the East India Company wrote home in August 1850, and said, 'I was very much surprised to read so bold an assertion by Sir James Weir Hogg, that we had roads in Guzerat. There is not a single mile of made road there. You should send out a few questions, the answers to which would remove such ideas.'" 1016 l., l. l. 2d. s. d.; s. d.; d.; d. "I believe that no country ever stood so much in need of a code of laws as India, and I believe also that there never was a country in which the want might so easily be supplied."—[3  Hansard, 1017 Friend of India. l., 1018 l 1019
 MR. H. BERKELEY  seconded the Motion.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished simply to make a statement, if hon. Gentlemen would do him the favour to hear him. ["Oh, oh!"] He did not wish to detain them at that late hour, but he wished to move that the writ for Liverpool should be suspended until the 20th of
 1078
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he was of opinion that the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone had no case; and as no one could tell when the evidence would be printed and mastered by the Members of that House, he hoped the noble Lord would not persevere in his Motion, and so prevent an important borough like Liverpool from being represented.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, I am sorry that in the present exhausted state of the House I shall have to trespass
 1065 1066 1067 1068 1069 1070 1071 "You have twenty-four Directors divided into four committees, but three of these committees were engaged on subjects connected with trade. You are now about to deprive the Company of all business connected with trade or commerce, and, therefore, you have no need of more than the number of Directors for one of those committees—or, at least, have not so much need of them as when you had three committee sitting on trade." 1072 1073 1074
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I beg to
 978
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down has complained of the imaginative powers of the hon. Member who preceded him in the debate; but he has himself shown that even in that respect he can successfully vie with the Member for Sunderland, for in his reply he appears to me to have answered several speeches which have not
 1033 1034 1035 1036 1037 1038 1039 1040 1041 1042 primâ facie 1043 bonâ fide, 1044 1045 1046 1047 1048 "The plan suggested by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Montgomery shire, is, I think, the very worst that I have ever heard. He would have Directors nominated every four years by the Crown. Is it not plain that these Directors would always be appointed from among the supporters of the Ministry for the time being?—that their situations would depend on the permanence of that Ministry?—that therefore all their power and patronage would be employed for the purpose of propping that Ministry, and, in case of a change, for the purpose of molesting those who might succeed to power?—that they would be subservient while their friends were in, and factious when they were out? How would Lord Grey's Ministry have been situated if the whole body of Directors had been nominated by the Duke of Wellington in 1830? I mean no imputation on the Duke of Wellington. If the present Ministers had to nominate Directors for four years, they would, I have no doubt, nominate men who would give no small trouble to the Duke of Wellington if he were to return to office. What we want is a body independent of the Government, and no more than independent—not a tool of the Treasury—not a tool of the Opposition."—[3  Hansard, 1049 1050 1051 1052 1053 1054 1055 1056 data 1057 1058 1059 1060 1061 1062 1063 1064
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE : I did not say that we knew nothing of the Government of India, but that we should have the opinion of the Governor General, and of the local governors, before altering the system there.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he thought, before the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken referred in terms of disparagement to the Burmese war, and to the distinguished Nobleman who now governed India, he should have obtained better information than he seemed to possess. It was known that the last accounts from India gave us every reason to hope that that war was in the progress of being amicably settled; and when he spoke of the impolicy of that war, it would have been well to reflect that our empire in India was an empire of opinion, that the Burmese were a conquering nation, and that the  prestige 990 991 992 993 994 995 996 997 998 l. l. l. 999
 MR. HINDLEY  said, considering the hour, he felt it his duty to move the adjournment of the House."
 MR. HINDLEY  said, he would not press his Motion for the adjournment.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  continued: He had already stated that he had had the opinion of the Marquess of Dalhousie, and that the Bill had been framed in accordance with that opinion. He had had also the opinion of persons connected with the Government of India, and he did not know that they should gain anything by sending the Bill back again. The changes which they proposed were in entire accordance with the whole of the evidence. The Bill had now been in the hands of Members a considerable time, and he had not heard any material objection made to one single change that was proposed in the Government of India. With regard to a complete code of laws, none had been drawn up in a complete shape. One had been prepared by his right hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh, which was now under the consideration of the Legislative Council in India, who were trying whether they could pass it into a law. The hon. Gentleman had found great fault with the Government for disregarding the opinion of Sir Edward Ryan, and other great law reformers; but if the hon. Gentleman had entered into the subject with his usual care, or had listened to his (Sir C. Wood's) opening statement, he would have known that the Commission to be appointed in India was at the suggestion of those very gentlemen; that the most ardent Indian law reformers were to be upon that Commission; and that it was in deference to their opinion that he had been obliged to postpone the Bill for improving the judicature in India. The great evil of having one legislative system for one part of India, and a different system for another part of the same country, could only be obviated by constituting one legislative body for the whole of India. He would not go further into these matters, though he must say they were questions of a most important nature. He would only say, that no objection having been raised to this measure which might not fairly and freely be discussed in Committee, it did not appear to him that any sound argument had been urged
 1032
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  hoped the House would excuse him if he asked them to descend from the elevation to which they had been led by the poetic imagination of the hon. Gentleman, and turn away from that sight in the wilderness, of India "leaning on the arm of British sympathy," to the more practical question whether they were or whether they were not to read a second time the Bill for the Government of India. They were drawing, he hoped, to the close of this discussion, in which, looking to the state of the House, not only that night but on previous evenings, it would appear that a majority of the House took but a small interest. He hoped, therefore, they would be able, before that evening closed, to come to a division on this most important question. He would trespass on the patience of the House for a very short time; but, holding the position which he had the honour to fill, there were some observations which
 1020 onus onus onus 1021 1022 1023 1024 Calcutta Review. Quarterly Review, Blackwood, 1025 l. l. l. l. 1026 l. l l. l. l. l. l. l. Friend of India. "I will venture to assert, after witnessing the mode in which the Indian campaign has opened in Parliament, that nothing could be more disastrous for India than to prolong this 'agitation' for two years, during which the 'intelligent natives' would be led, however erroneously, to imagine that their representations would be welcome to their friends
 1027 1028 "so obviously experimental that it was left open to alteration from year to year. It would have been better to come forward with a well-considered plan, and to say 'Here is a constitution for India; be it good, be it bad, let it have a fair trial.'" "Your petitioners, not foreseeing the chance of arousing the interest and attention now bestowed on Indian affairs, petitioned your hon. House to
 1029 "I have a very high opinion of the mode in which the Government of India has been conducted in all its branches. … I would recommend nothing like organic change, nor anything
 1030 1031
 MR. WARNER  said, he believed that there were a great number of hon. Gentlemen who were willing to vote in favour of the India Bill, as there were some real improvements in it, but who were very much afraid of its being considered a final act of legislation. He wished to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Control whether, in the event of the House consenting to the second reading of the India Bill, Her Majesty's Government would be willing, in compliance with the expressed opinion of many Members of the House, to insert a clause limiting the duration of the intended Act to some certain short term of years—say two, three, or five years?
 MR. RICH  said, that he had been early in life associated with India, and consequently felt a strong interest in the welfare of the people of that country, which induced him to take a more prominent part in the discussion than, under existing circumstances, he might otherwise have done. His right hon. Friend the First Lord of the Admiralty had put the question on its true footing, when he said that the entire system of government hitherto adopted should be judged by its fruits. To enable them, however, to form that judgment, it was their bounden duty to obtain sufficient information from authentic documents, and from the reports of the Committee that was specially appointed for that purpose. There was a fallacy that ran through the speeches of the right hon. President of the Board of Control, and, indeed, of every speaker who defended things in India as they were. This lay in assuming as special that which was general, and which necessarily would have resulted from any Government that England might have given to India. When India first came into our hands, the two great empires—the Mahratta and the Mogul—were crumbling, and their fragments waging war against
 979 980 981 982 983 l. 984 985 986 987 988 l. l., l., 989
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he very much condemned the proposal of the hon. Member for the county of Elgin (Mr. Cumming Bruce) as most rash and revolutionary, and one which, if carried out, could not fail soon to destroy the power of this country in India. He considered that there was one great error generally entertained by that House in discussing this question. That error consisted in the belief that they were legislating for the
 1006 1007 1008 1009
 MR. NAPIER  said, that after the most anxious and candid consideration of this question, and after availing himself of all the means in his power of coming to a correct conclusion, he found himself bound in honesty to support the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn. He would state at the outset the grounds on which he proceeded. If he accepted the Bill of the Government, he must pronounce that Bill to be sufficient and meritorious; if on the contrary, he accepted the Amendment, he did not by so doing repudiate the Bill, and condemn it. He only said the Bill is of such importance, and concerning the happiness of so many of my fellow-creatures, that there ought to be no precipitancy, but we ought to satisfy them and ourselves that we have given the question full consideration before we determined on the course we should pursue. He could not entirely agree with the views of the last speaker but one, who condemned both the Bill and the Amendment. The proposition before the House was not, he repeated, to condemn the Bill; the Amendment only asked them to suspend their judgment until they were completely and fully informed, and were enabled to give a satisfactory decision upon the subject. The measure was presented to the House on the 9th of June; the only evidence with which he had been supplied came to him dated the 16th of June, and then a day or two afterwards they were asked to give their assent to this Bill, while the materials upon which they ought to base their decision were yet accumulating. He was not prepared to say that the Bill ought to be altogether repudiated, but he would not be a party to the passing of such a measure upon the imperfect information now before the House. When the evidence taken before the Lords Committee was presented to him, knowing the ripe experience of an early friend of his, Sir Erskine Perry, and the great interest he had always taken in the affairs of India, he had turned at once to the evidence given by that gentleman to obtain the materials for the formation of an opinion upon this question. The hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton (Sir J. Hogg), in the defence he had made as to the administration of justice in India, had referred more than once to a work published
 1002 "I believe the judicial system of the Company is extremely defective. I received a pamphlet yesterday from a trustworthy gentleman, Mr. Norton, of the Madras bar, which gives a list of examples of the extreme ignorance in judicial matters displayed by the Company's Judges, which quite condemn the system. My testimony from Bombay is to the same effect; I lived on terms of great intimacy with the civil service in India, and I had great opportunities of knowing what they think of it, and they, also, generally condemn it." 1003 1004 1005
 MR. MALINS  said, it was the rule of that House not to suspend the writ unless the Committee had made a Special Report. In this case, on the contrary, they had reported that there was no reason for the suspension of the writ. He did not think the House ought to depart from the rules already laid down, and trusted the House would direct the writ to issue.
 MR. MARJORIBANKS  said, that in justice to the proprietary of the East India Company, from whom he had received many favours, he wished to he allowed to say a few words in their defence, believing that his experience as to the votes given by that proprietary was of as great weight as those vain assertions with which the House had recently been indulged on the subject. During the long canvass he had made as a candidate for a seat in the Court of Directors, only two offers of votes had been made to him in return for promises of appointments. And yet the hon. Member for Inverness-shire(Mr. Baillie) would wish the House to presume that this was the universal system pursued between the constituency and the canvasser. With regard to
 1000 1001
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that as the Committee had recommended the issuing of the writ, he would not oppose it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he understood the evidence taken before the Committee had not yet been printed. It was clear that the House ought to act according to former precedents, in which case the House would postpone the issuing of the writ until the evidence was printed. As, however, he could not agree with his noble Friend (Lord D. Stuart) in doing so for the purpose of enabling him to bring forward a measure for taking the votes at that election by ballot, he was disposed to move, that the writ should not be issued until that day fortnight.
 MR. HUME  said, that the question was a very important one, and also a very difficult one to deal with in consequence of the peculiar constitution of the United States. He concurred in the opinion that the proceeding was an illegal one, because the question should be considered on the general principle of the liberty of British subjects, and not the circumstance that a man was black or white. Good feelings now existed between the two countries, and he thought that the Government acted properly in endeavouring to arrange the matter by friendly and amicable communication.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 1094 : No, no; nothing of the sort, That had reference to my former plan.
 MR. HUME  said, he was very sorry the Government had not found it in their power to take off this tax, which was one of the greatest impediments to free trade that now existed. He held in his hand an American paper which was sold for a cent, and contained a thousand advertisements, making known all the wants of the community; and a similar paper was published in every town of the United States. The new system which would arise from the removal of the advertisement duty would be one of the greatest boons which could be conferred. What his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden) had said with regard to the voluntary efforts for the promotion of education being cheeked by this impost, was most convincing, and, after so close a division, he trusted the present Administration would not proceed in legislating so contrary to the principles which they professed.
 MR, HUME  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman meant to enforce that law which had not yet been enforced?
 MR. HUME  said, that no answer had been offered by the Government to the arguments of his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright). From the manner of the noble Lord (Lord John Russell), when the deputation on the subject of the taxes on newspapers waited upon him last year, they were led to be-
 1121
 MR. HUME  said, he would appeal to the noble Lord the Member for London, who admitted to the deputation who waited upon him last Session, that the fiscal object of the tax was its only object, and that if that were dispensed with, he was ready to give up all other considerations.
 MR. HUME  begged to ask whether the course that had been taken was quite correct? The House had come to a division, the nature of which had better be read to the House, and he wished to ask the opinion of Mr. Speaker whether it was competent to the House to divide on that occasion? The Motion was, to negative the proposition to reduce the advertisement duty to 6 d.,
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  explained that the clause referred to open mines, and that its meaning was apparent from its subsequent wording.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, considerable unnecessary alarm existed
 1135
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he was disposed to remove every word that was likely to create a doubt as to the meaning of the clause. As to the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, he was disposed to think that if they adopted it in the Bill, it would create in some cases the greatest possible hardship, inasmuch as the property at time of death might be exceedingly productive, and yet afterwards become almost valueless.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners took property as trustees for a great variety of purposes, and the property accruing to -them for public purposes would not come within the purview or operation of this measure.
 MR. A. KINNAIRD  said, he also thought the change one of great importance, inasmuch as it would tend to improve the habitations of the working classes.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that perhaps the House would allow him to state what the question really was. On the 3rd Resolution, which provided—
 1129 "That from and after the 5th day of July, 1853, in lieu of the duties now payable on advertisements, there shall be paid—For or in respect of any advertisement contained in or published with any gazette or other newspaper, or any other periodical paper, or in or with any pamphlet or literary work,6 d." "d." d. "d."
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, he thought it would be extremely unjust to lay a tax upon advowsons not sold. He apprehended, however, that there were some practical difficulties connected with the clause which would prevent its successful working.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the state of the question as it now stood. The House was very full at the period when his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed, in conformity with his statement in bringing forward his Budget, to reduce the advertisement duty by two-thirds. The House, unfortunately, was far from crowded at the present hour. The duty on advertisements was a very considerable duty, a very heavy duty, and, no doubt, it was an impediment to trade, and an obstruction to the supply of those wants and that information which the people would desire to have. The proposition of his right hon. Friend was, as he had stated, in conformity with his general statement, for the reduction of two-thirds of the existing duty; and the Government had certainly not thought that that proposition would have been considered so unsatisfactory, and would have brought down upon them so much reproach as it had done. His right hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) proposed to abolish the whole of the duty. Now, that was a very fair question to bring before the Committee, as to whether or not one proposition or the other should be accepted. The Committee had decided, in a House containing more than 200 Members, in favour of the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Since that time the House had quite thinned. Everybody had
 1126 1127 nil
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I have no information to lay on the table of the House. A letter has been received from one of the consuls stating that the ordinary course of the river has been impeded; but the Government have received no account of the Russian authorities using any means to prevent the navigation of that river.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I must, Sir, decline to enter into any discussion on this subject, or to state precisely what is the opinion of the law officers of the Crown. I must content myself by stating that the subject is one with respect to which great difficulty exists, and that it has been fully considered by the Government. I cannot of course say what has been the opinion of my noble Friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs; but there is no doubt that it is not justifiable on the part of the State of South Carolina to imprison coloured seamen, subjects of Her Majesty. I say that that act is not morally justifiable. My noble Friend (Lord Palmerston) now the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and successive Foreign Secretaries, have made repeated remonstrances on this subject; but there is great difficulty, arising from the peculiar constitution of the United States, in obtaining a remedy, The only power with which we can deal is not the State of South Carolina, but the general federal Government of the country; we have no diplomatic relations with the separate States. When we come to the Secretary of State to the United States, it appears, first, that the power of Congress and the general power of legislating for particular States are limited, and that, there-
 1090
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he considered this proposition as exceedingly just and desirable in itself, and as conferring a boon on the owners of small properties in Scotland which would be thankfully received by them.
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  proposed an Amendment on Clause 23. By the clause it was provided that the judgment of the sheriff in causes not exceeding 25 l.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he wished to give notice that he should move, as an Amendment in this clause, that after the words "body corporate," be inserted the words "and corporation sole, whether lay or ecclesiastical." His object was to bring before the notice of the Committee the question whether the clergy of the Church of England, receiving large amounts of the national finances, ought not to pay a portion of them as a tax on succession.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he had spoken to competent authorities, and he had been told that without the words he suggested, clergymen would not be liable. He understood it was said that ecclesiastics were not to be included in the Bill on the same ground that Judges were exempted. But there was a wide distinction between the two classes of persons. Judges could not discharge their duty by deputy; a clergyman could—he might employ a curate. Archbishops with 15,000 l. l. l., l.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he should like to hear what arrangements were made with reference to the temporary bridge, when the works would be begun, and also when they would be finished?
 MR. LAYARD  said, that seeing the noble Lord the Member for the City of
 1088
 MR. FREWEN  said, according to the plans which had been submitted to the Select Committee, the elevation of this bridge was put down at twenty-five feet six inches above high watermark; but by the decision of the Committee, carried by
 1141
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he thought that the argument of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) defeated itself. He had complained that the stamp duty interfered with the spread of knowledge among the people; and yet he had ex-
 1120
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, it appeared to him, that, as it was intended to adhere Strictly to the present construction of the law, they would not improve the intelligibility of the law by altering the terms of the Resolution. He felt most strongly that indirect taxation was the kind of taxation which the people most willingly paid; He wished on that account to relieve the Chancellor of the Exchequer even from the inconvenience of a reduction of this tax; and he should, therefore, move that the old duty be retained. As regarded the supplements, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer's proposition with regard to them, it seemed to be a premium to powerful, established newspapers, and a detriment to those which had not yet attained such a position; and as the change with regard to them seemed to arise out of the change with regard to the advertisement duty, he should endeavour to obviate its necessity by an attempt to remove its cause. He proposed, on these grounds, to keep the existing duty as it was.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to point that there was a distinction between landed property and property in mines. Land was reproductive, whereas a mine was not. He wished to know, in the case of a person holding a fee-simple, and another only possessing a life interest in it, if both would be taxed alike.
 MR. SPEAKER : There has been nothing informal in what has taken place. It was a perfectly proper question to propose a Motion whether"6d"should stand part of the Resolution or not. The next decision was upon the question whether the House would agree to the Resolution without the 6 "d"
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that it was highly expedient that, as duties were to be imposed on advertisements in newspapers, those advertisements should be protected from the cheap competition of advertising vans, omnibus advertisements, and facilities of that nature.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he could not allow this Resolution to pass without protesting against it. In the month of April last he voted in the same lobby with the Government against the Resolutions of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson), not because he did not agree with them, but because he believed that the matter was then under the consideration of the Government, and that a vote of the House at that moment would only embarrass the Chancellor of the Exchequer; but, having since found that, notwithstanding the large majority obtained by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester on the occasion to which he had referred, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken no steps to carry out the object, he (Mr. Craufurd) had that night supported the views which he had always held, and voted with the minority in favour of the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester. He regretted that the result of that division had been to stultify the previous vote of the whole House. If the forms of the House would allow him, he would move to substitute for the word "sixpence" the cipher 0.
 MR. CRAUFURD  wished to say, that in the course of the discussions on this Bill, imputations had been cast on the working of the County Courts in England. Now, he could state from personal experience that this idea was an erroneous one, and that those Courts worked in the most admirable manner. He would also take the liberty of saying that his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate had been more successful in resisting law reform in Scotland, than the Attorney General had been with regard to the measures for England.
 MR. WARNER  hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would yield to the enormous preponderance of argument against this sixpence. Not a single reason had
 1125
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he rose to call the attention of Her Majesty's Government to a statement reported to have been made by the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs—
 "That successive law officers of the Crown had given their opinion that the state of South Carolina was justified in imprisoning, as they now do, coloured seamen, subjects of Her Majesty;"— 1089
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he must beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman how he proposed to carry this clause into effect. In the first part of the clause it was provided that the annual value should be calculated upon the average profits during such a number of preceding years as should be agreed upon between the Commissioners and the successor. Now, he did not see what power existed for carrying such an agreement into effect, or how that part of the clause could be worked; and he was equally at a loss to understand in what manner, in the event of the period being agreed upon, the principal value of an unwrought mine was to be determined.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he thought that it would be convenient in the first part of the clause to fix the number of years.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he considered the
 1132 l., l.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he altogether dissented from the construction put upon the word "mine" by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer; and appealed to his hon. and learned Friends the Attorney and Solicitor Generals to say if such was the correct and legal meaning which was meant to be conveyed by the word "mine?"
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he had asked for information; but he would just observe that ordinary companies were not quasi
 MR. G. BUTT  said, the first words of this clause were, "Where any body corporate, company, or society, shall become entitled?" &c He wished to know what meaning was attached to the words "company or society?" They appeared to him to be too general, and to convey no definite meaning. In the latter part of the clause, the words used were, "Body corporate, or registered company," which were intelligible enough.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that as almost every clause in the Bill seemed to bear hardly upon the landed interest, except that now before the Committee, which gave great relief to copyholders, he must, confess that he would not like progress to be reported until they had decided upon this clause.
 MR. DRUMMOND  would suggest, whether it would not be better to take a number of years, upon which the average of the profits should be taken.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he must oppose the proposition, and it was negatived without a division.
 MR. J. WILSON  having moved that the House at its rising do adjourn to Monday next,
 MR. BRIGHT : I beg the right hon. Gentleman's pardon; but I thought the subject of the Resolution we were about to discuss was the advertisement duty, and not the duty on supplements.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the Resolution as it stood was manifestly absurd, because it proposed a tax for which there was no legal mode of collection. He would suggest the postponement of the clause. The whole proposition was untenable, seeing that the Committee had already by a much larger majority than the present, decided for the abolition of the tax. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer knew that three-fourth3 of those who had voted with him, entirely disagreed with him in opinion, and that but for the forty members connected with the Government, who would vote for 1 s. d. d., 1115 Athenceum, Asia, Times 1116 New York Tribune, d. d. d. d., d. d. d. d. 1117 d., s. d.; d. l. l, l. l., Newgate Calendar Jack Sheppard, 1118 1119 d.
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR  said, the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer alleged, as a reason why the income tax-should be charged equally on the profits of trade and realised property, that it was unjust to charge a higher sum upon the poor annuitant widow than upon the professional man; and he put it to the right hon. Gentleman that the advertisement duty pressed peculiarly on persons in distress, who wanted to obtain employment, or dis-
 1111 l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he considered that the annual value of the mines being taken to be equal to interest calculated at the rate of 3 per cent, was fixing the assumed value at too high a rate. Suppose 100 acres of land assumed to have coals under them. That would be valued as mineral land at so much per acre. Then, to arrive at the annual value, you would take 3 per cent upon the acreable valuation. That he considered to be a high rate at which to ascertain the presumable annual value of the mine.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that it was much easier to ascertain the value of mines under lease than mines which existed in a large real property, where it was impossible to say to what extent the mineral extended.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he begged to express a hope that at some stage of the proceedings the right hon. Gentleman would give the Committee some information as to the mode and manner in which the new tax was to be collected.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he objected to this clause, on the ground that on any estate in which there was an advowson, a person would never know when his account with the Stamp Office was really closed. If a man were to sell an advowson two or three times over, he did not understand from the clause whether or not he should have to pay the tax two or three times over. An advowson might also increase in value after the succession, and then, when it was sold, it would have to pay a larger tax than it would have paid if rated at the time of succession.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that, having been in attendance upon a Committee, he had been in that House since 1 o'clock, and he
 1140
 MR. HENLEY  said, that, by existing arrangements, large amounts of property were constantly coming under the control of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and, as he understood the Bill, as leases for lives dropped, those Commissioners would have to pay the 10 per cent legacy duty.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he must maintain that the explanation of the right hon. Baronet was extremely unsatisfactory. The new bridge would be so low in the archways, that it would practically destroy the
 1142
 MR. KENDALL  said, he must repeat that it would be impracticable to carry out the clause as it stood. Where a proprietor had large mineral property, his son seldom
 1136
 MR. KENDALL  said, the clause was based on an assumption that what had been profitable would be profitable again. Mines were treated as real property. He did not deny that enormous fortunes had been made in Cornwall, both by the proprietors of mines and those who worked them. But while there were great prizes, the blanks were enormous; it was a complete lottery. He possessed some mines which, twenty years ago, were yielding between 2,000 l. l. l.
 MR. COBDEN : Just so, and I will give the right hon. Gentleman credit for the
 1107 l. l., s. d. s. s. d. l., 6. d. 1108 d. 1109 1110
 MR. COBDEN  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that the advertisement duty was not a question of such great importance as regarded the circulation of cheap newspapers as the stamp duty. He would, however, call his attention to the evidence given by Mr. Horace Greely, who was examined before the Committee which had sat on this subject in 1851. This gentleman was one of the Commissioners of the Great Exhibition, and he was the proprietor of that very newspaper from which his hon. Friend (Mr. Bright) had quoted that evening. Mr. Greely was examined as to what the effect of the advertisement duty would be in America; and his reply was that its operation would be to destroy their new papers by depriving them of that source of profit to which in the first instance they chiefly looked. The value of an advertisement was in proportion to the circulation of the newspaper in which it appeared, and those people who advertised in the Sun,
 MR. COBDEN : I wish, Sir, to call the attention of the Committee to the subject matter under consideration. It is a very simple, and, so far as the amount is concerned, a very small question. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has led the Committee into the consideration of all sorts of subjects except the one before us. And he has endeavoured to evade the responsibility which I think rested upon him, by paying some attention to a vote of this House, by an ex post facto 1106 l. l.,
 MR. COBDEN : Well, whether it be 60,000 l. l., l. l., l. l. l. d.,
 MR. MALINS : Admitting it to be 80,000 l, l., 1124
 MR. MALINS  said, he would also re-commend the abandonment of the tax altogether. It was a most inconvenient tax, and operated as a great impediment to trade, and what was to be retained would produce, according to the right hon. Gentleman's own estimate, a very trifling sum (80,000 l
 MR. MALINS  said, he considered that there was a question worthy of consideration, and that was, whether it was worth while to tax advowsons at all. Many persons succeeded to estates including advowsons without the slightest intention of ever selling them; but circumstances might arise twenty years afterwards which would compel them to act otherwise, and then they would for the first time become liable to succession duty. The best and safest principle appeared to him to be, at the succession to assess the value of the property, not including the advowsons, and to charge duty upon that amount.
 MR. MALINS  said, he also took exception to the clause, on the ground that there was no means of compelling agreement between the parties as to the number of years to be taken as the basis on which to calculate the value of the property.
 MR. MALINS  said that, as it was then past 12 o'clock, and the House had sat till after 3 o'clock that morning, he must move that the Chairman report progress. He could assure the Chancellor of the Exchequer that he was labouring under great physical exhaustion, and he knew that was the case with other hon. Members, and he thought they ought not to proceed with the discussion of this measure, some of the clauses of which were strongly objected to.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he voted against the Motion of the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson) on the 14th of April, and he meant to vote for the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, merely to defeat the Amendment now; and when that proposition came before the Committee as an original question, he should vote against that too, in order that the duty on advertisements might remain at its present rate. He thought the advertisement tax was neither unjust nor oppressive, and that the country in general did not cry out against it. He objected to the Amendment on another ground, which had been ably stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer—that it would involve the increase of direct taxation; and he wished that the right hon. Gentleman had taken the same view years ago. The balance of direct and indirect taxation would then, perhaps, not have been so completely altered, and the danger now dreaded would not have been so imminent. That most odious tax, the succession tax, was the consequence of the very great advancement made in the remission of indirect taxes; and he was quite sure every step in the same direction would increase the difficulty and danger which the right hon. Gentleman apprehended.
 MR. LAING  said, that, as a warm admirer of the right hon. Gentleman (the
 1122 Atheoeum Times?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he must recall the attention of the Committee to the question raised by the Amendment—whether the alternative contained in the clause should be struck out. He agreed with the hon. and learned Solicitor General that some such proviso was necessary. If he understood the clause right, a party coming into possession of a mine, and paying the tax on its then value, would be entitled to an allowance in the event of its becoming depreciated in value. If a man had got an estate of a thousand acres with a mine unopened, he was not taxed; but if a man had got an estate of a thousand acres with an opened mine, they taxed him on an amount which he might not get in his lifetime. That difficulty they would get into with this clause; but it was a difficulty incidental to the tax, and was one of the objections to the Bill. They ought to strike out of the Bill all the expressions which affected future contingencies, and they would then remove half the objections to the Bill. The Bill ought to be so framed that there should be no doubt that a man could not be taxed for an unopened mine.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he was glad to find that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had no intention of giving way on the subject of timber, which ought to pay its proportion of succession duty. He knew of one estate, valued at 40,000 l., 1131 l. l.,
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he objected to the way in which this Bill had been pushed through the House, and he fully concurred in what had been said as to the inadequate headway under the bridge. The Houses of Parliament had been made ten or fifteen feet too low, and this bridge was to be sacrificed in consequence of the blunder. Vauxhall-bridge was six feet above the height proposed for Westminster-bridge; and the want of sufficient headway in the new bridge would be a positive injury to the owners of wharfs above the bridge; though he admitted the decreasing of the ascent for vehicles would be an advantage. He thought that the First Commissioner of Works ought to consent to give a headway of twenty-four feet instead of twenty.
 MR. BOOKER  said, he thought that the
 1137
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he still wished to have more explicit information on this subject. He had that day presented a petition from the booksellers, who were in a state of great alarm as to the wording of the Resolution, and, therefore, he hoped that the Resolution would state explicitly what were the intentions of its framers. He had received a letter from a bookseller in Dublin, complaining that the Comptroller of Stamps had served him with notice to send in a copy of every sewed book or pamphlet, in order that the advertisements therein might be charged. The fact was, that the law was in a state of confusion on this subject. The law already applied to advertisements in books, but the booksellers found it so obnoxious, that they got a Bill repealing all the clauses which enabled the Government to collect the books, so that the tax was in reality a dead letter. Were it otherwise it would he a great hardship, as a bookseller might be compelled to send in a guinea book for the sake of an advertisement upon which the duty was sixpence. He hoped, therefore, that now there would be no con-
 1113
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not answered his question, how the advertisement duty on pamphlets and books was to be collected? It was a simple question, and he should imagine the Chancellor of the Exchequer could tell him when the duty on advertisements in books was to be charged, to whom it was to be paid, and where it was to be paid?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Well, when we come to consider the stamp upon supplements, we shall discuss that question. I am sorry—having been favoured with the opportunity on a previous occasion of stating my general objections to a duty on advertisements—to be under the necessity of again troubling the Committee upon the question of the advertisement duty; and I shall not presume to trespass long upon their time, or to go again at any length into the objections to the advertisement tax. But I did fancy, after the decided expression of the opinion of this House, by a deliberate vote, not a surprise, not an accident, but an expression of opinion as fairly obtained as any in this House—that the advertisement duty would be repealed —I did fancy that the right hon. Gentleman and the Government would have bowed to that decision, and settled the question by simply proposing the repeal of the duty. The right hon. Gentleman undoubtedly said, that after the Resolution of the House he would reconsider his proposition. Now, when a Minister says he will reconsider a proposition, and hear what is to be said, one is inclined to take rather a favourable view of the future; and, during the interval of two months and a half that the right hon. Gentlemen has been reconsidering big original proposition, I have been in a sort of fool's paradise, fancying he would agree to the decision of the House. But it turns out that we have been, not to speak too strongly, trifled with; for the right hon. Gentleman comes down now, setting at defiance the previous vote of this House, and proposes to enact a fresh duty upon advertisements. Now, I simply ask the Committee to agree with the vote of the House of Commons, that the advertisement duty shall be totally repealed; and I would remind the Committee that the principle upon which that vote was come to was not the amount of the duty—nobody talked of the eighteenpence. We did not ask that it should be reduced to sixpence; but we said it was an unequal, unjust, and impolitic tax, and that it ought not to be made a source of public revenue. If you are of opinion that this is a proper tax, I prefer the eighteenpence; for if we are to have the expense of collection—if we are to have the vexation of sending all these papers and publications to the Stamp-office to be examined—let us, at least, have some revenue for it. But the decision was
 1095 1096 "To leave out the words 'in lieu of the Duties now payable on Advertisements,' in order to insert the words' all Duties now chargeable on Advertisements he repealed, in accordance with a Resolution of this House of the 14th day of April last,' instead thereof."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I can assure the right hon. Gentleman, that, upon the question being put to him several times, by myself among others, he stated that he would be prepared to state what the intentions of the Government were upon the vote at a future day, and that the subject was under consideration. The meaning of a subject being 'under consideration' is, I apprehend, well known to hon. Members.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I wish, Sir, to move an Amendment to this Resolution; to leave out all the words after "that," in order to insert these words—"all duties now chargeable on advertisements be repealed in accordance with a Resolution of this House on the 14th day of April last." I shall not refer to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman with regard to the stamps upon supplements, because that question is not before us. But I remarked that he was candid enough to tell us that the remission, so far as the stamp upon supplements was concerned, would have reference to one, or at least to but a limited number of newspapers—
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The hon. Gentleman is quite right; and I do not wonder at the remark of the hon. Member at all. The question before us is strictly and exclusively the advertisement duty; but, partly for the reason that nothing is printed in this Resolution with regard to the stamp, nor with regard to the enlargement of space, and partly because the connexion between the two subjects is so close, I have thought it desirable to bring before the Committee the alterations that have been made, in order that hon. Members may clearly know what they are.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then moved—
 "That from and after a day to be named, the following Stamp Duty shall he charged and paid, (that is to say):—
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : With regard to the next Resolution, Sir, I shall not at this moment make any statement respecting it, because I have already made a statement of the general principles upon which it is founded at an earlier period, except to explain to the Committee, I hope clearly and distinctly, two alterations that have been made in the proposition of the Government as originally submitted to the House. When the plan was originally proposed by me as part of the financial statement, it was combined with a proposition with regard to supplements to newspapers, which has since undergone material modifications in two particulars, which I will now state to the Committee. In the first place, I had, I must frankly confess, through an inadvertence which I hope the Committee will ex-
 1092 1093 d.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved—
 "That from and after a time to be specified, in lien of the Stamp Duties now payable on the following Deeds or Instruments, there shall be charged and payable there on the Stamp Duties hereinafter set forth, (that is to say):— "Conveyance of any kind or description what so ever, in England or Ireland, and Charter Disposition or Contract, containing the first or original constitution of feu and ground annual rights in Scotland (not being a lease or tack for years), in consideration only of any annual sum, payable in perpetuity, or for any indefinite period, whether fee farm or other rent, feu duty, ground annual, or otherwise,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The right hon. Gentleman, I think, has made a marked grammatical difference between his present explanation and his former statement. The right hon. Gentleman, from his long Parliamentary experience, must know that it conveyed a very different meaning. My statement, as the Committee well knows, conveyed a sense totally different. I did say something was under consideration, and something was under consideration—namely, the plan of the Government having reference to supplements. Nor did I mean to deny that this was under consideration; nor did I mean to deny that the whole proposition, until it was put to the House, was under consideration. But the right hon. Gentleman says I stated that I would reconsider it—which is a totally different thing. With regard to the wording of this Resolution I shall be very brief. I have moved it in precisely the terms of the present law. The question whether there is to be a duty on advertisements in pamphlets and books, is a question that may be very fairly considered by the Committee if
 1098 l., l. Times. 1099 Times, Illustrated London News, Times s. d. d. 1100 l. 1101 s. d. s. d. s. d. 1102 l. l. l. 1103 l. l. l. l. l. 1104 l. l. l. l. l., l. d. l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. 1105
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am very reluctant to occupy the time of the Committee upon this subject; but, at the same time, it is my duty
 1097
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The supplement duty is 30,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I beg your pardon. You are quite wrong. I stated 80,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the simple question of the right hon. Gentleman had received as simple an answer, because he had said, on a former occasion, it was not his intention to levy any duty on advertisements not at present charged. The liability continued exactly as it was, except as to the amount. The machinery was the
 1112 hommes-affiches
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, with respect to the letter mentioned by the right hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. M. Gibson), the gentleman who had written it was in error, as it was intended to confine the tax to periodi-
 1114
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he only wished to say, lest his silence after the speech of the hon. Member for Manchester should be misunderstood, that the reason for that silence was simply this—that, without denying the importance of the matter which had been urged by that hen. Member, or the effective manner in which it had been set out, he felt it was a matter which, strictly speaking, was not before the Committee. The question which was raised by the hon. Member was, the general question of a cheap press, which had a very slight connexion with the advertisement duty, in his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) opinion, though it had a very important connexion with the question of the stamp duty. He could not agree with the hon. Member in thinking that that was by any means so simple a question as he seemed to suppose. It appeared to him to involve a variety of considerations, to which the hon. Member had not even alluded. The fiscal aspect of the question was not, in his opinion, the only, nor even the most important point to be considered; and it was obvious that the question could not be disposed of without deliberate consideration. It certainly could not be disposed of in considering the question whether there should be a sixpenny advertisement duty or not.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I beg pardon, I said 80,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, a particular request had been made that what was done in this matter should be done upon full and clear notice. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. M. Gibson) had given notice accordingly of a Motion which raised with distinctness the question whether the proposition of the Government should be accepted, or the advertisement duty should be totally repealed. That
 1128
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he proposed that all the Resolutions should be reported, except the last, on Monday.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the right hon. Member opposite (Sir J. Trollope) had moved a proviso to the effect that the annual value of any timber growing or standing on the said lands shall net be included in the said estimate; the meaning of which he understood to be, that no tax should be laid on timber under the Succession Duty Bill.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that an inconvenient course of proceeding. It was desirable to determine whether in some form a tax should be laid on timber.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not commend the right hon. Gentleman for the tone and manner in which he had urged his recommendation, particularly if he wished it to be acceded to. The proviso had been moved as a mode of inviting the Committee to declare a negative on the principle of the taxation of timber in any form. Now, what did the right hon. Member mean by proposing the withdrawal of that proviso? If he did not mean to contest the principle that timber ought to be taxed, he had no objection to the Withdrawal of the proviso.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had no objection to the words proposed by the hon. Member (Mr. Booker), as he then understood them, but perhaps the hon. Member would furnish them to him in writing.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that the second part of the clause would meet the view of the hon. Member.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not see any reason for postponing the clause. No doubt there was great uncertainty about mining property, especially that of Cornwall; but, if the mode of valuation suggested by the last speaker was a correct one, why should it not be agreed upon between the parties I and the Commissioners? This would be much better than introducing certain words into the Act. It was said that when land was sold in Cornwall, supposed to have mineral property under it, it only fetched about one year's purchase more; and what could the taxpayer desire more than that he should be assessed on the same principle?
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was willing that the discussion on timber should be postponed, and that the clause should be postponed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said he was willing to admit the perfect fairness and eandour of the right hon. Gentleman, and he had no wish to press him to a vote.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would admit that the idea of not taxing advowsons or presentations was a new one; but he could not agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman that they had the slightest possible claim to exemption. It would, in his opinion, be very far from reasonable to exempt that particular description of property, which was only just recognised by law, and the existence of which was not very desirable in a social point of view, from the operation of this tax. It seemed to him, on the contrary, to be the most fitting description of property to be taxed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the right hon. Gentleman appeared to think that the motive of this clause was to catch any possible increment to the value which might attach to Church property. Now, this was by no means the motive of the clause. It was not wished to look upon Church property as upon ordinary merchandise, and the Government had thought themselves justified in saying, that unless in the case of an absolute sale, the property should pay no tax at all. In adopting this course they had been guided by higher principles than those of mere finance. In framing this clause, the question he had to consider was, whether the tax upon advowsons should be levied in the manner proposed in the Bill, or whether the Church patronage belonging to a person should be valued at his death, and his successor be obliged to pay duty upon it. His opinion was, that the first mode was the more lenient of the two, and, therefore, he had adopted the extremely indulgent course of saying to the owners of advowsons that, except in the event of absolute sale, there should be no tax laid upon them. Surely the right hon. Gentleman opposite did not mean to say that this kind of property should be liable to pay duty upon the occasion of every succession.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he understood the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Newdegate) to ask him whether the owner of a mineral estate was to have the same benefit as the owner of a real estate, or would a man with a fee-simple be charged on the same basis as a man who had only a life interest. He could only say that the man having a life interest would be charged upon that life interest.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in the present clause there were two alternatives. The latter part of the clause, he apprehended, would have the effect of inducing persons to consent to an agreement with the Commissioners, for, if not, a valuation would be made of the property, and that was generally not considered desirable. The course of proceeding would be that persons succeeding to such property would have presented to them a case for agreement on the number of years; if no agreement were made, then there would be a valuation of the property. With regard to unwrought mines, they would not be taxed at all.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the chief objection to the clause seemed to be the difficulty of making valuations; but he need not remind the Committee that that difficulty was got over every day with reference to every description of property. It was usual for parties to take unopened mines, and to hold them in every possible state; and the question which the right hon. Baronet opposite considered so difficult frequently came before the House in the shape of leasehold interest. No mine was either let or taken without what amounted to a valuation in the sense in which a valuation would be required under this clause. He hoped, therefore, that the Committee would reject the Amendment, which, if carried, would render the clause completely inoperative.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must entirely disagree from that opinion; it would, he thought, be most inconvenient to specify a fixed number of years in all cases.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped they might be allowed to go on with the Bill until they arrived at some clause to which serious objections were entertained. When they came to any point of great interest or difficulty, they might stop, and it would then be known that the Committee would recommence the consideration of the Bill at that point.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman had raised on this clause a question which he thought he could not bring within the scope of it, as he understood his object was that the bishops and clergy of the Church of England should be liable to pay this tax on taking their benefices, incumbencies, or bishoprics—[Mr. PELLATT assented]—that taking a benefice should be considered as a succession, and that the incumbent taking it should he liable to pay duty upon it. Now, he thought it had been clearly understood that this clause merely referred to successions accruing to a corporation on death, and did not at
 1139
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the words included a vast number of what he might call quasi 1138
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman would not add in the slightest degree to the effect of the clause. Every corporation sole, whether lay or ecclesiastical, was beyond all question a body corporate, and was, therefore, already subject to the operation of the clause.
 MR. MICHELL  contended that a mine was not a mineral, but the means by which one got at a mineral. Besides, it was a fact that nine-tenths of the mines in Cornwall yielded nothing at all, while some in other parts of the country yielded 50,000 l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had been most anxious from the commencement of the discussion on this subject, to give his decided support to the financial scheme of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and, though he had been pressed by his constituents to oppose various portions of the Budget, be had always declined to do so, lest he should injure the scheme as a
 1123
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  said, he fully concurred with these views, and, with a view to afford further time for consideration, he would move that the debate be adjourned.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman seemed to have forgotten the circumstances under which the proviso was moved. When the Committee decided against the plan of the Government, his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Trollope) placed his proviso in the hands of the Chairman.
 1130
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that nothing could show more strikingly than the clause now under discussion, the excessive difficulty and the risk of injustice which were incurred in imposing a succession duty. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not by that clause give the successor the same option which he gave him in the clause
 1134 "Or if no such period shall be agreed upon, then the principal value of the property shall be ascertained, and the annual value thereof shall be considered to be equal to the interest, calculating at the rate of 3 l
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that as the hon. Member for Manchester had made an appeal in favour of the large towns, he thought it right to say a word in favour of the agricultural districts. He put it to the country gentlemen in that House, and to the Members of the Government, several of whom were country gentlemen, if it was not the fact that in the agricultural districts, even more, perhaps, than in towns, the spread of knowledge was of the greatest consequence? In most agricultural districts there were one or two newspapers published; but, in general, they were not seen by the farmers or labourers unless they went on a Saturday night to a public-house for the purpose. And was it not perfectly true that if the agriculturists did not read the newspapers, it was impossible they could know what prices to ask for the produce of their land? He must confess that he had been grievously disappointed at the course which had been pursued by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on this occasion. He was anxious to support the Government in all cases where it was possible; but he must say that on the present occasion they had done enough to shake the confidence of all those who looked to the real interests of the people.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had prepared a new clause, which would raise the whole question, and he was ready to meet him on that clause. He had acted in a spirit of the most perfect courtesy towards the right hon. Gentleman, and he regretted that he was not met in a similar spirit.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that having seen the alteration proposed in the clause by the right hon. Gentleman, it was his intention to withdraw the proviso
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that the present bridge was quite sufficient for the traffic of the river, and yet the most available arch had but a headway of between twenty and twenty-one feet, and the new bridge would have a headway of twenty feet with more than twice the width of the existing arch. That would be amply sufficient for the present and prospective traffic of the river, while at the same time the traffic across the river by land would be greatly facilitated. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Alcock) said the bridge was intended to be made low in order not to injure the effect of the new Houses of Parliament. He (Sir W. Moleswortb) confessed, while consulting the convenience of the river traffic, that it was one of his objects not to injure the effect of the new building, which was one of the finest specimens of architecture of its kind in the world.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to think that all mines were of the same value. Coal mines paid poor-rates, but lead mines did not. He hoped, since this highway robbery was to be made on land, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would go further, and subject lead mines to the poor-rates.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he understood the right hon. Gentleman to mean, that whenever a successor should have anticipated his interest by a special charge, though he had received already the benefit of a great part of the interest to which he was entitled, he should be relieved of the duty attached to inheritance to the extent of the money by which he had anticipated that inheritance. The cases to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred were met by the 14th clause, which had already been passed. To adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman, would, in point of, fact, be to deprive the Bill of its operation.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL : By the 14th clause, as he had previously stated, it would be seen that, where there had been an alienation or assignment of property antecedently to the Act coming into operation, then the person becoming alienee, or purchaser, would have to pay the duty. Where the encumbrance was created subsequently to the Act coming into operation, then the successor would have to pay it, because he would have the benefit of the charge.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the 14th clause had been passed without complaint, which enacted that an alienee, or purchaser, should stand in the shoes of the vendor or alienor. This clause mot the case, but the Amendment really went against the whole principle of the Bill. Pass the Amendment, and the operation of the Bill would be postponed indefinitely, or, at least, they would have to wait for any benefit from it for another generation.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, the man who would practically have to pay was not the mortgagee, but his successor. A good deal had been said about persons who were parties to incumbrances before they came into possession of an estate being called on to pay; but why should men escape payment merely because they had incurred debts? He did not think there was any hardship in taxing a successor upon the whole amount of the succession—say 10,000 l. l., l.,
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he thought the hon. Member would gain no-
 1177
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, there would be great difficulty in introducing words rendering trustees liable only to the extent of the property actually received by them. Power was given to a successor to pay off the whole debt at once, in return for which he would receive a certain discount.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, this duty when due to the Crown would not affect any lands, whether they were the lands of the successor in respect of
 1178
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he must point out that the Amendments proposed would not remedy the inconvenience complained of; and he proposed that without altering the clause the following proviso should be added, which would meet, he thought, the views of hon. Gentlemen:—"But such duty shall not charge or affect any other property of the successor than the real property comprised in such succession."
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that in consequence of the observations made on a former evening he had directed his attention to this subject. He proposed to insert the word "personally" before the words "accountable in respect of any succession," and to omit the words "or with their concurrence." He also proposed to insert the words "wilful default." The effect of these alterations would be to make the trustees personally liable, and limit
 1180
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the clause, as worded, was to be prospective in its operation. It was only intended that the amount of trust property actually possessed by, and actually passing through the hands of, trustees, should impose upon them, as they received the property with one hand, the obligation of paying the duty with the other.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL : Of course it could not take priority of charges which descended to the inheritor as in cumbrances.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that a person liable to the payment of any duty on real property succession, would, in the first instance, have a twelvemonth in
 1192
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  had no objection to reconsider the wording of the clause so as to meet the views of those who wished it to be made clearer.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought the House would agree with him in one point, and that was that they ought to discuss this question with reference to its general principle, and not with reference to a particular person. His noble Friend (Lord D. Stuart) had entered into what he was pleased to term the question of the personal peculiarities of the Assistant Judge, and had endeavoured to amuse, or he should rather say to detain, the House with some idle gossip about the personal peculiarities of Mr. Serjeant Adams. It was rather hard on an absent man that his noble Friend should repeat over and over again his old grievance about the "policeman and the pig." If he had any charge to make against the learned Judge, he ought to bring it specifically before the House. The question now was, whether, as additional duties had been cast on the Assistant Judge since he agreed to accept his office at its present salary, it ought not to be increased. There had been a great accession to his duties in consequence of the number of indictments that had been recently transferred from the Central Criminal Court to the Middlesex Sessions, on public grounds, and at a great saving of public money; and that Court had sat 184 days as compared with 81 days' sittings of the Central Criminal Court. The learned Judge had accepted his office at a certain salary, since which there had been a great increase of his duties, and on that ground it was that his salary was to be raised.
 MR. E. ELLICE  said, that he had in the first instance been instructed to oppose the clause; but since the quantity had been altered from one gallon to four gallons, his constituents had expressed themselves satisfied.
 MR. ELLIOT  moved a clause to the effect, that licences should not be granted to tollgatherers except in cases where the tollhouses were situated more than six miles from any other house licensed to sell exciseable liquors.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  wished, in explanation, to say, that when the hon. and learned Gentleman charged him with repeating idle gossip, he could only say that, on the subject to which he had referred, a question had been answered by a Minister of the Crown, and in that answer
 1198
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he saw no necessity for making this increase of salary. As to the present Judge-Assistant, his conduct in arbitrarily aggravating the punishment of the unfortunate prisoners tried before him, was anything but becoming a Judge, Only the other day he was strongly and most justly censured by the press for his conduct towards a woman who, having been found guilty of a theft, had been sentenced by him to seven years' transportation. The poor woman, in her excitement, rose from her knees, on which she had been entreating for mercy, and called the policeman who had been witness against her a pig; whereupon the Judge, in an ebullition of anger, actually sentenced her to three years' additional transportation. The noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department, in defence of the Judge, said he altered the sentence because he had reason to believe that an attempt at rescue would be made. That might have been a good reason for sending for additional policemen, but was none for augmenting the woman's punishment. This, however, was the Judge whom Her Majesty's Ministers selected for honour and reward! The private character of this learned person was distinguished by this peculiarity—that he managed to succeed in what he had a fancy to. A Judge had recently said of him, "I hope he won't fancy my place, for if he did he would get it." Apparently he wanted an increase of salary, and he was getting it from the House of Commons. But 1,200 l.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that as far as the principle of granting life annuities had been practised by the Government it had given satisfaction, and parties were anxious that the amount should be increased, and that 30 l. 1200
 MR. DISRAELI  thought it was not a
 1193
 MR. DISRAELI  thought that if the Government would consent to take this Bill on Thursday instead of the India Bill, the arrangement would work much better.
 MR. COWAN  said, the explanation of the hon. Gentleman had not removed his objection to the Bill, and he should, therefore, be glad to have an answer to the question he had put to the Chair.
 MR. COWAN  moved that Clause 10, which enacted that the licences to retail wine under the Act should not authorise persons to sell foreign wine not to be consumed on the premises in any greater quantity than four gallons, be omitted.
 MR. COWAN  said, it was his duty to resist the further progress of this measure. The Bill, in point of fact, was intended to give the Government power to commence the business of life assurance, although its title would lead to a very different impression. Clause 10 gave power to the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt to contract with any such person or persons as those named in other parts of the Bill for the payment of a sum of money at his or her death; and it would have been proper, or, at all events, if he might use such a term, more respectful to the House, before introducing such an important change in the law as this Bill contemplated, if the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated plainly and frankly what the intentions of the Government really were, in order that such intentions might be fully discussed and sanctioned by the House, if it conceived the measure would be advantageous to the community. He had a great objection to the Government becoming a trading community, or doing anything which could be carried out by a private company; but with regard to this especial mode of trading, he thought experience had proved that the manner of granting annuities by the Government was highly objectionable. The system of life assurance was at present carried so successfully, and withal so judiciously, by the ordinary life-assurance companies, that it would be most unwise to interfere with them; but this Bill proposed to make a charge on the Consolidated Fund; and since he objected to it on the ground of the interference to which he had just alluded, he should be glad to know from Mr. Speaker if this Bill ought not to have originated in a Committee of the whole House. Be that, however, as it might, he could not permit the Bill to proceed any further until he had received some more satisfactory explanation about it than he had yet heard, and he should therefore move that it be read a third time this day three months.
 MR. COWAN  said, that when the Bill came to be read a third time, he should certainly move that the clause be struck out.
 MR. COWAN  would beg to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman to the 12th clause.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, that the clause was fully discussed in Committee, and, having consented to have the quantity changed from one gallon to four gallons, he did not think there was any just ground for objecting to the clause.
 MR. SPEAKER,  having looked at the clause, said he apprehended the Bill did not impose any additional charge upon the Consolidated Fund than the law already sanctioned.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, undoubtedly, if the Bill imposed a charge on the Consolidated Fund, it ought to have originated in a Committee of the whole House.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, that
 1194 de die in diem.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he believed that so complicated and onerous were the requisitions made by this Bill, that if these clauses were retained in their present form, every man who was liable to pay succession duty for real estate would inevitably become liable to a penalty. He believed that this was one of the most tyrannical measures that were ever brought before that House.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he desired to facilitate the very critical task which the right hon. Gentleman had undertaken, by so shaping the clause that it would give security for the protection of the revenue, and fall at the same time with as little severity as possible on those who would be affected by it. The clause required all persons accountable for the payment of the duty to make a return of their liability to duty. He thought it was not necessary to require all the parties to make such a return. In the first instance, not only the successor was called upon, but all the trustees and  cestuique bonâ fide, 1190
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  reiterated his opinion of the injustice of charging the expenses of valuation, even though the party might be willing to pay the corrected amount demanded by the Government. He was at a loss to know where any precedent could be found for such a provision.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he must complain that the effect of the clause as it stood would be to charge the duty, not only on the lands to which the charge properly attached, but to all lands whatever in which the successor, however slightly, was interested. He thought it was sufficient that the duty should be charged upon the lands only to which it attached, and that other lands should be exempted.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he must complain of the clause, which, he contended, would operate injuriously on property.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, it was derogatory to the character of the Government to allow the illiberal practice of compelling parties administering to an estate to pay the amount of duty without the debts having been first deducted, especially when the difficulty of getting the overplus back was so great.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he must complain that the hon. Member for Edinburgh had not given notice of his Amendment; but he apprehended the hon. Gentleman's opposition to the Bill originated in a mistake or a misconception of the object of the measure. The only object of the Bill was to confer upon the Commissioners for the reduction of the national debt power to convert deposits in savings banks into annuities. The Commissioners certainly possessed this power under the existing law, but only to a limited extent; and the intention of this Bill was not to enable them to enter upon the general business of life assurance, which would be entirely beyond its scope, but simply to give them power to convert savings banks' deposits into annuities with more facility than the law at present allowed.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the Treasury were influenced in this proposition by the fact that a learned Gentleman was taken from his profession to fill this office, to which he devoted his whole time, and he was made a Judge, and one of that quality that he could transport people for fourteen years. Last year the salary of County Court Judges was fixed at 1,200 l. l.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the Bill certainly could not impose any additional charge on the Consolidated Fund, for, under the existing law, both the deposits, as well as the Government annuities, were chargeable to that fund.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that with regard to this clause, his attention had not yet been directed as to its effect upon the revenue; he begged therefore to give notice that if, on inquiry, he found that it would have any prejudicial effect on the revenue, he should consider himself at liberty to move that it be omitted on the third reading.
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to know whether any other evening was fixed for the India Bill?
 MR. MURROUGH  said, he had understood, that at the appointment of the Assistant Judge the duties of his position were very onerous, if not quite as arduous, as those which he was now called upon to perform, and he should wish to be informed if such were really the case.
 MR. PHILIPPS  said, he professed great horror of all valuations. They bore as near relation to the actual value as the eulogies on a tombstone to the real merits of the departed.
 MR. PHILIPPS  said, he must beg to express a hope that means would be adopted to make the Commissioners more liberal in their conduct in cases of repayment where too much duty had been paid to them.
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  said, he would
 1170
 MR. HENLEY  said, the result of the clause was this—if a man sold all his interest, he would pay nothing; but if he sold or alienated three-fourths, he would have to pay on the whole. He regarded this as a very great straining of the law.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the present claus and the forty-third must be considered together. No doubt the Crown ought to have a remedy in the first instance against the property, and therefore it would be proper to give a remedy against the party in enjoyment of the property. But care ought to be taken not to affect persons in the position of trustees, who had little or nothing to do with the property. In the cutting down of timber, and many other cases, there would be a continual liability. He trusted the Government would place the matter on a more satisfactory footing, and limit the tax in such a way as not to embarrass trustees in dealing with property.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would suggest the case of a son joining his father in borrowing 30,000 l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would instance the case of a' man owing 10,000 l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the case of the right hon. Gentleman rested on a narrow basis. It was unjust to make a man pay on that to which he did not succeed.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not think the case under the legacy duty was at all analogous, because the valuation of personal property was made by sworn appraisers, funded property by the price of funds at the time, and capital at the given sum. In those cases the parties could hardly make an improper return; but here the value of the property was indefinite, it not being stated whether it was the annual value or the fee-simple. The appeals to the income tax and assessed taxes had been cited; but in those cases the parties surcharged were not called on to pay the expenses of the appeals.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the explanation, he feared, would not be that which would be given out of the House to the clause. He hoped, therefore, the hon. and learned Gentleman would introduce words which would have the effect of giving the interpretation to the clause which his explanation now favoured.
 MR. HENLEY  hoped the Government would consent to report progress.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to know, if, in case it became difficult to ascertain what was the exact sum which an inheritor ought to be called upon to pay, and that being willing, therefore, to commute the tax for a fixed sum, if he should raise money for such a purpose, would the consequent mortgage take precedency of all the other charges?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that any appeal at all would be most difficult.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he, however, complained of the stringency of the clause, which made it compulsory on the party either to appeal or to pay. There might be a very trifling addition to the value. Suppose the return made were 1,000 l., l. s. d.,
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to re mind the right hon. Gentleman that severe important Bills had already been fixed for the morning sitting that day.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he fully concurred in the objection to the period within which the returns were to be made. He thought it was an unreasonably short time.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he had an Amendment which he wished to propose to this clause. The fact was, if there was a right of appeal supposed by the clause, it must turn out quite nugatory to the case of all small proprietors. He knew a case where a farmer had left 100 l. s. l.,
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he objected that the clause did not sufficiently define the period after which, or the circumstances under which, the default to be punished by the infliction of this penalty should be understood to have taken place.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that when the 14th clause was before the Committee, he objected to it on grounds similar to those taken by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) against the present clause, and the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) promised to reconsider it. He would now move, as an Amendment, that the words "after the time appointed for the commencement of this Act" be added to the clause under consideration.
 MR. MULLINGS  moved the insertion of the words "simple contract," with the view of making the duty not a Crown debt, but one of simple contract.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, as there was an express charge on the amount of succession, he did not see why the party should be made a specialty debtor, and prevented from selling a portion of his property until he had paid the Crown duty. If the words which he had proposed should be inserted, every security would be given which the Crown could desire. His proposition did not at all interfere with the charge on the successor.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he also opposed the clause, and he fully coincided in the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), that it was contrary to all rules and principles of equity without notice to deprive individuals of rights to which they were entitled. If the Bill were to pass in its present shape, it would be the grossest act of injustice that he had ever witnessed in the whole course of his professional experience.
 MR. MALINS  said, he wished to state
 1179
 MR. MALINS  said, he should support the Amendment. The principle of the law was, that a man should pay on what he came into. By the clause he would have to pay on what he did not inherit.
 MR. MALINS  said, that it would be in the highest degree unjust to tax a man upon that which he did not receive. A case might occur in which a son, after having joined his father in an incumbrance, would enter upon the nominal possession of 100,000 l. l. l. 1173
 MR. MALINS  said, it was very uncommon for a man with landed property to get money on mere personal security, and the
 1174 ex post facto
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought it should be a part of the functions of the trustees to pay this duty over to the Crown; but it was of importance that greater responsibility should not be thrown upon them than as necessary. He would suggest, therefore that the trustees should be made an-
 1186
 MR. LOWE,  in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, that the object of it was to give to the Assistant Judge of the Middlesex Sessions an increase of salary, to which it was considered that he had become entitled by the great increase of business
 1195 Vict., "One of the provisions of the Bill relates to the Central Criminal Court. When that Court was established, jurisdiction was taken away in a variety of cases from the sessions held within its district. The effect of this has been, that at the Middlesex Sessions, although presided over by an eminent and qualified Judge, certain cases cannot be tried, notwithstanding similar cases are tried eveny day at the sessions in every other part of the kingdom. Great delay in the administration of justice, as well as great expense, is found to result from this arrangement. I therefore propose to repeal so much of the Act as restricts the nature of the case to be tried at the Sessions." l., l. l., l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. l.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that his objection to this clause was, that the operation of the new law would destroy the system of trusts in this country. He denied that the case of the trustee under this Act would resemble that of the executor, who was now liable to legacy duty. If a man now died possessed of property, he left an executor or administrator. The property was easily ascertained; the executor or administrator became the sole owner, the persons who were responsible were known, and the duty was paid down at the time in all cases except where property was given to one person for life and to another in succession, and then time was given for the payment of the duty. But nothing was so much complained of as the deferred payment of duty in respect of personal property taken in succession. In the case, however, of succession duty payable under this Act, how were they to ascertain who was to come to the property? How were they to find out who was the accounting party? In many cases it would be hard to know the value of the property in respect of which duty was to be paid, or who were the persons to account for it, or the property to be accounted for; and when the persons to account and the property were discovered, it would sometimes be difficult to find who were the successors. In the case of a settled realty or personalty loft to a person, with remainder to others, part upon lease and part charged with jointures, the trustees would be bound to account whenever any charge fell in, when any leases fell in; in fact, the trustee would, under this system, be an accounting party all his life. The property would thus be perpetually the subject of account to the Exchequer. A mortgage, as he called this tax, would be placed on all the property in the kingdom, to be perpetually paid off and perpetually renewed. By the working of this Bill, under the 48th clause, the Commissioners appointed to levy and assess this tax would have to examine the parties who were called accountable parties, and, if necessary, to search into their papers and documents; but such a course of proceeding could only' be adopted when it
 1181 l. 1182
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he must call upon the Committee to take care of what it did in making a person pay a tax upon what he never inherited. He considered that the cases which had been offered as illustrative of the question, were exceptional cases, not the rule. By the operation of this cause, creditors would be deprived of their security, and successors would be taxed for that which they might never receive. He felt so strongly and so deeply the gross injustice of the contemplated proceeding, that he challenged the right hon. and learned Gentlemen opposite, even after the vote that had just been given, to say whether they would still adhere to the clause, the injustice of which he had described not in colours too strong.
 MR. WALPOLE : That would he done by the insertion of the words he had suggested.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that by this clause it was provided that no allowance should be made in respect to any encumbrance created or incurred by a successor, whether by appointment or otherwise. Now, as the clause was retrospective as it stood, he conceived that in cases where creditors were concerned especially, its operation would be attended with great injustice. He suggested, therefore, with the view of making it prospective instead of retrospective, that the words "after the passing of this Act," should be inserted after the words "created or incurred by a Successor."
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman just confirmed his observation, that when he came into possession the alienee was to pay the duty which the person entitled to the succession would have to pay had he made no alienation. If the reversionary interest was absorbed in the amount of security which the creditor had taken, he would have to pay that duty which the successor would have to pay had there been no charge created.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could not assent to that construction of his Amendment. His object was to make a distinction between charges and incumbrances created before the passing of this Bill, and charges and incumbrances created after. He agreed that in the case of those created subsequently to the passing of the Bill, where the successor had the benefit of the charge, it was reasonable that no allowance should be made in respect thereof; but where the charge was created prior to the passing of the Bill, the successor derived no benefit from it at all. The injury in the case he had supposed was not to the successor, but to the creditor. The hon. and learned Solicitor General had referred the Committee to the 14th clause; but that clause related to alienations, the one under discussion to mortgages or incumbrances. And if the clause were altered in the manner he had suggested, it would not in the least interfere with the principle of the Bill. He objected to the clause on the ground that it affected the security of the creditor. For, suppose a reversionary interest in the equity of redemption of land was mortgaged by the person entitled thereto to the extent of its full value, the effect of the clause as it stood would be that when the reversionary interest became an interest in possession, the person who took it in the character of a mortgagee, having previously given the full value for it, would be also required to pay in addition to that a duty of 10 per cent. It was for that reason, then, he contended that the operation of the clause would be unjust.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, has must say, that, if the clause were passed in its present shape, it would be the greatest act of injustice done to creditors by legislation
 1169 l. l. l., l., l.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would suggest, that it would be more convenient in all cases to have the amount of the tax deducted out of that which was personal property in the first instance; and he would, therefore, beg to propose the substitution of "may" for "shall" in the concluding portion of the clause to which his objection applied.
 MR. ALCOCK  said, he saw no reason for increasing the salary of the Assistant Judge. It seemed to be unfair towards the Gentleman who presided over the Quarter Sessions in the county of Surrey, and who had for a long time discharged duties nearly as arduous.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he believed there was a prospect of going on with the Bill, as it would be his duty to propose, if it were not finished now, that the Bill should be taken at twelve o'clock to-morrow, when they would have the advantage of going on whilst their minds were still fresh upon the subject.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he quite agreed that this would be very desirable; but circumstances were stronger, and they could not expect to gain every object at this period of the Session, when public business so pressed.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if the Committee would proceed with the rest of the Bill now, he would consent to postpone the timber clause, the only one likely to give rise to discussion, and bring it up at the end.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was impossible to take the vote on Thursday or Friday, and he could make no other suggestion than that which he had made.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had spoken to his right hon. Friend (Sir C. Wood), who was willing to make an arrangement for taking this Bill on Thursday. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) hoped, however, that the discussion of the Bill would be concluded on that day.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he felt some difficulty in respect to the course of proceeding in this measure. In the present position of public business it might be some time before it would be in the power of the Government to enter upon the discussion of any of those controverted matters involved in this Bill, such as that they were discussing on Friday last, or that which had been brought forward by his noble Friend the Member for Middlesex (Lord R. Grosvenor) in reference to attornies' certificates. He proposed, under these circumstancs, to put the Bill in Committee now, and drop from it all those matters that were of a character to excite difference of opinion: he meant the matters relating to the newspaper stamp duty and the attornies' certificates. It was desirable that they should get forward as rapidly as possible with the other parts of the Bill, in order to facilitate the introduction of the penny (receipt) stamp duty, as they could not take any proceedings towards preparing the dies and for the prevention of forgery until they could carry the Bill into law. He proposed, therefore, to proceed merely with the uncontested parts of the measure, reserving the votes as to those matters which were in controversy for future discussion.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, under the legacy duty the charge on personal property attached the whole property of which a party might be possessed, and this clause only enacted the same principle with respect to real property.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if all the evils anticipated by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) were to attend the working of this Bill, they would bring their own cure, for they would infallibly lead to its repeal; but he did not think any good or valid ground had been shown for these apprehensions. The right hon. Gentleman had certainly shown that difficulties attached to the working of that Bill which did not attach to a legacy duty, imposed as it was upon property of which they became cognisant through the medium of wills and administrations. It was quite true that in this case they did not know the persons who were to account for the property, nor those who were to enjoy the property. The question whether the machinery of this Bill was sufficient, and whether, if sufficient, it was harsh, might arise more properly under the subsequent clauses. There were two methods, either of which Parliament might adopt. They might go upon one or more of the parties connected with the property, and get at the nature and amount of the succession through the medium of those parties; or they might look to the property, and lay the tax upon it, leaving the persons to show themselves or not, as they pleased. They followed the first plan with respect to the legacy duty—the second with respect to the income tax, speaking generally; for in general they had no occasion to call upon persons for returns, but they looked to the property, in many instances taking no cognisance whatever of the owners. Under the present Bill they would not adopt the latter course. As to certain descriptions of property, in the income tax, they were obliged to go to individuals and call on them for returns; and that would have been the case in the succession duty, if they had adopted that principle. But it would not have been wise or equitable to adopt that principle in regard to those great matters of property which it was in their power to get at, especially all real and visible property, the funds and public securities and shares in public companies. Had they adopted that course of proceeding, and gone upon the property, the assessment must, in the first instance, have been made upon the gross value, irrespective of in cumbrances and irrespective of divisions of interests. An assessment upon the gross value was liable to this great and fatal objection; it would have been necessary to have a system of minute
 1184 1185
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if the words were struck out, no hold whatever could be had on inheritors against giving in a wrong estimate. Under the clause, the whole proceedings were subject to an appeal, and the only proper question to be raised was, whether effectual provision had been made for that appeal.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he could not conceive a more distinct definition of the circumstances under which this default should be taken to have occurred than was contained in the 44th clause. That clause, it was true, did not define the period at which default should be taken to have occurred, hut it clearly defined the circumstances necessary to constitute it.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he believed the party was perfectly secure in that respect. Surely it could not be supposed that there was such a wasteful, profligate, and absurd expenditure of public money that they would surcharge persons who had made a  bonâ fide Geo.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman must forget that the holders of leases for years were at present liable to this tax, and also to the probate duty, which was a more cruel tax, because it was a tax which the party was obliged to pay on the gross amount of the inheritance, and afterwards get repayment as he could. He was not going to repeat the
 1188
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was sorry to say he could not conscientiously accede to that Amendment. What they wanted was, not to make the party liable to render an account responsible for casual errors that lay be-
 1189 bonâ fide; bonâ fide
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not press his Motion, for at this period of the year it would be very inconvenient to abandon the discussion of important Bills at 12 o'clock.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the right hon. Gentleman seemed to understand that the charge in the case which suggested the objection, was held hanging over the head of a successor till the investment in land had taken
 1168
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the 14th clause met the case of the alienee. And the case dwelt upon by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) was that of a mortgagee, where the succession had been mortgaged up to its full value, and the mortgagee took possession in order
 1171
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : He must object to that view of the Amendment; instead of it, his right hon. Friend proposed the insertion of words which would exempt from the operation of the Bill all incumbrances created or incurred by a successor prior to the time appointed for the commencement of the Act. Consequently, he would not only exempt the mortgagee, but succession in regard to incumbrances. The clause as it stood was precisely analogous to preceding legislation. His right hon. Friend said, however, that it affected the security of the creditor. But when they passed the income tax, did they affect the security of the creditor? Did they affect his security when they renewed that Act? Or did they affect it when that Act was again passed a few days ago? The fact was, that the principle of the clause was exactly the same as that on which they passed the Income Tax Act.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if the hon. and learned Gentleman would undertake to provide an assembly of human legislators with the means of so framing laws that they could in every case digest the operation of each provision according to the moral excellence or the demerit of the transaction to which it applied, he should be happy to meet the hon. and learned Gentleman, and make any amendment in this Bill. But they could only proceed on broad, clear, simple and intelligible rules; and, proceeding on such rules, the provision in the clause as it stood was not only conformable to precedent, but far more conformable to justice. Could anything be more exceptional than the case instanced? It was one case in a hundred. It was the case of money thrown away by an incumbrancer; and, if not an exceptional case, tended to prove that there was a great tendency among the higher classes to live beyond their means. But were they to legislate with tenderness in relation to such cases? The hon. and learned Gentleman might think that those who acceded to the tendency ought to have special favourfrom the Legislature; but he was of a different opinion. The doctrine was that allowance should be made for incumbrances prior to the passing of this Act. Suppose the case of a man who had raised money on his personal security. [Mr. MALINS: They cannot get it.] They did get it. It was notorious they got it; but not to so large an amount. What did it signify whether, on coming into the succession, the successor owed 10,000 l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not know whether the right hon. Gentleman was irregular in his remarks in insisting on the resumption of a debate on a point already rejected by the Committee, or whether he was out of order in rising to notice them. He should, however, make a formal Motion in order that he might say a few words. He should, therefore, more that the clause stand part
 1175 "And also in respect of any money which the successor may have previously to his succession laid out in substantial repairs, or in the permanent improvement of the real property comprised in his succession."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must remind the right hon. Gentleman there was no such case; that legacy duty was paid regardless of the successor's debts, the deductions being only on the debts of the testator.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if the debt was not made a tax on the property, it would be placed on a different footing from any other tax.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the operation of this clause would be to place a debt in respect to the succession duty on precisely the same footing with every other debt which a person was liable to pay. Was it the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentleman that there ought to be one kind of debt due to the Crown in respect of the succession duty, and another debt due to the Crown in respect of all other taxes? It appeared to him that the only just course to take was to place this duty on the same ground as all other duties.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the objection of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) and of the hon. Member for Haverford west (Mr. Philipps) applied to the Probate Duties Bill, and not to the present. It was impossible for him in the present Session to undertake the reform of the probate duties; but whenever it was undertaken, he thought the House would find the reform would lead to the diminution of the duty, and not an increase, and that there would consequently be a loss to the revenue, The repayment of duty was always a difficult and vexatious matter, and it was absolutely necessary to fence it about with careful restrictions. The true principle was, to make those repayments as rare as possible, and upon that principle this Bill proceeded.
 MR. BARROW  said, the question was, whether a man was to pay two taxes upon an estate, or one.
 MR. BARROW  said, that being a trustee himself, and knowing the difference between trusteeship of real property and executorship under a will, where the legacy duty could be paid without any difficulty, he must protest against the injustice which by an  ex post facto
 MR. W. LOCKHART  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought that the difficulty entertained by the right hon. Gentleman might be removed on a common principle of mercantile transactions. He objected to the system of allowing four years and a half credit for payment of succession duty on land, while that upon personalty was to be paid within twenty-one days under certain fixed penalties. If, however, the House were determined to bestow the advantage of four years and a half credit on successions to realty, he imagined that the objection of the right hon. Gentleman could be removed by the introduction of a common principle. All commercial transactions in this country were based upon a system of credit; but it was always understood that if a person paid ready money he received discount. Now that principle could be easily applied to the present case. If a person had the choice of paying ready money and receiving a reduction, instead of being compelled to extend the payment over a term of years, it seemed to him that the difficulty would be removed with regard to the "statesmen" of Westmoreland and Cumberland. He did not consider that the tax would fall upon them with any peculiar hardship. A man
 1183 l.,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  ridiculed the hardships which hon. Gentlemen opposite were conjuring up. Why, an estate of 70.000 l. l.
 MR. BOWYER  said, he objected to the proposition contained in the Bill, for he considered that the test of the number of indictments, as applied to the duties of the Assistant Judge, was fallacious, as the trial of many of them only occupied a few minutes; and he believed the Judge in question did not take much trouble with them, for they were tried in a very off-hand way. He thought the salary of the County Court Judges was a fair test by which to try that of the Assistant Judge. Every one knew that there were greater difficulties in deciding civil as compared with criminal cases: in the former, points of law often arose, while in the latter only questions of fact were to be tried. The County Court Judges had 1,200 l. 1197 l.
 SIR JOHN DUCKWORTH  said, he did not think that the fact of the business of the Court being increased, and also a saving in the expenditure attendant upon criminal proceedings having been effected, was any reason for increasing the salary of the Assistant Judge. If it were the case that criminal prosecutions in the Central Criminal Court cost 4 l. s. d., l. s.,
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would suggest that as it had been arranged that a debate on another subject should take place on Friday, the more convenient course would be to commence the consideration of the Government of India Bill in Committee on Monday, especially as the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) had expressed his intention to proceed with that measure  de die in diem,
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought they should receive more explanation respecting this clause. It was a clause upon which he looked with great alarm, and which would operate most oppressively upon the whole of the country. He wished to know how the small proprietors with incomes under 150 l. l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would not object to go on if there were a prospect of concluding; but he did not think there was any. He wished to know if the same arrangement was to be persevered in with regard to the business of the week. The right hon. Gentleman had announced that the Committee on the India Bill would be taken on Thursday, and proceeded with  de die in diem.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the words would quite meet the cases he had pointed out. He would now say a word or two in reference to the right hon. Gentleman's remarks on what had fallen from his (Sir J. Pakington's) right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) who had been challenged to show that taxing bills had only a retrospective effect. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was right as to the letter, hut his right hon. Friend was right as the spirit of the
 1176 ex post facto
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he considered that the question whether the Amendment was founded upon justice, was more important than whether it would interfere with the principle of the Bill. He contended that it was founded on the strictest justice. In the case of property encumbered nearly to its full value, the tax was made a first charge, and must be paid before the mortgagee could realise his security. Though in point of form the successor would pay the duty, it would in fact come out of the pocket of the mortgagee, who had had no notice of such a claim, and could not, by limiting his advances, have guarded against it. A son joining his father in raising money—not an uncommon case—on the property, would, as the clause stood, pay succession tax on the sums in which he had so joined, and from which he had derived no benefit. Those were cases of gross injustice, and ought to be provided for by an alteration of the clause.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, the right hon. Gentleman was himself establishing a new set of Crown debtors, which did not before exist. Under the legacy duty they attached the property; in the present case they also attached the property, and that however extended or however limited it might be. The consequence as regarded real property would be that they would put an effectual bar upon the sale of real property if this charge were once registered as a debt due to the Crown. The hon. and learned Solicitor General said they would get rid of the charge by paying the debt. But a small proprietor could in many cases only pay the debt by selling the estate, while this Act would operate as an effectual bar to the sale.
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  said, he begged to suggest that the charge of the revaluation by the Commissioners should not be made on the party unless the estimate returned by the party should be exceeded by the Commissioners valuer by 10 per cent. If the value returned were only exceeded by a small amount, he thought it would he rather hard that the par should he subject to be charged with the expense of a revaluation.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, it would be impossible in many cases to comply with the requirements of the clause in respect to the returns, and within the prescribed period. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would postpone the clause.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he objected strongly to proceeding with the Bill to-morrow, for which other Bills were fixed, and when lawyers could not be present. There had been no desire to obstruct the Bill, but it was essential that it should be fairly discussed.
 SIR W. JOLLIFFE  said, he objected to the clause, which, he contended, would completely change our social relations with regard to trustees and persons undertaking the charge of property. It would oblige persons to sell property, and disable them from making a title.
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, he should oppose the Amendment. The House had already decided that the person succeeding should pay succession duty on the full value of the inheritance. The mortgagee would be only placed in a similar position.
 1172
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he must protest against the balance of the Irish accumulations being transferred to England, on the ground of the expenditure upon Kingstown harbour. This was another step towards that centralisation which had already so grievously injured the country.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  would suggest that the local authorities at seaports should have the privilege of recommending persons for pensions.
 MR. HUME  seconded the Motion, saying that the speech which had been made on this subject some time ago by the Solicitor General had given the greatest satisfaction; but as no measure had been introduced by the Government, he hoped that the House would give its best consideration to the measure of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Collier), as well as to the clear and able statement by which he had introduced it.
 MR. HUME : These are living sinecurists?
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, there was one thing on which he took it they were all agreed, both in that House and out of it, and as to which even Doctors' Commons hardly ventured to raise a; dissenting voice—namely, that the jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical courts in matters testamentary did require great and complete-reform. But, on the other hand, it must be admitted that the mode of carrying out that reform was a matter of considerable difficulty. Whether they should establish one single court apart for the purpose, with all proper guarantees for a good and simple system of procedure, the evidence being taken in the manner in which it was taken in the courts of common law, was one question. On the other hand, whether they should transfer the jurisdiction to some other court, and, if so, whether to a court of common law or to a court of equity—the one possessing a peculiar aptitude for the trial of wills, the other having better machinery for the administration of the property of a person deceased, was another question. At the same time, he did not mean to say that was not a question with which the Government might perfectly well grapple; but it did so happen that there was sitting at that peculiar conjuncture a Commission of persons of very great ability; and, under these circumstances, it was deemed better to wait until they had reported the result of their deliberations, and to see what measures they might recommend to the consideration of Parliament. They had been led to suppose that the report was on the eve of publication; and the moment it was before the House it would be the duty of the Government to turn their most anxious attention to the subject. In the meantime, the House would agree with him that they and the country were largely indebted to the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth (Mr. Collier) not only for having brought the subject for ward, but for the care and attention which he had bestowed upon it, and the singular ability with which he had placed it before the House. Every one must rejoice at the manner in which the subject had been discussed and ventilated; all were agreed on the necessity of some measure, and he trusted that another Session of Parliament would not pass over their heads without a great reform on this subject.
 MR. COBBETT*  rose to ask the House to give him leave to bring in a Bill-to limit the hours of labour of women, young persons, and children, in factories, to ten in the day for the first five days of the week, and seven and a half hours on-Saturday; or, in other words, practically to restore the Ten Hours' Bill of 1847 and to include, as it were, in that Bill children from the age of eight to thirteen, who had hitherto been excluded from it He had been strongly urged by a large number of his own constituents, and by others in the factory districts, to bring in a Bill which should both shorten the hours of labour, and secure a perfect inspection of factories. He would briefly recall to the House the state of the law upon this subject. In 1833 an Act was passed which made the factory day, in point, of fact, one of fifteen hours duration, since it provided that labour should commence not earlier than half-past five, and should terminate not later than half-past eight. In 1844 another Act was passed by which the labour of young persons between the ages of twelve and eighteen, and of all women, should be limited to twelve hours a day. 'That Act also permitted children from eight to thirteen years of age to work six and a half hours each day, so that it was competent to manufacturers to employ two sets on any one day, and thus it created in effect two factory days. In 1847 the Ten Hours' Act passed, limiting the labour of women and young persons to ten hours a day. This left the law so that where mill-owners chose to employ two sets of young-children and adult males they could work a large number of hours, while those who employed women and young persons could work only ten hours a day. This led the millowners to endeavour to escape the
 1252 1253 "The delegate from the Manchester Spinners Committee said the people employed the two hours allowed by the Act very well indeed. A number of the men he had worked with were now going to school, and there was a prospect of their being good scholars in a short time. Wages had considerably advanced, and were higher than before the Ten Hours' Bill passed. Many of the men in this branch were now cultivating small plots of garden ground; the females were attending decidedly better to their domestic duties, and the men were made more comfortable at home. Of the females who were subjected to the shift system many were spending their interval of time in the beer-houses. "On behalf of the Short-Time Committee, the answers were, that the females and young persons were much more at home attending to their social, domestic duties, and the young especially were attending better to moral and religious education. The lathers of families in numbers of instances were attending to the education of their children. The wages of the hands had not been reduced in proportion to the time of working. Indeed, the hands in many cases were now receiving as much for ten hours' work as they had received for twelve in the year 1844. "On behalf of the power-loom overlookers, the report was to the same effect. Where the Bill had been fairly and fully carried into effect, the delegate stated that the improvement in the physical aspect of the workers under him was such as he could not persuade the meeting to believe unless they saw it for themselves. The moral disposition of these hands was also undergoing a most satisfactory change. Before the Factory Act came into operation he had noticed the avidity with which the young men would rush into the first jerry shop after leaving the mill, often followed thither by the boys to get some of the drink. Now, since they got away at the same time with their wives—for many wives worked in the mills with their husbands—early in the evening, they would be seen walking off home with their wives. The children, too, were being sent to school all clean and tidy, and many of them actually teaching their fathers the lessons they learned at school. There was now such a disposition to get learning, and to render themselves respected and respectable members of society, on the part of the factory operatives as only those who have seen it will believe. As to wages, he could state that in the weaving department the same quantity and quality of work were now generally produced in the mills in ten hours, that were formerly produced in twelve hours, and there was more money for the same amount of work. The reason of this was obvious. It was better work, and there was not the perpetual? abatement which used to be taken off for bad work. "At Astley Bridge all the mills were worked in accordance with the law. A school for factory operatives had been set up, called the' Sharpus Institute,' open three nights a week. It had a body of ninety-five members, chiefly factory operatives and supporters of education to the rising generation. The females had been more able to attend to their domestic duties, and the men were
 1254 "The men, by hundreds, are to be seen at their small plots of ground. If you were here you might see them going to their plots of ground with their shovels and spades on their shoulders, eager as possible to get to their gardens; others are engaged in leaching at night-schools, and some go to those schools to learn. The young females as well as wives, are improving in every respect; they are fresher in appearance; more clean and active, the wives are attending better to their domestic duties, and we find their homes improved. There have been some schools opened for the purpose of learning the young females to dressmake, and a great number are attending; one man told us his daughter had there learned so that his wife and daughters could make their own dresses, and this instruction is given by some benevolent ladies in the town voluntarily. The wages are as high as when they worked twelve hours per day, and in some cases higher; and in every way the working people, both young and old, are in better circumstances, and the result is more comfort and contentment. Let us work on in the good cause, and not be weary, and be assured that God will cause right to triumph over might.—I remain, yours in the cause, "JOHN RAWSON." 1255 "It may be said, and will be said by the Government, if they introduce a measure— We do not interfere with the principle of the Act, which is that no young person shall work more than ten hours a day.' I am anxious to press this point on your attention, because I know a great deal of stress has been laid upon it, and will again he laid upon it if the relay system is brought forward in Parliament. It will be said—' We are not at all affecting the principle of this Act; we are protecting women and young persons from working more than ten hours a day, just as we did before; and, therefore, in order that the machinery may be employed for a longer period, we think it but reasonable, observing the principles of the Bill, and protecting women and young persons, that we should allow the system of relays.' That will be the argument. It is not necessary for me to answer this argument here; but it may be in the House of Commons. There are two reasons why this system should not be allowed. In the first place, is there no consideration for adult men? You have already put them in connexion with, and chained them to, the mule, and to the loom, and to the engine; you have bound them to iron, and to brass, and to steel; and you are now—whilst they had before certain protection in the physical weakness of the women and youth with whose working they were associated—you are now going to infuse fresh life and blood into those beings with whom they are to be co-workers on the relay system; so that the question is now to be as to the adult male, whether he shall be worked to death or not?—fifteen hours a day!—sixteen hours a day! Allow the relay system, and who will tell where mammon will stop in its attempt to destroy men's lives? For my part, I can regard it as little less than murder; and I trust the Legislature will never allow a system to which such strong objections may be offered. The argument on the other side will be—' But these are freemen. You talk of their inevitable connexion with brass and iron! Those are all figures of rhetoric Aye! are these figures of rhetoric? We know here they are practical facts. Talk of freedom! The man in a factory is not free." 1256 1257 "It was impossible to exaggerate the benefits which had accrued from the Act of 1817. The cause of education had greatly progressed, and it had been stated, that, in the parish of Leeds alone as many as 100 night schools had been established since the passing of the Bill. The number of allotments of land had also increased. He had yet to learn that the consent of the factory operatives had been given to the compromise proposed by this Bill. As far as his knowledge extended, the case was directly the reverse; for in every manufacturing parish or district of any consequence in his diocese public meetings had assembled, insisting upon a Ten Hours' Act, without a single voice being raised against it. It was said that the present measure would be a final settlement of the question, but he did not believe it. There was a strong feeling of indignation among the manufacturing operatives on the subject." 1258 1259 "The greatest of these offenders was Mr. 'William Bracewell, of Barnoldswick, near Colne, the owner of large cotton mills. This person was prosecuted last June for transgressing the law in this manner, as was fully narrated in my last report. The skill by which his attorney then contrived to prevent convictions in the greater number of the informations, and the great leniency of the magistrates in imposing the lowest penalty the Act allows, in those cases which were proved by such of the witnesses as, disregarding threats of consequences, fearlessly told the truth, appear to have encouraged Mr. Bracewell to continue his practice of working contrary to law. Information was last winter given to Mr. Jones, on which he could perfectly rely, that it was the regular practice in Mr. Bracewell's mill to begin work, with young persons and women, at half-past five in the morning; but he was told, at the same time, that his coming by the usual road to Colne would be of no use, because arrangements had been made by which information was given as soon as an Inspector appeared within some miles of the factory. Mr. Jones, determined that so gross a violation of the law should, if possible, be checked, took very effective steps to ascertain the correctness of the charges, by going in the night by a circuitous route, accompanied by police officers, and arriving in the neighbourhood of the mill at five in the morning. Soon afterwards the lights appeared in the windows, and on entering the mill, a little after half-past five, he found the machinery in full operation, with young persons and women at work. Some made their escape, fearing, no doubt, by past experience, the consequences of being produced as evidence, but he got the names and addresses of several. Informations were laid before the magistrates at Colne, and the same attorney who had defended Mr. Bracewell on the former occasion, with the assistance this time of a barrister from Manchester, made so strenuous a defence, that only five of sixty-six informations were heard in six hours; but in these there were four convictions. The magistrates adjourned the hearing of the remaining cases for a fortnight; and the newspaper report states that 'a hope was then expressed that some arrangement would, in the meantime, be effected to avoid the necessity of the parties again appearing.' A few days afterwards, I received a letter from Mr. Bracewell's attorney, offering to pay 20 l. "I do not enter into any particulars of the other prosecutions for offences of this description, as it would only be a repetition of what I have often before reported of the difficulties we have to contend with to check this infringement of the law, which is naturally felt by the honest mill-
 1260 "It is therefore most natural that I should hear, as I frequently do, great indignation expressed by those who are strictly obeying the law against the fraudulent advantages which many competitors in the same market have over them; that I should be often exhorted to put a stop to these violations of the law; and that it should sometimes be said, in very plain terms, that the Inspectors were remiss in their duty. I am not aware of any case where there has been a want of exertion on the part of any of the Sub-inspectors or myself to detect and bring to justice any persons accused of such fraudulent overworking. But the difficulties we have to contend with are very great, and I feel myself called upon, in justice to the gentlemen who act as Sub-inspectors in this district, to point them out. It must be borne in mind that, in laying an information against a millowner, we must charge him with the illegal employment of certain individuals on a particular day or days. In cases where the additional time is gained by a multiplication of small thefts in the course of the day, there are insuperable difficulties to the Inspector making out a case that he can take into court with any hope of obtaining a conviction, There are three periods of the day when the steam engine starts, viz., when the work begins in the morning, and when it is resumed after the two meals of breakfast and dinner; and there are three periods when it stops, viz., at the beginning of each meal time, and when the work ceases in the evening. Thus there are six opportunities when five minutes may be stolen, or half an hour each day. The Inspector, if he came unnoticed, might detect one of these petty thefts; but very good care would be taken that he should have no other case on that day. If we take into account the plausible excuses that would be made, such as irregularity of clocks, the mistake of the engineman, &c.—defences that have again and again been made— nothing short of its being made clear to the magistrates that it was a part of a systematic course of overworking would, I believe, induce them to con-
 1261 1262 "Mr. John Cheetham examined; Would it be
 1263 1264 Halifax Guardian, "At one time I was not a great advocate for the restriction of the moving power. And why? Because I knew that the late John Feilden, a man we must all lament to have lost, and whose son has been here to-night advocating this question with such energy and with such honour to himself, was also against the restriction of the moving power, until he found that his own Act could not be carried into effect as it was intended. Had that man lived, he would have been foremost in the ranks of those who are advocating a restriction on the moving power; he would have declared that the miserable compromise of 1850 was to all intents and purposes a robbery—a robbery of your rights and privileges, and would have said, that as this has failed, let us now advocate nothing more nor less than a restriction on the moving power. It is only by this that your object is to be attained." 1265
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  here rose and said: I beg leave to call the hon. Member for Donegal (Mr. Conolly) to order. His conversation is so loud, his interruption is so great, that, interested as I am in the present discussion, I beg leave to call him to order.
 LORD SEYMOUR : Sir, the right hon. Baronet who moved this Amendment began by telling us of his great love of justice, and by blaming other Members of this House for not proceeding in a manner consistent with that sense of justice; but he proceeded himself to attack the Report of the Committee, of which I had the honour to be Chairman—a Report carried unanimously by Members belonging to both sides of the Houses and in attacking that Report he did not bring forward the exact point upon which he wished to condemn it. Now, Sir, if we are not to have this debate adjourned, I want to know how the right hon. Baronet is to prove his case? He says the Report is unjust and unfair, and he quotes that part of it which refers to the Duke of Northumberland having given up the civil patronage of the Navy. Why, Sir, those were the very words which the Duke of Northumberland himself used to the Committee, and I have yet to learn that it is wrong to quote a witness's own words in evidence of his opinions and practices. I ask the right hon. Baronet if that is the way he proves that the Report is unjust and unfair? He then went on to state other points, with reference to which
 1317
 MR. PIGOTT  said, another division would leave them just in the same position; he therefore hoped the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire would give way. There was no Motion for Tuesday week; and if the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire would take his Motion on that day, this might be taken on Tuesday.
 MR. PIGOTT  said, he must deprecate at that late hour a division on the main question. He should still press for an adjournment of the debate.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  seconded the Motion.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  said, he believed that the hon. Member was not in order in moving as an Amendment that the debate be now adjourned; and he, therefore, begged to move, as an Amendment, that the other Orders of the Day be now read.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, they had got into a difficulty, and he did not see how they were to get out of it, unless they had a full discussion of this very important question, for the country would otherwise not be satisfied. There had been grave charges against the late Board of Admiralty, and against the Committee, and for both reasons it was desirable that they should have discussion. The hon. and learned Member who brought forward the question no doubt commenced it at a late hour. He did so, because of the difficulty of getting a day. There were those in the House who might get them out of the difficulty. It was in the power of the Government, and he hoped out of regard for the character of that House the Government would grant a day. With that view he should move that the debate be adjourned. VISCOUNT PALMERSTON said, that, for his own part, he regretted that the question had ever been brought forward, as he thought it might have rested with the Report of the Select Committee. As, however, it had been brought forward, he would ask hon. Gentlemen opposite if it was not essential for the character of that House, and of the party they represented, to work this debate out fairly and deliberately. It was evident that their object was to weary out the House, and insist! on having a division, which it was evident, if taken at that late hour in the morning, and when it had been universally expected' that a division would not take place, could settle nothing. If the division was against: the Motion, as was probable in the then state of the House, there would be nothing to prevent those who supported it from bringing it forward in another form. He would, therefore, put it to hon. Gentlemen opposite to agree to the very reasonable proposition of the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. Pakington), that the debate should be adjourned. It had been put to the Government to find a day for the discussion; but his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) had stated to him, before leaving the House, that this was impossible in the present state of public business. He would
 1323
 LORD JORN MANNERS  said, he felt bound to say, after that observation of the hon. Member, that the speeches which occupied so much time on the Factory Bill proceeded from the hon. and right hon. Gentlemen on his own side of the House; and he had yet to learn that one of the most important subjects, affecting the condition of the great mass of the working people of this country, was art unfit subject for discussion.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he feared that the proposal of the noble Lord who had just sat down would not prove more satisfactory to the opponents of factory legislation than the proposal of the hon. Member who had spoken with such signal moderation that evening. He thought, too, he might safely say that the proposition of the noble Lord, however well meant it might be, and however well calculated to remedy a certain portion of the evils complained of, would not satisfy the wishes of the working people so well as the proposal of the hon. Member, and would not have the effect of settling this question now that it had unfortunately been reopened. In the year 1850, he (Lord John Manners) had felt it his doty to express his strong conviction, that the measure erroneously called a compromise, which was brought forward at that period, was in reality a compromise of nothing but the rights of the people and of the honour of Parliament. He still retained that conviction; and if that Bill had not been attended with all the injurious effects which he had then predicated, that circumstance was owing solely to the moderation and the loyalty of the operatives; and he believed that it had been the moderation, loyalty, and contentment of the people which had prevented the fulfilment of a prediction he had been disposed to make as to the immediate efforts that would probably be made by the people in order to win back the inheritance of which they had been wrongfully deprived; and he was afraid that if they looked at the subsequent reports of the Factory Inspectors, they would find reason to attribute the present great movement in which the Bill before the House had originated, to the systematic and constant evasions on the part of the master manufacturers of the very compromise which had been passed at their suggestion and in their interest in the year 1850. He had ventured, at an early period of the Session, to call the attention of the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department (Viscount Palmerston)
 1271 "The infringements of the Factory Acts in some parts of the country by the employment of young persons and women for a longer time daily than is legal, which have, we believe, been represented to you as a great evil calling for correction In memorials from certain owners of factories, have been often under the consideration of the inspectors at their statutory half-yearly meetings, in the hope that they might be able to adopt some course of proceeding which would put an end to such violations of the laws. We now feel ourselves called upon to represent to you in this our
 1272 "Those who are strictly observing the law naturally claim that the provisions of the Act in so important a matter shall not be suffered to be violated with impunity, and that all occupiers of factories shall be compelled to adhere to the same hours of work as limited by law. To carry this into effect has been our constant aim; but without an amending Act, which will make the detection of offences more easy, and the punishment of them more certain and more severe, we have little hope that the desired uniformity will be accomplished." "This illegal working of young persons and women will never be effectually put down without an amending Act, which shall take away the facilities for evading detection and punishment now existing, which shall make the occupier of the factory alone responsible, and which shall, moreover, inflict as the lowest penalty such a sum as will at least considerably diminish the gain by fraudulent working; for the shame of a prosecution appears to be no restraint on such men." "I should have been able to give, upon the whole, a satisfactory account of the observance and beneficial working of the Factory Acts during the last half-year, had it not been for the continuance of the practice, and that to a great extent in some parts of my district, of mills working 12 hours a day, instead of all hands leaving off at 6 o'clock in the evening, as is the case in the far larger proportion of factories in other parts of my district. Of this employment of male persons above 18 years of age after 6 o'clock in the evening the law takes no cognisance, and I am only called upon to notice it by the evasions practised under that system, by the employment of young persons and women after 6 o'clock along with the men. I have in my late reports dwelt so much upon this subject, that I need say no more than that the evil continues, and that it will continue, I believe, until the law is amended, so long as adult males are willing to work after 6 o'clock." 1273 ad infinitum? 1274 1275
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : I assure my hon. Friend I never said anything like it; but I said there was a systematic attempt on the part of some of the master manufacturers to evade the law.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I have to say that the Government business now before the House is of such vast and pressing importance that it is impossible for me to assign a day within a short time for the discussion of this Motion.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that as far as Scotland was concerned, they already possessed a speedy and cheap mode of administering justice in these matters by means of the Sheriffs' Courts, and he was happy to say that they did not require any measure on this matter 'for that country.
 MR. A. PELLATT  thanked the hon. and learned Member for Plymouth for introducing a Bill to remedy these abuses, which would prove a great boon to the commercial portion of the community.
 MR. DISRAELI  said: The hon. and learned Member will perhaps allow me to interpose for one moment between him and the Chair; but I see that the Motion of which he has given notice, is a Motion of an important and very peculiar nature. It is a Motion which is, in fact, a censure upon the late Administration, and especially upon the late Board of Admiralty, who are alleged to have acted in a manner "calculated to reflect discredit upon that Department of the Government, and to have impaired the efficiency of the service." I can hardly suppose that he would, at this hour of the night, a quarter past eleven o'clock, wish to make an  ex parte 1291
 MR. DISRAELI : I believe I was strictly in order for rising to move that the House should now adjourn; but I did not wish strictly to obey the rule. What I wished was to ask the hon. and learned Member— [ Cries of
 MR. DISRAELI : I was not going to make that Motion, and, therefore, it is not necessary for me to apologise to the House. I rose to ask the hon. and learned Gentleman whether he thought it fair to bring forward a Motion such as that of which he has given notice at an hour when it was
 1292
 MR. DISRAELI : I would suggest that the hon. and learned Member should appeal to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord J. Russell), to give him an early day for the discussion of this Motion.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he could understand very well that the course of the debate had not been so satisfactory as had been expected by hon. Gentlemen opposite. There was great complaint now that the statements made must be answered; but there had been no such complaint on the other side when a statement was made past midnight by the hon. and learned Member for Reading, with the moral con-
 1320
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish to say one word upon the Amendment which has just been proposed. As far as I can understand, there seems to be very little prospect of this debate being renewed, and I think, therefore, that there could be nothing more unjust or unfair than to allow it to drop as it stands. I trust my right hon. Friend (Sir J. Pakington) will not persevere in his Motion for the adjournment of the debate, but will ask the House to vote at once upon the question. At the same time I acknowledge that we shall go to a division under the greatest disadvantage, the Motion haying been urged at considerable length and in great detail, without the possibility of a sufficient reply being made. I have only one observation myself to make upon my late colleague the Duke of Northumberland. The noble Duke has been inferentially charged with a num-
 1316
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he was extremely anxious that the House should take such a course as would be satisfactory to all parties. He agreed with the hon. Member for Whitehaven (Mr. Hildyard), and thought that the hon. and learned Member for Reading (Mr. Keating) should not have pressed his Motion at the time he did, but have brought it on at a more favourable time. If, however, any Motion were now made for the adjournment of the House, he should be ready to acquiesce in it, regarding it as equivalent to a negative on the Motion.
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, a great deal of blame, also, attached to Her Majesty's Government for not using any effort to bring home to the hon. and learned Gentleman the unfairness, injustice, and impropriety of bringing forward his Motion at the late hour he did. He hoped the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire would not give way, and that the suggestion of dividing on the main question would be adopted.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the question which the House had to determine was, would it take the necessary steps to make its legislation effectual? He, for one, would be very sorry to sanction any restriction upon the motive power of factories without a cause; but if the legislation of that House—if the laws of the country—were to be systematically violated, not, indeed, by a majority of those who employed our factory operatives in textile manufactures, but by a minority, then, in justice to those whose interests they sought to protect by their factory legislation—in justice to the women and children of England — in justice to those fair traders who were content to abide by the provisions of our laws—if no other means could be found effectually to guard against such abuses, he (Mr. Newdegate) was prepared to consent to a restriction upon motive power—at all events, in cases where there was proved a wilful and systematic violation of the law. As the representative, indeed, of a large manufacturing district, he should be very sorry to have it go forth that he wantonly sanctioned the introduction of any restriction upon motive power; but at the same time he must say that it ill became Parliament—it ill became the Government —unguardedly to declare such intentions upon the Motion for introducing this Bill, as would preclude them from having recourse to those means which, they might afterwards find, were the only resources effectual for the prevention of frauds which were alike oppressive to the operatives, and unfair to the competitors in trade of those guilty of them. He would support the introduction of the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Oldham, because he would not consent to behold the laws of the country violated, because he would not see the just claims of the operatives in the northern districts set at naught; and because he would not tie his hands against the enforcement of a principle which had been repeatedly sanctioned by the House of Commons. They might depend upon it that nothing was to be expected from such mealy-mouthed declarations as that of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London. All that he had said to-night he had said before: he had given the same liberal promises, but he adhered to those means which had proved insufficient; this was equivalent to promising that his future should be as ineffectual as his previous
 1290
 MR. SPEAKER  then called upon Mr. Henry Keating to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice, with respect to the Naval Administration of the late Government, when
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the right hon. Gentleman was not in order in making a Motion for adjournment, after he (Mr. Speaker) had called upon the hon. and learned Member for Reading to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice.
 MR. E. BALL,  having hitherto appeared before the House chiefly as the advocate of the agricultural interest, was anxious on an occasion like the present to express his sympathy for the working classes of the towns. It was a very remarkable circumstance that he should have been selected for the honour of presenting petitions from Manchester, complaining of oppression. Why had not those petitions been sent to the Members for that City? Really, if he should ever quarrel with the constituents of Cambridgeshire, he should give the Members for Manchester a turn, for the many good turns they bad done him—by turning them out. With respect to the question before the House, he had only to say that if any persons had been guilty of any oppression of the poor, it was the most terrible transgression that men could be guilty of; and the reports of the Inspectors showed that there was great reason for concluding, that the law had in too many instances been infringed.
 MR. E. BALL  said, he wished to give another reason why the House should accede to the suggestion of dividing at once on the main question. The present Secretary of the Admiralty entirely exonerated his predecessor in office, and said it was desired to screen his superior by throwing the odium upon him. He asked hon. Gentlemen, could there be a more severe reprobation and condemnation of the Report of the Committee? The Report pointed to no one so much, so strongly, or so bitterly, as the predecessor of the present Secretary of the Admiralty.
 MR. E. BALL  said, he must express his surprise at the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) saying that the subject of his Motion was unimportant. He must decline to give up the advantage he now possessed, of bringing on that Motion on Tuesday next.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the observations of his right hon. Friend had left him not without a hope that before the debate on this subject was brought to a conclusion, the Government would have the advantage of his vote. His right hon. Friend had indeed disposed himself of nine-tenths of all the arguments against the clause, for he had said that after all the British seaman was the best and cheapest in the
 1230 l. s. l. s. 1231 s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he would consider the suggestions thrown out by hon. Gentlemen.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that considerable progress had been made. It was anticipated that only 180,000 l. l. l.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that it was not intended to consider the items of expenditure incurred by those bodies in a niggardly spirit; but he did not think it was expedient that they should have the power of incurring expenditure subject to no control. It was proposed by this Bill to make them accountable to the President of the Board of Trade, who, in his turn, would be responsible to Parliament.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he thought the matter had better be left to the discretion and judgment of the Trinity House.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that general approval had been expressed of the management of the lighthouses, and that he thought the object of the Bill would be better promoted by not implying any suspicion on the conduct of the bodies who had them in charge.
 MR. CARDWELL  replied that the habit of placing pensioners upon the list would now cease. Hereafter, no pensions would be paid except in those cases where promises had been made by the Trinity House before the passing of the Act.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, this subject would come under consideration more properly upon the 12th clause. But nothing could be more honourable or straightforward than the proceedings of the Trinity House on this subject, for they had, since the correspondence with the Executive Government, acted precisely in the spirit of the Bill. He had no reason to suppose that the other boards would do otherwise, but, if they did, the Board of Trade would have the power of revising their Acts.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the balance was not 170,000 l., l., l. l.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that, however he might be willing to accede to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, it would not be consistent with the scope and object of this Bill to agree to it. The grievance of which the hon. Gentleman complained, was not a practical one, and he hoped he would wait for another opportunity to redress it.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the subject to which the hon. Gentleman the Member for Roscommon (Mr. F. French) had referred, did not apply to the present clause. He could say, however, that no injustice whatever would be done to Ireland by the proposal to place the three countries upon the same footing.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he must oppose the Amendment. He submitted that if Ireland expected to get the advantages of the measure, she should he prepared to bear her fair proportion of its liabilities. It was clear if there was a material object, it was the lighting the coasts of this Imperial Kingdom out of a common fund, subject to Parliamentary control; and, besides, he considered the proposed arrangement was exceedingly fair towards Ireland.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, that looking at the position of Ireland, he thought she ought to be considered in discussing this Bill. The Ballast Board of Dublin had now a balance in her favour of 104,000 l., l,
 MR. HADFIELD  thought the country had just reason to complain of the grievous annoyance and inconvenience to which it was subjected, in consequence of the existence of those evils to which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Collier) had alluded; and he regretted that so long a period had elapsed without the introduction of any measure on the part of the Government. He was grieved to say that the confidence of law reformers generally in the present head of the law was not so great as in his predecessor. He must say for himself and his constituents that great confidence was placed in the late Lord Chancellor, but that an equal confidence was not felt in the present one. He must further observe that the country was much disappointed that the scheme of law reform, so ably indicated by the present Solicitor General, had been laid on the shelf; and he believed the fault did not lie with the Solicitor General, who found himself
 1246 l, l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. 1247
 MR. HUDSON  said, that if the Board of Trade were to cause an inspection, they would have to make the inspection an annual one. He thought it would be better to leave the matter in the hands of the Trinity Board.
 MR. HUDSON  moved that the clause be amended by the insertion of certain words, the effect of which would be to make Sunderland an independent port, without reference to Newcastle. He considered the port of Sunderland as one of the most extensive and rising ports in the kingdom, and he thought it was quite entitled to be placed in the independent position which it sought.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he certainly thought the Ballast Board of Dublin were entitled to credit for the 104,000 l.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he thought that Ireland had hitherto to bear the largest share of Imperial burdens, and that the Trinity House had not provided anything like sufficient accommodation in the way of lighthouses along the Irish coast.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he must protest against the anti-national spirit in which this clause was framed, and he would predict that, if adopted, it would engender a spirit of disappointment, if not disaffection, among the seamen, and drive them in disgust into the service of the United States. The law which this clause would alter had continued in force since the time of Charles II., and it provided that vessels engaged in foreign trade should not have more than 25 per cent of foreigners in their crews, while it prohibited the employment of any foreigners whatever in the coasting trade. The reason for the latter provision was obvious: the coasting trade was the home nursery for seamen. He might be told by the President of the Board of Trade that this question was the very pivot of free trade; but let the House remember that when
 1223 1224 1225 Economist 1226 Laughter. 1227 1228
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he wished to move as an Amendment, to strike out the latter part of the Resolution, and insert in its stead words to the effect that it appeared that during every administration of the Board of Admiralty, its patronage and influence were used for political purposes; and that the Report of the Chatham Election Committee stated that there was no instance of an election taking place in that borough in which the Government candidate was not returned. That was the whole truth, which had been elicited by late discussions. Government had not been
 1321
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he believed that an adjournment at that moment would be most prejudicial to the interests of the country, and not creditable to the House. Charges of a grave character had been made against the late Board of Admiralty, which, as it appeared to him, it behoved Gentlemen opposite to answer, and against the Committee that had sat upon the subject, which were, he believed, most undeserved. He was anxious, therefore, that the question should not be stifled, and he thought it would be undesirable, after what had occurred, to get rid of it by an adjournment.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he would take this occasion to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Trade what progress had been made in winding up the Seamen's Fund?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he considered the hon. and gallant Officer's anticipations relative to the operation of this clause on the seamen's labour market as altogether illusory. The clause would not deprive a single British seaman of employment, nor would it benefit in any appreciable degree a single shipowner. Independently, however, of these considerations, the clause was open to serious objection. By the existing law three-fourths of the crew of a British vessel must be composed of British seamen, and be commanded by a British captain. It was in the power of the Crown at any time to relax this law by an Order in Council, and to permit a large proportion of the crew, or even the whole of it, to be composed of foreigners. This power was, he believed, uniformly exercised by proclamation at the breaking out of a war, or at any period when, owing to temporary causes, it was difficult to obtain a supply of British seamen. The permission accorded by law of employing one-fourth foreigners in the mercantile marine had never been acted on. The principle of our law was adopted by every other mercantile nation in the world, although the relative proportion between natives and foreigners might vary. Parliament was now called upon to enact a law by which it would hereafter be sufficient for a merchant ship to have what was called a "British owner," without having a single English soul on board, from the captain to the cabin boy. For aught he knew, this "British vessel" might never come near our shores—she might be built at Bordeaux, and navigated by Frenchmen, and trade with every country but England. In objecting to the proposed change, he was
 1229
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, that this clause gave a power to Her Majesty in Council to appoint inspectors in certain cases after complaint made; he thought it would be far better to make this a general power. This would be better than waiting to institute inquiry until complaints were made.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  feared that the operation of this clause would hold out to the existing Boards to be lavish in granting pensions before the passing of the Act.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, be quite agreed that it was of the utmost importance that the bodies to whom the working of this Bill was intrusted should not be afraid, in ease of any deficiency occurring, of immediately repairing it; but he did not share in the apprehensions of the right hon. Gentleman, for he did not understand why there should not be the most cordial understanding between those bodies and the Board of Trade. He was, however, of opinion that all expenditure incurred should be subject to the most strict control.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  begged to explain that he had no intention to make any imputations against the Trinity Board.
 MR. LABOUCHERE  did not think that was the proper time to go at length into the details of the question; but there was one point in the Bill of such novelty and importance that he could not help calling the attention of the House to it for a few moments. The advocates of the preceding Factory Bills had always indignantly disclaimed the intention of limiting the hours of adult labour, and always said their object was to protect those who could not protect themselves, namely, the women, children, and young persons. They must all be aware of the danger and of the injustice of that House preventing the labouring man, under the plea of affording protection to others, from using that which was his only
 1286
 MR. I. BUTT : Sir, I understood the challenge to be this: to call on my noble Friend to prove that there was such a general and systematic violation of the law as demanded legislative interference. There are two things perfectly distinct. The right hon. Baronet is too clear in his views to confound them, as he will permit me to say he seems to do. Sir, the question what shall be the limit of your hours of labour is one thing—the enforcement of your limit, whatever it may be, is another. It is one thing to assert that legislative interference is absolutely necessary to prevent your limit of ten hours and a half being evaded—and quite another thing to assert that you ought to reduce that limit from ten hours and a half to ten. The assertion of my noble Friend was that the existing law is scandalously, generally, and systematically violated. We say that this violation is such, that unless you are willing to make law a mockery and bring the authority of the Legislature into contempt, Parliament must interfere with a high hand to put it down. Did the right hon. Baronet challenge them to read extracts from the
 1278 "I regret to say that the offence of working young persons and women for a greater number of hours daily than is legal, long complained of, still prevails to a considerable extent in some parts of my district. In my two last reports I have dwelt at some length on this subject—on the wilful commission of the fraud by persons of large property—on the mean contrivances to which they have recourse in order to elude detection—and the obstacles which the Inspectors meet with, from the imperfect provisions of the Act, in their endeavours to put down an evil so great as a systematic violation of law—one so justly complained of by millowners who are strictly obeying the Act. All that I have stated in these reports is equally applicable to the last half-year and to the present time; and I presume that you will not think it necessary for me to repeat what I said on those occasions, as my former statements can be easily referred to." 1279 "We now feel ourselves called upon to represent to you in this our joint report, that experience has proved that when the Acts of 1833 and 1844 were framed, the measures that have been resorted to by certain occupiers of factories, to evade the limitations of the hours of work fixed by these Acts, were not contemplated, consequently no sufficient security against them was provided. The clear intentions of the Legislature are defeated, because of the conditions to which the Inspectors are restricted, in their endeavours to obtain the conviction of an offender; and thus extensive frauds have been practised, and in some places we have reason to believe are now habitually practised with impunity." "Those who are strictly observing the law, naturally claim that the provisions of the Act in so important a matter shall not be suffered to be violated with impunity, and that all occupiers of factories shall he compelled to adhere to the same hours of work as limited by law. To carry this into effect has been our constant aim; but without an amending Act, which will make the detection of offences more easy, and the punishment of them more certain and more severe, we have little hope that the desired uniformity will be accomplished." 1280 1281 1282
 MR. I. BUTT : Sir, a challenge has been thrown out by the right hon. Baronet who has just sat down, which must not pass unanswered. As no opposition is given to the bringing in of this Bill, I had not intended to have risen on this occasion; but having long taken a deep, very deep interest in this question-—having been in communication with the delegates of the factory workmen—and having been consulted by the hon. Member for Oldham, I do not think I ought to let the challenge of the right hon. Baronet pass without a reply. The right hon. Baronet denied the assertion of my noble Friend near me (Lord John Manners) that the law had been systematically violated; he has challenged him to record any evidence from the report of the Inspectors of Factories in support of it.
 MR. FERGUS  said, he must complain of the employment of irresponsible Commissioners in Scotland. These gentlemen, called the Northern Light Commissioners, were the Judges of the County Courts, and never did any business whatever, save to make one or two yachting excursions, and to eat dinners on board. The whole of the work was done by the secretary, and, although the Commissioners had only thirty-two lights under their charge, they had twenty-two superannuations. He did not wish to deprive those gentlemen of their dinners and yachting expeditions, but he protested against the expense being charged to the shipping interest. Let it be charged to the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, he would not have troubled the House on this occasion were it not for the observation that had been made by the noble Lord the Member for Colchester, who, if he remembered rightly, had alleged that there was a systematic evasion of the law.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  was sure the noble Lord could not have meant what his words implied; but he had proceeded to class the masters on one side, and the men on the other, an dhow the masters did this,
 1285
 MR. HENLEY  said, that there was no provision for the management of pensions and charities.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to call the attention of the President of the Board of Trade to the working of the latter part of the clause, which he was afraid would have an injurious operation. The bodies whose duty it was to supply deficiencies might hesitate in doing so if they had any reason to fear that any item would be objected to by the Board of Trade; and it might happen that if a light-vessel got adrift, such hesitation in supplying the deficiency would be productive of serious injuries to the shipping interest.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not entertain any apprehension of the items of expenditure being examined in a niggardly spirit; but what he feared was, that the operation of the clause would be to divide the responsibility, and that was not, in his opinion, desirable.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he agreed in thinking that it would be better to make a general inspection, than merely to cause an inquiry where a complaint was made.
 MR. M. J. FEILDEN : I rise to second the Motion of the hon. Member for Oldham; and in doing so, I have to crave the indulgence of the House as a junior Member of this august assembly, in addressing it on a subject of great personal importance to myself, and of deep interest to the constituency I have the honour to represent. Being extensively engaged in the manufacturing trade and commerce of this country, employing between 1,300 and 1,400 workpeople, whose wages amount to nearly 1,000 l. 1266 "I should have been able to give, upon the whole, a satisfactory account of the observance and beneficial working of the Factory Acts during the last half-year, had it not been for the continuance of the practice, and that to a great extent in some parts of my district, of mills working twelve hours a day, instead of all hands leaving off at six o'clock in the evening, as is the case in the far larger proportion of the factories in other parts of my district. Ashton-under-Line, Stalybridge, Mossley, Glossopdale, Oldham, and Lees, are the places where it has been almost the general rule. Of this employment of male persons above eighteen years of age after six o'clock in the evening, the law takes no cognisance, and I am only called upon to notice it by the evasions practised under that system, by the employment of young persons and women, after six o'clock, along with the men. I have in my late reports dwelt so much upon this subject, that I need say no more than that the evil continues, and that it will continue, I believe, until the law is amended, so long as adult males are willing to work after six o'clock. It is the source of many and well-founded complaints among the millowners who close their mills at six o'clock, suffering, as they do, from the unfair advantages obtained in the same market by those who systematically practise this fraudulent overworking of young persons and women." 1267 "I believe that the serious violations of the law which I have now brought under your Lordship's notice, and which are felt to be a very great grievance by a large majority of millowners, might be effectually put a stop to by amendments of the law which would involve no new principle, would subject no occupier of a factory working from six to six to any inconvenience, would in no degree prevent the daily employment of adult males to the fullest extent they have ever worked in factories, or even to the utmost length their physical strength could bear, and would only impose a very moderate and reasonable restraint upon mill-owners working before six in the morning, or six in the evening, in order to afford an effective protection to the young persons and women." If those who in 1333 predicted (and there were some of great authority among our political economists who did so) the ruin of our manufac-
 1268
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, that, considering the high character and standing of the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond), he should hardly have stooped to be made a bridge for the late Board of Admiralty to escape by. For, since the truth must be spoken, it was not the Duke of Northumberland and the late Secretary for the Admiralty, who were on their trial—it was the character and conduct of that House. They had deputed a Select Committee, composed of Members of both sides of the House, to examine into the truth of certain allegations; they had made their Report; and then the late Secretary for the Colonies (Sir J. Paking-ton) came down at two o'clock in the morning, deprecated a debate, and moved an adjournment, which he eventually voted against, and took that opportunity of bringing forward egregious charges against the Select Committee. He would not say a word against his predecessor at the Admiralty (Mr. Stafford); he thought he had been ill used by his party; they made use of him, and then, when they found he could not be of any further use to them, they threw him over, and fell down and worshipped the Duke of Northumberland, who they hoped might yet be of service to them. ["Oh, oh!"] At least he believed that would be the opinion of the country tomorrow. The late Chancellor of the Exchequer had used the words "sneaking out." Now, the right hon. Gentleman had on many occasions shown himself a great proficient in that art; but he (Mr. Osborne) would ask him, if he did not wish to sneak from this debate, to use the little influence he might yet exercise with his party to bring this matter to an open discussion. He hoped he would use his influence with the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire (Mr. E. Ball), who, he believed, was still one of
 1322
 MR. R. M. FOX  said, he wished to have some explanation with regard to the balance of 170,000 l.
 MR. R. M. FOX  said, he objected to Kingstown Harbour not being looked upon as an imperial harbour, and its expenses
 1219
 MR. COLLIER  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to transfer the testamentary jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical Courts to the Courts of Common Law and the County Courts. It might he in the recollection of many Members of the House that he some time ago moved for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the whole of the jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical courts. Upon that occasion he attempted an explanation—feeble and inadequate, no doubt— of some of the principal defects and abuses of these courts. He on that occasion called the attention of the House to the nature of their jurisdiction, which he showed to be usurped, and to which they had originally no title. He pointed out that that jurisdiction was spread amongst many courts, such as archiepiscopal, episcopal, rectorial, peculiar, diocesan, and diaconal, amounting in all to not fewer than 372. It was often very difficult to define the limit of jurisdiction of each of these courts. On the last occasion on which he spoke on this question, he showed the inconvenience arising from the present law relating to  bona notabilia, viva voce 1232 1233 ad misericordiam. 1234 vice versa, devisavit vel non 1235 1236 bona notabilia. 5 l., bona notabilia, 1237 l. l., l. 1238 1239 devisavit vel turn. 1240 viva voce v. 1241 l., 1242 1243
 MR. HILDYARD  said, be bad earnestly urged upon his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Keating), at half-past ten, to postpone a question of this gravity, since it could not be decently or decorously discussed.
 1324
 MR. BOOKER  rose to order. The hon. and learned Gentleman had broadly stated that individuals of blemished character were promoted merely for the sake of political purposes. [ Cries of and
 MR. BOOKER  said, that, in his opinion, this was not a question of the rights of capital, and labour, and industry, but of the rights of nature. He did not on this occasion, any more than the right hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, intend to approach the principle of the Bill which it was proposed to introduce. He merely wished to say that as one engaged—largely engaged—in the employment of manufacturing industry, he gave his most unqualified assent to a measure involving so great a principle as that included in the Bill now submitted for consideration. Now he humbly conceived that the principle involved in this measure was, not the mere principle of whether the me-
 1287 1288 1289
 MR. CONOLLY  rose from the Opposition side, but did not proceed further than to address the Speaker, being met by loud calls to order.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, the complaint made by his hon. Friend applied with equal force to the Trinity Board, where the same
 1220
 MR. W. J. FOX  trusted the House would allow him to say a few words, feeling, as he did, that he owed it to many thousand of the inhabitants of the borough which he had the honour to represent, to express his entire concurrence in the object contemplated by his hon. Colleague (Mr. Cobbett). He could bear witness to the intensity of the interest which they felt upon this question: it was almost the burden of their thoughts; while to many of them it had been a matter of earnest exertion through twenty, thirty, ay, even forty years. They regarded it as paramount to all political questions, and there was no subject whatever in which their feelings were so deeply and so firmly entwined as they were in this. He heartily concurred, then, in the object of the Motion, understanding that object to be the restoration of the Bill of
 1283 1284
 MR. WILKINSON  deprecated the notion of regulating the hours of labour by Acts of Parliament. He did not question the benefits which had accrued from the Ten Hours' Act. They could not shorten the hours of labour without doing good to the operatives; but he did not think it was the duty of Parliament to interfere with a matter of that kind. The country was now in a prosperous state, trade was flourishing, and the manufacturing population enjoyed their share at least of the general comfort and contentment. Yet the present was the moment fixed upon for bringing forward a measure which would have the effect of rendering our manufacturers unable to compete so successfully as they would otherwise do with their foreign rivals. He trusted the House would pause before venturing upon a course so full of peril.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, as his noble Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department had assented to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman to bring in this Bill, he would not now take up the time of the House by offering any very extended observations on this subject. Still he must say one or two words on the general question. When his hon. Friend the Member for Plymouth brought forward a Motion on a former occasion, and moved for a Committee to inquire into the abuses of Ecclesiastical Courts, it was objected that in 1850 a voluminous report with the evidence was laid before the House, which went so fully into this question; that it was almost impossible to conceive any further inquiry was either necessary or expedient. His noble Friend had truly said that this was a very complicated subject; he (Sir B. Hall) thought that that was the very reason why the Government themselves should have brought in a Bill in preference to allowing an independent Member to undertake a task so important. With reference to the Commission which was now sitting, no statement had been made by any Member of the Government as to when that Commission would be likely to make a report; and, consequently, they did not know whether they would have time to consider that report previous to the introduction of a measure by the Government during the next Session of Parliament. But from what had fallen from his noble Friend, he thought it possible that that report would be made before the end of the present Session, or, at any rate, during the recess, so that there would be time to consider a Bill before Easter next. The hon. Gentleman had said truly, that although the public mind had been attracle to the subject by the statements continually
 1248 1249 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  replied in the affirmative, and added that they were now going on receiving the money, and doing no duty whatever. The paper, however, from which he read these extracts was very incorrect as regarded the total amount; for it appeared to have been drawn up before the remainder of the returns ordered by the House had been presented; and, consequently, the sum of 1,146,128 l. 1250
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that having brought the subject forward on a former occasion, and having moved for a Committee, which the House was pleased unanimously to grant; and having been a Member of that Committee which had presented a Report to the House founded upon the Minutes of Evidence given before them; — he had determined not to take any part in the discussion which might arise upon the present Motion, unless some hon. Member should find fault with the Report of the Committee, in
 1318 1319
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I challenge him to record any recommendation from the Factory Inspectors to reduce the hours of working to ten, and I said that the law was generally observed, was observed in nineteen-twentieths of the factories, and the violations of it were exceptional cases.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was anxious to say a few words after the direct allusions which had been made as to the part which he had taken in passing what was called the Compromise Act of 1850. He must express his regret that the question had been reopened. He had been one of those who advocated a restriction of the hours of labour of women, young persons, and children; and he shared in the gratification which all supporters of the legislation of 1847 must feel at the consequences which had followed from the restricted measure then passed, aided, as it had been, by the Act of 1850. But he owned he was surprised to hear the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Manners), with the reports of the factory inspectors in his bands, treating the exceptional instances mentioned in those reports as specimens of the general way in which the law was evaded, and stating that it was almost universally violated by the manufacturers, forming a direct contrast to the statement of the hon. Member, who said that generally the Act was obeyed not only in letter but in spirit. He (Sir G. Grey) must also say that the Act of 1850 had been totally misrepresented by the noble Lord. It had been his duty to introduce that Bill, for the purpose of removing evils of which the working people complained much, but which were not objected to by the manufacturers. The noble Lord was
 1276 "I believe the workpeople never were so well off as they are at present; constant employment, good wages, cheap food, and cheap clothing; many cheap, innocent, and elevating amusements brought within their reach; and, thanks to the last Factory Act, the greater proportion of all the operatives in mills have at length time for some mental improvement, healthful recreation, and enjoyment of their families and friends." & Vict., 1277
 MR. HENRY KEATING : If the right hon. Gentleman has any intimation to give to me as to any course which he thinks I should pursue under present circumstances, I, for one, should be most happy to hear any proposition which the right hon. Gentleman has to make; but I should submit to you, Sir, that it is scarcely in order for him to anticipate the subject-matter of my Motion, and to do that which he apprehends I am about to do—to make an  ex parte
 MR. KEATING  resumed: The word3 of the Committee's Report were these:—
 "There can be little that these results have attended the appointments adverted to by witnesses well qualified to give an impartial opinion on this subject. Officers of high character in the Navy, distinguished alike for professional abilities and unblemished honour, observed the course of promotion in the dockyards during the last summer with apprehension, with feelings of humiliation, with dismay, and even with disgust."
 MR. KEATING  resumed: It was right that the House should be reminded of the functions of the Surveyor of the Navy, and he found that the Report of a very influential Committee, which sat in 1848, referred to them, and stated that the proper application of the sums voted by Parliament for the Navy department depended greatly on the superintendence of the Surveyor of the Navy, and that to him was committed the whole control of the dockyards, be being required to decide upon the amount
 1299 1300 "Amongst them, looking through the list, I see that there were two men brought up for super-
 1301 "At what date was that?—Honey, I think, was superannuated on the 10th of March, 1849, and he complained a great deal about it at the time, and insisted upon it, that he was a better workman than the other. "Who was the Superintendent at the time?— Sir John Louis. "Does not the Superintendent of the yard attend at the examination of the men named for superannuation?—I do not know. "Your impression is, that men have been unfairly superannuated?—I should consider that if Honey is as good a workman as Axford, if age had anything to do with it, Axford ought to have gone, because he was seven years older; and I consider that if they were equally good workmen, a very gross injustice was done in that case. "Do you know of your own knowledge the state of the health of those men, or their fitness comparatively for superannuation? — I do not know; I speak of the reports that were brought to me. "Lord Hotham: You know this from Honey's own complaint?—Yes, he complained a great deal about it. "The Chairman; What superannuations were there during the nine months that Lord Derby's Government were in office?—I do not know. "That would be a question in which your friends at Devonport would be greatly interested, would they not?—Yes, but I do not remember; in fact, it is probable that I should not have known so much of the superannuations at the time of which I have spoken, except that they were furnished to me for the purpose of making some use of it at the hustings at the election. A great deal is said at the time, whichever party is in power, about political patronage; and I was anxious to be in a situation to show the effects of Government patronage before that period." "I was consulted upon it, Burt was a man who had always voted with the Whigs, I believe, until the last election; and, at the last election, he voted for one or both of the Conservative candidates; but, from a communication made to me, it appeared to have not been generally known. He called upon me one day, and told me that an order had been received in the
 1302 l. 1303 "About the 31st of March, 1852, Mr. Grant came to me from Mr. Stafford with a request that I would not submit the names of the persons to be promoted into the vacancies for foreman and inspector of shipwrights in Devonport dockyard, as Mr. Stafford's political friends were dissatisfied; he wished to promote some of their party. I felt annoyed at receiving such a message, and requested Mr. Grant to inform Mr. Stafford that I had been upwards of four years in the department; that I had not allowed political motives to influence my submissions to the Board with respect to promotions in the dockyards; and that I was not going to commence jobbing for him or anybody else; and I requested that such a proposition should never again be named to me. Mr. Eden, of my department, entered the room during the conversation, and heard what I said to Mr. Grant." 1304 "Dear Sir Baldwin—I find that great dissatisfaction exists among my political friends as to the present arrangement of appointments and promotions in the dockyards, as there is a very general impression that all those things are dispensed among our political opponents, insomuch that there seems no alternative but to resume the system which existed previous to September, 1849. I need not tell you that no one considers the blame, if blame there be, to rest with you; but you are thought too far removed from politics altogether to understand the small intrigues which go on in these places. For myself I hate the notion of patronage altogether, and the change of the existing arrangement would only expose me to perpetual annoyance and trouble; but in any case your wishes would always have great weight with me. In the perfect frankness with which I now state the case and ask your opinion, I hope you will perceive the sincere respect, with which I remain, dear Sir Baldwin, yours, &c, "AUGUSTUS STAFFORD." "My dear Sir—In reply to your letter respecting the great dissatisfaction which exists among your political friends, as to the present arrangement of appointments and promotions in the dockyards, I can only refer you to their Lordships' circular of the 27th November, 1847, by which you will perceive that, unless these regulations are withdrawn, and fresh ones substituted, advancement on political grounds is totally impossible, if the Superintendents of the dockyards perform their duty. It is needless for me to disclaim having favoured any political party, for you will clearly perceive, on reading the existing regulations, that merit alone can obtain advancement. With reference to that part of your letter in which you state that there seems no alternative but to resume the system which existed previous to September, 1849, I have to observe that it was only reverting to a system which had always been in force prior to 1845, and was then discontinued, I have reason to believe, on personal grounds. It is for their Lordships to decide whether they will rescind the order of September, 1849, which has been the means of causing an annual reduction in the wages of the dockyards of upwards of 10,000 l. "B. WALKER." 1305 1306 1307 1308 "On every occasion when it was mentioned to me by Mr. Stafford, on his representations I objected to interfere. I would not interfere because I had not had sufficient experience; but he afterwards represented to me that Mr. Parker's circular had been written by him, and was not a Minute of the Board, and that he as Secretary had the same power to revoke it as Mr. Parker had to issue it; he said also that he would do so on his own responsibility." 1309 Cries of" Cries of 1310
 MR. HENRY KEATING  said, that he begged to assure the House that he brought forward this Motion under a very deep conviction that the Report of the Select Committee on Dockyard Promotion, recently laid on the table, rendered absolutely necessary an expression of the opinion of that House upon the important facts which it contained. When the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall), originally brought this subject before the House, he stated in a clear and able speech that an alteration of a very important kind had been made by the late Board of Admiralty, in an unusual if not an irregular way, in reference to the cancellation of an important circular issued by their predeces-
 1293 1294 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the circumstances under which a 'circular sent to the superintendent of Her Majesty's dockyards, dated September 26, 1849,' was cancelled on the 19th day of April, 1852, without any order or minute of the Board; also, to inquire into the circumstances under which a letter addressed by Sir Baldwin Walker to Mr. Stafford, as Secretary to the Admiralty, in which letter Sir Baldwin Walker tendered his resignation, as Surveyor of the Navy, was withheld from the Board; also, into the circumstances connected with the appointment of Mr. James Wells, as master smith in the dockyard at Portsmouth, the subsequent cancelling thereof, and the appointment of Mr. George Cotsell in his stead; and generally into the exercise of the influence and patronage of the Admiralty in the dockyards and Government departments connected with the several Parliamentary boroughs." 1295 1296 "Their Lordships will not entertain any general charges of indifference to expense on the part of the officers, or of inertness on that of the men; and they are equally unwilling to dwell upon representations made to them of the effect of political feeling, in some of the yards, upon the course of promotion, though they can conceive nothing more dangerous to their discipline, if true, or more detrimental to the public interest. They wish to look forward, not to look back; their object being to introduce a system that may inspire every man with the belief that his conduct will be known and appreciated by his superiors, and that, however humble his position originally, his future fate depends upon his own exertions. Their Lordships see too much reason to apprehend that such is not the present state of feeling in the dockyards; but that the rise from shipwright to leading man, and from leading man to inspector, is regarded rather as a matter of accident, or favour, than as a reward due to merit, and to be dispensed upon plain and equitable principles. They feel that wherever such an impression prevails, subordination must be weakened; and they have, consequently, resolved to lay down one fixed and intelligible rule of promotion for all classes, as the best foundation of that more vigilant and intelligent superintendence which they regard as indispensable." "The Lords of the Admiralty state their determination to introduce and maintain a system of promotion, under which every man who shall have once entered the service of the dockyards, may learn to look to his own exertions as the only means of future advancement. With the view of giving effect to this determination, the circular
 1297 1298
 MR. HENRY KEATING : I have great pleasure in answering the question the right hon. Gentleman has put to me. I should be extremely sorry to have the slightest appearance of doing anything unfair, especially upon an occasion which involves a Motion of no ordinary importance. At the same time, the right hon. Gentleman will recollect that I, as a private Member of this House, am in a very considerable difficulty, for if I put off the Motion, I know not when I can bring it on; and, having given the notice, I think I am bound to go on with it. If the right hon. Gentleman can assist me in fixing it for an early day, it will give me great pleasure to accede to his request; but if the only power that can give me such a day—the Government—declines to do so, I am sure the right hon. Gentleman will do me the justice to believe that I have scarcely an option, but to proceed even at this late hour.
 MR. HENRY KEATING  said, it was certainly true that the hon. Member for Whitehaven had suggested to him not to
 1325
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  expressed his hope that the noble Lord would be able, consistently with his views of public duty, to allot a day for the discussion of this question. As a Member of the late Government, he wished to say that he did not shrink from the discussion.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I rise, Sir, to move the adjournment of the debate; and I do so because the extraordinary course which the hon. and learned Gentleman has thought it fit and becoming in him to pursue, has precluded the possibility of any fair discussion of his Motion, or any fair reply to the charges which he has advanced. Sir, I cannot congratulate the hon. and learned Gentleman on the course he has taken. Perhaps he may be learned in the law; but it is clear that he has a very limited sense of justice. Not even his short experience in this House can for a moment excuse the unjust course he has adopted, or the gross impropriety—[ Cries of" 1312 1313 "One officer, of high standing in the Navy, and supreme at the Admiralty, had power to check these proceedings. An appeal was more than once made to him; he intimated his disapproval, but he declined to interfere. His rank and station in the country, his position in the Government, his connexion with the gallant; service of the Navy, were deemed to be securities for the administration of a department confided to the Duke of Northumberland." 1314 1315
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought that the course which the Government had indicated was the best that could be pursued. Let a division be taken, and then let those who brought it on renew it in a different form, if they were defeated. It was true he had moved the adjournment of the debate; but his friends felt that that would not be a satisfactory solution of the difficulty in which they were placed, of either concluding a debate without the possibility of discussing the question, or of consenting to an adjournment to which they saw no period. The request which he made in the early part of the debate, that the Government would name a day, was refused; and in the difficulties in which they were placed, the party with whom he acted thought it would he very undesirable to adjourn the discussion to an indefinite period. He had wished to withdraw his Amendment, but it was refused, and under the unusual circumstances he felt bound to vote against it.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that the charge of the right hon. Gentleman, which had been conveyed in such elegant expressions, came with an ill grace from him, seeing the line of policy which his friends had adopted. Sneaking indeed! why, the right hon. Gentleman's own colleague, the right hon. Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington), moved that the debate be adjourned, and then voted against his own Motion. That fact alone would show the country which side was anxious to shirk the discussion of this question.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he must appeal to Mr. Speaker to state whether the right hon. Gentleman was in order in interposing a Motion for adjournment, when the hon. and learned Member for Reading (Mr. Keating) was already in possession of the Chair.
 Sir THOMAS ACLAND  moved that the House should adjourn.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that the House ought, in common justice, to be allowed to come to a decision on the question, which had occupied so much of their time. At least the debate ought to be renewed at some time when they could come to a decision upon it.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he would now move the adjournment of the House.
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  moved to leave out the proviso at the end of this clause, and substitute in lieu thereof the following:—
 "Provided that, in addition to the duties hitherto performed in consideration of the said bal-lastage rates, the Trinity House shall place their ballast on board of, and unload ballast from, all ships requiring to be so ballasted or unballasted; and they shall be entitled to charge for such additional duties such reasonable rate per ton for ballast so placed on board, or unladen, as Her Majesty, by Order in Coucil, may from time to time approve."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The only motive power I spoke of restricting is the motive power of the children.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  did not mean to oppose the bringing in of the Bill of the hon. and learned Member, but at the same time he did not pledge himself as to the course which he might feel it his duty to take on the second reading of the Bill when it had been brought in. At the same time he might state that he himself intended to bring in a Bill for the purpose of limiting
 1269 1270
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I have listened with the greatest pleasure to the speech made by my hon. and learned Friend in moving for leave to bring in this Bill. Indeed, I may say that this House must be anxious to see the results of the workings of a mind which has showed itself so capable of maturing the whole of a most difficult and complicated subject; for my hon. and learned Friend
 1244 1245
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would suggest that the hon. Gentleman might agree to adjourn the debate to this day.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought that there were two points, at least, on which there could be no difference of opinion. One was, that after the course which the debate had taken, there must be very considerable discussion on the subject; and the other was, that it was impossible that that discussion could take place then [two o'clock in the morning]. He, therefore, thought that the House would do well to adjourn the debate. An appeal had been made to the Government to give a day for this discussion; but it was impossible, owing to the pressure of public business, that that could be done. On Tuesday next, however, the Motion of chief interest appeared to be that of the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire (Mr. E. Ball) upon a question certainly of not very pressing importance— the malt duty. He would, therefore, suggest that the hon. Baronet who had proposed the adjournment should arrange with his hon. Friend to give up Tuesday next to this debate.
 MR. GREENE  said, that the observations they had just been listening to were more fitted for consideration in Committee than now, and that the most advisable course would be to reserve them until they came to discuss the details of the Bill.
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he concurred in the opinion expressed by the hon. Member (Mr, Greene.) As regarded the principle of the Bill, however, he thought the hon. Member for Cirencester (Mr. Mullings) was entitled to much credit for having brought forward a measure which existing practices rendered so necessary. The hon. Gentleman had been charged with making exaggerated statements to the House; but he (Mr. Berkeley) could bear his testimony, and so could many other hon. Members, to the fact that his statements were under rather than over the mark. He himself represented a large constituency, and the scenes of violence which occurred between the two rival parties at elections there, with their display of party emblems, and their bands of music, were perfectly disgraceful to a civilised community. The Bill might not be complete in all its details; that, however, might be remedied in Committee; but to the principle of the measure he could not believe that any hon. Member would offer an objection.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he did not understand why the words "agents directly or indirectly" should be struck out, hut he was in favour of the omission of the other words.
 MR. MASTERS SMITH  said, he believed the Bill would be entirely inoperative. If a measure were passed upon the subject, let it at all events be one of a good and efficient character—not such a one as this, to which he must say he was surprised to see attached the name of a Gentleman remarkable for his business habits and intelligence. If the Committee divided, he should certainly rote for the Amendment.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that as the clause was at present worded, if any gentleman accepted an invitation to a dinner in the borough for which it was intended that at some future time he should come forward as a candidate, the fact of his having done so might hereafter be brought against him, and disqualify him from sitting in that House.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he would be glad to know how far the prohibition against bellringing was to extend? As he read it, if he happened to go down to see his constituents at any time, and they rang the bells, as they were apt to do, that very
 1332
 MR. GREENE  said he must contend that the clergyman ought to be relieved from the responsibility of preventing the ringing of bells. Parties might break open the belfry, and ring against his wish. Indeed, he understood this had been the case at some contested elections.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he considered that such would not be the case.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  thought the clause as it stood would have the effect of putting a stop to all musical performances in Westminster during an election. The Bill was "most unmusical, most melancholy" as it was; but if this clause were not altered, it would render an election time doleful indeed. Under the clause as it stood, the ringing of bells on the occasion of a marriage, or the hiring of music for a theatre, if at the period of an election, might be brought under the penalties of this Bill.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  rejoined that he should be satisfied if the words "for the objects of such election" were introduced.
 Mr. HUME  suggested that the penalty should be increased to 50 l.
 Mr. VERNON SMITH  said, he held that the effect of the clause, as proposed to be amended, would be to stop all amusements of every kind during an election, or within ten days of it. He thought it desirable that the promoters of the Bill should agree to the form of the clause before they were called upon affirm it.
 MR. MILES  said, he thought the prohibition should he retained, for it was well known that persons paraded banners at elections without the consent of a candidate, trusting to the chance of being paid in the end.
 MR. HUME  said, the first thing to look to was to preserve order, and prevent bribery and treating; and all the provisions of the Bill had that object.
 MR. HUME  contended that no expense whatever ought to fall on candidates; the whole ought to be borne by the community sending him to Parliament. At a future stage of the Bill he should move clauses to that effect. The expenses he referred to would include the fees of sheriffs and other officers. He would therefore suggest the postponement of this clause, which went to legalise some of these expenses.
 MR. HUME  said, the hon. Gentleman seemed to suppose that nobody but rich men were to be candidates at elections.
 MR. HUME  said, the object of the Bill was, that one probate only should be necessary for the whole kingdom. When the Bill was read a second time, the hon. and learned Solicitor General made one of the best speeches ever made on the subject, and said he had a Bill ready. It had not been brought in, and they ought to know what the impediment was. Every year since he had been in that House, promises had been made that the Ecclesiastical Courts should be reformed, but they had not been reformed yet. If they could not get the whole they wanted, let them have part.
 An HON. MEMBER  rose to order. He would appeal to Mr. Speaker whether the hon. and learned Gentleman was speaking to the Motion for the adjournment of the debate, or to the merits of the question?
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  said, he must say that right hon. and hon. Members on the Ministerial side of the House were doing all in their power to uphold the present state of things, while they expressed anxiety to provide a remedy.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that as it would be impossible to discuss the measure at that late period of the sitting [20  minutes past 5 o'clock],
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that he could not move the adjournment of the debate until after the Motion had been made.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he begged to state that he was not a Member of the Government.
 MR. ELLIOT  said, it was a common case for sham candidates to be put in nomination, and to proceed no further. If their liability for expenses were removed, there would be a poll in every case, at the expense of the county or borough.
 MR. ELLIOT  said, he thought the wording of the first clause was extremely ob-
 1329 l., l., s.,
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Motion now before the House was, that the debate should be adjourned; but the hon. and learned Gentleman had not shown in the course of his argument any reason why the debate should not be adjourned.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he must again denounce the Bill as a "dirty, shabby measure," which ought not to be entertained by that House.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he should never cease to complain of the false eco-
 1337
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that music was very often played, and bells rung too, at elections., and no harm done. But because that model of purity, the city of Bristol, got into scrapes, he did not see why other boroughs and cities should be wisited with the consequences.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he could only denounce this clause as most unmanly. If a lady should wave a blue, pink, or red handkerchief from a window, she would be fined 50 l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had so strong an objection to the measure altogether, that no Amendment could in the least reconcile him to it. The words proposed to be left out might be the words employed in the Bribery Act, but the clause would not the less infringe upon the rights and liberties of the people. His maxim was, let every man do what he liked with his own. If other people did not like to spend their money, it was nothing to him; but he objected to be interfered with in spending his. "Let the galled jade wince, his withers were unwrung."
 COLONEL SIBTHORP : Ringing parish bells! Well, I believe parish bells do often ring, and I hope will long continue to ring. The ringing of bells can do no harm. On the contrary, I think it is rather cheering in every sense of the word. Respect is shown to the candidate or representative. The ringers are paid for their trouble, and they have a chance of enjoying themselves in a manner which but for that they would not have had.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he always had opposed Bills of this description, and he always would, as he considered them Bills of pains and penalties. He did not wish to say anything offensive to any hon. Member, bat he did not think he was using too strong expressions, when he said it was a mean, dirty, shabby, disgraceful Bill. It was a Bill to degrade both the candidate and electors. He had had twenty-five years' experience in that House, and he did not think the Members were so good as they used to be. What they might turn out, time only would show; but he thought it was impossible for them to get worse. By this Bill, a candidate might come down to a constituency—say to the city of Lincoln —and make the constituency the finest professions in the world; but fair words, they all knew, buttered no parsnips; hut, as to giving them even a glass of brandy and water, he would cloke himself under this Bill, when, perhaps, the real fact was, that he had not a shilling in his pocket. Then, they were told, there were to be no
 1326 Laughter.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he would suggest that the clause should define some period—say a certain number of days before the election took place.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said that it ought to be clearly stated whether the contingency to which the noble Lord the Member for Dumfriesshire, (Viscount Dumlanrig) had referred, could possibly concur.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he did not think the Bill would accomplish the object its promoters had in view; but he deprecated the discussion of the principle of the measure upon this clause.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, he concurred with the hon. Member for Cirencester in the desire—in which the House had shown by its proceedings that it participated—to put down bribery and intimidation. But that House ought so to legislate as to carry with it public opinion. He invited consideration to the Bill as it stood, and to the  animus
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  believed the clause would be inoperative. If a person desired to have a band and a procession, he might have them, but he would have to pay a penalty of 50 l.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, it was certain that, if this provision were introduced, there would be a contest at every election; in many places there would be as many as ten candidates.
 MR. BANKES  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman was a Member appointed to an office by the Government, and as such should have been the last man in the House to have made a Motion of that kind.
 MR. BANKES  said, Wednesday was a day allotted to the special purpose of discussing Motions brought forward by independent Members, irrespective of the convenience or inconvenience of the Government. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Phillimore) had therefore a perfect right to introduce his Motion that day; but the hon. and learned Gentleman happened to sit on the side of the Government, and directly he made his long and effective speech, up jumped a Member of the Government and moved the adjournment of the debate, to prevent a reply being made".
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he thought that, if the hon. Gentleman had desired, for the sake of other business on the paper, to postpone this question, he might readily have done so by an arrangement with the hon. and learned Mover of the Bill, before the Motion was made. As the matter now stood, he was anxious that the mistakes and the fallacies which had been put forward by his hon. and learned Friend, should, to some extent at all events, be explained to the House. He readily admitted the learning and the ability which his hon. and learned Friend had displayed; but his hon. and learned Friend had throughout proceeded upon this leading fallacy, that it was simony for a layman to hold the next presentation to a living, and to exercise the right which the law gave him in the disposal of that presentation; and, having advanced that assumption, the hon. and learned Mover declared that it was high time that such disgraceful proceedings, as he called them, should be put an end to. Now, leaving aside altogether
 1345 l., 1346
 MR. G. BUTT  said, be had begun by stating why the debate should not be adjourned, namely, that it seemed to him of the last importance that they should clear the question of the observations with which it had been introduced to the House by the hon. and learned Gentleman. He would, in deference to the wish of the House, content himself by saying that the existing law relating to simony had remained Unaffected since the time of Henry VIII.; the property in question was established under that law; and the House Was now Called upon to destroy that property, and that without rendering any compensation to those whom they so injured.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should he glad to be relieved from the responsibility of going on with this Bill, if other persons more competent than himself would take charge of it. The measure had received the sanction of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate, and the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside). It had also been approved of by the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins). Not seeing any Member of the Government present, he begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Henley) what prospect there was of the Commission now sitting recommending any measure of this description?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he had objected to that part of the clause which imposed a penalty of 10 l. 1335 l.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the hon. and learned Member had given no reason why the Motion for the adjournment of the debate should not be agreed to. There was some business of importance with which the Government were anxious to proceed that evening; and as it was near six o'clock he hoped the House would see the propriety of consenting to the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. VANCE  urged that before they passed this clause they should define what an "agent" was. In Election Committees they carried the meaning of the word "agency" a great deal too far, and made it applicable to persons who, in common law, could not be held to be agents.
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  thought the penalty of 10 l. 1336
 MR. HENLEY  said, he objected to the clause, for he did not see how any specific sum could be fixed upon for the payment of special constables, who might be engaged in some places at 3 s. d. s. s.
 Mr. HENLEY  said, that the object being to put down processions, the most effectual course of proceeding was to make the penalty apply to those who took part in them.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that in a subsequent clause every person who took part in the pro-cession was made liable to a penalty of 10 l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the exhibition of music and banners in the streets frequently led to riots, and therefore it ought to be suppressed; but perhaps his hon. Friend would confine the prohibition to the bearing of flags in the highway, or in public places.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that having been appealed to by the hon. Member for Sheffield, he must say that he thought if this Bill became law, it would make the confusion so intolerable that the whole country would cry out against it. The provision with respect to grants of administration was full of faults, and would aggravate the evils of the present system. The hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) was aware that the subject had occupied the attention of the Legislature more or less in the course of the last twenty-five years, and that Bills more extensive than the present had been introduced at various times by some of the first men in Parliament on the subject. None of these Bills, however, had been passed, owing to the defects in them having given good grounds for their rejection. The late Government had appointed a Commission, or, he should say
 1339
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was of opinion that the acts referred to on the clause ought to be shown to have been committed by the direct authority of the candidate, and that it was not right to subject him to penalties of such a severe nature for the unauthorised act of a too zealous partisan.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that legislation in this direction had been satisfactory in its results. It bad been the practice to distribute ribands at elections, but that had now been done away with. ["Oh, oh!"] Well, according to his experience, the practice had ceased.
 MR. HENLEY  was of opinion that the loss of a seat would not be too severe a penalty, but he did not think it ought to
 1333
 MR. MULLINGS  was of opinion that it could not.
 MR. MULLINGS  considered that the loss of the seat was the fitting penalty. A pecuniary fine would not be felt by a rich man, while the loss of a seat would.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he must object to the omission. They were taken from the Bribery Act.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he thought that this measure would prevent much mischief, and do much good, and he regretted that the objections of the hon. Members who had moved and seconded the Amendment had not been made on the second reading of the Bill. It was a well-known fact that a system of great disorder and treating was carried on at elections, by means of different bands going about in support of the different candidates, and meeting at the different public-houses. He believed that there was nothing which occasioned more bribery than the employment of flags and bands of music. It was true the persons so employed were not voters, but then they were all the connexions of voters, and they afforded the pretext for running up large bills at public-houses, where voters were treated ostensibly by these parties. At the last election for Cirencester he determined to employ neither flags nor bands, and he sent a letter announcing his intention to the candidates on the other side. He expected they would have followed his example; but on the day of the nomination two or three bands entered the town, and paraded the streets, in the interest of the popular candidates; while seventeen or eighteen flags and banners were waved in the faces of all who were on the opposite side. The bill for one of these bands amounted to 28 l. l. l. 1328 l. s. l. s. d. l.
 MR. MULLINGS  would insert the words "in any street or highway, or exhibited from any inn, public-house, alehouse, or beerhouse." This would obviate the objection which had been raised, and would, he considered, entirely meet the right hon. Gentleman's object.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he would admit that the wording of that part of the Bill might require some alteration to confine it to the object he had in view, namely, to put down processions, with bands of music, banners, and all their attendant evils.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he held that the words clearly applied to the purposes of the election.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he did not think special constables were appointed generally with the view of keeping the peace. He considered the employment rather as an indirect way of bribing the voters.
 MR. MULLINGS  consented to adopt the latter Amendment, which was inserted in the clause.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he had had a hill submitted to him for 220 l.
 MR. MALINS  said, he trusted that the debate, if postponed, should be adjourned to a period of the day when the legal Members of the House would have an opportunity of expressing their opinions with respect to the measure under their notice. It was a measure of the utmost importance, arid one which it was most desirable that those conversant with the subject with which it proposed to deal should have a full opportunity of discussing.
 MR. PHINN  said, he thought this clause ought to follow the fate of the preceding one. The sheriff was charged with the peace of the county, and if he incurred any expense he might charge it on the Exchequer. This clause would give people the notion that the charge was a legal one, and under it a great number of persons might be unnecessarily employed by an adverse sheriff.
 MR. PHINN  would make the penalty "not exceeding 40 s.,
 MR. PHINN  said, he quite approved of the suggestion of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), and thought a more extended clause necessary. To meet the objection of the hon. Member for Roxburghshire (Mr. Elliot), it might be provided that only those who were returned should be exempt from the expenses.
 MR. PHINN  said, he did not consider it fair to subject a candidate for a trifling imprudence to the same penalties as for bribery and corruption.
 MR. BARROW  said, he considered the penalties inflicted by the measure far too severe. It was hard that a constituency should on account of a slight indiscretion be prevented from returning to Parliament the man of their own free choice.
 MR. BARROW  said, he had as great and wholesome a horror of bribery and corruption as any Member in that House; and in the opposition he was about to offer to many of the provisions of the Bill, he was not prompted by any anxiety for his own seat, but rather by the desire to enable the constituencies of the country to be represented in the House of Commons by the men whom they wished to honour with their confidence. But he must contend, that the punishment provided by this clause—namely, disqualification for a seat in that House, was a criminal punishment; and he denied that any man ought to be so punished until the criminal act had been proved to be committed by his order and direction. What he now proposed to do, therefore, was to omit certain words from the clause, for the purpose of limiting the responsibility of the candidate to the acts which were done by himself. The words which he proposed should be omitted, were—"by himself or by his agent, or by or with any person, in any manner directly or indirectly."
 MR. BARROW  said, he must repeat that the objection which he entertained to the clause was the criminal punishment — for criminal he maintained it was, which could be inflicted by it. It was not right that any man should be subjected to such a punishment for the act of an agent, without proof that it was committed by the
 1331
 MR. BARROW  seconded the Amendment. He never saw so absurd a piece of legislation. Was he to be liable to penalties if any person held a flag out of a window? The imprudence of an accidental voter, over whom he had no control, might deprive him of the great civil right of sitting in that House as the choice of free-and independent electors, and all because some Gentlemen wished to button their pockets closer than they did now. The
 1327
 MR. BARROW  said, the penalty proposed by this clause was enormous, looking at the class of persons to whom it would apply. He was surprised to hear such anxiety on any side of the House to put down every demonstration of popular feeling.
 MR. BARROW  said, the effect of the clause would be to enable the sheriff to employ any number of men, provided the payment of each did not exceed 3 s. d.
 MR. MICHELL  complained of the Bill
 1330
 MR. CROSSLEY  said, that as no Member of the Government was present, he would move that the debate be postponed to next Wednesday.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he also objected to the clause, which would tend to legalise the charge to the extent of 3 s. d.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought the clause required more consideration. It was essential that some legal provision should be made to check these exorbitant expenses; and if returning officers could legally make no charge at all, it was unwise to legalise such charges, as was done by this clause. He would suggest that the clause should be omitted.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he believed it would be impossible to carry this clause into effect. It was usual after an election to have a dinner, and on such occasions the room was generally ornamented with flags; but by the clause this mode of decoration would he prevented. Then, how could they expect to recover penalties for hanging an old flag—it might be a pocket handkerchief—out of a window?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought it would be monstrous to make any person who, within ten days of an election, might hire a band, liable to a penalty of 50 l.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, that at Brighton the popular candidate was sure to have his flag at the masthead of all the vessels. How would they deal with that case?
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, the hon. Gentleman's Motion for adjournment, if made at all, should have been made earlier.
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE  said, he trusted, after the statement made last night by the hon. and learned Attorney General, that the hon. Member (Mr. Hadfield) would not proceed with this Bill, which would have the effect of multiplying the evils which he was desirous to prevent. That was the opinion of every lawyer who had looked at its provisions.
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE,  in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, that the object of it was to amend the law respecting simony, and to render illegal the sale of the next presentation to any ecclesiastical benefice. The evil which he hoped to be the instrument of diminishing, was one of the very gravest character. He wished to prevent a trust of a most serious and important character—no less a trust than the cure of immortal souls—from being made, as it at present so often was made, a matter of barter, of merchandise, and of commercial speculation. The evil to which he alluded was generally stigmatised by the name of "simony." It was one of those tares which the enemy sowed early in the Church, and which grew up in its present form soon after the Church became endowed. The great question was how the difficulty was to be met, and how the evil was to be remedied. The remedy had been supplied partly by the ecclesiastical and partly by the common law. By the ecclesiastical law the sale of any spiritual benefice or dignity was wholly and entirely void, and in this country the evil had been left entirely to be repressed by ecclesiastical censures until the time of the Reformation. The earliest Acts of Edward VI. and of Elizabeth were passed for the purpose of strengthening by temporal laws those ecclesiastical provisions which had been found
 1340 Anne, Vict., 1341 in articulo mortis, v. quare impedit "It may be wise (said they) to carry the restraint on this species of property further, and to say the next avoidance shall in no case be sold, for undoubted simony is indirectly committed by the sale of the next presentation." 1342 usque ad nauseam, Vict., 1343 1344
 MR. R. PHILLIMORE : It was competent to the clergyman at any time to refuse the use of the parish bells; and, in spite of what the hon. and gallant Colonel said, he thought that in any borough where a fierce party spirit prevailed, the clergyman would be exercising a wise discretion if he refused to allow the bells to be rung on either side.
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  considered that the loss of his seat was the only proper penalty which could be imposed on a candidate placing himself within the operation of the measure.
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  would suggest that the effect of the Amendment might be, that if there were two candidates, and one of them was declared not duly elected on account of one of the transactions specified in the clause, the other might be declared elected.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he concurred with the view taken by the hon. Member for the West Riding (Mr. B. Dennison) in thinking that a penalty of 50 l.
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, he would mention that in one instance which had come under his notice, where the clergyman had refused permission for the bells to be rung, the ringers had struck and refused to ring on the following Sunday.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he must express a wish that there should be a power of appeal from the justice of the peace, in cases of dispute as to the value of conacre.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he wished to propose the emission from the clause of the following Words: "Under any lease or grant made after the 1st day of January, 1S54;"his object being to make the Clause retrospective as well as) prospective.
 SIR D. NORREYS  said, he must deny that the Amendment would, as alleged, amount to a confiscation. It gave the fullest power to tenants over the lands they occupied, except in those cases where reservations had been made.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the clause prevented, and did not cause, vexation. It was less severe than the usual process by the Attorney General for recovering in the Court of Exchequer in all Crown cases.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he did not object to that.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would also accept this suggestion, and proposed words in accordance with it, which were agreed to.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Mullings) was calculated to mislead the Committee, and would produce a result more oppressive, more onerous, and more mischievous than if the clause were allowed to remain as it was. The way in which the production of a deed would be required from a party delivering an account, would be this The account would be delivered, in
 1382 "Provided always, that no title deeds, muniments, or evidence of title of real estate, shall be required to be produced, unless, on application by the Commissioners to a Judge of the Court of Exchequer in England, Scotland, or Ireland, sitting in chambers, such Judge shall think proper to make an order for the production thereof, or of such parts thereof as shall be necessary; and the same shall in that case be inspected by such person, in such manner and under such restrictions, as such Judge shall think fit to direct."
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was not surprised at the course taken by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and hon. Gentlemen opposite, for their object avowedly was
 1384
 The EARL of MARCH  said, the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer had not answered the objection which had been raised to the production of deeds in the possession of mortgagees.
 MR. WALFOLE  said, he now rose to object to that part of the clause which allowed the officers to take extracts and copies of the title deeds. Suppose a commissioner were to do so, and to have them in his possession when he died, they would then become the property of his executors or administrators. He considered that the power given by the present clause was a power which ought not to be bestowed upon any body of men, except under the severest and most stringent penalties. He should propose to amend the clause, by striking out the words "and they make such extracts therefrom and copies thereof as they shall think necessary for the purposes of this Act."
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would assent, on the part of the Government, to this suggestion. His impression, however, was, that the expense of appealing to the Judge of a County Court would, in many cases, be greater than that of making application to a Judge of the Court of Exchequer sitting in chambers.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that however willing he was to tax timber, he did not think his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Trollope) had shown any cause why, since all other property was to be subject to the tax, timber should be excluded. But he wished to ask some explanations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He still thought the wording of the clause was not quite distinct. In the first alternative it was said "that the successor shall be chargeable with duty upon his interests on the net moneys which shall from time to time be received from any sales of such timber, trees, or wood." Did the right hon. Gentleman mean to include merely the periodical sales of timber, or did he mean that if any gentleman cut down hedgerow timber, for instance, for the purpose of relieving his farm, he should be chargeable for such cutting, or that he should keep an account for such small items, and submit them to the taxgatherer? Again, the clause spoke only of "sales of timber, trees, or wood." He (Mr. V. Smith) supposed it was intended to exempt timber used for the purposes of the estate; but, if so, he thought this should be specified in the Bill. I In the second alternative, it was said that the Commissioners, if satisfied with the estimate delivered to them, "shall accept the same, and assess the duty accordingly." But what were they to do if they were not satisfied? The question of valuation was a most material point. If the taxgatherer were to be called in to value timber, it would be most obnoxious, and extremely difficult. Besides, it was the custom in his part of the country only to value timber under six inches through, and in some parts under twelve inches through. Then he wished to know what would be done with
 1404
 MR. KER SEYMOUR  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer thought that because other snccessions were taxed, timber ought to be taxed also. Now he could mention a case in point. It had often been said that it was right to rate stock in trade, but the difficulty of doing so was so great that it had been exempted. Although the clause had been greatly improved, still the difficulties would be so great that he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would make this small concession to the country gentlemen. By so doing he would in some measure meet the inequality of the income tax with regard to repairs, of which they so greatly complained.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he would not object to insert in the clause the words "or where timbers, trees, or wood, not being coppice or underwood."
 MR. MILES  said, he wished to propose a proviso that no timber should be valued which was of less than thirty years' growth. Previous to that age, timber bore no profit whatever.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCTHEQUER  said, he could not accede to such a proviso. There were parts of the country in which a profitable trade was driven in timber of much younger growth than that.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, as a number of vessels belonging to this country were at present detained in the Danube owing to the interruption of the navigation, he wished to put the two questions of which lie had given notice—whether any instructions have been sent out by Her Majesty's Government to inquire into the case of British vessels at present detained in the Danube owing to the imperfect state of the navigation of that river; and whether, in the event of hostilities with Russia before such ships can be liberated, a sufficient force will be sent out to that part to prevent their falling into the hands of hostile Powers?
 MR. LIDDELL  hoped the noble Lord would give an answer to the second part of the question—whether, in the event of hostilities, a sufficient force would be sent to prevent British ships falling into the hands of hostile Powers?
 MR. DUNLOP  said, according to the law of Scotland, the lease, in such a case as was Contemplated in the Clause, would descend to the eldest son as the heir-at-law of the lessee, and if there was he son then it would go to his daughters, if there were any, jointly. A landlord in Scotland had no such power of appointment as Was given by this clause; and he (Mr. Dunlop) was strongly opposed to the introduction of such a principle into the relationship between landlord and tenant.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, his experience was different from that of the hon. Gentleman: opposite. The part of the country where, he lived was not at all favourable for the sale of timber; and yet, for some plantations, containing timber of from twenty to thirty-five years' growth, a party who was at the whole expense of cutting, supplied him (Mr. Dunlop) with timber to the amount of 1 50 l.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that in Scotland all property was registered, but he did not entertain the same apprehension as the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Grogan), for he felt quite convinced, that when full information could thus be procured, no Judge would make an order for the production of titles and documents. It seemed strange to him that the landed interest of England should consider their stability jeopardised by access to their title deeds being given to an appointed functionary. In Scotland every man's title deeds were registered, and were accessible to any human being, and yet he did not believe the stability of the landed interest in that country to be in at all a more dangerous position than in this. It had been stated that a great number of the title deeds to property in this country were in the hands of mortgagees, and he could not understand how it was that persons did hot object to placing their title deeds in the hands of a mortgagee, and yet felt repugnance to exhibit them, to an officer under the sanction of a Judge. So far from the measure being injurious to the landed interest, he believed that their stability would be increased by it.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he would recommend that the appeal to the Judge of the County Court should be made an absolute appeal, as, if a double appeal were allowed, all the business would be brought into one of the principal courts in the metropolis.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought they ought to follow the precedent of former taxes, and would therefore urge his hon. Friend not to press the Amendment.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had wished to make the suggestion which his noble Friend (Viscount Galway) had anticipated, namely, that they should adopt the period of seven years for the continuance of this Bill. And he had intended to do so upon the statement which was made by the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer when he first introduced this proposition to their notice. The Committee would recollect that at that time the income and property tax was not renewed. He (Mr. Disraeli) had felt it his duty, on the part of the late Government, to propose to the House that it should consider the propriety of making some difference in. the rates of assessment for the several schedules of that measure. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not agree in principle with that proposal; or, rather, he acknowledged, virtually at least, that some difference should be established in the rates of assessment, and said that he was about to propose a measure for extending a succession duty to all settled property, and that that measure would be a compensation to those classes subject to the income and property tax, in whoso favour he would not recognise the propriety of making the difference which the late Government wished to establish. Well, the right hon. Gentleman proposed that the income and property tax should be continued for the term of seven years, and he not only proposed that, but he promised that if his views were carried into effect, the income tax would terminate at the end of that period. Now, if this measure was brought forward specially as a compensation to those classes who upon one theory were assessed too highly to the income and property tax, it seemed to follow that the compensation ought to cease when the special burden ceased to be inflicted; and therefore, upon that view, of the case, it
 1397
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, if the right hon. Gentleman referred to Scotland, he could only say that when he cut timber, of less than thirty years' growth it did not pay its own expenses.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he should vote for the Amendment, the whole of the arguments on the other side amounting to this—that because personal property suffered an injustice, therefore real property should do so likewise. If real property were to be taxed, let it be taken under Schedule A, instead of endangering all title to property, as these proceedings inevitably would do. If the Bill passed in its present form, it would lead to so much litigation as utterly to annul all the saving in the public expenditure which
 1385
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had listen-ed with great satisfaction to the remarks of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The fact was this, it was a combination of the Manchester school and Her Majesty's Government for undermining the land. But he begged to tell the Chancellor of the Exchequer that those who now professed to be his friends, were in reality his enemies, and would be the first to turn round and undermine him.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he would not even vote for the commencement of the tax, for in his opinion it was a most detestable tax. He condemned it both in principle and practice, and would, if it were possible, throw it out altogether.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that suspecting as be did anything which fell from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he suspected any modification he might make in this Bill was a gross robbery on his part. He read in the newspaper the other day that there was a surplus. Humbug and nonsense! He knew what the Chancellor of the Exchequer's froth was, and that it had no substance whatever. This was another attempt to rob the people, in order to fill the Chancellor of the Exchequer's exchequer, and make the public believe that he was a good financier, and was working for the prosperity of the country. He would ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer who was to pay the succession duty upon copyhold property? He was not speaking for himself, for he was happy to say his property was freehold.
 1403
 MR. E. BALL  hoped the clause would be amended as suggested by the hon. Baronet the Member for Mallow (Sir D. Norreys) and further, that it would reserve all royalties and rights to the landlord in cases where those rights had been exercised.
 MR. CAYLEY  begged, the Chancellor of the Exchequer would explain the principle of the clause, and the precise object of it.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he observed with great satisfaction the spirit in which the suggestion was met, and would propose that the Judge of the County Court should be allowed to send up the case to the Court of Exchequer in cases of difficulty. The objection to the appeal being made to that Court in the first instance was the expense.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, if the Bill could be well or practically carried into effect without the power now demanded, he could only say that this was additional reason why they should still continue to resist the further progress of the measure. The powers proposed to be taken by this clause had never yet been conceded to any Government except in criminal cases, and to apply them in this instance would be most unjust. The Chancellor of the Exchequer told them that the deeds were not to be produced unless a Judge should make an order to that effect; but was the right hon. Gentleman aware of the expense parties would be put to in resisting such an order? They would have to employ an attorney, and retain counsel. There must be a common law counsel who must be assisted by a conveyancer; and a vast amount of machinery must be set in motion when they wished to resist the curiosity of the Commissioners to inspect the title deeds, and the end would be that they would have to embark in a course of litigation which no man ought to be subject to. Nor, even after all this expense and trouble had been gone to, could the order of the Judge be
 1387
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he concurred very much with the hon. and gallant Member for Bath (Captain Scobell); but he thought the objection might be removed
 1369
 MR. LUCAS  said, he must express a hope that the hon. and learned Member for Wexford (Mr. M'Mahon) would press his Amendment to d division.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he would prefer that the Amendment of his hon. Friend should he confined to title deeds and muniments, leaving out evidences of title. They, at least, were not wanted, and, therefore, ought not to he produced.
 MR. G. BUTT  said, the last part of the clause was more stringent than the first, and he begged to suggest giving the Court power to extend the time for returning the account in cases requiring it.
 MR. MACARTNEY  would suggest that the power of appointment given in the clause should only be conferred on the landlord in the event of a lessee dying without issue.
 MR. MACARTNEY  thought that if the Amendment Were agreed to, it would have the effect of Unsettling all the property in the country.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  would suggest in reply to an observation of the deficient number of magistrates, that others should be placed in the commission.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he must protest against introducing a principle in Ireland that was not recognised in any other part of the kingdom—namely, that one justice of the peace should have the power of deciding upon these matters.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, the right hon. Gentleman, under the term "documents," meant two things totally distinct—namely, title deeds, which ought not to be produced, and settlements, the production of which he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman was necessary. There was no reason why they should not make it perfectly clear by having two distinct clauses. It would not do to tell hon. Members there was no danger in producing title deeds. The Report of their own Commission said, that for 150 years they had been trying to carry out a system of registration; but it had been effectually opposed by the uniform opinion of every solicitor in the kingdom that there would be danger to property if title deeds were exposed.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, that he had at a previous stage of the Bill inquired whether the tax was to be of universal application, and whether it was to be charged on succession to the estates of the Duchies of Lancaster and Cornwall. The right hon. Gentleman had promised to give an answer when they got to the end of the Bill; and as they had now arrived at the last clause, perhaps he would explain whether it was to apply to those properties or not?
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he was able, from personal observation, to confirm the statement as to the difficulty of finding two magistrates to act in some parts of Ireland. In the part of the country with which he was connected, the county of Kerry, there was a district twenty-five miles long in which there was only one magistrate. It might be said, "Appoint others;" but where were they to come from? It was necessary to appoint a poor-law guardian in this district not long since, and not a man could be found fit for the office, because nobody there could speak English. At length an auctioneer, who lived in a town twenty miles off, and could speak English enough to make himself understood, was seized as he was travelling in his gig through the country, and made poor-law guardian. Upon another occasion a postmaster was wanted, and after much consideration it was determined to appoint to the office a man who was what was called in Ireland "sense bearer" to the district—a person whose business it was to carry information from one person to another. The man was duly installed
 1370
 MR. LABOUCHERE  said, he was also anxious that precedent should be followed, but he had some notion that the usual course was not to charge the tax in all cases from a date previous to that of the passing of the Bill.
 MR. KER SEYMER  said, he must complain that penalties were imposed on gentlemen if they did not comply with the demands of the inspectors, but that there was no penalty upon the inspectors if they violated the secrecy that was enjoined on them with regard to the documents they inspected. He would propose that a penalty of 100 l.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  explained that his Amendment only referred to bonds given for a valuable consideration.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, that the provision, so far as it related to policies of insurance, appeared to him to be satisfactory, and was an improvement of the clause on which he had observed on the second reading of the Bill, and, in fact, removed the objection then made, namely, that while it exempted the insurances made by persons upon their own lives, it left insurances made by persons upon the lives of others within the category of successions, and, as such, liable to the new tax. But in the second branch of the clause, as now proposed, which dealt with the case  of post obit post obit a post obit 1400 post obit bonâ fide post obit
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the conduct of the magistrates of Ireland was so closely scrutinised in matters of this kind, that there was no great likelihood of their acting with impropriety, particularly as it was understood that there would be a power of appeal granted.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, what the hon. Baronet (Sir D. Norreys) appeared to desire Would have the effect of confiscation.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that this was a mere preliminary Resolution, upon which a Bill would be introduced, and while that Bill was passing through its various stages, ample opportunity would be afforded for full discussion of its details. The Bill, although it increased duties to a small extent, removed most serious impediments to the trade of the island. He had taken the precaution, several weeks ago, to write to the Lieutenant Governor of the Isle of Man, informing him fully of the proposed changes. The Lieutenant Governor called the House of Keys together, and they had expressed opinions not at all inimical to the proposed changes, but had suggested some alterations and modifications, which he would take into consideration.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he should divide the Committee on that clause generally. Unless he received a pledge that it would he reconsidered before the third reading, so as to meet the objections which had been urged against its hardships.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he Would urge upon the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) the propriety of re-Considering the clause, as a great many Members, he believed, had voted for the clause with that understanding.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he could not consent to this proposition.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he must urge upon the Committee the expediency of agreeing to the clause, after the assurance given by the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) that he would reconsider the matter with a view to amend the clause, if necessary at a future stage of the Bill.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, the presence of a second magistrate could not always be obtained in many parts of Ireland, and, consequently, if the suggestion just made were adopted, parties would often be left without redress.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he considered that legislation on the subject was necessary, and that the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) had adopted, in the clause under consideration, the wisest form of legislation. He should certainly vote that the clause should not be expunged; and he hoped that the Committee would pass it as it at present stood.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he objected to the clause as too stringent.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would agree to the introduction of the words, on the understanding that he should be at liberty to consider the point again on the bringing up of the Report.
 MR. HENLEY  said, if he rightly understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the right hon. Gentleman had made no satisfactory answer to the question of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith), whether timber cut down for repairs would be charged under this Bill. In his opinion the Chancellor of the Exchequer hardly knew how these things were managed. If a holding required repair to the extent of 200 l. l, 1406
 MR. HENLEY  would suggest that coppice and underwood should be excepted specifically, as otherwise the tax would press very heavily on plantations.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that under this Bill, if a farm were let for 300. l l. l.
 MR. HENLEY  said, there was a power given with regard to the Commissioners
 1390
 MR. HENLEY  would suggest that a writ of summons to show cause should precede the issue of the writ.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the Government ought to take into their consideration that under the operation of the clause before the Committee no parties whose deeds of settlement were in the hands of mortgagees would be in the slightest degree affected by its enactments. Such being the case, it was scarcely fair to compel those parties whose deeds happened to be in their own hands to submit to the production. This, he thought, was worthy of the consideration of the Government, and should induce them to reconsider the question as to the evidence of title. It was a great annoyance to the owners of real property to be compelled to produce their deeds, and he asked if the means of collecting the revenue provided under the other clauses of the Bill were not already ample? He would entreat the Government to reconsider the question. He could see no reason why the provision should be insisted upon; but he was convinced that the plan, if carried out, would occasion an immense amount of ill feeling, for there were many persons who, from some motive or another, Which it was unnecessary to analyse, had the strongest possible objection to produce their title deeds.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he would propose as an Amendment, to insert the words "except title deeds and muniments, and evidences of title." He conceived that his Amendment ought to be adopted, for otherwise any person would run the risk of losing his estate by the disclosure of some defective title. The clause, as it stood, created a most inquisitorial and improper power, entirely opposed to the spirit of our law, for a court of law would not, as between contending parties, compel the production of title deeds, unless a clear case of interest in them was shown on the part of the person requiring their production. Moreover, he believed it to be unnecessary to call for the title deeds for the purposes of this Bill, for they would not disclose the desired particulars of the property, and he attached but little value to the provision that "all such information shall be deemed confidential."
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he wished to move to omit the two last lines, in order to insert the words "that the Bill come into operation on the day of the passing thereof."
 MR. NAPIER  said, he was most anxious to make the Bill as perfect as possible. He had certainly offered to reconsider the clause, upon the understanding that there would be he division upon it. Although then, he thought that those who supported the Amendment had no right to ask him to reconsider the clause, he Would, nevertheless, consent to do so.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he could not con-sent to the Amendment. The clause as it stood settled the question as to mines and wastes from a given day. It would, how-ever, raise many difficulties to make the clause retrospective.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he would either consent to take the eldest son, or defer the Consideration of the clause.
 MR. NAPIER  said, the object of the clause was to get at the proper assignee on the death of a lessee, so as to prevent any unnecessary subdivision' of the land. He was, however, willing to reconsider it.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that the object of the clause was to discourage as much as possible the con-acre system in Ireland, which, it was generally admitted, had produced mischievous consequences. He, however, would have no objection to reconsider the clause with a view of meeting the objections that were urged against it.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that if it were the wish of the Committee that a power of appeal should be given, he would have no objection to frame a clause to that effect.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he could explain that this power was granted under the Petty Sessions (Ireland) Act of 1851, owing to the difficulty of procuring the attendance of two justices in many parts of Ireland.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he also should support the clause as it stood, considering that it was emphatically a clause for the benefit of the cottier tenantry.
 MR. BUCK  seconded the Amendment. He said, he considered the clause as one of the most unjust and iniquitous which it had ever been his lot to read. The Chancellor of the Exchequer might be able to pass his Bill by majorities of five and six; but he might depend upon it, that the question would excite such an agitation in the country—create such a chaos of discontent—as would perhaps, shake the foundations of the monarchy, and destroy the established institutions of the land.
 MR. BUCK  said, he knew the cases of individuals who, when boys, came into the possession of property. The timber was cut down by their trustees to redeem the land tax, but ever since it had not been touched. The Chancellor of the Exchequer now proposed indirectly to tax the sixty or seventy years' growth, whereas if the land had been in cultivation the duty would have been assessed only on the annual return. Timber stood in so different a position from all other property, that he hoped the clause would not he pressed.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, he was opposed to the clause, inasmuch as it would subject the poor cottier tenantry to monthly notices.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he considered this clause to be unnecessary. The common law was, in his opinion, quite sufficient to provide a remedy for any grievance that could occur; and he should move that the clause be expunged.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that he entertained the same objection to this clause as to Clause 7—that it was quite unnecesary; and he should therefore move that it be expunged.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, by this clause if an occupier happened to die intestate, after taking a lease, the property was given in his land not to his children, but
 1371
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he should certainly divide the Committee, because he considered the clause was unnecessary and
 1372
 MR. R. FOX  said, he wished to propose an Amendment which he thought was necessary in order to render the clause more clear and satisfactory.
 MR. MALINS  said, he could not conceive a more dangerous power than that proposed to be given by this clause. It was
 1380 l,
 MR. CHRISTOPHER  said, the policy of the Government, for years past, had been to reduce the duties on foreign timber, and here was a virtual excise duty imposed on home-grown timber. The right hon. Gentleman did not expect to get much from the tax. Was it, then, worth while to perpetrate such injustice, accompanied by an inquisitorial process so oppressive and so offensive. There would be the most vexatious contests with the excise officers as to the rate of duty—1 per cent, 5 per cent, or 10 per cent. The system of valuation was most objectionable, inquisitorial, and impracticable. He knew an instance in which the valuation of timber amounted to 5,000 l.
 MR. HILDYARD  said, he rose to deny the allegations that had been made on the other side, that he and his friends were consulting the interests of the great landowners. He believed in his conscience that the people who would be most oppressed by this Bill would be the small landowners, and on this point be would appeal to the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty, and ask him what the operation of this Bill would be among the small landowners in the county with which he was connected? The great landowners always employed men of the first respectability, in whose hands title deeds would be safe; but the small landowners went to what were generally called the hedge lawyers of the district, and it was his firm opinion that there were many such persons in whose hands title deeds would not be safe. He could tell those hon. Gentlemen who professed to represent the interests of the great masses of the people, that so far as he had watched their movements it appeared to him that there was no class of men who were greater enemies to the mass of the population than they were.
 MR. WALPOLE  would suggest the necessity Of a definition of the "accountable parties" to whom this provision applied.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that if he was right as to his view of the operation of this tax, it would be found so annoying and vexations that the complaints against it would be loud and universal. He believed that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would find in the course of five or six years that this tax would cause so much vexation and unpleasantness that the people would not bear it. They were passing this Bill nominally on the plea of putting landed property upon the same footing as personal property with reference to the duty on bequests or successions. They had passed the Bill as to real property, and as long as they maintained the present law as to the tax upon legacies, so long would he uphold the Government in placing a duty on land inherited by succession or demise. But while they subjected real property to one duty and personal property to another, they were doing that which was altogether ft distinct thing—for they were taxing not the property of people dying, and which passed from them to others by death, but they were taxing property whether personalty or realty, which was settled and disposed of by persons in their lifetime, with the intention that the settlement which was thus subjected to this tax should go free to those who succeeded them. The two classes of cases were essentially different—but he would not go over that ground again. They had had examples of the extraordinary difficulty the Government would have in trying to enforce the tax. The clause they had just passed was a proof of that. If they applied the tax for a long period of years, all the small owners of property, whether real or personal, would be put to great inconvenience in having to pay the tax by a series of half-yearly payments extending over five years, or they would be put to great expense in employing professional persons to carry it out. It would be necessary to examine into books, documents, and accounts, and overhaul ancient and modern title deeds, wills, and other muniments, to ascertain how, and where, and when the tax applied. To do this for a long series of years in respect to real and personal property, would involve an immense inconvenience to all
 1394 1395
 MR. BOOKER  said, he should oppose the clause. It was founded upon a disregard of the cost at which timber was reared, and the circumstances under which it was raised to maturity, or the purposes for which it was applied. Timber was used either as fuel for the poor, or as the staple material for our "wooden walls." It was the ancient policy of the Empire to encourage the growth of timber for the building of our Navy; and it was Colling-wood's legacy to his country—an earnest advice to increase the growth of timber. [ Cries of" 1407
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he must maintain that the clause amounted to a sentence of confiscation against the property of landlords in mines.
 MR. KENNEDY  said, he objected to the clause on the ground that it tended to convert the cottier class into a gipsy population.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, anxious as he Was to secure the interest of the tenant, he could hot Consent to hand over to him the landlord's property in mines and royalties. He was cognisant of cases in which
 1373
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, he wished to move that the words of the clause should be "before two or more justices of the peace," instead of "before one;" with a view of rendering the decision as to the value of con-acre more satisfactory to all parties.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, it certainly was his intention to divide the Committee on this Amendment, on the ground that no such power should be entrusted to a single magistrate. He had no idea that the whole of Ireland should be legislated for in deference to the particular circumstances of a wild, outlandish place, such as that described by the hon. Member for Kerry.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must explain that it was meant that the powers given in Clause 45, should take effect through the provisions of Clause 46, and those provisions were conceived in a spirit favourable to the taxpayers.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, with reference to the first question put to him, he thought he had answered it by anticipation, namely, the question whether every transaction, however small, would be made the subject of return. As the clause stood, sale, and sale only, would be the test; and he stated he had no objection to a small minimum of exemption, but it must be small to prevent evasion. With respect to timber used in the repair of the property, he did not think it possible to specify his meaning more distinctly than by saying the owner should be liable to pay in respect of moneys received from the sales of such timber. He did not know any words which would more rigidly exclude from charge timber used in repairs, and of course it should not be included in any valuation under the second part of the clause. With respect to the question, what would be done if the Commissioners were not satisfied with such estimate, the answer was they would go to issue with the party upon such estimate precisely as under any other provision of the Bill, and the question so put at issue would be disposed of by the same machinery as was provided for all points of difference. As regarded ornamental timber, speaking generally, it might be described as timber not usually cut, and if not usually cut, it would plainly not be liable to the duty. Under the first alternative it would not be liable, because the duty was levied on the moneys received from sales; and under the second alternative it would not be liable, because the estimate would be confined to net moneys obtainable from the sale of such timber, trees, and wood, as might be cut within the lifetime of the person, with a due regard to the interests of the estate. If it were not proper to fell the timber with a due regard to the interests of the estate, it ought not to be included in the estimate. It often happened timber was ornamental as well as marketable, and every year trees might be cut out of the value of 10 l. l. 1405
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not accede to the Amendment, as it was evident that its adoption would lead to unbounded evasion. In that case every man's will would take the form of  post obit
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Member did not live within fifteen miles of Glasgow.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, this was not a question upon which it was necessary to trouble the Committee with any details. He could only say, in answer to his right hon. Friend, that he thought, if the Committee were disposed to impose a tax of this nature for five years only, it would indeed be a very serious question whether the Committee ought to impose a tax at all. The question at issue really was, whether the principle of this Bill was to be defeated under the colour of a Motion for limiting its duration. Although he did not share in the apprehensions entertained by his right hon. Friend with regard to this Bill, he was ready to admit that every fiscal measure novel in its nature involved certain difficulties in the first instance. Still he thought it would not be worth while to confront the difficulties attendant upon this measure for the sake of its financial advantages, if it were only to last five years, and more particularly when it was recollected that five years must elapse before the tax would come into full force. In the first year it would realise absolutely nothing, and in the second year it would produce really-very little, and it would take full five years before any single estate would actually have paid the whole amount of the duty. Again, look at what would be the effect of the noble Lord's (Viscount Galway's) Amendment in' another respect. Those who paid the succession tax during the next five years, would, under the measure of the Government, receive, as it were, an entire acquittance for one generation; but the noble Lord proposed that after they had paid the tax it should be repealed, and then they should enjoy the luxury of paying, along with the rest of the community, whatever other tax should be imposed as a substitute for the succession duty. Again, the same rule that the noble Lord proposed with respect to the succession duty, must equally apply to the legacy duty; in fact, this tax and the legacy duty were inseparably wedded to each other, and must stand or fall together. If the Committee wished the legacy duty to be limited to five years, let it deliberately say so; but, at all events, he hoped the Committee would not agree to exceptional legislation in the present instance.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had now to propose the
 1398 "Provided, that no person entitled at the time appointed for the commencement of this Act to the immediate reversion in any real property, expectant upon the determination of any lease for life, shall be chargeable with duty in respect of such determination in the event of the same occurring in his lifetime."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had not stated that that was the rule in all cases; on the contrary, he believed in the case of the Customs duties a different rule had been adopted; and in the case of the income tax, as he had said, the tax was made to apply from the 5th of April, whereas the Resolution had not passed until May.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would suggest to the right hon. Gentleman that he was now discussing another part of the Bill. They could not do what he proposed without cutting across what they had already enacted.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was found that the Bill, as it was drawn, applied the retroactive principle of liability to taxation on any succession ensuing upon death, with so much strictness that the present holder of landed estates that had leases on lives, when those lives determined by the death of the parties, would be liable to pay succession duty. They debated the subject, and the feeling of the Committee was pretty clearly indicated on both sides, that they should not consider the parties as liable to legacy duty. The intention of this clause was to give full effect to that view of the Committee.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then moved the insertion of the following clause with respect to life policies and  post obit "No policy of insurance on the life of any person shall alone create the relation of predecessor' and successor between the insurers and the assured, or between the assurers and any assignees of the assured for money or money's worth, and no bond or contract made by any person  bonâ fide 1399
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was quite aware that that was the intention of the hon. Gentlemen; but in the practical working of the measure it would be found quite impossible to prevent bonds, not for in reality valuable considerations, gaining exemption if the Amendment were agreed to.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then proposed the insertion of the following clause with reference to the duty
 1401 "Where timber trees or wood shall be comprised in any succession, the successor shall be chargeable with Duty upon his interest in the net monies which shall from time to time be received from any sales of such timber trees or wood, and shall account for and pay the same yearly: Provided, that if the successor shall be desirous of commuting the Duty, and shall deliver to the Commissioners an estimate of the net monies obtainable by him from the sale of such timber trees and wood as may, in a prudent course of management of the property, be felled by such successor during his life, the Commissioners, if satisfied with such estimate, shall accept the same and assess the Duty accordingly."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not consent to the Amendment. The question was one of finance, and it was the usual principle in laying on new taxes to make the tax come into operation from the day of the passing of the Resolution in Committee. In some cases, as in that of the income tax, they had gone further, and made the tax apply retrospectively, beyond the period of the passing of the Resolution. The Amendment would deprive him of two or three months of the proceeds of the tax, which he could not consent to.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was the object of the Government to provide the best and cheapest mode of appeal possible. With respect to the local commissioners, however, he much doubted whether that mode of appeal would be satisfactory; and, besides that, the local commissioners met very seldom. He did not wish to join the operation of this Act with that of the income tax, and therefore would not give the appeal to the commissioners for the collection of that tax. Indeed, it would be better to give the appeal to the Judges of the County Court, to which he would not object if the hon. Member wished it, though he thought it would increase the expense of the proceedings.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was afraid the hon. Gentleman was not quite right in supposing the Committee had come to the conclusion of the Bill. There were other hon. Members who had Amendments yet to propose.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had no hesitation in saying that it was not desirable for local officers to have compulsory powers of inspecting title deeds, and that, where parties wished it, he would have no objection to allow them to produce their deeds before the Commissioners at Somerset House. There might be some difficulty in the mode of doing so; but he agreed in the principle, and he would take the subject into his consideration.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not differ from the hon. Gentleman on the principle of his Amendment. He doubted, indeed, if the penalty were high enough; but he demurred to a principle of so much novelty being introduced into their mode of dealing with public servants. They now acted upon the principle that for any misconduct public servants were liable to dismission. They now held their offices during pleasure. He feared that if they were to enact penalties for malversation, or even for negligence, it might act in a way very different from what they anticipated. There was his own office, for instance—he might commit misdeeds to which no sufficient penalty could be attached, and for which a penalty would not be the proper punishment. He should wish further time for examination before he agreed to the Amendment; but he agreed in the principle of the hon. Member.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I do not think there is any absolute necessity for these words, and I have no objection to their being struck out.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had no objection to insert an Amendment to carry out the right hon. Gentleman's suggestions.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was absolutely necessary that the Commissioners should have
 1378
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman with respect to the income tax was inapplicable to the present case. In the case of the income tax there was a uniform rate levied. Did the hon. and learned Gentleman wish a uniform rate to be levied in the present case? If so, the land, instead of paying 1 per cent, would have to pay 3 or 4 per cent, and great difficulties would arise. Again, did the hon. and learned Gentleman wish the tax to be levied on the gross income, irre-
 1381 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman who proposed the Amendment had made no answer to what he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had stated to be the main ground and reason of access being required to such documents as these—namely, the diversity of interests in property. It was proposed now, as he understood, to exclude from inspection all settlements; but the hon. Gentleman who had spoken had not shown how it would be possible for the Government to deal with the interests of persons under settlements unless those settlements were produced. If they got rid of the consanguinity scale, and levied a uniform rate on all successions, then the question would be very much simplified; hut he had not been able to discover any means, if such a scale were adopted, of dispensing with access to these documents. If the objection were the supposed arbitrary interference of the inspecting officer, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would consent to a power of appeal being given to a superior authority, such as a Judge at chambers, without whose order no person should be compelled to produce his deeds. But the question now raised was, whether the parties were to have an absolute right to withhold their titles.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought he had already answered the question. As a general rule, they did not propose to touch such deeds, being able to obtain, as he believed, every information that was required without any reference to them whatever.
 The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER  said, that if all the desired information was to be found registered in Ireland, the Judge would, of course, never call for the production of the title deeds.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not admit that the production of deeds, as proposed under this clause, would inflict very serious hardship upon the owners of real property. They were to be produced only upon the authority of a Judge, and subject to the application of a Commissioner) who would be bound by the most solemn obligations to preserve the strictest secrecy with respect to them. The production of these documents, under such circumstances, could by no means, therefore, be considered as analogous to their production in the case of a dispute as to the right to an estate between conflicting parties. With respect to the argument of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that the clause would have no effect so far as deeds placed in the hands of a mortgagee were concerned, he (the Chan-
 1386 Cries of
 MR. BARROW  said, the Government would have ample security as to the different rates to be charged, because the property could never be disposed of without the production of a receipt for the full payment of the duty in respect of the person charged.
 MR. KEOGH  said, lid was favourable to the Amendment, for he was opposed to the principle sought to be established in the part of the clause to Which exception had been taken.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he must support the clause as it stood, because he thought it would be holding out a bonus for the construction of cottages.
 MR. KIRK  believed, that the object of the clause was to encourage landlords in the neighbourhood of manufactories to build a better class of cottages for those employed in the manufactories.
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, he would beg to suggest that power of appeal should be granted to the local commissioners, or to the Judges of the County Court.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  thought, that the clause would prove to be satisfactory in its operation.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  contended that the Statute of Distributions would settle this matter in Ireland, as it did in any similar case in England, without the intervention of such a clause as this at all.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he wished to move an Amendment to this clause, the object of which was to convert the tenancies of persons employed by the owner of a cottage, either as agricultural labourers, or hired servants or artisans, into tenancies which might be determined by a monthly notice.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the clause required nothing to be done beyond what was already authorised under the present Legacy Duty Act. The Commissioners for collecting the legacy duty were empowered to call for all papers and documents they pleased; and although it was true that the legacy duty did not affect land, he saw no reason why that description of property should be placed on a different footing from other kinds, This tax had been called a robbery; but he thought that terra was more applicable to the present legacy duty. It was monstrous for noble Lords and hon. Gentlemen opposite to impose a tax upon legacies given to the meanest of their labourers and domestic servants of twenty times the amount which they imposed on themselves. He was delighted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had in this and in other respects adhered to the integrity of his proposition; and he should support the clause as it stood.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with reference to the Act of 1851, for the removal of Smithfield Market, and the establishment of another market for the metropolis. Great opposition was given to the progress of that Bill by the Corporation of the City of London. They declined to have anything to do with it; but nevertheless a clause was inserted allowing them, within a certain number of months, to give notice of their intention to undertake the management of the new market. A tew hours previous to the expiration of the limited time, they made their election to shut up Smithfield and establish a new market. A plan was submitted, he understood, by the Corporation to the right hon. Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole), the then Secretary of State, and he approved of the site proposed, with the exception that the area was not sufficiently extensive. As far as he recollected, the
 1376
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  said, that the provision would impose new difficulties on trustees, and would be calculated to prevent gentlemen altogether from accepting the duties of that office.
 MR. DUFFY  said, he objected to the clause because it provided that con-acre should be treated as sub-letting. Con-acre, it was very well known, was only let for a few months in the year; and, therefore, could not be properly considered in the character of sub letting. If this clause were passed, no man would be entitled to let con-acre but the landlord. He should, therefore, move that the words "by way of con-acre or otherwise," be omitted from the clause.
 SIR EDWARD DERING  wished to know whether the bark was to be included with the felled timber? It was sold separately in some places.
 MR. GROGAN  said, that before the Judge could give his decision, the owner of the property might be put to considerable expense.
  MR. GROGAN  said, he must complain of the extension of the clause to Ireland. For nearly one hundred and fifty years there had been a species of registration of deeds in that country, and those documents were enrolled in a public office. There could, therefore, be no necessity whatever for extending that provision to Ireland.
 SIR GEORGE STRICKLAND  said, he thought the proposal made by the Government one of a dangerous character, and he should, therefore, support the Amendment. Under the clause, as it stood, any person would be compelled to disclose his title deeds, and might be dragged, in consequence, into that greatest of all evils, a Chancery suit, and ruined, perhaps, before he got out again. He recollected that one of the principal arguments against an Act for the registration of deeds was, that it would have the effect of publishing to the world people's title deeds, and that the result would be, that every attorney who desired a job would have the opportunity of picking holes in the title of any gentleman to his estate, and of dragging him into a court of law; and now the Government, in order to obtain a miserable amount of revenue, were going to endanger the possession of every man's landed property in the country; if it did not endanger the possession of it, it would at least drag it into the Court of Chancery, where he might be ruined by some twenty years' litigation. Unless, therefore, he heard stronger arguments than those urged by the right hon. Gentleman, he should feel it his duty to
 1379
 MR. CAIRNS  said, the object in view was not to check the account of the property, or find out the tax to be paid, but whether some one else ought to pay it. By the clause the production of the documents had reference only to "such" account as the party handed in. It would not, therefore, enable them to compel the production of the title in the only case wherein the right hon. Gentleman said it would be necessary.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that although the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had shown a disposition to modify the harsher portions of the clause, it seemed to him that even in its amended form it would give such tyrannical and inquisitorial powers that the Committee ought not to assent to its enactment. The clause was tyrannical and inquisitorial in the extreme; and if the tax could only be levied by giving such inquisitorial powers, it was an argument against the tax itself. The powers given by this clause were inconsistent with our institutions, and inconsistent with our national habits and our national character, and so inquisitorial and objectionable in
 1391
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that he quite admitted that the amended clause considerably modified the one originally proposed; but it was nevertheless liable to so many objections, that if the Committee agreed with him they would have no difficulty in deciding that it should be negatived. The right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to charge this duty on the "net moneys which shall from time to time be received from any sales of such timber trees or wood." Now, he apprehended that in all cases of trusts or executorships, this would raise a perpetual running account, which would probably never be closed during the life of any trustee or executor. The duty received under this provision would be exceedingly small, while the annoyance and vexation to all engaged in the management of landed property would be exceedingly great. But then the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed, if that was not acceptable, a proviso by which persons might commute for the moneys by estimating "the net moneys obtainable by him from the sale of such timber trees and wood as may in a prudent course of management of the property be felled by such successor during his lifetime." Now, these words, "prudent course of management," would receive a very different interpretation from different gentlemen. A tree was considered ripe for felling at very different times in different parts of the country. In his (Sir J. Trollope's) county an oak tree was not considered ripe for felling in less than about six generations, or
 1402
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, that when the hon. Member for Westbury stated that the course taken by the Government was approved by the Manx people, it was impossible he could justify such a statement, which was exactly the reverse of truth. He (Sir J. Walmsley) denied that the officials of the Isle of Man had approved the proposal of Her Majesty's Government. He would throw every obstacle in his power in the way of the Resolution, and he, therefore, begged to move that the Chairman report progress.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he objected to this measure because the Bill was an infringement of the privileges of the Isle of Man, and also with the rights of property, and he hoped, that unless the Government could show that they had the consent of the House of Keys and the people of the island, that the Committee would not sanction the imposition of increased duties. The proposition had not been submitted as promised, to the authorities of the island, and he complained that provision was not made by the Government to give to the House of Keys control over the taxes it was proposed to raise. This was an attempt to bring the island, with the customs of the Isle of Man, within the general customs laws of the kingdom, for the first time; and as this was opposed to the privileges and rights of the people of the Isle of Man, he should, if the Resolutions were pressed at that late hour, divide against them. On a former occasion a question was put to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. J. Wilson) on this subject, and his answer was, that he had the sanction of the authorities of the Isle of Man for the imposition of these duties. [Mr. WILSON; No, no!] The hon. Gentleman said "No,
 1409 half-past two o'clock
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  said, he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made a great improvement in the clause, and had obviated many of the difficulties which had been raised, because the landowners would now have the power of choice, and be able to proceed voluntarily. He did not think this tax ought to be stigmatised as an excise duty, He trusted the right hon. Gentleman would allow a reasonable minimum to prevent parties coming into collision with the tax collector. Supposing they wished to have a market open for their timber, they might express to the Commissioners their desire to commute, and if the Commissioners should not be satisfied, they might withdraw their offer and remain as before. There would, however, be a strong inducement to meet any offer of that kind on fair terms, because if the offer was withdrawn, they might lose their tax.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he must assert that in every respect timber stood upon a different footing from every other description of property. Some trees, for instance, grew as much in thirty years as others grew in 120. Each tree cost the possessor an annual rent for its sustenance, by occupying a certain portion of ground. He was astonished that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should impose such a tax. If he wished to make a hateful tax, he could not adopt a more sure method. It would be looked upon as a black mail paid to the party in that House which supported the right hon. Gentleman's most objection able Budget; and he should feel ashamed of himself if he were in any way accessory to its infliction.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he regretted the result of the division which had just taken place. He had himself inspected a great number of title deeds and settlements, but he never consulted one in which there was not some mistake or omission. If title deeds were to be arbitrarily inspected by Government offices in the way proposed, the old saying, that the best thing that could happen to a man would be, to have his title deeds burnt, would come true indeed. He was quite sure that the clause if passed in its present shape, would involve the land in an immense amount of litigation, without adding one shilling more to the revenue. He would move an Amendment, limiting the clause to documents of the nature of leases, plans, court, and rent rolls.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he could assure the hon. Member who had just sat down, that he entertained a deep conviction that the measure was attended with danger to the landed interest. It was of the greatest importance, in his opinion, not to insist on the production of all the documents, for he knew, and the right hon. Gentleman the First Lord of the Admiralty knew it as well as any man, that if a settlement were made upon property, a slight error or omission in the deed might be the cause of a person losing part or the whole of that property; and he hoped that the Committee would assent to his proposition.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he must remind the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he had in that House denounced the income tax as a most inquisitorial measure, and yet he was now urging forward one which was far more inquisitorial. It was very well for him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) to come down to that House with a majority at his back, and force these measures. He (Viscount Gal-way hoped that when this Bill was brought forward in another place, the consideration of the small majorities by which it had passed that House, would lead to a doubt as to whether this measure ought to be inflicted upon this country. He had received a letter from a Whig constituent, who said that this extending the legacy duty to land was the most unfair thing ever done.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  snid, he thought this Act should not continue beyond the period fixed for the expiration of the income tax, and he would therefore move that the Act should continue in force for five years only.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) had, with himself, considered five years a sufficient term for the continuance of the succession duty; but he (Viscount Galway) had, on further consideration, suggested seven years. He would now move the addition of the following words to the clause—"And shall continue in force till the 19th day of May, 1860, and no longer."
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, it appeared to him that the clause was intended to provide for the exclusive benefit of the cottier class.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, no communication on the subject had been made to him since he had held his present office. The Act to which his hon. Friend referred gave but one power to the Secretary of State—the power to sanction or refuse his sanction to the site proposed for the new market; but having once sanctioned that site, no further power of interference was reserved in the hands of the Secretary of State; and the Act moreover did give to the Corporation of London a power that if the land purchase should appear to he greater than the amount required for their purpose, they might dispose of a portion of that land. His functions of Secretary of State did not extend to the length of regulating the arrangements which the Corporation had power to make.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I apprehend the question of the hon. Gentleman relates to vessels now confined within the Danube and within the Russian territory for want of water to get out. I think he will see, if by any misfortune, which I cannot at present anticipate, war should arise between this country and Russia, British ships of war cannot get them out without the water.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the recent obstruction of the navigation of the Sulina mouth of the Danube has been greatly increased owing to accidental circumstances of weather. The river has overflowed its banks and spread over a wider surface, which has had the effect of diminishing the force of the current and increasing the deposit of mud at the bar. The particular inconvenience to which the hon. Member alludes is temporary, and no doubt when the cause ceases the inconvenience will also Cease. But I am bound to say, for a great many years past, Her Majesty's Government have had great reason to complain of the neglect of the Government of Russia to perform those du-
 1374 1375
 COLONEL DUNNE  replied, that that did! not lesson his objection, for much of that unreclaimed bog land might be cultivated to some extent under proper care and treatment.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he objected to the clause, as only re-enacting an Act of the 9  Geo.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the practice of cutting turf on a farm was a most objectionable one. He himself had a good dual of mountain bog land in Ireland, and if such a clause as this were passed, he should certainly in future take every opportunity to insert provisions in his leases to prevent its operation, so objectionable to him was the practice of cutting turf from land which might otherwise be reclaimed and made susceptible of cultivation.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, that he had an Amendment to propose. This clause involved the same objectionable principle as the last. If, however, the right hon. and learned Gentleman would consent to reconsider this clause also, he would not press the Amendment.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  then said that he would move the rejection of the clause altogether. By this clause a power would be given to any one magistrate, upon an affidavit made before him, to issue a precept to restrain the occupier of any land from doing that which it might afterwards be shown he had a perfect right to do. No such power existed in either the English or Scotch law, and he did not see why it should be introduced into that of Ireland.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he approved of the change of the law of distress introduced into this clause; but he would carry the principle still further, and say that the whole management of a distress, from its very beginning to its close, should be taken out of the hands of the landlord altogether, and confined to a body provided by the Executive, who should be analogous to the constabulary in Ireland.
 MR. HUME : Mr. Speaker, in all the experience I have had, it does not occur to my recollection that resistance has ever been made to such an appeal as that of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston); and being one who has great confidence in the moderation, firmness, and judgment of the First Minister of the Crown, I am disposed, with my hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), to think the hon. Member for Aylesbury will act wisely and prudently in not urging any discussion at present. It is quite true, publicity is, on almost all occasions, of advantage; but there are exceptions, and I think this is one. The object of this country is to keep at peace with the whole world—not that I would have the country ready to submit to insult, or to give up that which would derogate from its honour; but I think the hon. Member (Mr. Layard) will act wisely in giving an opportunity to Her Majesty's Government to point out, on an occasion of so much importance, when this discussion shall be brought forward. He must not mind what persons may say, and J hope that, with the view of promoting peace, or assisting the amicable arrangement of the present difficulties, he will accede to the wishes of Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, that it was impossible for him not to have perceived, by the vote of the House on a previous occasion, that he should be unable to change the decision to which they had come, that the double government of India should be continued, and that there was necessity for immediate legislation; yet he did hope that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control would listen to any reasonable remonstrances which might be made to him on the subject. He wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman had secured the first necessary condition for carrying out the measure, if it were passed into law, and that first condition must be the consent of the Court of Directors of the East India Company to accept the government of India under altered provisions? They had had up to the present time no intimation as to how far the proposition of the right hon. Baronet had been accepted by the Court of Directors, so far as they were represented in that House. He could not help remarking the contrast presented by the preamble of the present existing Charter Act, and that of the proposed measure. In the preamble of the late Charter, it was stated that the Court of Directors of the East India Company had consented that all their rights and interests should be surrendered, and their right of trade suspended; but in the preamble of the proposed measure it merely said that it was expedient provide for the government of the territories is the possession of the East
 1434 1435 Will. 1436
 MR. HUME  said, everything that had taken place since the introduction of this Bill had satisfied him that the course which he had recommended at first was the course which ought to be adopted now. It would have been more honourable to the Government if they had taken time to prepare a suitable Bill, more especially when it was not a temporary but a permanent Bill that was now brought before them. The points submitted by the hon. Member for Newcastle (Mr. Blackett) were unanswerable; and by passing such a measure he believed
 1439 1440
 LORD STANLEY  said, he apprehended that although two questions had been raised-—one, with reference to the duration of the Bill; and the other, with which the Amendment before them proposed to deal, with reference to the point whether the Government of India should be carried on in the name of the Crown or of the Company, the latter was the question really before the Committee. The hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe) assumed too much when he said that that was a question of principle which had been decided by the second reading. The hon. Member had also stated the object of the Amendment to be the doing away with the double government. There had been a great deal of ambiguity in the use of that term, and he could not admit that the carrying on of the Government of India by the Crown would be doing away with the double government. He apprehended that the Government would always be a double government when there was no element introduced into the Government which did not derive its authority either from the Crown or from Parliament, but from some separate and independent body. As the Amendment did not propose to make any alteration in the constitution of the Court of Directors or of the Home Government, he did not think it could be called an interference with the principle of double government. He did not recollect a single witness of any authority on Indian affairs who bad pointedly asserted that it would be injurious to carry on the Government of India in the name of the Crown. The change would have a great deal of influence in India, and would destroy the distinction that existed between it and other dependencies. So far as the native princes and the native army were concerned, he believed the effect of the change would be rather favourable than otherwise. Among the various advantages that would attend it, would be the abolition of whatever distinction existed—and sometimes it was considered invidious—between the civil and military officers in that country. The na-
 1447
 MR. HUME  said, he would admit that the object of the noble Lord (Viscount Jocelyn), was the good government of India; but it seemed to him that if the noble Lord thought that if the Bill was a bad Bill for the people, he should refrain from seeking to perpetuate an imperfect measure even for a period of ten years, but should rather leave the question of time uncertain, and allow future Parliaments to deal with circumstances as they might arise.
 MR. HUME  said, he would now support the Amendment.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he would take the liberty of pointing out an inconsistency in the arguments of the hon. Secretary of the Board of Control (Mr. Lowe), and the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. M. Milnes). The former Gentleman protested against the notion of fixing any term, upon the plea that the effect of it would be to tie up the hands of Parliament; whereas the latter offered the Amendment upon the contradictory ground that they would practically perpetuate the Act by omitting to limit the period of its duration. The hon. Member for Pontefract opposed the Amendment upon the additional ground that it was undesirable that Parliament should busy itself with Indian subjects. Surely that was not the opinion of the right hon. President of the Board of Control; for, upon a previous occasion, that right hon. Gentleman expressed his regret at the want of interest, on the part of that House, in Indian subjects, and stated his intention of bringing forward an Indian Budget, avowedly for the purpose of creating and maintaining an interest in such questions, If, therefore, the President of the Board of Control accepted the views of the hon. Member for Pontefract, and thought that the effect of limiting the Act would be to ensure Parliamentary discussion, he was bound to support the Amendment of the noble Lord.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, the question lay in small compass, and was one more of Parliamentary experience, than of either principle or argument. It had been said that the object of the Amendment was to direct the attention of Parliament to questions relating to India. He was convinced that the fixing of a certain period for the working of the Act, would have a directly contrary effect. There had been two renewals of the East India Charter in the present century; and during the whole time he had sat in Parliament, he had hardly remembered to have heard an Indian question discussed with any degree of interest. While he held the office of Secretary of the Board of Control, he experienced the greatest difficulty in making a House when there was an Indian subject to be considered; and the reason he took to be this, that Members would not be troubled with questions relating to India until the expiration of the period specified in the Charter, when they would have an opportunity of discussing them at length. Now was there anything to be said in favour of this colony more than of any other, to create the difference now contended for? The noble Lord said, they had given to other colonies a good government; then
 1452
 MR. HUME  said, the existence of this Act, in the eyes of the natives, would be always uncertain, and there would be no security for property in India, from the prevalence of the feeling that the Government would he liable to a continual change. Nevertheless, he must protest against the idea which had been thrown out, of placing India upon the same footing as the colonies.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he fully concurred in the observations of the hon. Member who had just spoken. He would also observe that the capitalists of this country would be much more likely to invest their money in Indian securities if no period were fixed for the expiration of the Bill, than if the question of our Indian government were to be discussed again at the end of ten years.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he was so little satisfied with the measure of the Government that he could not consent to forego any opportunity that might present itself of amending that measure before the expiration of ten years. The practical effect of the adoption of the Amendment of his noble Friend would be, whenever the House might feel disposed to introduce any alterations into the Bill, they should be told that it would expire at the end of a few years, and that then there would be a full
 1453
 MR. HUME  said, he thought that this was a point of great importance. Parliament had found a difficulty in dealing with the immense patronage of India, and had found it necessary to establish a representative body, in whose hands the patronage should remain. If the Company was to continue to administer the affairs of India, political influence ought to be kept altogether separate from the Government, and you could not attain that object otherwise than by keeping up the number and power of the Directors. The number of electors, too, should be increased, and the system of canvassing ought to be put an end to. He might mention the case of the Royal Society, as affording an illustration of the evils of the system of canvassing. No Society had suffered more from that system, which was at length put a stop to, and the pretensions of individuals were now judged of by a Committee appointed for the purpose. He wished to press on the Government the necessity of leaving the number of the Court of Directors as it was. Improve, if possible, the constitution of the Court, but do not alter the number of Directors, who, if they did their duty, would have their hands full of business.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he entirely agreed in the propriety of effecting the reduction proposed in the Bill, whilst he acknowledged the necessity of proceeding, step by step, in a matter of so great moment. He apprehended that the question before the Committee was simply one of numbers. On that point he entirely concurred in the proposed reduction, and even wished it had been made still larger. The proper reason assigned for this reduction was, that a larger number of hands were being employed to do the work than was necessary. That was a sufficient reason. His hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring) had stated that the reduction of the number would be a degradation of the Court. He could not see that, nor was that the question. The hon. Member for Guildford (Mr. Mangles) had raised the real question, when he said that it was whether the Court of Directors was to be considered as an executive or deliberative council. Their duties were those of administrative superintendence, and he could only regard the Court of Directors in the light of an executive council. He believed that, even with the reduction proposed, it would be the most numerous in the world. He did not deny that the mass of business was very great; but, unless he was much mistaken, one of the most important practical reforms required there, was the reduction of the amount that now came before it. The system of exercising a perpetual supervision over small matters of detail, was at present very much overdone. By diminishing the number of the Court, they would be paving the way for further reform, and he must therefore vote against the Amendment.
 LORD STANLEY  wished to understand whether an objection was taken to the substitution of the Customs Duties, or to the manner in which the measure was produced as part of a general measure, and not of a separate nature.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that it was considered advisable by the Government to examine all the evidence which could be collected on the subject; but, when the state of public business would allow of it, it was intended to bring forward a measure on this subject.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART : I think I can recall to the recollection of hon. Gentlemen a circumstance which may possibly make them think it is not altogether pre-
 1428 1429
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he thought they should follow precedent, and consult the House of Keys before this Bill was introduced. The Committee would be ill advised if they proceeded without the consent of the authorities of the Island.
 LORD NAAS  said, he held that the House and the country had a right to a distinct answer to the question, whether the Government intended to renew the provisions of the Crime and Outrage Act for Ireland during the present Session.
 MR. LAYARD : After what has fallen from the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) and others, I have no difficulty in acting on this occasion. After the appeal that has been made to me, I can have no hesitation in withdrawing this Motion. But I trust, however, the noble Lord will permit me to bring it oh again whenever the public service will admit of my doing so.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, in rising to answer the question which has been put to me by the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton, I trust the House will permit me to say one word on what occurred yesterday as to deferring this Motion, because it appears that I have not been rightly understood. I beg distinctly to state, that I am unconnected with any party, and that in giving notice of that Motion, I brought it forward as an independent Member, in the conscientious belief that it was my duty to do so. Of course, the appeal made to me yesterday, could not be resisted; and when I was informed that the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord J. Russell) could not be present this evening, I did not hesitate to defer that Motion until Monday. But another question, and a much more serious question, has now arisen. I am requested to defer this Motion, unconditionally, and without limit. Now, allow me to remind the House, that it was not myself that fixed this day as the proper day to bring forward that Motion, but it was the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, who stated, in my absence, that Government would give this day for bringing on the question. With respect to what occurred yesterday, it appears it was a Member of Her Majesty's Government who named Monday next. I had nothing to do in naming either today or Monday as the fit day for bringing forward this Motion; and, consequently, as Her Majesty's Government did name Monday, I thought the matter of convenience had then been taken into consideration. I conceive I am labouring under great difficulty and very heavy responsibility. It is my own conviction, that, so far from the
 1423 1424
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, this a very important question, and I think we ought not to allow it to pass altogether unnoticed. One may easily adopt the impression that an independent Member gave notice of a Motion on a most important subject, which Her Majesty's Government consider to be of an inconvenient character; and no doubt a Minister of the Crown rising and appealing to the Member, would be supported, as under ordinary circumstances, and as the noble Lord may now even be supported, by the House. But I must remind the House that is not the case of the hon. Member for Aylesbury. Only a week ago the First Minister of the Crown, in this House, himself indicated his wish that this subject should be brought forward, and his readiness to meet the Motion of the hon. Member for Aylesbury; the noble Lord himself fixed the day on which it should he brought forward. What follows from what has taken place to-night? Why, that may follow which, unless removed by the representations of Her Majesty's Government, may have a very dangerous effect on public opinion, because if the noble Lord the leader of this House was anxious and ready only a week ago that this subject should be brought forward, and if we are told now the bringing it forward will be injurious to the public service, it follows that in the interval of one week circumstances have occurred which have changed the opinion of Her Majesty's Ministers. I am not for a moment saying those circumstances have occurred. I hope they have not occurred; but, unless they have occurred, I see no reason why the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton should appeal to the hon. Gentleman the Member
 1425
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he must confess that he not only objected to the reduction of the Court of Directors from the number of twenty-four to eighteen, but decidedly thought that, for the due discharge of the functions with which that body was entrusted, the number ought rather to be increased than diminished. Looking at the vast extent of our Indian territories, which contained a population of about 150,000,000, and the States in connection with our Indian Empire, contained about 50,000,000—these States differed materially in language, customs, laws, and religion, and he thought that if the Court of Directors were to discharge their duties satisfactorily, they ought to be divided into committees, each of which should be charged with the superintendence of particular departments. He considered that there ought to be in the Direction gentlemen conversant with the circumstances of
 1462
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he was astonished at the inconsistency of hon. Gentlemen opposite, who, while they pretended to he the supporters of constitutional and responsible government for the colonies, and professed their horror of despotism, were now about to break down the only system of representation that interposed between the people of India, and the despotic and practically irresponsible authority of the Governor General. Such was the position occupied by the Court of Directors; and yet the system thus established was about to be broken down, without one little of evidence that it had failed, or that the number of the Court was too great for the discharge of the functions confided to them. The effect of the clause would be to diminish the independence of the Court of Directors by one-half. For it was proposed, first, to reduce their number from twenty-four to eighteen, and then to make six of the latter number nominees of the Crown. It was useless to pretend that the House of Commons could interpese between the people for India and the Governor General; for the House had already more than it could do without attempting to govern India in detail, a task
 1467
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  begged to decline the hard task which his hon. Friend would impose upon him, namely, the task of amending and improving the Court of Directors, and at the same time keeping it precisely as it was, for that was entirely beyond his power. With respect to the Amendment of the noble Lord, he had to say that it was certainly very difficult to give a good reason for fixing upon any particular number of Directors. It was difficult to prove the necessity of limiting them to thirty, twenty-four, or eighteen, or any other number. But he wished to state, that the simple ground on which the Government had proceeded was this—they believed, judging from all experience with regard to other bodies exercising executive functions, that twenty-four was a large and inconvenient number, and therefore they proposed to reduce the number of Directors to eighteen. In 1813 Lord Grenville proposed to reduce the number to twelve; and, in 1833 Mr. Charles Grant (now Lord Glenelg), then President of the Board of Control, repeated the proposal, and only withdrew it in consequence of its being represented to him that, although the commercial character of the Company had been
 1455 1456
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  begged to inform the hon. Member, that, although the Court of Directors entertained great objection to many parts of the Bill, there was not the slightest reason to suppose that, in the event of its becoming law, they would not consent to remain and conduct the government of India under 6uch conditions as the Act might impose upon them. As to the hon. Member's suggestion for postponing the first clause, he could not understand with what object it was made, unless it was meant that all the existing Statutes relating to the Government of India should be repealed, and only such parts of them re-enacted as it was intended should continue in force. [Mr. BLACKETT: Henri] Such a consolidation of the law would be a gigantic undertaking, and if the passing of an India Bill were made dependent on the execution of this Herculean task, all he could say was, that the Bill would not pass during this or the next Session.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  stated, in answer to the first question, that he did not propose to put a stop to the practice of "previous communication," as it tended to facilitate the transaction of business { and, in answer to the Second, that he should endeavour to reduce the quantity of correspondence between this country and India. He added that it ought to be remembered, however, that some witnesses had expressed it as their opinion that the carrying on of such correspondence was absolutely necessary for the good government of India.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, that any legislation on the subject to which the question related, should be legislation in India, not legislation by the Parliament of this country. It might, however, be some comfort to those on whose behalf the question was put, to learn that, as appeared from the last papers received on the subject, there had been an increased importation of British salt into India. In 1848–49, 459,000 maunds were imported; in 1849–50, 624,000 maunds; and in six months of the subsequent year, rather more than the quantity imported in 1849–50—namely, 672,000 maunds.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he would vote for the clause if it was to apply to houses only, but if it was to apply to the land also he would vote against it.
 MR. LUCAS  said, that this clause was to be considered in conjunction with Clause 7, on which they divided yesterday; and as he believed that the effect of it would be to
 1417
 MR. LUCAS  said, that by the 76th clause constables were authorised to prevent the carrying of crops on Sunday—a provision which he considered rendered the present clause needless.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he should certainly support the clause, believing that, in its result, it would tend to the benefit both of tenants and landlords, and would cheek the demoralisation which arose from the constant attempts on the part of tenants to defraud their landlords. This clause had, so far as he understood, been supported by the Government in the Select Committee, and it was with regret and surprise that he now found the Government opposed to it. Some reason ought to be given for this change of opinion.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he could confirm the statement of the hon. Gentleman as to the applications to the Treasury to repair the harbours. It was to be remembered that the Isle of Man was not represented in that House, and, therefore, in legislating for it great caution ought to be exercised, and consideration shown for the opinions of the people of that country. With regard to the manner of the change, he had seen a letter dated the 7th June, in which it was stated that the Bill should be submitted to the Governor in Council and the House of Keys before it was brought under the consideration of Parliament. He understood that the change of this proposal from a distinct measure to part of a general Customs Act had not yet been submitted to them. [Mr. J. WILSON: Yes it has.] Well, it had only been done very lately, and the
 1469
 MR. MACARTNEY  said, he felt considerable regret at the evasive manner in which the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Young) had treated the question put to him by the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. I. Butt). The continuance of an Arras Act was the only security for life in Ireland; and every Member in that House must be aware of the serious outrages which had taken place there, and which would undoubtedly continue to take place, if the uncontrolled use of firearms were permitted. In a very short time there were no less than fourteen persons to be put upon their trial for the illegal use of firearms; and he trusted that some measure would be introduced on the subject before the expiration of the present Sessien.
 MR. RICH  said, the Bill was a mere experiment, and they ought to ensure the subject being again brought before Parliament. Although he would have preferred a shorten term than ten years, as proposed by the noble Lord (Viscount Jocelyn), yet, with the addition of the words "or until Parliament shall otherwise provide," he should support the Amendment. But looking to the state of that House during the discussion on this Bill, which they were obliged to consider, what did they think would be its condition if any hon. Member proposed to discuss the subject of India in opposition to the wishes of the Government, and of the East India Company? Instead of having their benches as they had now, they would not have one half the number of Members present. The only way in which any hon. Member would be able to bring forward the subject, would be in a way that would be extremely mischievous—by agitation in this country and in India; but if they accepted the proposition of the noble Lord, they might see their way to some change.
 MR. RICH  said, he considered that the Court of Directors and the proprietors of East India Stock had shown no desire to make a knowledge of the affairs of India the test of fitness of candidates for seats at the Board. At the very last election they had elected a young and inexperienced man in preference to a gentleman of long and distinguished services in India.
 MR. I. BUTT  then rose to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department when the intention of Her Majesty's Ministers with reference to an Arms Act for Ireland would be stated to the House, and if it was intended to introduce any Bill, when that Bill would be brought in? He had asked the noble Viscount at the head of the Home Office a fortnight previously, and that noble Lord said the subject was under consideration, and that he would intimate to the House what decision should be come to. He believed that the time was now come when he might reasonably expect a definite answer to his question. A very few evenings age he had moved for returns intended to show that this Act was not a dead letter, but was now actively enforced by the Irish Executive for the purpose of maintaining the public peace in many districts of Ire-
 1430 "At the very commencement of the present Government we proposed to continue an Arms Act which we found existing on the Statute-book. … It was pressed upon us that the people of Ireland might be Safely left to the exercise of their own discretion, and that the experiment should at least be tried of having no Act of restriction or coercion. We said we were ready t6 see if the peace of Ireland could not be preserved without any such Act, and we consented not to have any such powers. What was the consequence? Why, the open purchase of arms by persons who purchased them for the purpose of disturbing the peace of the county for the purpose of making the highways unsafe—for the
 1431 Bis dat qui cito dat 1432
 MR. I. BUTT  said, the clause would confer a far greater boon upon the tenant than the landlord, for it was absurd to suppose that a poor tenant could resist an expensive suit in Chancery, even though he might have right and equity on his side. Now how would the clause act? Why, in case of dispute between the landlord and tenant, the former would go before the assistant barrister, and obtain an  ad interim
 MR. M'CANN  said, he thought it was absolutely necessary that the tenant should have an opportunity of cutting turf on his land for the purposes of fuel, which he
 1414
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he should support the clause. If the principle of the existing Act of Parliament was good as to buildings, there was no ground why it should not be extended to land, which might be wasted by the tenant.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the law in England and Scotland gave power to the
 1419
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he was certainly under the impression that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland had himself voted in the Committee in favour of this clause.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that when it was intended to propose a separate measure, a Treasury minute had been submitted to the House of Keys, embodying the whole, or nearly so, of the present proposal. The reason why he asked the House to agree to the Resolution at present was, that the licences had expired, and the Lieutenant Governor had not issued any new ones; and, under these circumstances, he had thought it better to ask the House to agree at once to the Resolutions.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he believed he was doing nothing which had not received the consent of the authorities; but as he was informed the House of Keys was likely to communicate with the Government on the subject, he would not proceed with the vote at present.
 MR. J. WILSON : The Governor in Council and the House of Keys were agreed that a fair increase in the duties was acceptable; but, he was bound to say, that there were some persons who contended that no increase was necessary. He was advised, however, by the best authorities, that there was no very great objection to a fair increase.
 MR. J. WILSON  moved the adoption from and after the 5th day of July, 1853, of the new scale of Customs Duties on goods imported into the Isle of Man, of which he had given notice.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he could assure the House that the object of the Government in making the changes now proposed was to relieve the Isle of Man from the objectionable system of licences, and to allow the inhabitants of the island to import freely and without restriction any article which they might require. The object was not to increase the revenue. He sent the minute of the changes proposed to the Lieutenant Governor, who summoned the House of Keys. The House of Keys met on the 20th of June. They objected to some items of the proposed tariff, and approved of others; but they offered no opposition to the incorporation of these Resolutions into a Consolidated Customs Act. If, however, it should appear that objections were taken to such incorporation, he had no wish to press it, and the Resolutions might be passed in a distinct shape. The people
 1468
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he must explain that what he said was, not that the witnesses had been prevented from giving evidence, but that their evidence was very much confined to details in India, and that they had an impression, in which he himself shared, that questions relative to the Home Government of India were studiously avoided; and great dissatisfaction was felt by the witnesses in consequence of that course of examination.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought it was but fair to say that the right hon. President of the Board of Control had brought this Amendment upon himself, because he was chargeable with the most unaccountable inconsistency; for those who were fortunate enough to hear his four hours' panegyric upon everything which the Board of Directors had done, could never have supposed for a moment that he would be the man to propose any alteration whatever in the constitution of that body. However, the right hon. Gentleman said, that, for the sake of giving increased efficiency and responsibility to the Court of Directors, it was necessary that their number should be diminished from twenty-four to eighteen; and he (Mr. Bright) was exceedingly sorry that he did not propose a reduction to twelve. Still, believing that the reduction to eighteen would be to some extent beneficial, be should oppose the Amendment of the noble Lord (Viscount Jocelyn), and support the clause of the right hon. Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. T. Baring) spoke of the increase of the business of the Court. Now he (Mr. Bright) agreed with the right hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay) that it had been one of our mistakes to do so much of the formal business connected with India in England, and leave so little of it to be done in India; and he was satisfied that one of the main elements of improvement in the Government must be the getting rid of a large portion of the ineffective labour that was performed in this country. Sir Charles Trevelyan, in the course of his evidence before the Committee, stated that ninety-nine hundredths of the correspondence with the Home Indian Government was the "merest rubbish," and was of very trifling or but very secondary importance. He should like to know from the hon. Member for Honiton (Sir J. Hogg), or the hon. Member for Guildford (Mr. Mangles), how many of the Directors generally attended the Court meetings, and how much time each gave to the important business of governing this great empire; for it was well known that many of them had large concerns of other kinds to look after, and held the
 1460 1461
 MR. BRIGHT : I think with regard to the main question, no one has a right to find fault with the hon. Member for Aylesbury, if he consent to the proposition of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), because any Member of this House—the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) himself—is at liberty to give notice and to bring the question forward on the earliest day which can be secured, and an opportunity is not very difficult to find, if anybody is determined to obtain it. I am one of those, however, who think the hon. Member for Aylesbury will exercise a very wise discretion if he does not bring this question forward at this time, and I will state in a very few words the reason why I am of that opinion. In this country there is probably no diversity of opinion with regard to certain circumstances which are occurring abroad. We all know it is very easy to get up in the House or in the country, where people are rather of a pugnacious disposition, a feeling, which may seem justified, of a wish to protect the weak against the strong, and that feeling may be pushed to that extent, that all efforts by the Governmont, how-praiseworthy and patriotic, to preserve peace may possibly be frustrated. Now, if I thought the Government at this time
 1426
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the right hon. Gentleman had just given the sort of answer
 1437 1438
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  thought this a change in the right direction, and he should give his utmost support to carry out the Bill as introduced by the Government.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he thought that the power given by this clause was most oppressive and unjust, and would have a contrary effect to what was intended. The right hon. and learned Gentleman had fenced round the rights of landlords with sufficient securities, without giving them the direct power of distraining growing crops. The Bill made it a misdemeanour to cut down and convey crops on the Sunday.
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  said, he thought the proposed reduction in the numbers of the Court of Directors a valuable feature of the Ministerial measure. Lord Grenville, and other statesmen whose authority on this question deservedly carried the greatest weight, had declared their con-
 1465
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, if the House undertook to legislate at all it ought to legislate in a proper manner, and prepare a proper measure. It was impossible to conceive a more disgraceful specimen of indifference to the great interests at stake than the clause to which allusion had been made; and he trusted the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control would not ask the House to pass it. Bacon remarked, the continual heaping up of laws without digestion, made chaos and confusion where order should prevail, and rendered law a snare instead of a protection. It was a violation of the most obvious duty of Parliament to legislate in such a manner for so many millions of people.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, that in answering the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. I. Butt), he had not, it appeared, quite understood its import. He had answered it under the impression that it was an inquiry into the provisions of a measure about to be introduced.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he could not see that there existed any grounds for the supposition that there was any, the least, intention on the part of Her Majesty's Government not to use every means in their power to preserve the peace of Ireland, and secure its inhabitants and their property from outrage and violence. The subject had been fully considered by the Government, and their minds were made up on the matter. Due notice, therefore, would be given of the period of introducing a Bill.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he did not think that if this clause were retained in its present form, it would be used by landlords generally to harass their tenants. The landlord had power, however, already to eject any tenant who owed him a year's rent; and the only advantage which he would derive from this clause was, that in a suspicious case he might distrain growing crops to recover half a year's rent. The evil sought to be remedied was attributable to a shameful mismanagement; and, looking at the general position of tenants at present, he thought the proposed power unnecessary, and would recommend the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) to reconsider the clause.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he would be glad to know what Members of the Government had voted in the Select Committee in the way indicated by the hon. Member who had just sat down.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he had not.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he approved of the clause, as he considered that it proposed a mild and inexpensive mode of staying waste until the matter could be inquired into at the next petty sessions. The operation of the clause would be to bring cheap justice home to the poorer classes in Ireland.
 SIR J. YOUNG  contended that these matters did not refer to the clause under discussion. The question was, whether it was necessary to put the word "timber" in the clause or not, and whether the rights of the landlord were not sufficiently protected in this respect by a previous clause. He thought they were.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he must explain that power was only given by the clause to cut turf from unreclaimed bog land.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he would reconsider the subject.
 MR. NAPIER  said, the Act of the 9  Geo.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he could not consent to extend his pledge to this clause.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he felt bound to defend the clause as it stood. Under this Bill the power which the landlord heretofore possessed would be greatly restricted. As the law at present stood, a landlord had the right of distress for six years. This Bill confined the right to one year, and it should be the year immediately preceding the getting of the magistrate's warrant to levy the distress. It was not quite true that the landlord could not distrain growing-crops now; for although he could not do so directly, he could distrain them indirectly, by the circuitous and more expensive process of a suit in Chancery. It was notorious that of late years the tenants in some parts of Ireland had a habit of cuting down the crops and removing them to friends' houses on the Sabbath, so as to evade the law and cheat the landlord. He thought this was a practice which should be put a stop to, and believing that the alteration proposed was for the benefit of the tenant as well as landlord, he should press the adoption of the clause, for he considered it essential to connect the existing anomalies in the law, and to prevent practices of a dishonest and demoralising nature.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he wished to propose that the words conferring the power of distraining growing crops should be struck out. Up to the year 1816, the landlords in Ireland had not the power of distraining growing crops. In that year the power of distraining growing crops was conferred upon the landlord, and continued up to 1846. Its operation had been so injurious in Ireland, that the late Sir Robert Peel abrogated the power, and so the law remained up to the present time. The present Bill proposed to go back to that abrogated system, in opposition to experience, and the opinion of some of the best authorities in
 1418
 MR. R. FOX  said, he should support the clause on the ground that he knew many cases in Ireland in which the circumstance of the landlord having deprived the tenant of his right of turbury, had been made use of as a punishment for political offences.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he must oppose the Amendment. He believed that the affairs of India had been well administered, and would continue to be so, and therefore he did not anticipate that any question of Indian policy would come before the House, for some time at any rate. It was not likely that questions connected with India would be a matter of frequent debate, and he should regret it if it were so; but at the same time, if any great abuse occurred, if any grave matter of suspicion arose, if any great revolution took place in the internal affairs of India, or if the Company did not perform the important duties intrusted to them, of elevating the character and position of the people of India to their just level, he believed such matters would press themselves upon the public mind, and discussions would take
 1450
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he apprehended that the proposed change might have effects on the constitution of the Court beyound what was anticipated. It was agreed on all hands that it was indispensable to have men of extensive information and practical experience, acquainted both with England and India, in the Court of Directors, and if they could get enough of such men to fill up the present complement of that body, he saw no good reason for reducing the number. He should therefore vote for the Amendment.
 MR. LOWE  said, it appeared, then, that all the reason given by the hon. and learned Gentleman for the omission of the words in question was, that another Amendment of his might possibly be carried; but he apprehended it would have been a more logical mode of proceeding first of all to carry that other Amendment. He would, however, take the liberty of arguing the question, though the hon. and learned Gentleman had abstained from doing so. It was true that the words in question were surplusage; but he thought it most desirable that the clause should stand in that respect as at present drawn, for it seemed to him, for reasons he had explained when he had the honour of addressing the House on a former occasion, most desirable that they should not tie up the Government
 1444 1445 1446
 MR. LOWE  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had not said one word in favour of the Amendment moved, except that the words in question were mere surplusage.
 MR. MANGLES  said, he could bear out the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring), the Chairman of the Indian Committee, in what he had stated with regard to the ample scope which had been afforded to every witness who was examined before that Committee. It must be remembered that the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr.
 1463 1464
 MR. T. BARING  said, he wished to explain, in reference to the remarks of the hon. Member for Manchester, that the Committee had shown an anxiety to hear all the witnesses fully, and to elicit from them, in the manner most convenient to themselves, whatever statements they wished to make; and those hon. Gentlemen who served on the Committee would bear him out when he said that he frequently asked the witnesses if they had any other observations to make. If the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bright) would furnish him with the names of the witnesses who had been prevented from giving evidence, he (Mr. Baring) should propose to the Committee that they should be recalled, and further examined.
 MR. T. BARING  said, he would admit that there was no magical effect in the number twenty-four any more than the number eighteen; but he certainly thought it was a very sound reason that they should not disturb an existing state of things, unless they had evidence before them that it had worked badly and inconveniently, and that by the proposed change they were likely to improve it. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control had said that the present court was a large and inconvenient body. He (Mr.Baring) wished to know what evidence they had of that? He was quite sure that no witness that had been examined by the Committee of the House of Commons on Indian Affairs had stated that the Court, as at present constituted, had worked badly or inconveniently. He had no hesitation in saying that, as far as the evidence had gone, it was in favour of twenty-four Directors. The right hon. Gentleman had reminded them of the proposal made by Lord Grenville in 1813, to reduce the number of Directors to twelve. He (Mr. Baring) thought that they should not altogether be guided by the opinions of the statesmen of 1813. There might be circumstances and changes in the condition of the country which they were called to govern, which ought to produce a great change of opinion. With respect to Mr. Charles Grant, it was undoubtedly true that he proposed in 1833 to reduce the number; but it was equally true that he proposed to reduce the number in proportion to the amount of business to be transacted, as would be seen from the following extract of a letter from Mr. Grant to the then Chairman, dated March 16, 1833:—
 "The number of members of which the Court of Directors shall consist is a matter of difficulty. The obvious diminution of the duties of this Court would seem to render some reduction necessary, and subject to a question how far that reduction should take place before the complete winding up of the commercial concern. Probably it would be well that the Court should be divided into Committees having the care of separate departments of the administration, and in that case it is clear that there must be retained a sufficient number of Directors to constitute these Committees." 1457 "To illustrate the increase of business, a statement was put in showing the number of despatches received from the different Governments of India in 1830 to have been 602, while in 1849 they were 2,415. Previous communications submitted to the Board in 1830 were 178; in 1849 they were 404; draughts of despatches laid before the Board in 1830 amounted to 716; in 1849 they reached to 909; in 1830 the collection of papers appended to the previous communications, or to the draughts, were in number 1,440; in 1849 they were 5,720; the number of pages in those collections in 1830 was stated to be 103,710; in 1849 the pages were 212,075." 1458 1459
 MR. T. BARING  said, that if the Bill was good, the system of government would be, as far as it well could be, permanent; if it was defective, the Government would be uncertain, and it was for that very ground that he felt strongly in favour of the clause as it stood, and was opposed to the Amendment. The object of all of them must be to obtain a good Government for India; and he would assert that the Government to be established by this Bill would be permanent so long as it was good, or uncertain so long as it was defective. This would be a great stimulant to exertion on the part of the authorities, and for that reason he was opposed to again having a lease of the Government of India.
 MR. PHINN  then moved the insertion in the third line of the clause, after the word "shall," of the words "be governed by and in the name of Her Majesty, Her Heirs and Successors."
 MR. PHINN  said, this first Amendment of his had a bearing upon the second, because if they agreed, in accordance with that Amendment, to transfer the Government of India to the Crown, it would not do, by retaining in the clause the words "till Parliament shall otherwise provide," to hint at the possibility of the Government of that country being at some future time transferred back again to the Company.
 MR. PHINN  said, that to facilitate proceedings, he would withdraw the first part of his Amendment for the omission of the words "until Parliament shall otherwise provide."
 MR. PHINN  said, he would now beg to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. It would be unpardonable in him on the present occasion if he were to detain the Committee at any length in stating his reasons for proposing these Amendments. On the second reading of the Bill he had been permitted to address the House upon the subject at some length, and the question was, he apprehended, in a very different position now from what it was then. The House by a large majority had decided, first, that it was desirable to legislate in the present Session; and, secondly, that it was desirable in some form or other to keep the East India Company as the body that was to manage that country. But the question arose, in what proportion ought India to be managed by the East India Company, and in what proportion by the Crown? Of all the questions raised upon this subject, none had been more frequently mooted than the question whether it was or was not desirable that the anomalous system of the Government of India in England by a Company should cease, and whether the name and influence of the Crown should not be predominate. That argument bad been urged by Pitt and Burke, and by Lord Melville, in 1813. If it was important to discuss that question formerly, it was much more so now, when the Bill before them professed to he a permanent measure—for the words "until Parliament shall other wise provide" could only be regarded as mere surplusage, the real intention being to make the Bill a permanent measure. Formerly the Bills passed for the Government of India were more leases given from time to time to the Company; but he apprehended that the present Bill, as construed by any lawyer, would be taken to mean that it was a permanent settlement of the Government of India. The question then arose, how far was it desirable that whatever power and influence they retained on behalf of the East India Company
 1441 1442 1443
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, that the law was perfectly clear and satisfactory as it stood at present, and he therefore objected to its being altered. The remedy provided by the Court of Chancery was quite
 1416
 MR. V. SCULLY  moved the omission of the clause.
 MR. KEOGH  said, he fully concurred with the observations of his hon. and learned Friend. It was a great delusion to suppose, as one hon. Gentleman seemed to think, that sufficiently philanthropic counsel could be found in the Irish Court of Chancery who would be ready to take up the case of an injured tenant for a fee of two guineas. Attorneys and counsel were not so easily satisfied as that, and the poor tenant who was dragged into Chancery by his landlord had much better convert his goods and chattels into cash and be off to America, than attempt to resist the suit. It could not be done except at an enormous expense, and, consequently, the change proposed by this clause ought to be passed, if it was only on the ground of bringing cheap justice to every man's door.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that the landlords in Ireland were already sufficiently protected in their rights by the law as it at present stood, without introducing a principle into their law which was calculated to produce the most mischievous consequences. The Devon Commission had strongly recommended the repeal of the Act by which growing crops could be seized, seven years ago; and it was repealed by the Government of, Sir Robert Peel; but the right hon. and learned Gentleman now asked Parliament to re-enact it, at a time too when there was no pretext for it.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that the object would be answered by making the clause applica-
 1415
 MR. KEOGH  said, he hoped the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Napier) would insist on the clause. If the hon. and gallant Colonel (Colonel Dunne) had read the clause through, he would have seen that it effectually provided against any abuse of the practice of turf-cutting.
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  said, he was convinced by experience of the necessity of the clause.
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  said, he could not possibly understand the hesitatation of the Government to answer the question which had been put to them. Every Member of that House must be aware of the number of assassinations in Ireland, and, but that he feared to weary the House, he could quote the opinion of
 1433
 SIR ARTHUR BROOKE  said, he should move the omission of the clause, on the ground that the existing right of distress operated less injuriously on the tenant than would a law which would eject him altogether if there was a gale's rent due. He thought there should be a right of distress also, in order to prevent the tenant from making a fraudulent removal of the crop.
 SIR ARTHUR BROOKE  was at a loss to understand what desire there could be to oppose this clause, unless it arose from an anxiety to enable tenants to defraud their landlords.
 MR. OTWAY  said, that this question had been argued as if some injustice was about to be inflicted upon the Court of Directors by the reduction of their number from twenty-four to eighteen. It seemed, however, to have been altogether forgotten that the Court would cease altogether in 1854, unless it were continued by an Act of the Legislature. If they were to be continued then, surely the President of the Board of Control was justified in fixing upon the number of members which he deemed most likely to form an efficient body; and believing, as he (Mr. Otway) did, that eighteen members were more likely to do so than twenty-four, he should vote against the Amendment.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I rise, Sir, merely for the purpose of expressing my dissent from the inference which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) draws from
 1427
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought it would be much better to leave the clause as it stood. The natives were accustomed to the present style and title in the Government, and any other, perhaps, would not be so acceptable to them.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  inquired whether the President of the Board of
 1420
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, that a strong feeling of opposition existed in the island to the new Resolutions. He proposed that the consideration of the Resolutions should be postponed.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he was prepared to show that the statements of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury were most of them totally at variance with the facts of the case; and he felt bound to say the course pursued, in reference to increased duties, and placing the Isle of Man, as far as its fiscal regulations were concerned, within the scope of the Customs Acts of this country, were infractions on the constitutional rights of the Manx people. This was the first time such an attempt had been made, and it was in direct contravention of the laws and privileges of the people; and, according to their laws, could not be without their consent. It had been said that the Crown had purchased the lords' rights of the Isle of Man; but these rights consisted not of a right to tax, but of certain land revenues, and the Crown could not purchase what the lords had not power to sell. This appeared to him an attempt to accomplish by a side wind that which they lacked boldness openly to declare. The Secretary to the Treasury stated that the consent of the Manx people had virtually been obtained; but he omitted to state
 1470 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 1471
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, the arguments brought forward in support of the reduction from twenty-four to eighteen, went to show that the Court would be equally efficient if it consisted of but a single member. The question was whether they should or should not continue something like the present executive government. It was for those who proposed a change to prove that the present number was greater than the exigencies of the service required. The testimony of the hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton (Sir J. W. Hogg), and the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring), was quite sufficient to convince them that the division of business amongst the twenty-four Directors would still leave more than enough for each individual member of the Court adequately to discharge. If India was not represented by twenty-four Directors, what chance was there of its being represented by eighteen? He should give his cordial support to the Amendment of his noble Friend (Viscount Jocelyn.)
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he could not imagine that the number of eighteen as proposed by the Government
 1466
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he felt so perfectly convinced that the Bill would not continue in operation for any num-
 1451
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  inquired whether it was proposed, after the passing of the Bill, to retain the practice of "previous communication" in the transaction of business and correspondence between the Board of Control and the Court of Directors; and whether it was proposed to adopt any measures to improve and render less voluminous the system of correspondence now carried on between the Court of Directors and the authorities in India?
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he should move as an Amendment, that the Court of Directors should consist, as at present, of twenty-four Members. He did not desire to alter the relative proportion of the Directors to be nominated by the Government, whom he proposed to be eight instead of six, as in the Bill. He could not conceive what objection the Government could have to agreeing with his Amendment, except on the ground of expense. It might, indeed, be said that the Court would be more efficient if its Members were reduced to eighteen; but when they considered the amount of business there was to be done, he did not think it could be said that twenty-four were too many to do it. Possibly, eighteen might be just sufficient for the transaction of business; but; for purposes of deliberation,
 1454
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, that the only object which he had in view in moving his Amendment, was to render the Bill more efficient than it seemed to him to be in its present shape. He felt, however, that after the discussion which had taken place, he should be doing wrong in proceeding to divide the Committee upon it.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he would state in a few words his reasons for bringing forward the Amendment of which he had given notice, which was to fix a period during which the Act was to continue in force. When he felt it his duty to vote against the Amendment of the noble Lord (Lord Stanley) on a former occasion, he stated that though he thought the present Bill pointed in a right direction, it would require many amendments. In the Bill there were three features: the first was the question of time—the second the introduction of a new class of Directors—the third the question of patronage. He intended to deal with the first—the limitation of time. He thought it would have an injurious effect if they were to give the powers contained in this Bill into the hands of any body of men, without providing a time when they would inquire whether the trust had been abused or not. It appeared to him that it was their paramount duty to provide that the question of the Government of India should come before them for consideration at the end of a certain specified period, not at the instance of a party or of a private Member of that House, but in such a manner as to command attention. With that view he had selected a period of ten years, which would allow the experiment to be fairly tried, without, at the same time, admitting of any serious injury being done to the interests of the people of India. If, at the close of that time, it should appear that the Bill had operated satisfactorily, it would then be for Parliament, after due inquiry, to consider the propriety of continuing it; but if, on the other hand, it should turn out that the trust reposed in the East India Company had not been ju-
 1448 1449
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, that in order to meet the objections of the hon. Member for Montrose, he was willing to add the words "or until Parliament shall otherwise provide."
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, that he entertained strong doubts as to the right of distress at all, but he should certainly support any clause that would prevent the landlord from being the immediate enforcer of his own rights.
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, that it would be very hard indeed if a landlord did not possess the power of summary ejectment if a tenant committed wilful injury or damage on premises which the landlord was bound to keep in repair.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Seeing my hon. Friend the Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) in his place, I wish to make an appeal to him on the subject of the notice which stands in his name for Monday next, and to request him, on the part of the Government, to consider whether in all respects it may not he more advisable to follow the example set by those persons in the other House of Parliament who had a similar notice on the books, and postpone, without naming any particular day for the present
 1421 1422
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think, Sir, I stated as plainly as words can put it, that I thought the discussion of the Motion at the present time would be attended with inconvenience and injury to the public service.
 MR. VERNON SMITH : He could not help it, because it had come to be appropriated to persons appointed by the Crown; it was a word well known in our Colonial Government, and the noble Lord knew it well himself; or he might appeal to the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe), whose experience in the Australian Colonies must have led him to take the same views as himself on the subject of the odium in which nominees of the Crown were held. He did not mean to say that nomination in a representative assembly in the Colonies was quite the same as nomination in the present instance would be to the Court of Directors. But who were those who would be appointed, if the Bill in its present shape were carried? The persons whom the Government had to put into the Court were those who had returned from service in India, and had procured seats in Parliament. The first object of those persons, after procuring a seat in that House, would be to go to the Treasury, and to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, or the noble Lord, to put them on the list of Directors for India. The claim of a seat in Parliament would be felt to be quite strong enough. A great cause of the inefficiency of the present system had been the difficulty of placing able men in the Court of Directors, well acquainted with Indian affairs; but he did not think that the present measure would obviate that difficulty. In the course of the inquiry, names of persons of high eminence had been brought forward, who had refused to enter the Board of Directors, on account of the system of canvassing. Now, he would not enter upon the question of canvassing, but would simply ask was it very likely that the men who had been deterred by that system from taking a seat at the Board of Directors, would consent to sit there as Government nominees? It was not to be expected that such men as Sir Charles Metcalfe, Lord Elphinstone, or Sir Henry Pottinger, would consent to be placed in the Court of Directors with a small salary, in order merely to become the instrument of Ministers, for the purpose of attending the House of Commons, to make a House and keep a House, which were the duties which Mr. Canning assigned to similar offices. He believed that the present proposal of the Government to add six nominees to six old Indian servants elected by the Court of
 37 38 "The plan suggested by Mr. Wynn, is, I think, the very worst I ever heard. He would have Directors nominated every four years by the Crown. Is it not plain that these Directors would always be appointed from among the supporters of the Ministry for the time being?—that their situations would depend upon the permanence of that Ministry?—that, therefore, all their power and patronage would be employed for the purpose of propping that Ministry, and, in case of a change, for the purpose of molesting those who Wright succeed to power?—that they would be subservient while their friends were in, and factious when their friends were out?"—[3  Hansard, 39 "I have heard it proposed that they should be nominated by the Crown. I have heard it proposed, also, that they should be partly elected as at present, and partly elected by the body of Directors themselves. I have heard it proposed, also, that they should be elected by the holders of East India stock here and in India. Of those methods of appointment or selection I confess, on the whole, I am inclined to prefer, with great reserve and diffidence as before, the plan of electing them as at present for the most part, and, as vacancies occur, allowing a portion to be nominated—say one-third or one-fourth, as the case may be—by the Directors themselves. It appears to me that you would then, perhaps, have greater security on the whole for the selection of fit persons than you have at present, and you would, at all events, open a door for the election into the Court of those fit persons who are occasionally found in circumstances which deter them, or render it unfit or impossible for them, to incur the expense and delay and trouble of a canvass." "I have sometimes thought, if you still continue to keep up this system of a double government—that is, the Court of Directors and the Board of Control—it would be an advantage if one-fourth, or even one-third, of the Directors were appointed by direct nomination from among those who have had long Indian experience, whether acquired officially or non-officially. With regard to the nomination of those Directors, if it was considered constitutionally improper that they should be appointed by the Crown, they might then be selected by the Court of Directors, and the Minister for India should have a veto upon their nomination." 40 41
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he did not at all agree with the complaints which had been urged against the Government, relative to the position in which that House had been placed with regard to the India Bills—such complaints as that the measure had not been introduced earlier in the Session; while, if any were made at all, it ought to fall upon the Ministry of 1850 rather than upon the present Government, for not baying appointed a
 35
 LORD STANLEY  said, he thought it was very desirable that they should confine themselves as strictly as possible to the subject which was absolutely before them; and such being his views, he would not, therefore, say one word on the various topics which, while they were not strictly comprised in the Amendment, had been introduced into that discussion. The right hon. Gentleman who had moved the Amendment had said something about the amalgamation of the two offices. Now, that was an important point, and one upon which, if it had been brought regularly before them, he should have been most happy to have supported the right hon. Gentleman. But that was not the question which they had then to consider. Another question had been raised as to the position which the President of the Board of Control ought to occupy, and as to the insufficiency of the salary which he at present received. There again he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman; but that was not the subject he had brought before them in that Amendment. The whole question they had then to consider was, as he understood, whether it was desirable or not that a certain number of the Court of Directors should be appointed by the Crown. Upon that point he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman in disapproving in many respects of the proposal of the Government. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman had criticised that proposal with great success; but he also thought that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, when it had come to his turn to reply, had criticised with not less success the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. It appeared to him that it was hardly possible to deny that persons appointed by the Crown—that was to say, by the Minister of the day—for a short period, who were to be re-eligible to be appointed, and who were to be allowed to sit in Parliament, would, to a very great extent, be dependent upon the Government of the day. He did not think that would be any the less the case because those persons received a comparatively small salary. He was afraid that the smallness of the salary would only have the effect of rendering the office an object of ambition, not to the persons best qualified to fill it, but to those qualified in an inferior degree. The lower the salary was made, the lower would be the class of those who would
 56 57
 MR. HUME  said, he did not think the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. V. Smith) was very intelligible, and he would have preferred his moving the rejection of the clause altogether. He (Mr. Hume) was one of those who was ready to vote for any Motion which was directed against, the system of nominees. He was for continuing the principle on which the East India Company had hitherto been maintained, and he could not understand by what course of reasoning the Government, who had spoken in such eulogistic language of the way in which the Company had been conducted during the last twenty years, should propose now to destroy that principle. The Court of Directors was a body constituted by several Acts of Parliament. The right was given to the proprietors, for pecuniary considerations, to elect those Directors, and Parliament had no power to take that right from them. He thought the Government of India by the East India Company had been productive of more benefit to that country than had been the Government of any other of our distant possessions to those possessions. The arguments of the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe) had only made the subject more confused, for instead of considering the Bill before the House, he had made a flimsy attempt to show what might be the state of things in the year 1874, and what Parliament might have then to do. He had heard no objection to
 58 l. 59 l.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty whether this Bill was introduced with the view of establishing a Council, and entirely abolishing the Court of Directors? For, if so, he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Manchester, that it would be much better to come forward and do it openly. The right hon. President of the
 77
 MR. HUME  said, that if the period was thus limited it would only let in the Judges.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that it did not appear that the Court of Proprietors had exercised much control over the policy of the Directors. If the Amendment was pressed to a division, he should vote for it.
 MR. HUME  said, he would express a hope that the qualification would also be abolished as to the Directors elected by the Proprietors.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he only proposed at the present time to go into Committee  pro formâ, 86
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he objected to the system of centralisation so apparent in the measure.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that there was a clause in the Bill which would meet the hon. and gallant Member's objection. He would also state that it was the intention to make all specifications lodged in Dublin evidence for all purposes; but it would be a saving of expense to the patentee if printed duplicates were sent to Dublin from the Patent Office here instead of manuscript copies.
 COLONEL HARCOURT  said, that in the year 1851 some persons in Ryde had expressed a wish to have the provisions of the Act in question extended to that town. There had been a large majority of the corporation of Ryde, however, opposed to it upon that occasion, and subsequently a petition against its enactment had been pre-
 87
 MR. COWPER  said, he must on the other hand, as one of the representatives for Hertford, declare that the majority of the inhabitants were decidedly in favour of the application of the Health Act to their town.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would now beg to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the suppression of betting houses, and in doing so he considered it was not necessary for him to make any lengthened statement upon the subject, as the evils which had arisen from the introduction of these establishments were perfectly notorious and acknowledged upon all hands. The difficulty, however, which arose in legislating upon this subject was to be found in the disinclination which was felt against interfering with that description of betting which had so long existed at Tattersall's and elsewhere in connexion with the great national sport of horse racing. But these establishments assumed a totally different aspect—a new form of betting was introduced, which had been productive of the greatest evils. The
 88
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, it was most unusual to object to go into Committee  pro formâ.
 MR. ELLIOT  said, that, until this debate commenced, there was hardly a person in that House who had not always been accustomed to hear, and who did not fully believe, that the great merit of the Court of Directors was, that it was a thoroughly independent body, and free from all political bias or influence. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down said he believed the Court would be a more independent body by the introduction of nominee members; but it required even more ingenuity than the hon. Gentleman was possessed of to make that clear. He (Mr. Elliot) did not think that either the President, or the Secretary of the Board of Control had convinced the Committee—certainly they had not convinced him—that an additional degree of independence would be given to the body by making one-third of it Government nominees. There was a peculiarity connected with these nominee Directors which he thought it right to mention. They were not to be appointed permanently, but only for a certain period, and they would sit at the Board with the expectation of being renominated. He was the last man to suppose they would do anything unworthy of themselves; but human nature was human nature, and he could not help thinking they would not occupy seats at the Board in that free and independent capacity in which all members of it ought to be placed. The great private and personal motive of persons desirous to get on the Directory had been the power of providing for a certain number of their own sons, and the sons of their relatives and friends. It was in vain to conceal the fact, that that was the great inducement which operated on the minds of those who returned to this country, like himself, after twenty or twenty-five years' service in India, and became candidates for Directorships. But was it likely that persons who came home, after a long life spent in India, would try to enter the Court of Directors when it was lowered in its character by being deprived of the most valuable portion of its patronage? He must say, that he should not himself consider a seat at the Board a distinction under such circumstances. The persons he had mentioned would consider the appointment derogatory to the position they formerly held in India. He knew several who, since the Bill had been made public, had declared that, however anxious they might have been formerly to become Directors, they were no longer so now. It
 54 l. l. l. l. 55
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Why do you use it then?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL said : In the last despatch received, Sir George Hamilton Seymour stated that he had not seen the circular despatch said to be signed by Count Nesselrode. I have no doubt, however, that, substantially, the despatch to which the right hon. Gentleman has alluded, and which has been published in the public journals, is authentic. I will not enter into the particulars to which the right hon. Gentleman has referred; but I do not think, in the first place, that Her Majesty's Government can in any manner substantiate the fact that the entry of the Russian troops into the principalities was caused by the sailing of the English and French fleets into the waters of Turkey; and, in the second place, I do not know, from my reading of the document, that there was any declaration in it to the effect that matters would not be arranged between Russia and Turkey unless the English and French fleets first left the Turkish waters.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : We have not received any information of that nature. Indeed, the Austrian Minister has communicated to the Earl of Clarendon his total disbelief of any such occurrence. He says that he believes the report has been owing to the occupation of Peterwariden, a town within the Austrian territory, and he supposes that that step has given rise to the report.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he thought there was great weight in the observations of the hon. Member for Manchester, and that he had given very good reasons why these words should be omitted. The qualification was inserted in order to place on an equality the Directors nominated by the Crown, and those elected by the Proprietors. If, however, the Committee thought that the former would not in the absence of the qualification be placed in an inferior position to the latter, he should not object to the omission of these words.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he could see no difference between growing crops and crops after they had been severed from the land. No such distinction was recognised in Scotland or England; and what objection could there be to assimilating the law of the three countries in this respect? With every feeling on behalf of the tenant, he should vote for the clause.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he was glad the noble Lord had come to this decision. Nothing could be more injurious than that of going out of the way to make a factitious pecuniary qualification. He thought also, that the observations of the hon. Member for Manchester as to the ill effect of surrounding a man with pecuniary difficulty when you wanted the concentration of his mind on the public service, were very forcible.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he should certainly dissent from the suggestion of the hon. Baronet, which would have the effect of increasing the influence of the Crown, as every member of the Court so selected must be added to the number of the Government nominees.
 MR. DISRAELI : I rise, Sir, to put two questions to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London with respect to the present state of affairs in the East. The first refers to a document which has reached this metropolis to-day, and which bears the title of a "circular despatch," addressed to the diplomatic agents of the Court of St. Petersburgh, and purports to be signed by Count Nesselrode. This document states that the occupation of the Danubian principalities by the Russians has been occasioned as much by the naval occupation of the Turkish ports by the combined fleets of England and France, as by the refusal of the Sultan to give that satisfaction to the Emperor of Russia which he demands; and it further states, that the Emperor will not retire from the principalities until complete satisfaction has been accorded to him by the Sultan, and until the combined fleets of England and France have left those ports in the Sultan's dominions which they at present occupy. I wish to know whether a copy of this circular despatch has been presented to Her Majesty's Government; and if it has not been
 34
 MR. DISRAELI : The next question I have to ask Sir, is, whether Her Majesty's Government have received any information of the occupation of the Bosnian provinces by the Austrian army?
 MR. COWAN  wished to know if there was any objection to make it imperative on patentees to lodge specifications at Dublin and Edinburgh?
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he believed that the Bill now before the House, and particularly the clause under discussion, was calculated to extinguish the Court of Directors, and put a speedy end to the present system of government in India. He was at a loss to understand what line of conduct the hon. Baronet who spoke last intended to pursue. The hon. Baronet had blown hot and cold upon the question before the House. In the first place, he had stated strong objections to the principle of nomination by the Crown; and, in the second place, he had urged equally strong objections to the principle of selection by the Court of Directors—
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he was
 63 64
 MR. GEACH  said, he was opposed to the clause. The question seemed to be treated as if the tenant had no other creditor but his landlord. It was the oppressive power already possessed by landlords over tenants which frequently prevented independent persons coming to their rescue, and assisting them with their capital, as was frequently done in the case of trade.
 MR. GEACH  said, it was a mistake to suppose that because a town council had voted in favour of this Bill, the borough which elected the council was favourable to it also. He thought this Bill ought not to be pressed on at that late hour, when the parties interested in it could have no opportunity of making their wishes known, and he hoped the House would not allow the Bill to be committed to-night.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he did not think, after what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham), that any man who respected the system of double government could vote for the proposition of the Government. The right hon. Gentleman said, if they wished to provide for its suppression even before 1874, they ought to support the clause as it was framed. After all the civil speeches that had been made to the Directors, and the acknowledgment of the services rendered, of benefits conferred by them, nothing could be deeper than the ingratitude of leading them to rely upon a measure that was to provide for the destruction of their corporate independence and authority. He really hoped this clause before the Committee was better understood by the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty, than by the President of the Board of Control, who either did not comprehend the true bearing of his own measure, or had misled the House. He wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he intended that these nominees should be eligible for the chair of the Board of Directors? In such an event, the present clause would provide that those who were organs of the Court in direct communication with the Government, should be the Government's own nominees. If these nominees constituted the Secret Committee, it could not be considered independent. He had heard it attributed to the Secret Committee of the Court of Directors, that they had exhibited great extravagance in the wars which had been carried on in India. Nothing could be more unjust; for if there had been extravagance at all on this subject, it lay at the door of the Board of Control, not of the East India House, since the Directors had no power to decide upon either making war or maintaining peace. He deeply lamented the perseverance of the Government in pushing for-
 74
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that two things seemed now to be agreed upon—first, that the double government should be maintained, and, secondly, that a certain number of persons should be introduced into the Court of Directors as members of that body by some other mode than election by the proprietors of East India stock. The next point to be decided, then, was, by what means should these persons be introduced into the Court of Directors? The Bill proposed that they should be nominated by the Crown: the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. V. Smith) wished them to be elected by the Court of Directors. The proposition brought forward by the right hon. Gentleman had come under the attention of the Government, was duly considered, and rejected. Much, undoubtedly, might be urged in favour of the proposition; but, after mature deliberation, the Government decided in favour of the plan proposed in the Bill, as best calculated to insure the independence and efficiency of the Court of Directors. There had been times—and they might occur again—when party spirit ran high in the Court of Directors. On such an occasion the majority might be induced to elect two partisans, in order to destroy or reduce to insignificance the minority oppesed to them. The exercise of the  veto 42 43
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, so far as the Crown was concerned, they had no object in proposing this qualification; but as there prevailed a general impression that the Directors appointed by the Government should be assimilated in all respects to the elective members, the greatest possible pains had been taken to put them in all and every respect on precisely the same footing. Those persons who were appointed by the Government, would be Directors of the East India Company for all and every purpose, as well as for the Government of India, and it was, therefore, thought proper that they should be qualified in exactly the same way as the other Directors. The Crown had no interest in maintaining this qualification, but it was thought desirable that there should be a perfect identity of feeling and interest between the two classes of Directors.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  thought it very desirable that such a limitation should be imposed. Cases might occur—though they would probably be exceptional cases—where it might be important to appoint to seats in the Direction persons who had been absent from India for a longer period than five years. It was, of course, extremely desirable that there should be in the Court of Directors an officer of eminence in the military service of the Company; but the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman would exclude from the Court—if his presence were thought necessary there—one of the most eminent military officers in the service of the Company, who had now been absent from India more than five years. The object the hon. Gentleman desired to secure was, that there should be in the Court of Directors persons who had come fresh from India, and he (Sir C. Wood) fully admitted the importance of that object; but, at the same time, he thought the limitation proposed by the hon. Member might operate injuriously to the public interests.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  objected to the Amendment on the ground that it would render it necessary that the elective Directors should be elected for no shorter period than nine years, which was more than double the time for which they were elected at present.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  objected to the Amendment, because it restricted the eligibility to twenty years' service, when the person to be elected might be disqualified by age, and because there was no provision for the removal of Directors. He was opposed also to any interference with the nomination of the Crown.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, he would also suggest the postponement of the clause.
 MR. LUCAS  moved to omit the words "unless the same shall become necessary by reason of any fraudulent removal of the goods and chattels liable to such distress."
 MR. LUCAS  said, he should move its omission on the ground of its excessive hardship. If a tenant merely dug up potatoes upon a Sunday night, he would be liable to be punished as for a misdemeanour.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he had understood that the words on which they had just divided were not to be pressed; and upon that understanding many hon. Members had absented themselves from the House that morning. For himself he could not admit that there was any necessity for the Bill passing through Committee that day; and if such enactments as those contained in the clause under consideration were to be persisted in, he should not care if the Bill never passed at all. He should vote for expunging the clause.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  would suggest that the discussion should be taken upon I the third reading, because there were other matters contained in the clause besides that under review, and matters which it would certainly he desirable not to negative.
 MR. RICH  said, as the question involved the important one whether the Directors should have seats in Parliament, he would take the sense of the Committee upon it. It was desirable that as many persons of great influence and high character should have seats in that House as possible.
 MR. RICH  proposed an Amendment by substituting for the "one" Director, who is to be appointed for the first period of four years, the word "two," and also generally
 78
 MR. RICH  said, he thought that it would be better to send back the whole of the Directors to their constituents, and let them select whom they thought the fittest.
 MR. M'CANN  opposed the clause; but before the hon. Member had concluded his objections, four o'clock arrived, when the Chairman left the Chair.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the views of the hon. and learned Serjeant were exceedingly strange. The clause decided that distresses should not be levied on Sundays,
 33
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, it was not necessary to constitute a misdemeanour that crops should be removed; they must be removed fraudulently with the object of evading the payment of rent.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he must deny that there had been any arrangement or understanding on Friday last that the words in question were not to be pressed.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he must complain that this Bill would interfere with an Act passed only last Session for the amendment of the patent laws, upon which great pains had been bestowed, and that the Amendments altered it essentially, and made it utterly ineligible and utterly unworkable. He protested against such a system of legislation, and should object to proceed any stage at that hour.
 MR. WHITESIDE  would ask whether it was quite usual to send a Bill to Members to read, and when they came to go into Committee to say, that was not the Bill, but it was quite a different Bill altogether?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the right hon. Baronet had made an able speech against the system of nomination on the second reading of the Bill; but it appeared to him that the speech just made by the right hon. Baronet justified the course that he (Mr. Bright) and his friends then took by his argument against the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton. Unless it could be shown there would be no party spirit in 1874, that faction would be banished from that House, that patronage would not injure the Minister, and that several other things would not be just the same then as they were now, it appeared to him that the arguments of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Jocelyn) would be just as strong in 1874 as they were at this moment. If it would be safe in 1874 to have a consultative Council and a responsible Minister for India, it would be just as safe to have them in 1853. The change which must come then, might as well be made now. With regard to the particular question, he conceived that the right hon. Member for Northampton had put himself in the worst possible position by the Amendment he proposed. If he had moved that eighteen Directors should be elected instead of twenty-four, he would have had a fair case against the proposition of the Government; but it appeared to him (Mr. Bright) that the proposition of the President of the Board of Control was admirable compared with that of the right hon. Gentleman. It was admitted that the twelve Directors were so badly elected, that it was proposed to put six in by another channel, in the hope of improving their quality; yet, after having consented to the twelve who were so badly elected that they could scarcely be tolerated at all, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. V. Smith) suggested that six of their own election; should sit with them—six who must become dependent upon them, more dependent upon them than they were upon the Crown. If the Minister appointed the six, there would be responsibility to public opinion, and to that House; but if the twelve appointed them, he did not know where they would have to look for responsibility, or for any guarantee that they would not appoint relatives, friends, and people of I their own. Under such circumstances, there could not be a doubt as to what the decision of the Committee would be between the two propositions. Objectionable as he considered the Bill, the Amendment would make it far more unsatisfactory than it
 73
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, the hon. Baronet has alluded to something which passed in a former debate, when he says I had not the manliness to say what I thought. I am of opinion that I generally say pretty much what I think. I did, on the occasion referred to, allude to the hon. Baronet's ambition, but not, I trust, in an offensive sense. I do not blame the hon. Baronet for being ambitious, and I think that men generally would perform much less if they were not ambitious. I think the Committee will agree with me in thinking that I did not to-night utter a syllable which any man had a right to deem offensive. Perhaps I have not been sufficiently regardful of the delicate position in which Directors of the hon. East India Company are placed, and of the state of feeling which may exist under such circumstances. I will try to be more careful in future, and avoid wounding them on such a very tender point.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he objected to a short term of service, and he thought that the clause before the Committee ought to be considered in connexion with a subsesequent clause, which made Directors eligible to seats in the House of Commons. The clauses in conjunction would destroy the independence of Directors. What he desired was, that Directors should be elected for a fixed period—say eight or ten years—and be not eligible to re-election. If a man elected to the Direction in 1854 knew that he must go out of office in 1864, without pension or allowance, and be incapable of re-election, he would be totally independent of the Government; and if he should happen to be a Member of the House during the period, he would have no temptation, as the year 1864 drew near, to be more assiduous than usual in his attentions to the Treasury bench. It was supposed—whether truly or not he could not say—that there was always a strong leaning towards the Treasury bench on the part of Directors as the termination of a Charter approached; and he certainly had noticed recently an increasing affection between the East India Directors and the President of the Board of Control. It was not at all certain, therefore, that if the Bill should pass in its present shape, the Directors might not feel still more dependent on the Government—not dependent in the way in which some Members on the Ministerial benches were, but dependent as clerks were on the head of an office. If the clause should pass as it now stood, he would propose the omission of the clause allowing Directors to be Members of that House; for if there should be three or four elected Directors, and five or six nominees of the Crown in that House, an independent Member, on bringing forward any question connected with the Indian Government, would have to encounter not only the hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton (Sir J. W. Hogg), and the President of the Board of Control, as at present, but the fresh auxiliaries by whom they would then be supported, and would thus be borne down by the accumulated evidence of persons interested in giving a colour to transactions, or even in suppress-
 79
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he would advise the hon. Gentleman not to divide. He had made the suggestion because the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty had admitted that the clause might be improved.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he would ask if the Committee thought it was necessary to retain that part of the clause whereby it was provided that every person who was nominated by the Crown should be possessed of as much stock in the Company as should now be possessed by an elected Director. It was not desirable that the Crown should be limited when they came to choose the persons who were to fill those offices. It was stated with respect to a distinguished servant of the Company, that it would be exceedingly inconvenient for him, and perhaps impossible for him, out of his own funds to purchase as much of the stock of the Company as would be the qualification required by this clause. He would therefore propose that the words to which he referred should be left out of the clause.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had not heard from the right hon. President of the Board of Control a single argument in favour of retaining this qualification. He seemed to want to make two things look alike which were essentially different. Really, that was too puerile for the House of Commons. He believed that many of the best servants returned from India with little more than their pension, and that it would, therefore, be impossible for them to purchase this qualification with their own funds. True, they might borrow the necessary sum; but it was a bad way to get into office by getting into debt, and he did not think it was desirable to surround a man with additional pecuniary cares and embarrassment at the very time that important public services were required from him. Could the noble Lord the Member for the City of London give any good reason why this qualification should be insisted on?
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought it would be better that the Directors to be retained should be selected by the Court of Proprietors. A more unpalatable, a more unfair, a more disgusting duty, was never imposed on any public body than that which was assigned to the Board of Directors by this clause.
 MR. HERRIES  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had argued this subject so temperately—he had stated so fairly the different sides of the question, that those who entertained a different opinion, as he (Mr. Herries) did, might perhaps fail in inducing the Committee to come to a different determination. He had intended to move an Amendment, the effect of which was to negative all the clauses relating to the proposed constitution of the Court of Directors, with the view of offering the most strenuous opposition to that system of mixed nomination by the Crown, and election by the proprietors, which he conceived to be so objectionable; but the Amendment moved by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. V. Smith) met so completely the intention which he (Mr. Herries) had in giving that notice, that he did not feel disposed to submit any Motion on the subject; and he should, therefore, give in his adhesion to the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman, because he really thought that the whole object which he had in view would be completely answered by the proposition which had now been submitted to the Committee. He should, therefore, confine his observations entirely to the question of mixing nomination by the Crown with election by the proprietary body, and refrain from entering upon those general questions which had been very properly
 44 45 46 prestige, 47
 MR. PHILLIMORE,  in explanation, said, that he objected to the system, but was sure a better selection than the hon. Member could not have been made.
 MR. J. PHILLIMORE  said, it was his intention to vote for the clause as proposed by Her Majesty's Government, for he certainly preferred the nominees of the Crown to the mode of election by the proprietors of East India Stock in the manner it was constituted at present; and he thought every one who gave a calm and dispassionate consideration to the question, could not fail to come to the same conclusion. The present system had no connexion with the important duties which the men were so elected to perform. It had inspired the most able men with the deepest disgust, so much so that the most distinguished men
 65 l. Dunciad,
 MR. NAPIER  said, the clause had been fully discussed on Friday last, and, now that a fair division had been taken upon the question, he trusted that no further opposition would be offered to the passing of the Bill through Committee, which he was most anxious to effect that day.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he must support the clause as it stood; he could mention several cases where crops in Ireland had been cut down and carried off on a Sunday. Such proceedings invariably led to scenes of confusion and demoralisation, and he therefore hoped the Committee would not hesitate to change a law which served to encourage such a bad state of things. He hoped they might be able to abolish the right of distress altogether; but he thought that, taken in connexion with the other parts of the Bill, the clause was necessary. The Bill was improved in one respect, upon which he regretted that the right hon. Baronet was not present to hear the discussion on Friday. It was, that whereas the landlord had the power of distress for the recovery of six years' arrears, this Bill reduced it to one year, while great improvements were introduced in the mode of proceeding. He therefore trusted the Committee would allow the clause to stand part of the Bill.
 MR. HILDYARD  said, that the only question which the Committee had to decide was this—both the Directors and the Government being equally qualified to judge who would be the proper men to be appointed the six Directors of the Court—the question was which of those two parties would act under the greatest responsibility. The hon. Member for Manchester said that the twelve Directors would job the appointments; and certainly if there was the least chance of their doing so, there was an end of the question. But did any one believe that they would do so? The Directors had no term of office under this Bill, and the effect of their jobbing these appointments would be that when it became known to the country, they and their nominees would be swept away together. But under what responsibility would the Government act in this matter? They all knew that the responsibility under which the Government acted was a majority in that House; and in case they had a majority, they might do as they pleased. He believed that the Directors would be under a much stricter responsibility than the Government; and he should, therefore, vote for the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. V. Smith).
 MR. LOWE  said, he trusted he should be enabled to answer the observations of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, with the same abstinence of party spirit as that professed by the right hon. Gentleman. He could assure the Committee that it was not until after the most anxious consideration that Her Majesty's Government had decided upon taking the course to which the right hon. Gentleman seemed to be so decidedly opposed. There was much in the constitution of the Board of Directors as it now existed, which it had been clearly shown by the evidence which had been adduced before the Committee upstairs, it was extremely desirable to have remedied. Though nobody denied that the Directors were  pares negotiis, 48 49 50 51 uno flatu. locus penitenti, 52
 MR. MANGLES  said, he would have abstained from addressing the Committee on this question had it not been for the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty (Sir James Graham), who had managed to throw into the debate a little dash of personality even stronger than any that had fallen from the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright). That hon. Member had been contented with disparaging the constituency; and on this point he (Mr. Mangles) must say that, whether they took the test of intellect, or of character, or of wealth, there was no Gentleman who sat in that House who was elected by so respectable a constituency as the body of East India proprietors. The hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Cowan) was a proprietor—he supposed they would admit that he was respectable. Mr. Hallam was also a member of that constituency; so was Lord Campbell. [ Laughter. 76
 MR. THOMAS BARING  said, he wished to observe at the outset of his observations,
 66 67 68
 MR. T. BARING  said, he wished to propose to add the words "and shall not have quitted such service for more than five years." His object was to provide some security that the nominees of the Crown should be persons who possessed a recent acquaintance with the state of India.
 MR. T. BARING  said, that after the observations that had been made, he would not press the Amendment.
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he should support the clause. He had known numerous cases in which bands of infuriated men had assembled on the Sunday, and carried off the whole of the crops from the ground.
 MR. HALSEY  said, he must also resist the Motion for going into Committee, and he begged to inform the House that the town of Hertford, which was included in this Bill, did not wish for the interference of the Board of Health.
 Mr. KENNEDY  said, he should move the expunging of the clause, on the ground
 30
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, he looked upon the Bill from beginning to end as one of pains and penalties against the tenantry of Ireland. He admitted that it was difficult to distinguish in principle between growing and cut crops. He had come to the conclusion, on the whole, that the right of distress should not exist at all unless there was reason to suppose that fraud was contemplated by the tenant—in fact, that the distress should operate simply in the way of a  ne exeat regno,
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he objected to the clause, and must express his surprise that the Bill should in any case permit distresses to be made on Sundays. They were now endeavouring to close the Crystal Palace on Sundays, and he was shocked that such a power as this should be taken, under such circumstances, in favour of the landlords of Ireland.
 MR. OTWAY  said, no answer had been given whether the thirty Directors were to elect the fifteen. If they were, he concurred in thinking the worst fifteen would be elected. There was recently an election, and one of the candidates was a gentleman eminently qualified, and the other was a gentleman having no acquaintance with Indian affairs. He was informed that of the thirty Directors, twenty-six voted for the one, who, to say the least, had no great acquaintance with Indian subjects, and only four for the gentleman who had been twenty-eight years in India, and was eminently qualified for the situation. Seeing this, he had no confidence whatever in any election by the present Directors.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he understood the law perfectly well, but dissented entirely from the views of the hon. Member.
 MR. MARJORIBANKS  said, he regretted the allusion of the hon. and learned Gentleman rendered it necessary for him to trouble the Committee with a few words, not for the purpose of depreciating the services of Mr. Morris, a civilian of standing, of much ability, and of great local knowledge, whom he knew and esteemed, and of whom he would not say one word of disparagement, but on his own behalf and in vindication of the recent election. No one had attempted to controvert the opinion of Lord Ellenborough, which had been borne out by the recent evidence before the Committee on Indian Affairs to the fullest extent, that English gentlemen, by which English gentlemen without Indian antecedents must be meant, must be admitted into the Direction if they wished to preserve its tone. If the hon. and learned Gentleman granted the correctness of that opinion, he must admit that the recent election afforded a fitting opportunity to carry it out, fifteen years having elapsed, and seventeen elections having taken place since the admission of such a person into the Board. He could not approve the system of nomination by the Government, nor that proposed by the Amendment.
 MR. BOWYER  said, that, considering that the persons to be appointed were men who had either filled important offices in
 83
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he must ask for the postponement of the measure, in consequence of the lateness of the hour [ one o'clock
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would now move the Amendment of which he had given notice. The Committee had determined that Her Majesty, under the Royal Sign Manual, should appoint three of the Directors. His Amendment was that the appointment should be made from a list prepared of twelve persons who had served in India from twenty to thirty years. This was a very different proposition from that which had lately been under discussion, and the objections which had been urged to the last Amendment did not apply to this, which was a compromise between the two extremes that had been proposed.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he could assure the Committee that the hon. Member who had just sat down had done no more than justice to Her Majesty's Government with regard to the point they were now discussing. Her Majesty's Government had no object, and they could have no object, but to do that which their duty compelled them to do, namely, to provide, by the arrangements they were now making, for the security and independence of the Board of Directors, and for maturing the best system of government for India. It was their sincere desire, whilst maintaining the independence of the Court of Directors, to take ample securities that it should be a most efficient and vigorous body—a body exercising no direct power, yet exercising great moral influence by means of the knowledge of Indian subjects which they pre-eminently possessed. The hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. T. Baring) seemed to think it was possible for the Government to increase their controlling power by nominating some persons with that particular view; but they, as a Government, could desire no additional power to that which they already enjoyed. Their power was already as large as the most ambitious ruler could desire, for the power of governing India was really vested in the President of the Board of Control, whilst the influence which was exercised by the Board of Directors was moral influence alone, so that, just in proportion as you added to the ability and knowledge of that Board, just in the same degree did you increase their moral influence. As far as related to direct power, the Government, therefore, asked for no additional power by seeking to add members to the Board of Directors in this way; but the moral influence of the Directors was increased by giving them additional weight. His hon. Friend (Mr. T. Baring) laboured under great misappre-
 69 70 71
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, the hon. Member for Montrose appeared to be somewhat slow to apprehend the meaning of what had been proposed; but his perplexity did not appear to have been shared by the Committee, who, by a decisive majority, had marked their approbation of the measure. His anxiety was to maintain the system of double government, which had been most successful; but, at the same time, he could not shut his eyes to the fact, on which the right hon. Member for Stamford (Mr. Herries) had dwelt, that the time must come, and that, probably, at the expiration of the next twenty years, when the system of double government must cease; and he thought it was wise to make provision for that inevitable occurrence. He thought the proposition now made did make that provision.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he must regret that be was not in his place before the last division was taken, to make the few observations which he would now take the liberty of addressing to the Committee on the subject of this clause. If he was not mistaken, they were now discussing the question of whether the right ought to be conferred upon the landlord of distraining
 31
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that he thought he had reason to believe that his right hon. and learned Friend himself had no very strong opinion on this subject.
 32
 SIR JAMES HOGG : I object to both plans, but more especially to the system of nomination by the Crown.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  believed, that the single question before the House was, the best mode of selecting one third of the Court of Directors. It appeared that the House, whether rightly or wrongly, were agreed as to the expediency of selecting a portion of the Directors. That was the principle of the clause under discussion; and the object of the House—and he should hope of the Government also—was to adopt that form of selection which was most likely to produce the most able, the best informed, and most independent men. With respect to the system of selection, he could not help asking at the outset, if the selection were left to the Crown, or to the Court of Directors, what gentlemen coming home from India would become competitors for the office? Every distinguished Indian servant who thought he was fit for a seat in the Direction, would find himself, on his arrival in England, one among six similarly situated; and the chances were, that by adopting that mode of appointment, they would deteriorate the class of men who would come forward and offer themselves for office. He did not agree with those fastidious gentlemen who expressed such a horror of canvassing for a seat in the Direction. He thought there was something very un-English in that feeling. What would be said by any Gentleman who had the honour of a seat in that House, if he were told that he should not go amongst his constituents, or humble himself by soliciting their "sweet voices?" They all had to do that, at each and every election; whereas the candidate for a Directorship, if he succeeded in the object of his wishes, and afterwards discharged his duties ably and efficiently, was not elected for the short period of a Parliament, but for life. For his colleagues and himself, he indignantly repudiated the notion that there was any
 60 61 62 prestige
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) never could rise to discuss a question before that House without introducing matter of a personal nature into it. He had never known any occasion on which the hon. Member rose that he did not avail himself of the opportunity of saying something personally offensive. He had thought proper to allude to him (Sir J. W. Hogg); and he called on the hon. Member to state what he meant by his reference to the hon. Member for Honiton, and his vicinity to the Treasury bench. He (Sir J. W. Hogg) told the hon. Member that his conduct in Parliament had been at least as honourable and as independent as that of the hon. Member; and he had had an opportunity afforded him, which, perhaps, had not been afforded to the hon. Member, of evincing that independence, and evincing it too in connexion with his regard for India, and his desire to render that country any service in his power. The matter he was about to refer to he had never mentioned, either in public or in private; and he only now adverted to it in consequence of the observation that fell from the hon. Member a few nights ago, leading to the belief that the hon. Member had something on his mind which he had not the manliness to state. He would tell the hon. Member that he (Sir J. W. Hogg) was not devoid and—he did not pretend to be devoid—of that honourable ambition which led men to aspire to the honours of office and the emoluments of office; but it was upwards of nine years ago since he had the honour of being sent for by Sir Robert Peel, and offered a high office in the service of the Crown, including a seat in Her Majesty's Privy Council. Any man might have been justly proud of such an offer, and from such a man, coming, as it did, not only without the slightest solicitation, but without the slightest wish on his part. The offer was made shortly after he had been elected Deputy Chairman of the East India Company. He (Sir J. W. Hogg) thought it was desirable, not only for a person to be independent, but to take care that he was
 80
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, he hoped that the Committee would not impose upon the Court of Directors the painful task of reducing the number of their own body, and of thus declaring some of their members less efficient than others. He would suggest that the selection should be made by Her Majesty's Government, who had ample means of knowing who were the fittest Directors to be retained, and the most competent for the post.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, he could only express his surprise at the remarks of the hon. Member, after the statement of the hon. Member for Berwick. It was quite true the great majority of the Directors, twenty-five or twenty-six, did support Mr. Marjoribanks. The law of the land was, that the Directors should be selected by the proprietors, and there was no stipula-
 85
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, the hon. Gentleman would presently have the
 84
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he perfectly agreed in the recommendation of the hon. Member for Manchester. The Amendment which he had on the paper, but which he was precluded from bringing forward at that moment, involved the omission of this latter part of the clause.
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he thought that if those nominees were capable of being reappointed, they would not
 81
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that all he intended to effect by the proposed measure was, to apply the Health of Towns Act to those places where an anxiety prevailed for its enactment, but not to those localities where no desire for its extension had been exhibited.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he would ask his hon. Friend whether it would not
 82
 ADMIRAL WALCOT  said, that this clause proposed to repeal the 12 & 13  Vict., 102
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  defended the clause, believing it to be the great redeeming feature of the Bill. On other points he thought the Bill was wanting, but in this clause he had great confidence. He could in no way understand the argument with reference to the injury which it was alleged such a measure would inflict upon our nursery for seamen; and he thought that a sufficient answer was given to it by the gallant officers who had been examined before the Committee in 1847. Upon this point Captain Sir James Stirling spoke with great confidence, and stated distinctly that he did not believe the merchant service was the nursery of seamen for the Royal Navy—that not more than one-tenth of the seamen in the Navy was derived from the merchant service. With regard to the proviso suggested by the hon. Member for South Shields (Mr. Ingham), with the view of protecting the coasting trade, he must say that he looked with considerable disapproval on the remaining blot upon our maritime laws—the protective coasting trade; and he would infinitely prefer that our coasting trade should be thrown open altogether than to see it protected as it now was. The sailors themselves, in their memorials, had asked for this, urging that, if foreigners were allowed to enter upon the coasting trade, British seamen would be invaluable to them in navigating their vessels, owing to the knowledge which they possessed of the coasts; and, in the words of the sailors, he said "If trade is to be free, let it also be fair." He should give his hearty support to the clause as it stood.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that he spoke upon the subject with as much independence as any one, and nothing should induce him to consent to the clause, if he entertained such fears as had been expressed by hon. and gallant Gentlemen on both sides of the House. They had distinguished themselves in the last war; but they must remember that, since they served, a great change had taken place in circumstances. All the circumstances of drawing men from merchant ships to the Royal Navy were totally altered since those gallant Officers had gained their experience; and they were nearly half a century behind in the knowledge of how the Queen's ships were now manned. The hon. and gallant Member for Bath stated the other day, most truly, what was the case when he was employed in the war time, that they obtained the best able seamen from the merchant service; and those seamen constantly made the best leading men and petty officers. Such was the fact then; such was not the fact now. He had been at the Admiralty now, on and off, some twenty-four or twenty-five years, and it had been his special duty to watch the manning of the Navy. He had taken the greatest possible interest in the subject, being convinced, however numerous their
 111
 MR. H. T. LIDDELL  said, he wished to state a few of the reasons which induced him to support Her Majesty's Government in this clause. The question had been considered under the two heads of national and commercial policy. Under both aspects the subject was one which involved a good deal of speculation; but he considered that the apprehensions which had been expressed in respect to each had been most satisfactorily answered. When the Motion for repealing the navigation laws was made, great apprehensions were felt for the consequences, which the result had certainly failed to realise; and having that experience before him, was it reasonable, after they had swallowed the camel to strain at the gnat? Was it not natural to suppose that the evils which were now foretold from this clause, would prove equally futile and exaggerated? No man had been more opposed to the repeal of the navigation laws than himself, and no man had taken more trouble to inform himself of the probable consequences of that measure; and he was now bound to say that the apprehensions he then felt for the result had been disproved. He was bound also to add, whether from the altered circumstances of the world, or from commerce having found new channels of enterprise, that the shipping interest was now in a much more prosperous state than it had been in the latter years of protection. With regard to the clause now under consideration, the Shipowners' Association of Liverpool were in its favour—they stated that they approved of the clause, and that they considered that, as British ships were exposed to competition with the ships of all nations, so all restrictions on the employment of foreign sailors ought to be removed. If, as was alleged, there was a scarcity of seamen, why should the House oppose itself to the introduction of a new supply? There were two sides to this question. Shipowners were exposed to unjust demands on the part of the seamen; and why should they not have the means of supplying themselves if they had the opportunity? The profits of shipowners
 122
 MR. HEADLAM  supported the clause, but entered his protest that the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Admiralty had attempted to unite it with another clause which he believed was calculated to perpetuate a principle of the grossest injustice—he alluded to the clause which enabled the captains of Royal vessels to take volunteers from merchantmen who wished to break their contracts with their employers. He saw no connexion whatever between the two clauses, and be protested against the arguments on the subject which the right hon. Gentleman had employed.
 MR. B. WILCOX  said, he had had some half century of experience of the character of British sailors, and he was pretty well acquainted with their good and bad qualities. It had been stated that our shipowners would man their vessels with Norwegians, Danes, Spaniards, and the like; but suppose they did, what was to become of the ships belonging to those countries—would they be left unmanned and rotting in the harbours? Why, of course, those countries that at present paid their seamen less wages than we did, would be compelled to raise their pay, and to get their sailors back again. If the hon. and gallant Member for Bath had inquired before he stated that British seamen would be replaced by Danes, Swedes, Norwegians, Dutchmen, Spaniards, and Portuguese, he would have found that the wages of the Danes and Dutchmen were quite as high, and the wages of the Spaniards, generally speaking, were higher than in this country. His opinion was, that, if the clause passed, they would not employ one English sailor the less, and not one foreigner the more, but they would put a cheek on that disgraceful and wholesale desertion carried on by English seamen. At Quebec it was a regular practice for the crews to desert, to remain concealed until other men were engaged, probably at double wages, and then to engage with the next British ship, the crew of which had in their turn deserted. The same system was carried on in the Australian ports, The crews did not go to the diggings, for, in a physical sense, they could not stoop to low work; but they waited in turn for the next ship that was deserted, and then obtained 50 l. l. 124
 MR. MILES  then rose to call the attention of the House to the system of poor-law medical relief at present existing in England and Wales, with a view to its revision; and also to the large number of persons who annually become chargeable to the poor-rates from no medical relief being afforded to them in sickness, unless they become paupers. Although he knew nothing could be done during the present Session on this subject, he felt it his duty to point out the existing evils, and the remedies which might be applied; and he trusted the Government, during the recess, would take the matter into their serious consideration. He considered the system of medical relief to the poor one of the greatest blots in the system of poor-law relief, and one which led to a great amount of expenditure. He had only to state that there were between 3,000 and 4,000 medical poor-law officers having the care of 835,000 persons, to prove that their arrangements for medical relief must be insufficient, and the only check that existed against any maltreatment of the patients was that of placing the case-book on the table every board day. The Poor Law Board could not investigate such cases, and the boards of guardians were improper
 135 l. l.; l.; l.; l. l. s. s. d. 136 s. d. s. s. d.
 MR. MILES  then replied, and said that he was contented with having brought the subject before the notice of the House, and that he would accordingly withdraw his Motion.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he should rejoice to see the restriction on the employment of foreign seamen removed. The exclusion of foreign vessels from our coasting trade was taken advantage of by the United States to exclude our vessels from the important trade which they called a coasting trade, between New York and California. He wished to see all restrictions removed, and he hoped next year the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be able to deal with the case of the shipbuilders in respect of the timber duties, because nothing could be more unjust, or more contrary to the principles of trade, than to admit the manufactured article—foreign ships—free of duty,
 105
 MR. ALEXANDER HASTIE  having long advocated the necessity for a provision of this nature, thought he had reason to congratulate himself that it was now proposed by Her Majesty's Government. We had already exposed our shipping to competition with the world, and it had rapidly improved under the stimulus. Expose our seamen in the same way, and he
 123
 MR. WODEHOUSE  could confirm everything that had been said with respect to the medical officers, and he was sure his hon. Friend the Member for Somerset-shire (Mr. Miles) had no intention of disparaging the administration of the Poor Law Board; he only regretted that he had not brought the subject forward at an earlier period of the Session. He believed the system was conducted on too niggardly a scale; the salaries were niggardly, and the allowances were niggardly; there ought not only to be an extended relief, but a better quality of relief. He thought that there was no subject more deserving of the attention of the Executive Government. He hoped the hon. Member for Somersetshire would renew his Motion from time to time.
 MR. E. BALL   presented "That this House will resolve itself into a Committee for the purpose of considering the Duties on Malt, with a view of making such alteration in those Duties that the Farmer may be exempt from the Malt Duty on such quantity of Malt as he may require for his own use, made from barley of his own growth."
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had spoken unquestionably with great authority upon this subject, and had not only stated the case with plainness and fairness, but had brought before the Committee, divested of extraneous considerations, the true question (whether it were regarded in a naval aspect or a commercial aspect, because, truly regarded, it had but one aspect)—whether by the operation of this clause we should increase or diminish the number of persons employed in the naval service of this country? That, again, was a branch of another great question—because we could not have exceptional legislation for a particular class; but Parliament must act upon broad principles, and must extend those principles uniformly unless a strong case for exception could be proved. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that when the Government introduced the repeal of the navigation laws, they hesitated to apply the principle of this particular clause, and he asked how it was that the Government had altered their opinions? But there might have been reasons then existing which did not exist now. There were very strong apprehensions expressed at that time with respect to the consequences of the change of the law then about to be made. Since that period we had had evidence of experience; and the conclusions to which that evidence had led were—what? They had heard in the course of that debate gallant Gentlemen for whom he entertained the highest respect, and whose services to their country entitled them to respect whenever they spoke upon a question of this nature, speaking against the clause, and they had been told that the naval authorities were almost unanimously opposed to it. At the time, however, to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred—namely, in 1849, the naval authorities gave their testimony with equal unanimity, with greater force, with greater earnestness, and with greater eagerness, against any alteration in the
 118 119 120 121
 MR. HUDSON  was surprised at the view which the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Williams) had taken of this question, and very much doubted whether the hon. Member's constituency would approve of the limit which he now wished to put upon the principle of free trade. He had seen one or two sly votes, however, given by the hon. Member, when he had represented other constituencies, not wholly in accordance with his free-trade theories. Parliament had declared that the British shipowner should compete with all the world; and on what principle of justice was it, he asked, that he should be restricted in his means of manning his vessels? Other trades were allowed to employ foreign workmen, and why should the shipowner alone be placed under this restriction? He approved of the Bill generally, and he was anxious that it should pass as speedily as possible. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would, before long, direct his attention to the question of the passing tolls.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  replied. He contended that the Government viewed this question through a false medium. They were, after all, but landsmen—country Gentlemen who sat at home at ease—and he did not think their opinion entitled to much weight. But such as it was, in 1849 one-half the present Ministers were opposed to a repeal of the manning clauses, and in 1853 they had changed their opinion, and were all unamimous in favour of it. It was said that, since the repeal of the navigation laws, freights had greatly risen. If the shipowners were so well off, why were the sailors to have their wages kept down? Sailors were not like carpenters and masons; they afforded safety to the country; their case was an exceptional one, and ought to be treated as such. If this Bill passed, sailors would not freely enter the Queen's service, and there would be no means of manning the Navy in a case of emergency, without some stringent power. The right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Admiralty had boasted that since the 5th of December we had enlisted 5,000 seamen. Five thousand men in seven months! What was that? Why not 800 a month. If a war should break out, we should want 20,000 in a month; and he was convinced that, if this clause should be passed, we might find ourselves in a dilemma from which it would be impossible to extricate ourselves without recourse to very unpleasant means. We might have other Niles and Trafalgars yet to fight, and he entreated the Committee not rashly to abandon the laws under which those glorious victories had been won. Even if the power of taking volunteers on foreign stations were retained, there would be no necessity for this clause, because, when a merchant vessel was short of hands, the captain, by obtaining the certificate of a consul, could take as many foreign seamen as he pleased, and, in case of necessity, the Queen, by proclamation, could admit as many foreigners to the merchant service as she pleased, and for as long as she pleased. The gallant Admiral (the Member for Gloucester) seemed to have forgotten his own evidence which he gave in 1849, and in which he said they generally got better seamen from the merchant service, and that the manning clauses were very necessary, and ought not to be given up. If the proposition had been to extend
 125 esprit de corps,
 MR. AGLIONBY  moved for certain returns connected with the Woods and Forests, when
 MR. HENLEY  regretted that a ques-
 112 113 ultima ratio 114 115 l. 116 117
 MR. BAINES : I beg leave, in the first place, to apologise to my hon. Friend the Member for East Somerset (Mr. Miles), and to the House, for my absence at the beginning of this discussion. I can assure them that it was caused solely by a miscalculation, in which I was by no means singular, as to the time at which this subject was likely to come on. The speech of my hon. Friend has dealt with two topics of a very different kind, though both of great importance: first, the working of the present Poor Law as regards medical relief to the sick poor; secondly, to suggestion of certain new principles, never yet recognised by our laws, for the extension of such relief to persons
 137 138 l. l. l. l. l. l. 139 140 141 mala praxis l. 142
 MR. INGHAM  said, no man was more attached to the interest and welfare of the British seaman than himself, nor could any one more highly appreciate his value to the country than he did; but he thought that truth and honour would induce them to say that after the repeal of the navigation laws, which exposed British shipowners to the competition of foreigners, it was only a matter of justice that they should be exonerated from those restraints which prevented their entering freely into such competition. His view, however, was, that the power given by this clause should be exercised by the shipowners only in so far as they were exposed to competition. Now under the act which was passed two years ago, what was called the "coasting trade" was still secured to the British shipping; and if this clause passed he would propose a proviso to preserve to the British seamen that great nursery for the Royal Navy. That was what the British seamen themselves implored the House to do in their petition; and considering that the coasting trade was not only a nursery for seamen, but a great domestic service in which the children of the sailor found early employment, he hoped the House would not hesitate to accede to his proposal when he should make it on the Motion for the third reading of the Bill.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, that many grievous burdens still remained upon British shipping, such as the passing tolls and the like, and therefore it was the more necessary, in his view, that this clause, which dealt manfully with the subject, should be agreed to. He was greatly surprised at the speeches which had been made by the hon. Members for Lambeth and for Bath, and was astonished that they should have proceeded from free-traders. It had been argued that the effect of this measure would be to reduce wages. He in no way accepted that view. He regarded this Bill as a corollary to the repeal of the navigation laws, and inasmuch as he had argued then against the notion that the repeal of those laws would reduce the rate of freights, but would tend to equalise them, so he now contended that no reduction of wages would follow from the present Bill. He trusted that the Committee would speedily go to a division upon this clause, but still that they would do so with a full conviction of the importance of the principle which it involved.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  [ who had suddenly entered the House 127 l. 128 primâ facie 129 130 131 132 in totidem verbis, 133 134 minus
 MR. BARROW  warned the House of the danger of tampering with the administration of the poor in this manner. It would be but tempting those to apply for relief who could do well without it; and it would do far more harm in breaking down that independence of spirit which led them not to accept relief, than it would do good by thus offering it. He had made some inquiries in his own county, and he had
 145
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that he had been a free-trader all his life, but he thought the proposition before the Committee was carrying free trade a step farther than it ought to be carried. He had great respect for the opinion of the right hon. Baronet; but on a question of this kind he preferred the opinion of the admirals and naval officers, who came to a conclusion which was entirely opposed to this proposition. The only object of this clause could be to bring down the wages of the seamen, and put them into the pockets of the merchants. The merchant service was never in a better potition than now, and he thought the seamen ought to participate in the general benefit. The hon. and gallant Officer, the
 110
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  regretted to
 103 Chesapeake Shannon, Macedonia, 104
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  apprehended many evils would ensue if the clause were retained, and he warned the Government not to give way too much to the interests of the shipowner, but to provide for the country a sufficient nursery for seamen, that in case of emergency they might know where to obtain them. If foreign seamen should displace the British seamen, it would be fraught with peril to the safety of the country. He hoped the clause would not pass. At all events he should give it his most strenuous opposition.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  felt that it would not be respectful to the Committee if he allowed them to go to a division without shortly expressing his opinions upon the subject—especially after two gallant and distinguished Officers opposite had declared their opposition to the clause as likely to impair the efficiency of the British Navy. Certainly, considering the post which he had now the honour to fill, it was his particular duty, to the best of his judgment, to take care that no measure should pass which could prove injurious to Her Majesty's naval service. He assured the Committee that he had given this question the consideration which its importance deserved. In the first place, he would remark that the evidence which had been given by the gallant Officer to which reference had been made, was antecedent to the repeal of the navigation laws. Before the Committee which sat upon the subject, Sir J. Stirling certainly stood almost alone in recommending the change which was now proposed, although the evidence of many distinguished officers was taken upon the greater question of which this only formed a small part—that of the repeal of the navigation laws; and, if he were not mistaken, all the gallant officers examined upon that occasion, with the exception of Sir J. Stirling, and his hon. and gallant Friend near him (Admiral Berkeley) pronounced their most confident conviction that if the navigation laws were repealed, all the fatal consequences which were now predicted with reference to the repeal of the manning clause would ensue, and that the ruin of Her Majesty's service would follow. If they looked, however, to the last returns of British shipping either entered inwards or outwards in the first five months of the present year, as compared with the corresponding five months of 1850, 1851, or 1852, they
 106 107 108 109
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  stated that he did not rise to complain of the course of proceeding, which he thought would teach the Government a very good lesson. He could only say that he thought the Motion perfectly reasonable, and was prepared to vote with the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire. [ Loud cries of
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  thought it would be superfluous to follow his right hon. Friend in all his points; but he felt bound to confirm the opinion of the right hon. Gentleman, that the medical relief of the poor was not only in a satisfactory, but in a gradually progressing state; and to acknowledge that the poor received every care from the Board over which his right hon. Friend presided. He (Sir J. Trollope) could confirm him in the statement that there was a very great improvement in the mode in which the relief to the poor was administered, and in the character of those who were selected to dispense it. There was also a great improvement in the medical officers, and in their qualifications for the discharge of their duties; and he could most distinctly confirm his right hon. Friend in what he had said with respect to the cases which were brought before the Poor Law Board, of neglect of duty and maltreatment—that very few such cases were brought before the Board while he had the honour to preside over it, and that when any charge was made, it received the most earnest attention, and that dismissal, when called for, had invariably followed. During the year in which he had held office, not more than four or five cases of neglect of duty, or maltreatment of patients, had been complained of; and he thought the House would agree with him that this was a very small number, considering that upwards of 4,000 officers were employed in administering medical relief. His hon. Friend the Member for Somerset (Mr. Miles) desired to extend poor-law medical relief to what he called secondary poor, especially in cases of sudden sickness and casualties. Now, with regard to this class of persons, the greater portion, especially those of the more prudent character, belonged to sick clubs, or some other of the numerous benefit societies which existed throughout the country. In his part of the country, for instance, after the passing of the Poor Law Act in 1835, some benevolent person set about establishing medical clubs; the poor of the surrounding neighbourhood became ready subscribers to it, the amount of the
 143 144
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that Her Majesty's Government were prepared to enter into, and to take their part in, any well-digested plan for effecting the object in view. With regard to the Royal Navy, most of the observations required, such as related to currents, wind, tides, depth of water, and temperature, were already called for from the commanders of Her Majesty's ships by the Admiralty. But with regard to the mercantile marine, there was very great doubt, as well as very great difficulty, how the object was to be attained. When he stated that in thermometers alone, if they were supplied to the mercantile marine, the cost would amount to 3,500 l.,
 MR. COWPER  said, he thought the best way to settle this Bill was, that he should move that the House go into Committee on the Bill this day three months. If the persons who drew the Bill had referred to the Acts of Parliament, they would have found that an Act existed which carried out the purposes of the Bill, seamen having power by the 4 & 5  Vict.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he would now beg to move for leave to introduce a Bill which, though limited in its scope, was destitute neither of interest nor importance. The object of the Bill was the establishment of reformatory schools throughout England and Wales, to which young children detected in the commission of offences and vagrant children might be sent by the magistrate. The measure, in fact, was but the corollary to the Act of the 11  Vict., 157
 MR. G. BUTT  said, he would move as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. He did so because of the character and the certain effect of the Bill. He had last Wednesday had an opportunity of expressing the views which he entertained of this measure, and the objection which be entertained to it, and which be trusted would be shared by hon. Gentlemen who considered its nature and object. The noble Lord (Viscount Gode-
 154 155
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had received a note from the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, stating that the whole subject with which this Bill was connected was engaging the attention of the Government. He now wished to ask the noble
 150
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he should like to have an assurance from the noble Lord that the general measure would include the particular point he had stated?
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that two other hon. Members whose names were on the back of the Bill, were not present. As being connected with the Navy, he had been requested to let his name be put on the back of the Bill. He was not acquainted with its details, and he understood the Government where prepared to oppose the Bill. He had no authority to withdraw it he had no authority to go on; and he was not in a position to enter on the subject.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he fully concurred with the hon. Member who had just spoken, and, as an English Member, begged to remark, that since the short time he had been in that House he had wondered to see the waste of time from Scotch law officers bringing in Scotch Bills, Irish law officers bringing in Irish Bills, and English law officers bringing in English Bills. The right hon. Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) had preached caution to the noble Lord the Home Secretary; he (Captain Scobell) should preach boldness; he should exhort the noble Lord to do what he did in no niggardly way.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, he would suggest that in any future Bill on this subject the noble Lord would do well to direct his attention to the great distinction between the assessment of county rates and the administration of county expenditure. These two things were essentially different.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that under those circumstances he should move that the Order of the Day for the Committee on the County Rates Expenditure Bill might he discharged. He should do so on the understanding that the noble Lord had undertaken to introduce a Bill on the subject in the next Session.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said he wished to put a question to the noble Lord the Home Secretary on the subject of this Bill, which stood first in the Orders of the Day. He saw that there many hon. Gentlemen on the benches opposite who had attended, no doubt, with the view of assisting him to perfect the measure proposing Amendments. But before proceeding he wished to know whether there was any truth in a rumour which had reached him, that Her Majesty's Government, being in favour of the principle of the measure, were prepared to bring in a Bill to carry out that principle, or to devise such improvements upon it as they might think best calculated to effect the purpose? If he could have an assurance to that effect from the Government, it might change the course of the proceedings today; but until he had heard what the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department might state in reply to his question, he should decline making his final remark on the subject.
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, he wished to repeat an observation he had made before, that such a Bill as the County Rates Expenditure Bill ought to extend to a country which appeared to be almost altogether forgotten. As an hon. Member once reminded the House that there was such a country as England, he should remind the House that there was such a place as Ireland. The case of Lancashire was a strong case, but was not equal to that of counties in Ireland—the county of Tipperary, for example, having no control over nine-tenths of the county expenditure. He hoped the noble Lord would include Ireland in the measure. Separate legislation for England and Ireland was an immense waste of the time of the House, and did a great deal to sever the two countries from each other.
 MR. BARROW  said, he must express
 149
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that while he concurred with the hon. and learned Gentleman in his Amendment, he did not participate in his fear of the danger to property from passing this Bill. His objection was that it was a very trifling and insignificant change in the law, utterly unworthy the consideration of the House. The noble Lord (Visct. Goderich) contended it was undesirable, on spiritual grounds, that any layman shonld have the power to dispose of next presentations; but that is sue was not raised by the Bill. That was much too wide a question to be discussed incidentally; but as to this proposition, he could not see why men should not acquire by purchase that which they
 156
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was extremely glad that the House, was not to be engaged in a  conversazione 148
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that in the absence of the First Lord of the Admiralty, he wished to ask a question of the hon. and gallant Admiral near him (Admiral Berkeley). A few years ago Lieutenant Maury, of the American navy, devised a plan for effecting great improvements in navigation. He prepared certain charts, and distributed them to every merchant vessel as well as every ship of war in the United States service. The result of the experiments and observations made by these vessels, had been a great and manifest improvement in the art of navigation, so much so that one voyage which formerly occupied forty-one days, was now performed in twenty-one days; while a voyage to California, which formerly took one hundred and eighty days from New York, was now done in one hundred days. The plan had been adopted by the American Government, and they had suggested that it should be adopted by the Governments of the other maritime States. He, therefore, wished to ask the hon. and gallant Admiral whether Her Majesty's Government, having referred this plan to the Royal Society, and having received from the Royal Society, through its council, a strong recommendation in favour of its adoption, and having been made acquainted that the
 146
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, he felt that with the opposition which the measure had received, it would be impossible to pass it through Parliament that Session. He should therefore withdraw his Motion for the second reading of the Bill.
 VISCOUNT GODERICH  said, in the absence of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Tavistock (Mr. R. Phil-
 151 152 153
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he apprehended that any measure which dealt with the jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical courts must also deal with the question of the probates of wills.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the subject to which the Bill of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hadfield) related, was no doubt one of very great importance, and of great public interest. But his hon. Friend must be aware that it formed but a part of that greater and larger subject which his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General had announced his intention of dealing with by a Bill, which he had hoped to be able to bring in—that was, a Bill with respect to Ecclesiastical Courts. He (Lord Palmerston) stated, the other evening, in answer to a question for the reasons why no such measure had been brought in this Session, that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to be prepared with some measure upon the general question in the early part of the next Session. He, therefore, submitted to his hon. Friend that it would be better for him to defer this partial measure. He called it partial only because it related to one branch of a great subject; but he could not, in answer to the question, make any specific pledge as to the details of the Government measure, though he could confidently assure his hon. Friend that the general subject would be dealt with, and that the Government would be prepared with their measure in the early part of the next Session.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON , in reply, said, that though the right hon. Gentleman invited his friends opposite to hold a  conversazione 147
 MR. HUME  said, he would beg to inquire what course the Government intended to take with respect to the Registration of Assurances Bill?
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he would propose in Clause 20, to leave out the words "or of any lease falling within the operation of the 24th Section of this Act." The object of the proviso was, that no charge should be made on an owner of property held subjected to leases at rackrent for any additional value from the falling in of those leases. It was obvious the principle did not apply to other leases than those of rackrent, and he wished, therefore, to omit the words referred to.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he saw no reason for the introduction of the first part of the proviso. With regard to the second part, it would be impossible to keep the account and to follow the timber into use and consumption. The only effect of the Amendment would be to introduce a doubt as to the meaning of the words "necessary outgoings." He recommended the withdrawal of the Amendment. With regard to the suggestion of the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), he proposed to move that no duty should be payable on the net moneys received for the sale of timber in any one year, unless such net moneys should exceed the sum of 10 l.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he thought the first part of the Amendment was unobjectionable; but he certainly could not approve of the latter portion of it.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  then moved the insertion of the following proviso at the end of the 23rd clause:—
 223 "That no duty shall be payable on the net moneys received from the sale of timber, trees, or wood in any one year, unless such moneys shall exceed the sum of 10 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE, EXCHEQUER  then proposed as an Amendment on Clause 49, page 16, line 32, to leave out after "them" the words "or their officers," and in line 39, after "Commissioners," to leave out the words "or their officers." He had already stated in the discussion on this clause that it had never entered into the mind of the Government to subject the parties liable to the payment of this tax to have their deeds or documents inspected by local officers, who were generally persons of a subordinate position, and therefore he was willing, as, indeed, it had been always his intention, that any such examination should be reserved for persons who were competent from their rank for the discharge of such functions. Anxious, therefore, to go as far as possible to meet the very natural sensitiveness of hon. Gentlemen opposite upon this subject—a sensitiveness which he could neither wonder at nor blame, he had entered into communication with the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, who had evinced every disposition to meet the feeling exhibited by the House. In point of fact, the administration of the legacy duty did not form at present any part of the business of the Commissioners of Revenue. It was an important part of their office, for which they were responsible; but practically the duty was discharged by the officers of the legacy duty department, and by a very able public servant who was at the head of that branch. But the Commissioners were quite willing to undertake the duty of the examination of the documents by themselves alone. He wished it to be understood that, so far as the Government was concerned, they had no desire to exercise any arbitrary or discretionary power at all, but were perfectly willing to meet the views of hon. Members in order to adjust the assessment of the tax. He therefore proposed to strike out the words "or their
 227
 SIR JOHN BULLER  said, there would be extreme difficulty, or at least inconvenience, to gentlemen resident in remote counties, such as Devon and Cornwall, having to send up their deeds to London.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that unless this clause was adopted, there would be almost in every case where a dispute arose the necessity on the part of the Crown of applying to a Court of Law to compel the production of those papers, which would be attended with great inconvenience, expense, and delay to the individuals concerned. The clause was worded in a manner to produce the least possible
 229
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he could see no solid objection to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Manchester; indeed, the hon. Member did not appear to have put his case so strongly as he might have done, for if he (Mr. V. Smith) were a proprietor of East India Stock, he should not only feel himself at liberty, but bound, to choose Directors from the class of persons mentioned by the hon. Member.
 MR. ELLICE  said, he not only agreed with the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman, but he could not understand why the choice of the Crown should be limited to the civil and military service, which might operate to the exclusion of gentlemen who, like the hon. Member for Honiton, had devoted themselves to a profession in India, and who might not choose to enter on a canvass for the other seats in the Direction.
 MR. TUCKER SMITH  said, he thought that it would be extremely inconvenient if persons who were engaged in carrying on mercantile operations in India, although they had returned to this country, should be appointed Directors while they were so engaged. He thought provision ought to be made that no person engaged in mercantile transactions connected with India for the time should be eligible.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he was glad the suggestion of the hon. Member for Manchester had been acceded to, but he thought it would be necessary to guard against the clause covering cases to which it was not intended to apply—as, for instance, the case of a child born in India, and not sent to this country until after the age of ten years. There was no limitation by the clause of the time of life at which a person was qualified to be elected.
 MR. ELLICE  said, he was in favour of the entire abolition of the limitation, and of giving to the electors and the Government the power of choosing any person who had resided ten years in India.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he wished to correct an error into which his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) had fallen in regard to the retiring pensions. The right hon. Gentleman had stated that no inferior Judge received retiring pensions. This was an error; several of the Judges of inferior courts were entitled to retiring allowances, and County Court Judges might have retiring pensions in certain cases.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the measure was one of the most unjust and unprecedented ever introduced into that House. He objected to the principle of the Bill, and hoped the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) would persist in his opposition. It was not fair to Ireland to press this Bill at so late an hour. He would observe also that the time when Irish Members were at the assizes was the time always chosen for bringing in or pushing forward obnoxious Bills. He should certainly move that the debate be adjourned.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  expressed a hope that they would be postponed; as they had only been printed that day, and he had not had time to look at them. Besides, clauses more likely to carry out the views of the hon. and learned Gentleman had just been introduced into a Bill in another place.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was all very well for the hon. and learned Gentleman to assume a tone of indignation mixed with that asperity which he always introduced on every subject. He did not think the position of the hon. and learned Gentleman, high as it undoubtedly was in point of talent, authorised him in assuming that tone towards those who, if not his equals in point of ability, were at least his equals in the manner in which they conducted the business of that House. He did not wish to throw any obstacles in the way of the hon. and learned Gentleman; but if he supposed these clauses had received the universal assent of the profession he was greatly mistaken. Those who had seen his clauses, and the clauses introduced into the Bill in the other House, were of opinion that the latter clauses went much further, and would be more effectual, than those of the hon. and learned Gentleman. All he wanted was an opportunity of considering them.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the clauses which he wished to consider were the equity clauses.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLES WORTH  said, this was a continuance of a scheme which had been several years in contemplation, and it was to be conducted under the direction of the Board of Works.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLES WORTH  said, the object of the Bill was simply to confirm provisional orders of the Board of Health, more particularly in the application of the Health of Towns Act to certain towns. He objected to this clause because it did not come within the title and intention of the Bill. Nevertheless he agreed in the general principle of the clause. The inspectors were not salaried officers of the Board, but were employed, as it were, by the job, and they were, therefore, at liberty to get employment elsewhere. It appeared to him that they should be salaried officers, and not be at liberty to take employment elsewhere. The matter had been under consideration, and when the general subject of the Board of Health was brought forward next year, it was the intention of Government to make a change similar to that proposed by the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. COWPER  said, the corporation o Hertford were engaged in negotiation which might have the effect of securing the object contemplated in the proviso. As the representative of Hertford, he felt bound to oppose the Amendment.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL,  in moving the Second Reading of this Bill said that the stamp duties upon newspaper were regulated by the Act 6 & 7  Will. d. 242 Examiner Observer, d., Spectator, d.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHE-
 244  said his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General had stated that, in the view of the Government, there was great reason to question the decision at which the Court of Exchequer had arrived. It would have been quite open, if it had been considered a matter tending to settle the public mind upon the question, to have that decision questioned. Under these circumstances the right hon. Gentleman would see that it would be a very anomalous course, on the part of the Government, to propose to pay the costs of the parties. At the same time, he might say that the question with regard to costs had never been put before him with the arguments which the parties might think they had. With regard to the right hon. Gentleman's suggestion, that the definition of a newspaper should be in the same Bill as the charge of the duty, there might be convenience in it; at any rate it should be considered; but if it were to be done at all the better way would be to import this enactment into the Stamp Duties Bill than to take any enactment out of the Stamp Duties Bill into this.
 COLONEL BLAIR  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord opposite (Lord Elcho), for the satisfaction of several Scotch Members on his (Colonel Blair's) side of the House, whether the Bill, which had now been on the table of the House for the last three months, was only to be read a second time  pro formâ,
 MR. BOUVERIE  suggested that the better course would be to postpone the clauses till to-morrow.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that there were some alterations in the present measure which had been laid fully before the House by his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate, and had been circulated throughout Scotland, where he believed they were perfectly known. He much regretted that it should have fallen to him, in the absence of his right hon. and learned Friend, to defend the principle of the measure before the House, and to oppose the Amendment of the hon. Baronet opposite. But that regret was much diminished when he reflected that the measure was in itself reasonable and just, and, he hoped he might be excused for saying it, that he considered the opposition of the hon. Baronet was both unreasonable and unjust. There was one circumstance, however, that gave him considerable pleasure, and that was, that there was one point on which he agreed with the hon. Baronet—he meant, in his desire to promote the interests of the Church of Scotland. From that desire it arose that he wished to see the present anomalous and unsatisfactory state of the law as regarded the tests in the Universities of Scotland altered. It was his opinion that the present state of the law with reference to tests, so far from being a security, was a snare and a danger to the Church, rather than that bulwark which the hon. Baronet would have the House to believe. It was a snare, inasmuch as it led the Church to look to legislative enactments for security rather than to its hold upon the feelings and affections of the people. It was a source of danger, inasmuch as it embittered sectarian differences, and united all not in its communion in hostility against it. That such was the case, every one conversant with the state of the law would readily admit. The subject was one which had often been discussed in that House. He would not, therefore, occupy any time by entering into
 185 Confession of Faith, Confession of Faith? Confession of Faith. "I, A. B., do solemnly and severally, in the presence of God, profess, testify, and declare that, as Professor of, and in the discharge of the said office, I will not endeavour, directly or indirectly, to teach or inculcate anything opposed to the authority of Holy Scripture, or the decisions of the Westminster Assembly, or ratified by law in 1690, and that I will not exercise such office to the prejudice or subversion of the Church of Scotland as by law established, or the doctrines or privileges thereof." 186 "That none of the subjects of this kingdom shall be liable to make any oath, test, or subscription whatever, contrary to, or inconsistent with, the Protestant religion of the Presbyterian Church of Scotland as by law established, and the same shall never be imposed or required of them." "These Universities are not now of an ecclesiastical character, or, in the ordinary acceptation of the term, ecclesiastical bodies. They are intended for the general education of the country, and, in truth, possess scarcely any ecclesiastical feature except that they have a certain number of-
 187 "Being of opinion that the present operation of the law in regard to the tests exigible from persons appointed to professorships in the Universities of Scotland is calculated to prove injurious to the interests, not only of the Universities, but of the Established Church, we, as members of that Church, feel called upon to record our desire that some measure may be speedily adopted." 188 "the Senatus to remove him, censure and banish him,  quam primum, "That the Church has no title, either through the Presbytery of the bounds, the General Assembly, or its commission, to enforce the provisions of the Acts of 1690 and 1707 as regards subscription to the  Confession of Faith, 189 "The University is a great national institution; it exercises a most extensive influence on the education of the higher and middle classes of the community, and consequently on the intellectual, moral, and social character of the nation. But its capacity of exercising this high prerogative, fully and completely, must depend on its keeping
 190
 LORD ELCHO  said, he would beg to move that this Bill be read a Second Time.
 LORD ELCHO  had only said, that the principle of the Bill was in accordance with the spirit of the age which dictated the inquiry into the English Universities.
 LORD ELCHO : I said nothing of the kind.
 LORD ELCHO : The declaration only applies to lay chairs.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to point
 200
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the noble Lord had already stated that, though he did not intend to ask the House to pass that Bill this Session, he should still ask them to consent to a second reading of it. Such a course, he thought, would be extremely inconvenient; and he would ask the noble Lord at once, whether he would not consent to spare the House the annoyance of discussing at this period of the year the principle of a Bill which it was not intended to pass?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he thought the question would have been
 203
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  wished to know, in cases of woodland tracts, where timber was occasionally felled, if it was intended to levy the tax on each timber tree as felled, in addition to the original succession duty originally paid?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that as the Bill had been referred to a Select Committee, it was impossible for him to answer the hon. Member's question, without communicating with some of the Members of that Committee.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I must, Sir, in the first instance, refer to the answer which I gave to the right hon. Gentleman on a former day. The right hon. Gentleman's question on that occasion referred to a circular despatch of the Russian Government, which had then only recently reached this country. I had only had the opportunity of reading it in a newspaper in a very cursory manner, and I certainly had not made myself completely master of its contents. I, therefore, answered that, in my opinion, the right hon. Gentleman had not put a correct interpretation on that part of the document which said that the Russian troops would be removed from the principalities when the pressure caused by the presence of the combined fleets in the Turkish waters should be taken off. I said, I could not believe that Russia intended to make that the condition of the evacuation of the principalities. I did so not only because I did not perceive that the proposition was quite distinctly laid down in the document, but also because I did not think it possible that two things so totally unlike and dissimilar in character could be compared with each other, or that the Russian Government could conceive itself justified in demanding that the English and French fleets should leave the Turkish waters before its troops should evacuate the principalities. I entertained this opinion because, in the one case, the English and French fleets were in the waters of an allied Power—were there not for the purpose of putting any pressure on that Power—not for the purpose of injuring it any way, but only in order that they might be ready in case of need—in case that Power should feel obliged to call for their assistance, and in case of the invasion of its territories. In the other case, the actual occupation of the principalities by the Russian troops, is an act which bears no
 205
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, in asking the House to discuss the second reading of the Education Bill, his object had been to hear the various objections which might be made against the several clauses, with a view to introducing the Bill in the next Session of Parliament, after a full consideration of those objections. He must, however, reserve to himself the consideration whether or no he would proceed to that stage, with this view of hearing the objections, and of introducing the Bill next Session with a full knowledge of them.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it was generally the case that there were on the paper at this time of the year, a number of Bills which it was found totally impossible to carry through before the end of the Session; but he trusted that there were very few Bills of that nature before the House at the present time. He had purposely objected to the introduction of Bills by many hon. Members, on the ground that before the end of the Session there would probably not be time enough to proceed with them. At some future period he
 202
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, if the hon. Member had given him notice of his question, he should probably have been better able to answer him. It was usual at this period of the Session to bring in Bills, the object of which was simply to continue existing Acts of Parliament, and that was the nature of the Bills to which the hon. Member referred.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, that some statement ought to be made to the House as to the probable cost of the works, and the parties under whose superintendence they were to be executed.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it may be in the recollection of the House, that a few days since I put a question to the noble Lord the Member for London, relative to a circular despatch signed by Count Nesselrode, which had then just reached the metropolis. To that question I now wish to refer. I think I mentioned that the despatch stated that the occupation of the Turkish waters by the combined fleets of England and France, was deemed by Russia a naval occupation analogous in its character to the military occupation of the principalities by the Russian armies. I also mentioned that in that despatch it was further stated that, when that complete satisfaction should be granted by the Porte to Russia, which was the due of the latter Power, and when the pressure alleged to have been exercised by the two maritime Powers in the port alluded to should have ceased, then the Emperor of Russia would withdraw his forces into his own limits. The noble Lord on that occasion very properly felt it his duty to question the truth of the first allegation to which I directed his attention, namely, that the presence of the combined fleets in the Turkish waters was a naval occupation of the Turkish dominions, and said, with respect to the second point., his impression was that I was not warranted in the interpretation I put upon the words of the despatch having reference to it. It has since been stated in another place by a Colleague of the noble Lord, that the latter observation of the noble Lord was made inadvertently—a circumstance which can readily be pardoned, since the document had been only just received, and I had had no opportunity until I entered the House of calling the noble Lord's attention to it. It is not, however, for the purpose of adverting to that slight mistake that I have now risen. But the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs took the opportunity of publicly declaring the determination of Her Majesty's Ministers not to accede to the conditions which were expressed in so peremptory a manner by the Court of St. Petersburgh in the circular despatch, and not for a moment in their management of these important proceedings admit, as a primary condition, that the combined fleets of England and France
 204
 MR. NEWDEGATE  could scarely believe that the noble Lord himself had much confidence in the argument embodied in his observation. If the future Professors have the power of teaching, they will be able to instil their opinions into the minds of their pupils. The Roman Catholic priesthood knew this so well that they will not permit Protestants to teach history for instance, or several of the sciences in their universities. Infidelity could be taught from lay chairs as well as from theological chairs. The experiment of severing religion from instruction had been tried in Germany, and it had proved a notorious failure; for the infidel principles of their lay Professors had infected the whole body of their pupils, and had resulted in the revolutions of 1848, and the Socialist excesses of that period. [The hon. Member quoted the work of the Rev. Mr. Wright, just published by Messrs. Seeley, who had travelled much in Germany, and had many opportunities of knowing the mode of education in that country. Mr. Wright cited an instance of the irreligious character of the Prussian Professors, a large number of whom at a public dinner of over 100 teachers refused to allow grace to be said before the commencement of the meal, declaring that they were not children who prayed before they eat.] Mr. Wright quoted the confessions of M. Curtman, one of the ablest and most powerful supporters of the German irreligious system of education, who had had the courage and the honesty to avow the failure of his long-cherished system and opinions. M. Curtman wrote—
 "My former enthusiasm for schools and public instruction has now, through a thousand experiences, been sadly reduced; the revolution of 1848 has revealed to me and to others the ideal nature and imperfection of the medium through which we were wont to contemplate the school-world in Germany. This disenchantment exerted such a depressing influence on me that I was for a time inclined to consider my calling suicidal and vain." Reforw of the School, "Indeed the year 1848 and 1849, these providential and annihilating judgments on many a well-built human scheme, have removed the veil of imagined glory with which the German school was self-bedecked in mine eyes, and have left nothing but a withered apparition in its place. "It must be confessed, however painful, that the German school-system has had its day of visitation, and has been found wanting; to say the
 196 197
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he must beg to explain: what he said was, that hon. Members who had left the House were no parties to it.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Then the noble Lord's observations were wholly irrelevant. He (Mr. Newdegate) objected to the abolition of religious tests, especially required of the teachers of a University connected with the Church of Scotland; and he now called the attention of the House to the alterations proposed in the Bill to that effect by the Lord Advocate. The right hon. and learned Gentleman stated that the declarations were to be proposed for Professors—not of theology—and were to the effect that the individual should not teach anything contrary to the authority of the Holy Scriptures or the Westminster  Confession of Faith, 194
 MR. NEWDEGATE : The noble Lord quoted a portion of the Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the University of Cambridge; and he then argued that this Bill was based upon the principle embodied in that Report, and that the principle would be extended to the English Universities.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that as an English Member, he must complain that the intentions of the Government with respect to the Bill, had, without notice, been altered since its first introduction to the House. The question to be decided was not fairly represented by the Bill. He understood that some other Bill had been privately circulated among a few Members of the House by the Government. He had, since he reached the House, seen the frame of this other, which he was told was to be the real Bill, and yet the House was asked to pass the second reading of the Bill which was on the table. The question to be decided was assuredly not that contained in the Bill; and he contended that English Members had a right to know what they were voting on. The noble Lord (Lord Elcho) said the Bill was one for Scottish Universities, as if English Members had nothing to do but walk out of the House when any Bill relating to Scotland was under discussion; yet the noble Lord concluded by stating that the principle of this Bill would eventually be applied to the English Universities.
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated to the hon. Member that such a course, by permitting a Member to address the House several times upon the same question tended seriously to render the debate irregular.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he thought that with regard to the Directors appointed by the Crown, the case was different to that of those elected by the proprietors, and he could not give a decided answer on that point then. With regard to the other Directors, he was quite ready to adopt the suggestion of the hon. Member for Manchester; and as it involved only a slight, alteration in the clause, it could be done at once. As respected the Directors ap-
 233
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the clause did not exclude such persons as had been referred to by the hon. Gentleman. The Board was to consist of eighteen members, six nominated and twelve elected, and of the twelve elected six were to be persons who had served ten years in India, so that they were six seats open to all the world. There was, therefore, no exclusion of that class of persons who had not been connected either by the service of the Company or of the Crown; but it had been thought desirable that the selection of six of the twelve elected Directors should be persons who had served in either one service or the other. Still, he repeated, there were six seats open to all the world, and there was no exclusion of men who had bad experience of India, either in a mercantile or professional capacity.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he proposed to go on with the next four or five clauses, in respect to which no Amendments were to be moved. He did not intend to go further to-night.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he understood that the noble Lord intended to propose his Amendment in the shape of a separate clause.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, it did
 220
 MR. CAYLEY  would suggest that the limit to the duty payable on the net moneys received from the sale of timber in any one year should be 20 l., l.,
 MR. RICE  said, he was of opinion that the proposal of the hon. Gentleman would lead to great confusion in the collection of the tax.
 MR. F. SCULLY  hoped the hon. and gallant Colonel would not persist in his opposition. The measure, with that of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite, would, he hoped, be discussed on an early day.
 MR. HADFIELD  wished to know what course was to be taken with respect to the Education Bill?
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he thought that the question put by the noble Lord (Lord J. Manners) had not been sufficiently answered. In order, therefore, to give the Chancellor of the Exchequer an opportunity to reply more fully, he would move the adjournment of the House.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, that the Motion of which he had given notice, was an Amendment by way of addition to Clause 2, which was an interpretation clause. His object was to declare the principle of the tax, and by express words to render that declaration operative in governing the construction of the Act, and leaving, therefore, as little as possible—indeed he hoped to leave nothing—open to doubt and misconstruction. post obits 207 208 209
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would accede to this suggestion, but he warned the Government that the subject must be fully discussed.
 MR. WHITESIDE  was about to move the insertion of some new clauses, when
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he must deny that he had ever had any communication with the right hon. Gentleman on the subject of the Bill to which he had alluded, or that he had ever given any pledge that it should not be proceeded with beyond the second reading. It was a Bill to which he had never heard any objection, and
 237 Loud cries of amidst which the hon. and learned Gentleman resumed his seat
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that he should have no objection to accede to the noble Lord's suggestion, if he was understood not to be precluded thereby from pressing at a future stage the strong objections which he entertained to the principle of this Bill, which was in many respects different from the former Encumbered Estates Act.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he must appeal to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland not to proceed with a measure of so much importance at that late hour of the evening [ half-past twelve o'clock Laughter
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, there was not an equity clause on the paper.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished the House to understand that this was a measure of law reform, and that Her Majesty's Attorney General was now objecting to clauses which had been unanimously approved of by the profession.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control whether he had any objection to alter this clause, so that persons who had been in India as merchants or as professional men might be included in it? The hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton (Sir J. Hogg), who was so great an authority on Indian affairs, was himself in the legal profession while in India, and might have had no connexion with the service of the Crown or of the Company, and yet no one would say that he was less proper on that account to be placed in the Court. The clause which had passed with regard to the six nominees of the Crown provided that they should be persons who had been ten years in the service either of the Crown or of the Company; and this clause proposed that at least six persons of the selected Directors should be of the same class. It appeared to him advisable, however, to extend the qualification to persons who had resided in India for that period, although not in the service of the Crown or of the Company. Many of the India merchants were men of great knowledge and experience—take the case, for instace, of Mr. Craufurd, who had been in Parliament a short time as Member for Harwich, or of the present Member, Mr. Bagshw, although he did not know how long the latter Gentleman had been in India. There were many merchants in this country who had resided in India, and who had as much information with regard to Indian matters as the great bulk of those who had been there in the service of the Crown and of the Company. It was contrary to all the principles of good policy to confine the office to persons who had been in India in either service, and to exclude all who had been there as merchants, or in the different professions; and he wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman had any objection so to alter either the clause or the Bill as to admit persons of this class among the nominated or elected Directors. It would give greater scope for the choice
 231
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought that the very fact of such a restriction having been proposed, was a conclusive proof of the truth of his proposition. There were many persons engaged in mercantile pursuits in Manchester, Liverpool, and, of course, in London, who had resided much longer than ten years in India, without having served either the Crown or the Company, and it was not desirable to preclude the proprietors from electing Directors from that class. Under the proposed arrangement, the proprietors would be at full liberty to choose six persons who had not been in India at all; and in all probability the selection would be made from the great houses in the City. What he complained of was the restriction of twelve of the Directors to persons who had been in the service of the Government or the Company. Unless the right hon. Gentleman undertook to alter the clause by the time when the Bill was again before the House, he should move that the Chairman do report progress.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he would rather have the clause altered than postponed. He would propose to amend the clause so that it should provide that, instead of the six Directors not appointed by the Crown being persons who should have been for ten years at the least in the service of the Crown or the Company in India, they should simply be persons who should have resided there for ten years at the least. Thus they would leave the Court of Proprietors at liberty to elect persons who had been in the service of the Crown or of the Company, or who had been engaged in mercantile or other occupations, or in no occupations at all.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he understood the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control to say that this Bill would not be proceeded with that night.
 MR. PHILIPPS  said, he could not refrain from expressing his surprise at the assertion of the hon. Member for Lambeth, as to legacies paying probate duty; and he hoped if the hon. Gentleman had acted as an executor and had charged that duty, that he would ease his conscience by refunding it.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he fully concurred in the observations made by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Malins) the Member for Wallingford. He was afraid that the House was getting careless of the preservation of a principle which ought to be held sacred. He would strongly urge upon the hon. and learned Solicitor General the propriety of taking into his consideration the suggestions just made by the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he thought that the Bill ought to be read a second time that evening. He (Sir J. Young) had a few days ago assented to the Bill, to which the hon. and learned Gentleman alluded, being read a second time, on the understanding that it was not to be further proceeded with; and if the hon. and learned Gentleman now placed that as a rival to the present Bill, he thought it was but fair that the latter should also receive a second reading. This Bill had been maturely considered in the other House, and he therefore proposed now to take the second reading, on the understanding that ample opportunity should be given for discussing it either on going into Committee or in Committee.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he entirely agreed with the Amendment of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), for it was manifest that when the subject was considered, persons in the legal or other professions had better opportunities of becoming acquainted with the feelings and habits of the natives of India, than persons in the service of the Crown or the Company; and that sort of knowledge was what it was very desirable to obtain.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman had held out a hope that in this clause he would insert some minimum; would he state whether he intended to do so?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he felt called upon to justify his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate); for the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho) had almost with a sneer intimated that the English Members had no right to interfere in the matter, though this country was equally a party to the Act of Union as Scotland. Carrying that principle out, how far would the doctrine apply to those Irish Members who would desire to get rid of that part of the Act of Union which affirmed the existence of the Established Church in that country? Straws showed the way in which the wind blew, and he was therefore bound to take notice of the observations of the noble Lord. When it was seen that the word "discipline," which was used in the Act of Security was omitted, and "doctrines" only retained, he considered it was going very close to the wind, and he could only conclude that the Bill was a violation of the compact which had been entered into. It might be denied that the University was not an appendage of the Church of Scotland, but no one could deny that the Bill affected the interest of that Church. English Members could only be guided on this point by the acts of the constituted body of the Scottish Church, and that body was against the measure. He, therefore, could not agree to the Bill; and if his hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford divided the House on the subject, he would divide with him. He had strong feelings that all these measures were steps in the direction of separating religion from education; and he was satisfied their promoters would find themselves in a difficult and dangerous position when it would be too late.
 MR. LOCKE  said, the proceedings of the Board of Health were antagonistic to the municipal feeling of the country. Whether the clause was brought up or not, he trusted there would be an alteration in the Health of Towns Act.
 MR. LOCKE  said, the House had not been put into possession of a single estimate as to the probable cost, or as to any points of detail. The same remark applied to other public works, and particularly to Westminster-bridge. When private works were brought before Parliament, the promoters were required to produce estimates of the cost, and he did not see why a similar course should not be taken with reference to Bills of this description. He thought it was incumbent on the House to press for the estimate before they consented to vote away the public money. He should, therefore, move that the Committee be postponed for three months.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he begged to propose an Amendment, which, if carried would so alter the scale on which the rates of duty were to be calculated, as to tend make the amount of duty considerably less than under the schedules in the present Bill. With reference to the 21st clause, providing that the interest of a successor in real property should be considered as an annuity, he would move that in the paragraph, "every such annuity, for the purposes of this Act, shall be valued according to the tables in the schedule annexed this Act," the words "this Act" should be left out, for the purpose of inserting the words, "the Act of the 36th year of the reign of King George III., chap. 52, The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had computed that this tax altogether would amount to on 2,000,000 l.; l., l.  l. l., 212 l., l.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he thought the references to the 24th clause an error, and would therefore suggest that the reference should be altered to the 25th clause.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he had heard with much satisfaction the very powerful speech of the right hon. Gentleman against the whole Bill. He wished to disabuse the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams) of the notion that a legacy of 20 l.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he would now move to add to Clause 23 the proviso of which he had given notice.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that there were two considerations in the Amendment which he proposed: the one related to the exchange, and the other to the purchase of timber. In both cases he thought it fair that an allowance should be made.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he must assert that there was considerable force in the objection of his hon. Friend the Member for South Devonshire (Sir J. Buller)—namely, the great inconvenience to all persons nonresident in London of having to forward their deeds from a remote distance to the capital. And if the right hon. Gentleman would but consider the great expense that small proprietors would be put to—their great disinclination and unwillingness to part with their deeds, he did hope that he would consent to make an exception in favour of muniments of title. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to assume that all transactions under the Act would be confined to London. He trusted the right hon. Gentleman would yield to his suggestion; but the tenacity of Government on these points was really extraordinary.
 MR. MULLINGS  then proposed, in page 15, line 5, after "property," to inset "within three calendar months after the happening of the Succession." The object of the Amendment was to make the meaning of the clause more defined, and its working less arbitrary.
 MR. NAPIER  said, several of the clauses of his hon. and learned Friend had been discussed in Committee.
 MR. BASS  said, he regretted that such a Bill should have been introduced at so late an hour, and that the Government should have postponed the amendment of the Board of Health until next Session He apprehended that the right hon. Baronet had sufficient influence with the Board virtually to carry out the object.
 MR. BASS  said, he could not comprehend why Scotland should be relieved from this tax, and would therefore second the Amendment.
 MR. KENDALL  said, he would now beg to move the Amendment of which he had given notice. His reasons for so doing were, that the modes of assessment under Clause 26 were wholly inapplicable to Cornish mines. No time, in the first place, was specified for averages; and he could not see how any time could be fixed with propriety, and no principle was, or could be, laid down as regarded the prospective value of so fluctuating a property as this, with regard to the averages for deep and shallow mines. To approximate anything like a just calculation, a variation in the averages must be made; and, if once a variation was admitted, then confusion would follow. Therefore he felt the necessity of proposing the Amendment. The proviso was equally essential, as, unless there was some definition of what was a mine in succession, the most ruinous litigation would be the result, especially with so very determined a race as Cornishmen.
 MR. MALINS  said, if the right hon. gentleman meant only that the tax should refer to settled property, Gentlemen on his (the Opposition) side of the House would rest perfectly content. And, doubtless, with regard to that kind of property, it would be quite necessary that all deeds and documents should be produced, otherwise here would be nothing visible or tangible. The words "muniments of title" could only refer to land, and the possession of land was better proof for the purposes of the tax than my settlement could be. The right hon. Gentleman had fallen into an error in supposing the trustees had possession of the Settlements relating to the land. This was the first attempt that had been made to upset the doctrine that the owner of deeds had a right to maintain possession of them against the world. There had not been the smallest reason adduced for the demand. Neither the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer, nor the hon. and learned Solicitor General, with all their astuteness, had been able to give a single reason for the production of those "muniments of title." The party with whom he (Mr. Malins) had the honour to act, had no objection to the insertion of the words "title deeds relating to real estates." He hoped, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman would see the necessity of giving up this extraordinary and unconstitutional power without a tittle of necessity for it.
 MR. MALINS  said, the more he had heard of this discussion the more he regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should have thought it necessary to make timber a special object of enactment at all. He would admit that the owners of timber had not succeeded in making out a case for special exemption; but, on the other hand, neither did he think that the right hon. Gentleman had succeeded in showing that there was any necessity for a special enactment. He thought it would have been far better to leave timber to take its chance as a portion of the general produce of the estate. If timber were not productive, it ought not to be taxed; but, if it were productive, the right hon. Gentleman had abundant means of getting his duty under the general provisions of the Bill. If it had been in order he should have moved at once that the clause, as regarded timber, be altogether omitted; but, as he believed a Motion of that nature would not be in order at present, he begged to give notice of his intention to move that Amendment at a future stage of the Bill.
 MR. CHRISTY  said, he thought that they were going on a vicious principle in taxing timber at all, which had as much claim to exemption as growing crops.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the question of increasing the salary of the Assistant Judge of the Middlesex Sessions was brought under his notice when he was at the Home Office, and from all he then learnt he thought it reasonable that additional salary should be given. The business of the Middlesex Sessions had been enormously increased by the transference of a particular species of business from the Central Criminal Court to the Sessions—so much so, that the Chairman could not get the ordinary vacation that all other Judges enjoyed. In these circumstances, application was made to him to give him occasional assistance, and that assistance was directed to be given, though not permanently. In the case of the Country Court Judges, the House had decided last Session that they should have a salary of not less 1,200 l., l. 235
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, there were two Bills before the House relating to this one subject of newspaper stamps
 243 Household Narrative;
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, all be wanted was to have a clear, distinct, and well-defined description of the law.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he understood that some of these Bills were not of that nature, but were new measures altogether. At a certain period of the Session it had been usual to perform a certain process of elimination, generally called "the Massacre of the Innocents," or some such title as that, when Bills were withdrawn which were really not intended to be proceeded with. It would be greatly for the convenience of the House if the noble Lord would state what measures it was really intended to proceed with. There was among others, the Registration of Assurances Bill, for instance, with regard to which he was perpetually receiving letters from the country, wishing to know when it would come on.
 MR. HALSEY  said, he was aware of very improper practices with relation to the proceedings of the Board of Health, the engineers being often the contractors. He should, therefore, beg to move an Amendment, which he hoped would rectify such anomalous proceedings.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the reason why the clause was framed in the manner in which it now stood with respect to heritable bonds, was this: the law of Scotland at this moment
 206
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he felt disposed to accede to the Amendment. If the words had any legitimate place in the Bill, it could only be to prevent the possibility of a double tax on the determination of certain leases. It certainly was not intended that the tax should be paid twice over. If the words were mere surplusage, he should not accede to
 211
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had no difficulty in subscribing to the principle of the Amendment of his hon. Friend, that Acts of Parliament ought to be clear and plain to construe; but beyond that he could not go. He willingly gave his hon. Friend credit for having no desire to repeal or narrow the obligations of the Act; but he could not help thinking that such would be the effect of the Amendment he had now proposed. The object of the Amendment, if he understood it aright, was to affirm a principle, which principle was to be adopted as a general guide in the construction of the Act. Now, it would be impossible to take a more dangerous course than to legislate on such broad and general terms, without having in their view all the cases to which those terms would apply, or to adopt any words that tended to override the specific provisions which the House had made on these difficult questions. If he had considered aright the scope and tendency of the Amendment, that would be its effect, though he was sure his hon. Friend did not intend to carry it that length. Surely, it would be better to use plain words applicable to particular cases, than to employ language, the particular application of which it would be impossible for any one to know, and the effect of which would be to throw darkness and ambiguity over the whole operation of the Act. Coming to particulars it appeared to him that in the first application of these words they would cut quite across the intentions of the House in some very important particulars. The hon. Gentleman would make the Legislature declare in these words that this tax
 210 post obits.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, be hoped the hon. Gentleman did not think there had been any want of consideration or respect for the various suggestions which had been made during the discussion on this difficult and important subject. He did not hesitate to repeat what he had previously stated, that he felt greatly indebted to hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House for the way in which they had applied their minds to master the difficulties of this question; and to none did that remark apply more strongly than it did to the hon. Member
 213 l., l., l. l. l, l. l., l. bonâ fide. l. 214 Geo.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat had spoken of him in a way which he did not deserve. But he was at the same time bound to acknowledge the fairness and openness with which the hon. Gentleman had invariably stated his view on this question, the perseverance with which which he followed his object, and the justice of the general principle upon which he founded his propositions. He must, however, feel that he had great reason to be satisfied with the emphatic recognition which the justice of the principle had received during the discussion of this Bill from very large majorities in that House. But, concurring in the justice of the principle, and thinking that the hon. Gentleman deserved the acknowledgments of those in office for his efficient labours in procuring its general recognition, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had never at all from the first moment of the introduction of the Bill attempted to keep back the anxious desire of the Government that their recognition of the principle should be so adjusted to the existing state of things, and so qualified by mitigating its provisions, that they should not be obtaining, under the form of a mere fiscal and taxing Act, an engine which would go to displace
 216 217 218 219
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that they had nothing to do with the original value; the successor would be taxed on the annual value of the timber only.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that his anxiety to save the time of the House had led him to give a rather hasty assent to the Amendment of the hon. Member; but, on more careful examination, he felt obliged to qualify his former opinion of it. It was proposed that no timber should be paid for which should be used for building or repairs. But if a proprietor should think fit to build new houses, and so increase the value of the land, there was no reason why timber employed for such a purpose should be exempt. Repairs were most justly exempted on the ground that they were necessary for the maintenance of the estate; but timber used far building went to increase the value of the property, and, therefore, stood on a totally different footing. He must, consequently, object to the words "rebuildings or" in the Amendment. Then, again, he thought that the words "or for the protection thereof" were not sufficiently clear. It would be better
 221
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that although he did not think it necessary, he would accede to the proviso.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that nothing could induce him to consent to any such Amendment as that just now suggested; he would far millet drop the clause altogether. He believe that the operation of the law, in case; where parties were unwilling to product their title deeds, would be very much aggravated by dropping the clause, or by so qualifying it as to render all investigation impossible. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that "muniments of title" were far too important words to be left out of the clause. Why, the muniments of title often affected the title itself, and he was advised that even the rental might be included among the muniments. He would beg to remind hon. Gentlemen opposite that it was personalty that must pay the bulk of the tax,
 228
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then moved the insertion of the following proviso, which was agreed to:—
 "Provided, that where the sum payable for duty on such assessment does not exceed fifty pounds, the accountable party may, having given notice of appeal, and delivered a statement of the grounds thereof as hereinbefore directed, appeal to the Judge of the County Court in England, the Sheriff Court in Scotland, or the Assistant Barrister's Court in Ireland, for the district, county, or division in which the appellant shall be resident, or the property be situate, and every such Judge shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the matter of such last-mentioned appeal, with the like power and authority as are by this section given to a Judge of Her Majesty's Court of Exchequer."
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he regretted that the hon. Member had been prevented bringing his Amendment under the notice of the House at an earlier period, which had necessarily prevented him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) giving it that full and deliberate consideration which he should at all times be glad to bestow out of respect to every hon. Member who brought forward an Amendment, but more especially on this
 224 l. 225 l.,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the system contemplate by the hon. Gentleman was much less favourable to parties attaining to succession than that embodied in the Bill. He proposed to insert a particular defined period prior to which the inheritor could not be liable to pay the duty. Well, there could be no doubt, as far as the revenue is concerned, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would have no reason to complain if the liability were to accrue at the end of such a period. But the Government proceeded upon a different principle; they did not define any precise period, but they said that the liability to render an account in respect of the accession would accrue not until the period when the accession, or at least the first portion of it, should be
 226
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must confess that, looking at matters practically, his view was that in ninety-nine out of every hundred cases the parties would be found making no objection to the inspection of their documents. In fact, it was quite obvious that the deeds need never pass out of the custody of the parties themselves or their solicitors.
 MR. BARROW  said, he wished to propose an Amendment, the object of which was to put money secured on land in Scotland on the same footing, by making it liable to the same amount of duty, as money secured on land in England and Ireland. He proposed in Clause 1, after the word "Ireland," to insert the words, "except money secured upon heritable property in Scotland."
 MR. BARROW  said, he would now move the Proviso of which he had given notice, Section 2.
 MR. FORBES  said, he would not oppose the second reading of the Bill; not because they had confidence in its spirit as regarded the Church of Scotland, but lest the Ministerial majority might force it through in its present obnoxious state. As a compromise had been offered, they would not oppose the second reading therefore; but he held himself free to propose in Committee such amendments as should secure religion in the teaching of the Universities. He, for one, as a Scotch Member, thanked the hon. Baronet (Sir R. H. Inglis) for the support he had always given to religion, on this as on all other occasions.
 Mr. W. LOCKHART  seconded the Motion.
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, he must protest against the Amendment.
 MR. W. LOCKHART  said, he must deny that the Scotch Members assented to the second reading of the Bill. He had himself presented a petition from the General Assembly against it. He had disunited himself from any compromise which he saw was proceeding with regard to this Bill, and felt bound to oppose it in its amended form as strongly as he should have done had it been brought forward in its original shape. The measure was calculated to uproot that admirable system of education which had raised Scotland to the position it held among the nations of the earth, and he could on no account assent to any measure which would separate the Universities from the Church, and which would thus place the Church of Scotland in a position dissimilar to that occupied by any other Church. If he could have any doubts whatever on the question, they would be at once settled by looking to the Act of Union and Act of Security, the terms of which were unmistakeable. It was certainly desirable that the question should be settled; but if the hon. Baronet went to a division, he should go out with him. The Bill was not, perhaps, addressed against the Church of Scotland, but it was addressed against the Protestantism of that country. He saw no reason, therefore, but the contrary, why Protestant tests should not be established. At no former period of Scottish history did the Universities of Scotland stand higher than at present; and, consequently, at no period was there less need of any change in the system under which they were governed.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he wished to call the attention of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London to the fact, that in this the eighth month of the Session, there were on the paper for to-night, notices for six new Bills to be brought in by the Government. He presumed these were to be brought in at two or three o'clock in the morning, and, as usual, were to be carried through the various stages at the same hour, with a crowded list of Orders of the Day. He wished to ask the noble Lord if he could give the House any information as to how many more Bills he intended to bring in at this late period of the Session?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he would now move, in Clause 21, line 30, to leave out the words "by eight equal half-yearly instalments, the first of such instalments to be paid." The amount of this tax upon land in the first degree of consanguinity was only 5 l. l., 215
 SIR ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL  said,
 192 Book of Discipline, 193
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought that the progress of business would be very much facilitated if private Members who had Bills on the paper for Wednesdays, of little importance, or of too great importance to be discussed this Session, would give way to the Government Bills. With this view he begged to ask the noble Lord the Member for Colchester whether it was intended to proceed with the Factory Children's Bill, on the back of which he saw the noble Lord's name in conjuncton with that of the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Cobbett), and which, he might observe, had been introduced early in July.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that so far as he was aware, the hon. Members who had left the House, had left it with a declaration that they were prepared to withhold any opposition to the principle of the Bill. [Mr. NEWDEGATE: No, no!] If the hon. Gentleman said "no," he could only appeal to the House. Two hon. Members not now in their places had stated—one of them having formerly opposed the Bill on
 198 Confession of Faith. 199
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had, upon more than one occasion, expressed his approbation of the principles upon which this Bill was founded, and which he believed would be generally assented to by the people of Scotland. But he must say that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had paid but a bad compliment to the representatives of the people of Scotland—a people the roost religious upon the face of the earth—when he said they were now combined to force upon that country a system, the inevitable result of which would be the promotion of infidelity—
 SIR GEORGE GREY  would also say a few words in explanation, as the Bill for lessening the cost of prosecutions in certain cases was brought in while he was in office. That Bill threw a large portion of the criminal business upon the Middlesex Sessions which had formerly been conducted in the Central Criminal Court. Mr. Serjeant Adams, immediately upon the Bill passing, applied for an increase of salary, on the ground that the business would be greatly increased. He (Sir G. Grey), however, considered that it would be premature to propose any greater amount of salary until it was seen to what extent this increase of business took place. From the statement of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Walpole) it appeared clear that such an increase had occurred, and hence he could not see any ground for opposing this Bill. He was opposed, however, to the clause relative to a retiring pension.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he wished to move a Proviso relating to the Provisional Orders of the Board of Health
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he should support the clause. These inspectors went to towns, and a tenth of the inhabitants having declared themselves in favour of introducing the Health of Towns Act, the inspectors made work for themselves. He thought the Board of Health ought to be reconstituted.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, that there was at present a by-law that precluded any person engaged in trade in India from being a Director; but that there was no law whatever excluding persons who were engaged in trade in England.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, he would
 232
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  should say that the reply of the right hon. Gentleman did not at all meet the question of his
 222
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he did not think that any case had been made out for an increase of salary to the Assistant Judge. He said this out of no personal feeling in regard to the gentleman who now held that position. When an increase of salary was proposed, the Government was bound to make out a strong case for it, and to show not only that there was an increase of work, but also that the office could not be properly filled at a lower rate of payment. The object of the Bill was to increase the salary of the Assistant Judge from 1,200 l. l.; l.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that after the explanations given on both sides of the House, he did not feel justified in persevering with his Motion.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he should move that the clause be struck out of the Bill. He certainly did think the pay of this gentleman was amply sufficient, while no reason whatever had been shown why he should have a retiring allowance.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  thought there should not be too large an infusion of Indian experience, to the exclusion of the English element in the administration of Indian affairs.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : * Mr. Speaker, the noble Lord (Lord Elcho) has moved the Second Reading of this Bill, without one single word of argument, or even of explanation. Yet this Bill has undergone no previous discussion; and the present stage is the most important in its progress; since the success of the Motion before us decides the principle upon which our legislation on the subject is to be constructed. 167 The Insecurity of a printed Overture for an Act for the Church's Security. 168 "I think I see a National Church founded upon a rock, secured by a claim of right, hedged and fenced about by the strictest and pointedest legal Sanction that Sovereignty could contrive, voluntarily descending into a plain upon an equal level with Jews, Papists, Socinians, Arminians, Anabaptists, and other Sectaries." "And above all, my Lord, the security of our National Church and of all that is dear unto us must be previously established to us, if practicable, before we conclude the first article." 169 170 in verecundiam; 171 onus probandi 172 "and its continuance for ever without alteration, was guaranteed by the Act of Security which was passed by the Scottish Parliament, as a preliminary to even treating of an union with England, which was inserted in the Treaty of Union thereafter formed, and which thus became part of an international compact between two independent kingdoms." "That the same treaty provided, that the successive Sovereigns of the United Kingdom should, each at his or her accession, solemnly swear to maintain the provisions of that Act in all their integrity." 173 "They cannot consider the said Act to stand on the same footing with Acts passed after the union of the two kingdoms. That it was especially provided, before the Estates of Scotland agreed to proceed with the Treaty of Union, that it should be held and observed in all time coming as a fundamental and essential condition of any treaty or union to be concluded between the two kingdoms, without any alteration thereof or any derogation thereto in any sort for ever." "That the Universities were placed in this position not only for the security of the Church, but also and more especially for the security of Education—that the education of youth might be entrusted to men of sound principles." "That the Church of Scotland little deserves to be deprived of the superintendence of the education which she was the first to establish, and has ever been so zealous to promote—a result, also, which" [as they emphatically impress upon the House] "cannot be reached at but through the violating of national faith, and of rights which the Sovereign is solemnly sworn to uphold." 174 "measure avowedly infringes the Act of Security by which an independent nation, in making a voluntary treaty with another nation for their joint interests, had expressed and absolutely reserved indefeasibly a right of its own"— "That by the terms of that declaration a wide scope is left to Professors who may be inimical to the Church of Scotland for undermining its interests and stability, without their exercising directly and openly the functions of their office to its prejudice or subversion; and that even in the cases in which such exercise of those functions might appear, the necessity, in order to check it, of a process at law before the Court of Session on the complaint or information to the Lord Advocate, of the Patrons of the Universities who may have no attachments to that Church, or of the Senatus Academicus, the great majority of the members of which would themselves be freed from having any connexion with it, or of students, least of all parties likely to promote such serious proceedings against their instructors, must render practically of no avail the only protection proposed by the Bill to the Church of Scotland in that most important particular—namely, the academical instruction of the people of which it is the Established National Church." 175 "Without compromising or abridging the powers, whatever they may be, of the Church to exer-
 176 "earnestly deprecate the repeal of that part of the law which makes subscription to the  Westminster Confession of Faith Confession "that all who are entrusted with the responsible office of conducting our educational institutions, more especially Professors in our Universities, ought to be men not only of unblemished moral character, but of sound religious principles." "besides being a still further departure from the system established at the Reformation, it would have the effect of dissociating religion entirely from secular education, and of admitting parties to chairs in Universities, avowedly hostile to all religion, and whose influence on the morals of those under their tuition could not but be deeply injurious." 177 178 179 180 181 ex cathedrâ Confession of Faith, the Larger Catechism and the Shorter Catechism, ex animo 182 "This state of things cannot much longer continue. If the existing restrictions are not removed, the various religious bodies who are aggrieved by the present system, will feel constrained, however reluctantly, to unite in the erection, on a broad and liberal basis, of a Scientific and Literary University, in which they shall be able to place unlimited confidence. We deprecate such a result. We are most anxious to strengthen and extend our National Seminaries of Education—not to impair their efficiency. We are fully alive to the great and manifold evils of sectarian instruction; and we therefore most earnestly desire that our Universities and Colleges should be adapted to the present state of Scotland, so that all sects may continue, as heretofore, to unite cordially in their support." 183 Gazette "Her Majesty at Her first coming into the Council, was this day pleased to declare, that, understanding that the law requires that She should at Her accession to the Crown, take and subscribe the oath relating to the security of the Church of Scotland, She was now ready to do it at this first opportunity, which Her Majesty was graciously pleased to do according to the forms used by the law of Scotland."
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he had an Amendment hereafter to propose, the object of which was to limit the sphere of selection by the Crown, so as to prevent the nominations being used for political purposes. With regard to the other Directors, he had no objection to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Manchester, At the same time he thought it not desirable that the government of the affairs of India, should be engrossed by mercantile men; and he would prefer that of the eighteen members two-thirds of them should be men who had been employed in India. He did not agree that legal and mercantile men had a greater knowledge of the natives of India than those who were in the service of the Company.
 MR. W. S. FITZGERALD  said, that this clause could not come under the category of unopposed clauses, as the noble Lord the Member for Lynn (Lord Jocelyn) had given notice of an Amendment to allow covenanted servants on the retired list, and persons who had been in office under the
 230
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, be thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer had met the wishes of hon. Members on his side of the House with great fairness. He would suggest, however, that words should be inserted in the clause to make it more clear that "necessary outgoings" included all necessary repairs on the estate throughout the whole of the occupation. If those words were inserted, he thought the Amendment of his hon. Friend (Mr. Mailings) would be unnecessary.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said he had before stated that he was oppose to the application of the powers of the Board of Health to any town where it was objected to by the majority of the inhabitants; but he must oppose the clause as not coming within the stop of the Bill.
 VISCOUNT DRUMLANRIG  said, that in almost a single sentence he could express his feelings as regarded the Bill of the Lord Advocate. In the abstract he agreed to some of the objections which had been taken to the Bill; and if the House of Com-
 191
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that of course the hon. and learned Gentleman would not be precluded from offering any opposition to the Bill at a future stage.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that without going into any angry discussion, he thought the hon. and learned Gentleman must see that the Government were entitled to ask him to allow this Bill to be now read a second time. The hon. and learned Gentleman had offered to discuss his Bill and the Bill of his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Young's) together; but how could that be done if the two Bills did not stand on the same footing? As the one Bill had been read a second time, he thought the other should be allowed to pass the same stage.
 MR. CORRY,  as a Member of the Select Committee to whom the Bill had been referred, said he must defend the Bill, and would urge the House to assent to the third reading. He did not believe that the Bill would prove prejudicial to the interests of the preferential shareholders; on the contrary, they had themselves, at a meeting held at the George and Vulture Tavern, approved it, and had presented a petition to Parliament to that effect. He further contended that they were the best terms they could hope to receive; and if any alteration were made in them by the House, a guarantee given by Mr. Brassey would be completely nullified.
 MR. CORRIE  replied in the negative.
 MR. CORRY  said, the meeting was convened by public advertisement to petition the House of Lords to throw out the Bill; but instead of that a counter-proposition was carried to support the Bill.
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, he concurred in thinking the Bill should be recommitted, and the Committee could then inquire into the proceedings of the meeting to which allusion had been made. With that view he would move that the order for the third reading be discharged.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he could not quite agree with the proposal of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, as it would lead to what should be avoided—namely, throwing over the decision of the Committee. He suggested, therefore, that the order for the third reading should be discharged, and that the Bill should be recommitted to the same Committee, with directions for the Committee to make a special Report. The House would then be in a situation to judge of the expediency of passing the Bill, without impugning the decision of the Committee.
 SR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he was disposed to think that it might save the time of the Committee if he at once stated the views which Her Majesty's Government were inclined to take of this question. He admitted distinctly at the outset of his observations that it was a question of very grave importance, involving a consideration of national policy, since it not only materially affected the interests of sailors serving on board Her Majesty's ships, but, according to the view he took, also materially affected the safety of life and property embarked upon the seas. He would briefly state how the matter stood. The right involved in the law of salvage was the common-law right of every British subject. It was a right which had not originated in Statute, although it had been regulated by Statute and by the judicial decisions of the highest legal tribunals. From the earliest period every British subject who contributed his aid at the risk of his own life to the saving of the lives and property of others exposed to danger on the high seas, had a right, an inherent right, to reward for those services. What the House was now asked to do for the first time was, by means of a restriction, to bar the sailor from his common-law right, which had been enjoyed by him from the earliest time, and had been recognised and regulated by Statute and by the authority of the highest decisions. He contended—and he had stated it upon a former occasion as strongly as he could—that, considering the competition to which the trade and commerce of this country were now ex-
 278 Clifton. Lustre, "The public force of the country is not to be employed gratuitously in the salvage of property of private persons to save them from expense. Government steamers are kept for the public service, and the officers in command cannot employ them in the service of individuals, and thus risk the public property, without authority or an indemnity for all expense and damage, nor are they then to hazard their lives or undergo labour without reward, though they are entitled to a lower rate of remuneration than private salvors." "In cases where salvage services are rendered by any ship belonging to Her Majesty, or by the commander or crew thereof, no claim shall be made or allowed for any loss, damage, or risk, thereby caused to such ship, or to the stores, tackle, or furniture thereof, or for the use of any stores or other articles belonging to her Majesty, supplied in order to effect the salvage service, or for any other expense or loss sustained by Her Majesty by reason of such services." 279 280 "When such services have been rendered, the commanding officer of the ship is to transmit a full report of the whole circumstances of the case, with a copy of the ship's log, to the commander-in-chief or senior naval officer of the station, whose written approval shall be requisite before any officer under his command can raise a claim for salvage, and such approval is not to be given, unless really important service, or service accompanied with hazard, has been rendered." "I have the honour to report to you, for the information of their Lordships, that yesterday morning, while lying in Douglas Bay, Isle of Man, and being about to sail for Loch Fyne, in compliance with instruction from the Board of Fisheries, I received intelligence of an American ship having gone on shore the previous night, about eleven o'clock, some six or eight miles to the southward of Douglas, and that she was in want of immediate assistance. I took the responsibility on myself, deeming it a case of great moment, to divert my vessel from the duties I was ordered upon, and went to her assistance. The weather was calm, but so thick a fog prevailed that it was attended with some risk my feeling my way by the lead alongshore. I came up to the stranded vessel about 8.50. a.m., and took up a position to heave her off. She proved to be the American ship  Squantum, 281 Squantum, 282
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR,  said, that until he heard the observations of the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall) he could not have deemed it possible that any
 283
 ADMIRAL WALCOT  said, he thought it was only consistent with common justice that, in cases where the British sailors exposed their lives to imminent danger in their attempts to rescue vessels in distress, a reward should be granted to them in proportion to the risk they had encountered, and the value of the property saved. It was said that the French navy performed salvage services without remuneration; but the fact was that there was a fund in that country to support the widows and orphans of men who periled their lives, not in the strict performance of their duty. A pecuniary consideration would probably never either deter or incite the British sailor to do that which, from the generosity of his nature, he was ever ready to do, bravely to risk his own life in an effort to save that of his fellow-creature; but to rescue a crew from shipwreck was one thing, and to save mere merchandise from destruction was another, and the last of these services ought most undoubtedly to be compensated.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he fully concurred in the observations of the right hon. Baro-
 287
 MR. INGRAM,  in reply, said that the shipowners of the port which he represented were unanimous in their support of the Amendment which he had proposed.
 MR. MILES  said, he rose to call the attention of the noble Secretary for the Home Department to the evidence given before the Clare Election Committee respecting the riot at Six-mile Bridge, and to ask the noble Lord the Member for the City of London whether it was the intention of the Government to proceed against the Rev. John Burke and the. Rev. Michael Clune, Roman Catholic priests, who had been reported by an Election Committee of that House, the former to have excited the people, and to have taken part in the riot, and the latter to have excited the people to take part in the riot which occurred at Six-mile Bridge on the 22nd day of July, 1852; which, by destroying the freedom of election, rendered void the return of the two knights of the shire elected to serve in Parliament for the county of Clare at the general election of 1852. Did Government mean to vindicate the law which had been so grossly violated by the proceedings of certain parties at this election? He would remind the House that the candidates were three—Colonel Vandeleur, Sir John Fitzgerald, and Mr. O'Brien—gentlemen of influence in connexion with the neighbourhood; a circumstance which naturally gave rise to a sharp contest. For a time, however, there was every appearance of its going off as quietly as an election in Ireland could do, until a Mr. Wilson, an excitcable gentleman, and once in the commission of the peace, having seen at Cork, in an English newspaper, an account of the Stockport riots, returned
 293 294
 MR. HUME  said, he would ask, after the speech of the noble Lord, whether it was not possible to provide a remedy against the recurrence of such events as he had described? If the noble Lord expected that party spirit would cease, either in England, Scotland, or Ireland, he was
 299
 MR. MILES  said, the noble Lord seemed to blame him for the time and manner in which he had brought on this question. But he could have taken no other course, having resolved upon bringing the matter before them on the first opportunity. After what had been said by the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department, he would not utter another word of observation. He considered he had only done his duty in calling the attention of the Government to the circumstances.
 MR. HUME  said, he did not like to see any attempt made, under false pretences, to increase the political power of the Government. It was proposed by the clause to give the Ministers, without any check or control, the power of removing six members of the Court of Directors. He thought their removal ought to rest with the Court of Proprietors, and not with the Crown, And he should suggest to the noble Lord (Viscount Jocelyn) to propose the omission of the last line of the clause, in order that the Directors appointed by the Crown should be placed in exactly the same position as the other Directors in that respect. That would prevent the anomaly of a different rule being applied to different members of the Court in regard to their dismissal.
 MR. ELLICE  said, he thought the House had been involved in a dilemma by the course which was adopted by the Government the other night in regard to the Amendment proposed by the right hon Gentleman the Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith). He (Mr. Ellice) took it for granted that the object of all parties was to get the best persons that could be found as the new members of the Court of Directors, who should have served ten tears in India. The Government, in their jealousy of the Court of Directors, thought that that object could only be obtained by direct nomination of the Crown. Other members, however, himself among the number, thought that the object would be better obtained by giving the appointment of those members to the Court of Directors or at least to three-fourths of their number, allowing the Crown a  veto 309
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he could not understand, after what the noble Lord had just said, why he objected to the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn Regis. As the superior Judges were only removable by an Address from both Houses of Parliament, he could not understand why persons filling the important office of East India Directors should be removable by the Crown, and thus put upon a level with the inferior Judges of the County Courts. If the only object of the Government was to provide for the dismissal of the Directors in the most constitutional way in cases of misbehaviour there would be no difficulty, he was sure, in such cases in procuring Addresses from both Houses of Parliament.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought the clause objectionable, because it would increase the staff of the Government, and every year tend to swell the Ministerial majority. It would put six placemen at the service of the Minister of the day; and before long independent Members would be unable to attempt any opposition to the Government.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he did not see that there was much difference, after all, between the clause as it stood, and the Amendment of the noble Lord. In the first place, it was clear that a Minister who was strong enough to remove a Director, would be able to carry an Address in Parliament. Then, again, as one of the two grounds of removal was to be inability, would it not be better to leave the decision of that question to a responsible Minister, than to drag a man before Parliament for the purpose of a painful investigation? They had seen discussions of that nature before now, and knew how painful they were in their character.
 LORD STANLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman opposite, if he understood him correctly, rested his defence of this clause upon two grounds, which were perfectly inconsistent with each other. For, first of all, he declared that these nominees would not be dependent upon the Crown at all; and he argued, in the second place, that if, after all, they were to be rather dependent upon the Government, that there would be no great harm in such a circumstance. The great point of the right hon. Gentleman's argument was directed to this, that the influence of the Crown had diminished, that it was diminishing, and that it ought to be increased. And he certainly said that, in proportion as the power of the constituencies extended, it was the more necessary to have some counteracting force. Well, that was a point upon which it was hardly necessary to argue in the House of Commons; and he must say he joined issue entirely with the right hon. Baronet in its regard. But yet it was utterly inconsistent with the second point advanced by the right hon. Gentleman, in which he contended—though he (Lord Stanley) thought not very successfully—that the nominees of the Government would, in reality, be independent of the Minister of the day. Now, upon what ground did the right hon. Baronet say that the nominees would be independent? Why, he said they would be men who had filled high offices, who were advanced in years, and who, generally speaking, would be pecuniarily well off. As regarded the latter head, he (Lord Stanley), however, confessed he was by no means so certain. India was no longer a place for amassing fortunes at once, and gentlemen who went there generally returned, not advanced in life and perfectly independent in situation, but generally under fifty, and in circumstances that would induce them to keep their reappointment in view, and so render them snbservient to
 320 321 primâ facie
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he had listened with great satisfaction to this discussion, and he thought he might venture to say that if he had brought forward that evening the proposition which he had laid before the House a few nights ago, he should have had the support of the noble Lord the Member for Lynn Regis, and of the hon. Member for Manchester. He had objected to that part of the Government plan by which a portion of the Court of Directors was to be nominated by the Crown, and he did so still; but he would not consent to brand those gentlemen who were to be thus appointed. There was no word of abuse which had not been lavished on the gentlemen whom the House the other night determined to appoint as part of the Board; but, objecting to that as he had done, he would not consent to place a hand on a portion of the Board and to exclude six of the eighteen members of the Board they were about to form from Parliament. He did not think there was anything in the argument that these gentlemen would have no time to sit in that House: there were many others engaged in business in that House, from whose presence they derived great advantage; but he must say there had been an inconsistency in the arguments of the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control, and of the noble Lord the Member for London; for at one time they had contended these gentlemen would not be at the beck and call of the Minister, and at another they said that the number of officers of Government sitting in Parliament had been so much in diminished that there could be no harm in admitting them. He, therefore, contended that these gentlemen would be liable to the influence of the Crown, though he thought there would be certain advantages in the discussion of Indian affairs in having them present. At a future period it was his intention to propose to exclude one of the Secretaries of the Board of control from a seat in that House. He thought it would be much better to have me political secretary and one permanent secretary. That change would only diminish by one the number of the Members of Government with seats, and the use of a
 331
 MR. HUME  moved as an Amendment, that a declaration should be substituted for an oath, contending that nothing attached to the duties of a Director which could warrant the solemnity of an oath for their discharge.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, there was a case which came under his notice before a recent Election Committee, in which it struck him that persons of high moral character, who might have some conscientious scruple against taking an oath, might have no objection to make a declaration; and if this clause passed as it stood, such persons, however undoubted their capacity and fitness, would be precluded from serving as Directors. He hoped, after the experience they had had, the Committee would consent in this case to the substitution of a declaration for an oath.
 MR. ELLICE  said, that they had already substituted a declaration for an oath with respect to the qualification of Members of Parliament, and he did not see why they should require a Director to take an oath that he possessed a certain amount of stock.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he believed that a man was equally liable to penalties whether he violated an oath or a solemn declaration; and he did not, therefore, in that point of view, think that the doing away with an oath was of any very important consequence. But he apprehended there was something more in the proposed Amendment than the mere changing of an oath for a declaration, and that it was intended to imply that, an oath being needless in the present case, it afforded no security. Being himself of that opinion, he should support the Amendment.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he had no doubt that a declaration, subjecting the person taking it to penalties, would be equally binding as an oath; and he thought his right hon. Friend (Sir C. Wood) would do well to adopt the Amendment proposed, and at once substitute a declaration for an oath.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he would move the insertion of the words, "Or declaration," with a view of making it optional for persons whether to take the oath or make a declaration.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  thought there would be less objection on that account to insert this provision.
 LORD STANLEY  wished to know if the sects now privileged by law in other cases would be exempted from taking the oath under this Act?
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, this was not a question of oaths. What he proposed was that there should be the option of making a declaration on the part of those who were neither Quakers nor Moravians, but who, nevertheless, objected to taking an oath.
 MR. HUME  thought it would be better to have a statutory declaration against canvassing than a by-law.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Baronet that public opinion might do a great deal, but public opinion would do as much without this clause as with it. What reason was there why Parliament should not take the matter directly into its own hands, and prohibit what was proposed to be prohibited by a by-law?
 MR. HUME  said, he objected to the quorum, for it was only right that an occasion should be set apart once a quarter upon which the grievances of India could be discussed. He had often been present at these meetings, and he could bear testimony to their usefulness.
 MR. HUME  said, that he wished to propose several additional Amendments, and he hoped the further consideration of the measure would be postponed to some day on which a discussion could take place.
 MR. COWPER  said, he thought that this Bill had been allowed to pass through its previous stages without due deliberation, for it seemed to him that its provisions were by much too stringent. One clause, for instance, exposed a Member to the loss of his seat if it were proved that he had been instrumental in causing other persons to play on instruments; while another clause provided that if a person totally unconnected with the candidate blew on a French horn or beat a drum, or the like, he should be taken before two justices and heavily fined. He thought the House should rather endeavour to improve the taste of the public for music, than try to stop it in this way.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  said, he would suggest that the hon. Member for Montrose should defer the provisions he wished to engraft upon the Bill until next Session, when the noble Member for the City of London intended to bring forward a general measure on the subject of the representation.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he wished to know if the Committee were supplied with any evidence of the proportion of the preferential shareholders who had assented to the measure?
 MR. BOUVERIE  would submit, under these circumstances, that the House ought not to pass the Bill. The preferential shareholders, by an Act of Parliament which was passed last Session, were guaranteed six per cent upon their stock, and now it was proposed to reduce that guarantee to four per cent, which would be a most unfair proceeding, unless the preferential shareholders were consenting parties to it. When a large proportion of shareholders had a Parliamentary bargain, and Parliament was asked to alter the terms of that arrangement, it became the House of Commons to be cautious how they assented to such a measure. Looking at the preamble and clauses of the Bill, he must say that unless he heard stronger arguments in its favour than had been yet adduced, he should vote against the third reading.
 MR. ELLIOT  said, he did not see what was the object of making the change from the present mode of removing the Directors. He could conceive no body of men being more thoroughly dependent than those Directors would be. They were to be nominated by time Crown, and that for a short period, and then their renomination would depend upon the Crown again. Unless something were done to make them more independent, he feared it would be found that the most valuable men in the Company's service would say that they could not accept office on those terms.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it was quite clear his hon. Friend did not understand the bearing of the clause. He seemed to think it was very strange that persons who were nominated by the Crown should be removeable by the Crown, in case of committing any offence against the law, or being totally disabled from performing their functions; but surely there was greater absurdity in persons nominated by the Crown being removeable by the Court of Proprietors. This clause enabled the Directors elected by the Court of Proprietors to be removed by the Court of Proprietors, and those nominated by the Crown to be removed by the Crown; and then words were used which clearly pointed out that the removal could only take place, either when everybody would say the party was no longer fit to fill his high office, or when he was incapable of performing its duties. He (Lord J. Russell) could not conceive how a provision of that kind could interfere with the independence of the Directors. His hon. Friend (Mr. Elliot) said, that the Directors would act under the impression that they would not be renominated unless they pleased the President of the Board of Control; but it was very doubtful whether that functionary would be the same individual at the end of the six years, who first nominated them; and it seemed to him an extravagant supposition, that a gentleman coming from India, and full of Indian knowledge and Indian experience, should, when appointed to the Board, consult all the opinions and
 311
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he thought it was very essential that no person should make the mistake which the hon. Member for Montrose had made some time ago—namely, that of supposing that the appointments of those six Directors by the Crown were to be appointments during pleasure. The fact was, that the words "inability or misbehaviour" which were used in the clause, were words which had now received a legal sense in an existing Act of Parliament; but, even if this had not been the case, it was clear that it would be impossible for the Crown to dismiss the Directors in the mere exercise of their pleasure or caprice. It was only in cases of proved corruption, or manifest inability, from ill health or otherwise, to discharge the duties of the office, that the power of dismissal would be exercised.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he must appeal to the House, and ask whether it was desirable that this discussion should go on? He did not, by any means, blame the hon. Member for Somersetshire (Mr. Miles) for taking advantage, if he could find no other opportunity, of the formal Motion of adjournment, to obtain from the Government some declaration as to whether or not it was intended to institute a prosecution against certain Roman Catholic priests, whose conduct had been adverted to by an Election Committee. But as the hon. Gentleman had made his statement, and as his noble Friend (Lord Palmerston) had replied to it on the part of the Government; as, too, the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny (Mr. Serjeant Shee) had commented on the statement of his noble Friend, he thought that, after all this, the House might rest satisfied with what had taken place, without entering into further debate, which could come to no definite result. Observations had been made about the ballot and the Irish Church Establishment; but whatever might be the opinions of hon. Gentlemen with regard to those questions, the opinion of the House with respect to them could not be tested on the present occasion, unless an Amendment were moved, as the Motion before the House only related to adjournment. Considering, then, that there was a great deal of business on the paper
 303
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not blame the hon. Gentleman in any way, neither did he attribute any blame to the hon. and learned Member for Kilkenny. He had merely put it to the House whether it would allow the discussion to continue.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he thought that the state of the law on this subject was such that no man could deem it to be satisfactory. In the case of a Gentleman who had endeavoured to take his seat in that House, there had been a decision of a superior Court of law. One of the learned Judges had expressed, on that occasion, his opinion that it was not illegal for a Gentleman to take his seat in that House without using the words, "On the true faith of a Christian;" and another learned Judge dissented from that opinion, and said that it would be much more satisfactory for Parliament to declare its meaning, and not to exclude Jews by an enact-
 292
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he did not think the hon. Gentleman had quite followed the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite. The hon. and learned Gentleman did not argue that it would be incompetent or unwise for Parliament to abolish oaths when they were unnecessary, or when they were taken upon trivial occasions; but what he said was, that this was not a trivial occasion, or an insignificant or trifling oath, but an oath taken upon a solemn occasion, and for solemn purposes. The question was not, as had been stated by the hon. Gentleman the Member for the West Riding, whether or not they should add additional oaths to those already taken—because there was an oath now imposed upon persons elected to
 338
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he could not wonder at there being some jealousy felt with regard to the introduction of, possibly it might be, six persons into that House who had been nominated by the Crown to the Board of Directors. At the same time, it was certainly extraordinary to find that those who a week or two ago were so exceedingly jealous of the Directors that they were for throwing into the hands of the Crown an immense amount of power which would have enabled it to exercise much more influence over Members of that House than that it hitherto had, should now have altogether lost that jealousy, and endeavoured to depress the Crown in comparison with the Court of Directors. No man could deny that if
 326 pro tanto 327 328 329
 MR. GEACH   said, he felt very strong objections to this Bill, because he thought it attempted to do that which never could be done—namely, to put down the expression of popular feeling. There was a large class of the community who were not intrusted with the franchise, but, at the same time, it was admitted that those who were intrusted with it were trustees for those who were not. Well, then, this large class of non-electors had scarcely any means of expressing their opinions, if the Legislature put down the use of all outward em-
 343
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had heard many recommendations with respect to the abolition of the imposition of oaths, but he had never heard the suggestion to abolish the oath of allegiance. The Directors of the East India Company, in many instances, had to discharge functions similar to those discharged by Members of Parliament, and he should oppose the present proposal to substitute a declaration for the formal oath.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that Motion could not be made unless both the Amendment and the original Motion were withdrawn.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  had before said that he looked upon this as a mean, dirty, shabby Bill, and he still entertained the same opinion. Entertaining that opinion—however he might regret that an hon. Friend of his should be excluded from the House—he hoped that that would be the effect of the Bill. Whoever dared to attempt to deny his constituents the power of expressing their proper feelings on such occasions, was unworthy to be returned by them. He should only have expected such a Bill from one who had not a shilling in his pocket. He should move that the further consideration of this Bill should be postponed till that day three months.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was perfectly ready to give up the clause.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  hoped the Committee would allow them to proceed with that and the 14th clause.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had already proposed to leave out the oath as to qualification, and to substitute a declaration instead; the oath would then simply stand as an oath of office, pledging the persons not to allow themselves to be actuated by improper or corrupt motives. He must say that, if an oath was to be taken in any case whatever, he could hardly conceive a case more solemn than when an oath was to be imposed on a man that he would discharge a trust without being influenced by corrupt motives.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  wished to say, that if an oath was to be taken at all, this was an occasion on which it should be taken. If it was wished that oaths should not be taken, then let there be a general measure for that purpose; but he objected to a partial proposition in a Bill like the present. In answer to the question of the noble Lord (Lord Stanley), he had to state that, whenever by the existing law a person was relieved from taking an oath, he would also be relieved under this Bill.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the general law already provided for cases where declarations could be substituted for oaths, and there was, therefore, no occasion for inserting a particular provision in the Bill to meet this particular case.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  supported the clause, and said that the words as to the removal of the Directors had been adopted from those in the County Courts Act, which had been considered applicable to the case.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : They will be in precisely a similar position as regards salary and patronage as the other Directors.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  could not think that the term "mere nominees" or "placemen," which had been applied to the gentlemen who would be nominated by the Government, was a proper term to use with regard to these persons. He did not think that any one who made use of such a term in this instance could have really considered what was the character of the persons likely to receive these appointments. The hon. Member for Montrose had talked about the gradually in-increasing number of placemen in that House, although the fact was that the number had considerably diminished of late years. Since he (Sir Charles Wood) had been in Parliament, five or six persons who held offices had been deprived of their seats. Formerly, there used to be upwards of forty Members, and the Government used to be able to make a House; but they could not do that now, and therefore the House was not likely to be overwhelmed with placemen. Neither were they likely to be overwhelmed with a number of Directors of the Company, for the number of Directors holding seats in that House had been also very greatly reduced of late years. But he would call attention to the class of persons from whom the nominee members of the Board were to be selected. They would be persons who had been in the service of the Company or of the Crown in India; but five-sixths of those appointed would be persons who had been in the service of the Company, and it was notorious that such men seldom returned from India until after some twenty to thirty
 316
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had
 310 quamdiu se bene gesserint.
 MR. E. BALL  said, he had voted with the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), not because he objected to oaths altogether, but because he considered that the more seldom they were administered the more solemn they would be.
 MR. E. BALL  said, he should support the Amendment, believing that the honour of the person appointed would be a sufficient security for the faithful performance of the trust confided to him.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the question was an important one. On the one hand Parliament was asked to annul a contract between two parties; and, on the other there was a unanimous Report from the Select Committee stating that the preference shareholders had received such particular advantages as rendered this proposition a just one. The position of the House was this:—Having taken extreme regard of the interests of preferential shareholders, it was provided by a Standing Order that changes with regard to them should never be made, except upon a special Report from the Committee alleging the reasons on which their decision had been founded. He had carefully perused the Report of the Committee, am he did not find such a statement of concurrence on the part of those concerned as he thought was desirable. He regretted to suggest anything like delay at this period of the Session; but they were compelled to judge of the decision of the Committee before they sanctioned it. He was of opinion that sufficient doubt had been cast over this case to render it impossible for the House to pass the third reading at this time, If, therefore, an arrangement could be made for printing the evidence in a short time, so that the House could ascertain for themselves, whether the Committee had had sufficient evidence before them of the advantage, gained by the preferential shareholders he thought that delay for that purpose, would be desirable.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he did not think that the remark of his right hon. Friend (Sir James Graham) with regard to the common-law right of the sailor had been properly understood. No doubt, sailors in the Navy were bound to obey the orders of their officers; but when they were exposed to dangers not in the discharge of their regular duties, though under orders, the common law secured them the right to compensation for the risk incurred. Would they say, therefore, that his object was reward, not glory, and that "money made the mare to go?" No such thing. The appeal was to glory, and to feeling rather than reward; and now, for the first time, they proposed, by the carrying of this Amendment, not only to injure the sailor in his pocket, but to hurt him in his feelings. It had been said that he should be paid out of the public money voted by Parliament; but how much more just and true had been the language of the hon. Member for Aberdeen (Mr. G. Thompson)., one of the largest shipowners in the country, who had drawn a distinction between general services due to the country, and special services rendered to individual ship-owners! It had also been said that the inconvenience of the present process was not mitigated by this measure. Not mitigated! Why, what was the present process? The fact was, they had an absolute lien—a positive transfer of the ship to the salvor, and the necessity of selling her, perhaps, to liquidate his claim. Such a right was now entirely abandoned, and the lien was destroyed. For the risk and danger which the Queen's ship had encountered, the shipowner had to pay nothing whatever. There was no demand except for personal service rendered. The Board of Admiralty, exercising their control over the servants of the Crown, would not allow an extravagant claim even to go into the
 290
 MR. CARDWELL  said, a lien signified security by the possession of a thing. Now, as it was proposed that salvors should give up the possession of the ship and take only personal security, he did call that doing away with the lien.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, he thought the difficulty would be removed by the insertion of the words that "it shall not be lawful for Her Majesty to remove any such Director except for sickness or misbehaviour."
 MR. CAYLEY  said, that as one of the directors of the company, he should support the measure, and would remind the House that the preferential stock having been issued in the first instance without the proviso, registration was illegal; but the directors, for the sake of securing the line from the creditors, whose claims amounted to between 300,000 l. l., l. l.
 MR. RICE  said, that he was anxious to learn from the hon Member for Sandwich (Mr. J. Macgregor), who was chairman of the South Eastern Railway Company, whether that company had given an undertaking to the Chairman of the Committee of the House of Lords with respect to the course which the South Eastern Company would take, in the event of a Bill being introduced in a future Session for extending the East Kent Railway from Canterbury to Dovor. If the hon. Mem-
 271
 MR. LUCAS  denied that Mr. Brassey had given his consent to the arrangement said to have been made with him; he contended that no case had been made out to justify the House in assenting to the Bill. What had taken place at any private meetings of the preferential shareholders could not be placed in opposition to their appearance before the Select Committee.
 Mr. LUCAS  said, he would detain the House but a very short period; but after the observations which had been made by the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins), and of certain words which he was told had been used by the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston)—for he was not in the House at the time—with respect to the conduct of the Irish Catholic clergy at the election time, he considered it imperative for him to make some reply. He hoped the noble Lord, or at least the Government to which he belonged, would not, for their own sakes, follow the advice which had been given them by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Mantis) if any Catholic clergyman was guilty of a violation of the law—if he were guilty of a breach of the peace—if he were guilty of exciting the people to commit a breach of the peace—if, in the excitement of an election, a Catholic clergyman went beyond that fair and legitimate course which every one understood was the proper and fitting and almost necessary course—all he would say was, that he, no more than any Member of that House, would stand up and defend him, or ask that he might be excused from those penalties which he had incurred by violating the law. But when the hon. and learned Gentleman told them that appeals ought not to be made by the clergy to their people when certain candidates were proposed who would vote against their interests and against their
 304 305
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the moral feeling of the community was shocked by the multiplicity of oaths, which he was confident, instead of tending to truth, had a contrary effect.
 MR. HUDSON  said, he should support the Bill, being convinced that it was a great improvement upon the existing state of things. Although the shipowners, as a body, would, of course, be glad to be relieved by the State from any charge upon them, they would much prefer to pay for salvage services than to run the risk of not having them rendered.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, the Bill was a Shipowners' Bill. The operation of the 29th clause would be to increase the risk of merchant vessels; therefore, the sailor of the Royal Navy had an additional claim upon the mercantile interest in the nature of salvage. He had no doubt if all right to remuneration were withdrawn to-morrow, that the sailors would perform their duty as honestly and courageously as they did at present. But it should be remembered that it was not for saving lives but for saving property that these claims were made. There was in the breast of every man an inherent love of gain, otherwise what was it that made the merchant send his ship to sea, and what made the Parliament sanction the payment of prize money?
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, he approved of the clause, and was convinced if the principles which had been laid down by the right hon. Baronet were adhered to by the Admiralty, there would be no fear of exorbitant overcharges. For his own part, speaking as a shipowner, he was perfectly ready to acquiesce in these salvage clauses.
 MR. RICH  said, that his experience of Parliament taught him that, whenever proceedings were to be taken against an individual, especially if that individual were a Member, Parliament invariably flinched from the duty. He should, therefore, prefer to have the power of displacement in the hands and on the responsibility of Ministers.
 MR. RICH  said, he must yet contend that while the Indian Board was represented by its Members in that House, and the Government by the Secretary of the Board of Control, the Government nominees would neither represent India nor the Government, and stood, therefore, in a most anomalous position. The House had acted on the principle of getting rid of the subordinate officers of Government, as in the case of the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital, and in other instances, and these Directors would not be in such a high station that they ought to have seats. He would recommend that there should be a limitation placed to their tenure of office. If they were to have seats at the Board renewable at the pleasure of the Minister, he was afraid they would not do much honour to themselves. The best men for the office
 330
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that he would not ask the attention of the Committee but for the last observations of the hon. Member for Manchester; but as he found his silence misunderstood, he was bound to say for himself, and certainly for many who were sitting near him, that they entirely dissented from the views of the hon. Gentleman. Let him, in the first place, correct a mistake into which the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Vernon Smith), and some other Gentlemen, had fallen. It had been said that a declaration would be equally binding as an oath, since its violation would entail the penalties of perjury. Whatever value might be in the argument, it was founded upon a complete mistake. In neither case would any penal consequence follow the violation-of the engagement, whether it was in the form of an oath or a declaration. No principle of law was better settled than this, that no criminal prosecution could be maintained for a violation of an oath of this nature—an oath of fidelity or good conduct in an office. Its only effect was as it bound the conscience of the person who took it. Had any reason been given why the engagement in this instance should not be entered into with every possible solemnity? The proposal was not to dispense with any obligation, but to substitute a mere declaration
 335 336
 MR. JOHN M'GREGOR  said, he should support the Amendment, for if the Bill was passed as it stood, many of the pre-
 272
 MR. BRADY  said, he was of opinion that had it not been for the conciliatory spirit of the Roman Catholic clergy in Ireland, scenes of riot would have been much more frequent at the late elections than they had been. The Roman Catholic priests had hitherto been the principal counsellors of the people of Ireland, and it was through them mainly that the peace of that country had been preserved. He believed the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department would yet see reason to regret the speech he had made that evening, as the noble Lord the Member for London must have found reason to regret his well-known Durham letter.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for the West Riding (Mr. Cobden), that it was difficult to decide how to vote, as the subsequent question
 312
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he should move the rejection of the clause as unconstitutionally increasing the powers of the Minister, and affecting the independence of Parliament. A question arose upon the clause well worthy the calm consideration of the Committee, because it affected not only the nominee Directors and the character of the Court, but also the power of the Minister and the independence of Parlia-
 313 l. l. l. l. 314 315
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought that the general expression of opinion on this occasion ought at once to influence the right hon. Gentleman (Sir C. Wood), and induce him to accede to the proposal which had been made. He believed the concession would be exceedingly well received by all parties.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he thought the right hon. Gentlemen was misleading the Committee entirely on this point. A declaration could only be substituted for an oath in the case of persons belonging to the Society of Friends, of Moravians, or of Separatists, all three very small bodies. Indeed, he believed, he had never met with but one Separatist in his life. However, the great bulk of persons, 99 out of 100, would be obliged to take the oath, and it was possible that they might thus shut out a number of persons whose services would be very valuable. The Bill introduced by the right hon. and learned Recorder of London (Mr. S. Wortley), for the purpose of substituting declarations for oaths in certain cases, would not meet this case, as it applied only to judicial oaths, and would afford no relief to those who were called on to take the oath of office for a Director of the East India Company. He really thought the Government ought to give way, especially after the late division, when almost every Member on that side of the House, except the Members on the Treasury bench, had voted in the minority. It was only by coalescing with hon. Gen-
 339
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he should support the Amendment. He would submit to the Committee whether it was not worth while, when they were called upon to re-enact the Directors' oath, that they should set an example of getting rid of the oath altogether, and substituting a declaration for it. He was happy to think that of late great progress had been made in the public mind on this subject, and in the right direction. Did the Committee think a Director would fulfil his duty one whit the better by reason of his taking an oath, instead of a solemn declaration to the same effect? He thought it was part of the true policy of
 332
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was in favour of canvassing, and was against the clause on that account. A man might send a cartload of testimonials, but he would rather see his face and the shape of his head. He had known the most incompetent men produce unexceptionable testimonials.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the clause would not prevent canvassing. If a candidate could not canvass, he could get some one to canvass for him.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he objected to this clause, that it would not have the effect of preventing canvassing for the office of Director, except on the part of proprietors of East India Stock, or Directors; it could
 340
 MR. BRIGHT  said, this was a most curious clause. The object of it was to snuff out that moribund body, the Court
 341
 MR. COBBOLD  said, he was persuaded that the preference shareholders would be most benefited by the Bill, and that if there was any repudiation it was on the part of the preference shareholders, who withdrew from an arrangement on the faith of which the creditors of the company had agreed to suspend their rights. Most of the preferential shares had been purchased at a discount, and although they had risen lately, that rise was to be attributed to an offer on the part of Mr. Brassey to purchase them at 9 l. 275
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, that unless additional inducement in the shape of salvage was given to the British seamen, no such risks would be incurred as were incurred by them for that purpose. He trusted, however, that the proportion of the property saved to go to the salvor would be determined by the Bill. At present this was entirely at the mercy of the commander.
 MR. JAMES MACGREGOR,  said, that all the Amendments which had been introduced during the passage of the Bill through the House of Lords were merely verbal and literal, with the exception of those which had been introduced at the instance of the company which was represented by the hon. Baronet the Member for East Kent—and this being the case, he was unable to understand what object the hon. Member could have in proposing that the Amendments should be postponed. In reply to the question put by the hon. Member for Dovor, all he had to say was, that an undertaking, under the common seal of the South Eastern Railway Company, had been deposited in the Private Bill Office of the House of Lords, by which that company bound themselves not to oppose any efforts that might hereafter be made by any parties to promote a Bill for extending a line of railway direct from Canterbury to Dovor.
 MR. MASTERMAN  he very much objected to taking oaths unnecessarily, and he thought the Government would do wisely to accede to the Amendment. Formerly an East India Proprietor had to swear to his qualification; but by his efforts that oath had been dispensed with, and a declaration had been substituted. He had found throughout life that where unnecessary oaths were imposed, they produced no good effect, and the public feeling was always in favour of their abolition.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to call the attention of the noble Lord the Secretary of State for the Home Department to what was stated to have taken place previous to the late election for the county of Clare, with respect to the proceedings in a Roman Catholic chapel in that county. It had been reported that the occurrences which had taken place upon the last holiday of St. Peter and St Paul, in the chapel in question, had virtually decided the Clare election, for the rural electors had been there assembled and had been called out by name by the priest, and obliged to promise that they would record their votes in favour of the Liberal candidates. He should be gratified if the noble Lord could contradict that report, for he, for one, should be happy to draw the veil of oblivion over the occurrences at Six-mile Bridge. He hoped however, that something would be done to put a stop to that clerical interference with the people in Ireland, of which they had heard so much.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he had been disposed to support the clause as it
 308 quamdiu se bene gesserint;
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he had hoped the Government would have taken
 333
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  said, he wished to know whether the meeting of
 273
 MR. HENLEY  said, he doubted the view which the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham) had taken of the common-law right to salvage inherent in the British sailor. The seaman could not go to render these salvage services except under the command of his officer; but directly a man suspended his own free action and acted under the command of another, it appeared to him that his common-law right was gone, and that he ceased to be a free agent. This matter had undergone very great consideration at various times, and the proof of it was, that the persons whose rights they were discussing had been treated upon a different principle from the ordinary class of the Queen's subjects. The right hon. Baronet, in his happy way, had introduced the subject of the "go along" and the "come along" officer; but that anecdote was as applicable to other services of honour and danger which Her Majesty's Navy were in the habit of rendering to the country as to salvage. It appeared to him, however, that the view of the Government, to use an illustration as common as that of the right hon. Gentleman was, that "money made the mare to go." If he understood the nature of the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ingrain), it was not that officers and seamen performing these services, in which danger or the risk of life was concerned, should not be rewarded, but that that reward ought to be of a dif-
 288 289
 MR. HENLEY  said, he must deny that the Bill did away with all lien on the ship. The salvor had the power of holding the ship in pledge until a bond to the amount fixed by the consular officer was given—a bond which bound the shipowner and his heirs for ever, even if the ship should never get home; and that was what was termed doing away with the lien.
 MR. HEYWORTH  said, that some members even of the Church of England objected to oaths on the ground that they thought the text "swear not all," ought to be literally construed, and they would not be relieved by the existing law. There were a great many persons, not Quakers or Moravians, who had conscientious objections to taking an oath, and they should have the option of making a declaration.
 MR. BASS  said, that he was instructed to say on the part of Mr. Wason, that so far from repudiating the bargain, he was anxious to carry it out, and did not desire to oppose the third reading, if certain clauses were inserted in the Bill, so as to carry it out equitably. He understood also that four-fifths of the shareholders had declared their opposition to the measure, and, under these circumstances he appealed to the House whether they could sanction the arrangement. It had been said that Mr. Brassey was ready to give a guarantee, but there was no such guarantee in the Bill.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he thought this was by the most important clause in the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control had laid some stress upon the necessity of leaving to the constituencies the power of electing as their representative any person whom they might choose to elect. But in opposing this clause he did not profess to deprive any constituency of the power of electing any person to this House. The principle which his hon. Friend (Mr. Bright) asked the Committee to affirm was this:
 317 318 l. l. l.
 MR. COBDEN  said, that the Amendment of the noble Lord (Lord Jocelyn), as regarded its importance, would depend in a great measure upon what was to follow with respect to the main object of the clause, namely, that the Directors appointed by Her Majesty should have scats in Parliament. If it were to be understood that the nominees of the Crown should not have seats in that House, then he thought it would be consistent with the principles of the Gentlemen with whom he usually voted, that the Crown should have the power to remove them, because their object was to remove as much as possible the power from the Court of Directors, and to place it in the hands of the Executive Government. Therefore if those gentlemen were not to be eligible to seats in that House, he could see no more objection to the Minister of the Crown having the absolute disposal of them, than there was to the removal of the Chairman of the Board of Customs, or to the recall of the Governor of Ceylon, or the Governor of Jamaica. The proposition altogether depended upon what was to be done with the subsequent part of the clause; and he felt some difficulty in voting at all until that was settled, because if it were decided that those gentlemen were to have seats in that House, he should wish the House to retain as much power as possible to secure the independence of these men; and if, on the other hand, they were not to have seats, he should wish to leave the responsibility as much as he could with the Executive Government.
 MR. COBDEN  said, the only argument of the hon. and learned Gentlemen was,
 337
 MR. MALINS  said, though he had a strong feeling with respect to the affair at Six-mile Bridge, he felt much inclined to concur in the observation of the noble Lord, that it would be better to draw a veil over that occurrence, and to refrain from instituting, at this remote period, any prosecution; and he came to this conclusion with the greater satisfaction on account of the emphatic disapprobation pronounced by the noble Lord with respect to the conduct of the priests in Ireland. He thought, after the statement made by the noble Lord, the House had a right to expect that the, Government would henceforth take measures to repress these proceedings on the part of the Roman Catholic clergy in Ireland. He could not, however, concur in the observation made by the hon. and learned Member who had just spoken, that no jury such as that hon. and learned Gentleman was in the habit of addressing would convict, were a prosecution instituted by the Crown in the case of the two Catholic clergymen who had been referred to. He was perfectly satis-
 302
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, before his noble Friend replied, he wished to state briefly the reasons which had induced him, as a Member of the Committee, to take a course different from that which was pursued by his hon. Friend the Chairman of the Committee (Mr. Miles). He ventured, at the outset, to say that this was not exactly the mode in which this question ought to have been brought forward. If the question was of that gravity which his hon. Friend believed it to be, it should have been matter for a Motion in itself; and he was sure no Member of the House could have expected that his hon. Friend, in simply putting a questions, would enter into a long statement, for the purpose of bringing a charge against the two persons whose names he had brought forward, and against the Government. He had risen, however, to, state, in a few words, the motives which caused him to oppose his hon. Friend in this matter, and which had induced him, when he moved in Committee a condemnation of two rev. gentlemen, to propose an Amendment to his Resolution. His belief was, that they had no right to bring charges against absent persons, who had not the means of appearing to answer for themselves, and that in condemning them the Committee had acted in a manner hardly just, proceeding as they did on  ex 295 parte
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  thought this a most ineffectual clause. If a man sitting at a dinner table said to another, "I should be glad if you would vote for my friend," he would be fined under the proposed by-law, 100 l.
 MR. HILDYARD  said, that this case showed how careful they ought to be before they allowed parties to issue then preference shares, because when the preference shares were taken up by the public, and the concern was really bankrupt, these parties might turn round on the preference shareholders, and say, If you don't agree to such and such conditions you will lose your money. He had no interest whatever in the present question; but although he might not think that the ar-
 274
 MR. INGHAM  said, he had an Amendment to move on this clause, the effect of which would be to release shipowners from any claim for salvage in regard to services rendered by Her Majesty's ships. There was a great distinction between the claim of a private merchant ship to be recompensed for such services, and that of a Queen's ship. He did not mean to undervalue the services rendered in the matter of salvage by Her Majesty's ships, but he considered that such services came within the legitimate range of their duties, and ought to be compensated, not by the merchant whose ship was benefited by their assistance, but rather by tire authorities of the Admiralty. Persons employed in the service of the State owed their labour to the State, and stood in a different position from private shipowners. He contended that while merchant vessels were entitled to salvage for services which they rendered, a similar  honorarium 277
 MR. MANGLES  said, he thought it desirable that the nominee Directors should be eligible to sit in Parliament. He could not understand why the right hon. Gentleman (Sir C. Wood) should object to the proposal of the noble Lord.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he should be sorry to dispute the statement made by the hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton as to the zealous manner in which the gentlemen connected with the East India service performed the duties connected with their position; but he could not, on the other hand, run into the extreme of supposing that they were entirely exempt from the infirmities of the rest of mankind. The Legislature had always shown themselves extremely jealous of the independence of Parliament, and of the admission of placemen to that House. He could not say that what had been urged in this case was sufficient to render it an exception from the rules which Parliament had prescribed under similar circumstances. He had been rather surprised when he heard the hon. Baronet dilating on the extreme attention which gentlemen holding office under the East India Company bestowed upon the duties of their profession, for when the hon. Baronet said that their whole time was devoted to the public service, he could not help thinking to himself that if that were so, they would have but little time to devote to the business of that House; and it was not very improbable that a gentleman, the whole of whose time was occupied in performing the duties of a position to which he had been appointed by the Government, would attend in that House merely in obedience to a circular from the Treasury to support the Minister; and, if that were so, it became a question concerning the independence of Parliament. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control had seemed to say that we lived now in better times, and that it was not necessary to take the same precautions against corruption now as it had been in a more corrupt period of history. If that was his real opinion, why did he not raise the general question, and bring in a Bill to repeal the Statute? Let the whole question be raised on the broad principle; but he objected to its being disposed of by the importation into that House of six new placemen by a clause in an India Bill. The Act 6  Anne, "That no person who shall have in his own.
 325 Geo
 MR. HORSFALL  repudiated, on the part of the shipowners of the country, the imputations thrown out by the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Sir G. Pechell), that they wished to obtain the assistance of the officers of Her Majesty's Navy without any remuneration. He was sure he was speaking the sentiments of his constituents when he said they were most anxious that Her Majesty's officers should be placed upon precisely the same footing as any other party claiming salvage; that they should not be debarred the right of salvage which the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Graham) had said they might claim under the common law. He dissented altogether from the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member for South Shields (Mr. Ingham), that ships had a right to claim the assistance of Her Majesty's officers in rescuing property, without being bound to tender remuneration. They had a right to claim their assistance in the protection of life and property from a foreign enemy, because they paid their share of the public taxes for that purpose; but they had no right and no wish to claim the services of the Navy without returning fit and proper remuneration. Were it otherwise the system would be unjust and contrary to sound policy.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he had heard but one opinion among the shipowners of London on this subject, and their opinion was that the claims for salvage on the part of the Royal Navy ought to be entirely abandoned. It was, therefore, with some surprise that he had heard the observations of the hon. Member for Liverpool. The instructions to which the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty had referred were prepared by the right hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir F. Baring) when First Lord of the Admiralty, in consequence of the strong opinion of the shipowners of London that the claims, as then made by the Royal Navy, were unjust and exorbitant. But since these instructions had been issued, a case had occurred which deserved the serious notice of the House. He alluded to the salvage of the barque  Rosalie, Locust, Rosalie. Locust; Locust Rosalie Rosalie; Locust l. l. 284
 MR. MITCHELL : No. The  Locust
 MR. EWART  said, he was against the taking of oaths, both on moral and religious grounds; and there was no doubt that the feeling of the age was in favour of their discontinuance as much as possible. He believed the noble Lord the Member for the City of London intended to introduce a Bill for the abolition of unnecessary oaths, especially with regard to Jews; and he (Mr. E wart) should like to know upon what grounds they would be justified in retaining oaths in an India Bill when Parliament was about to abolish them with regard to other persons?
 MR. FORBES  said, he could not see, if this Bill was a good one, as he supposed it was, why it should not apply to Scotland as well as to England.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he believed that no oath was taken by the Ministers of the Crown on their assuming office, but that they simply made a declaration that they would protect the institutions of the realm. That declaration was of the most solemn and binding obligation. Surely, if a declaration was sufficient protection for the Protestant Church, and for the proper performance of the high office of a Minister of State, it was quite sufficient to secure a due discharge of the duties of a Director of the East India Company.
 MR. SERJEANT SHEE  said, he though the Government had taken a wise and statesmanlike course when they determined after receiving the advice of their lay officers in Ireland, not to prosecute to two rev. gentlemen whose names had been mentioned by the hon. Member for Somersetshire (Mr. Miles). Every one who read the evidence must come to the same conclusion. His own opinion, after reading the evidence, was that there would have been no reasonable probability of the conviction by any jury of those two rev gentlemen; and, if they had been tried, by such a fair, honest, and impartial jury as he was in the habit of seeing in the Courts of Westminster, or upon his circuit, they would have been sure of an
 300 301
 MR. GOOLD  said, the question before the Committee turned upon whether the shares were preferential or guaranteed. The highest legal authorities had, however, decided that they were preferential, and he thought the Committee had decided justly in giving them a bonus of 9 l.,
 MR. OTWAY  said, that if the noble Lord the Member for Lynn Regis pressed his Amendment to a division, he should feel it to be his duty to vote with him, considering, as he did, that it would tend very much to make the position of the Directors more independent.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished to put a question to his noble Friend the Member for the City of London on a subject of considerable importance, and which had occupied a large share of the attention of that House. A Bill had been introduced during the course of the present Session to remove the restrictions which prevented Jews from Sitting in that House, and, after receiving the sanction of that House, had been rejected by the House of Lords. A Bill had also been introduced into the other House of Parliament by a noble and learned Lord of great weight and authority, having for its object to substitute for the oaths of allegiance, supremacy, and abjuration, one form of oath which was thought better suited to the Circumstances of the times; and that had also been rejected. His noble Friend had, on a previous occasion, in reply to a question put to him by an hon. Member, stated that it was not the intention of the Government, during the present Session of Parliament, to introduce any similar measure for the attention of Parliament, and therein he (Sir G. Grey) thought they were exercising a wise discretion. He wished now to ask the noble Lord, whether, considering the unsatisfactory state of the law as it at present stood, it was the intention of the Government, during the next Session, to introduce a measure for the purpose of altering the oaths to be taken by Members of Parliament, either as a separate measure, or as part of that scheme of Parliamentary reform which it was understood the Government would propose?
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he must refuse to withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he wished to know what principle was to guide the House in dealing with officers of the Navy in cases of salvage? Provision was taken in the estimates for the wear and tear of Her Majesty's ships, and he hoped that the days of high salvage were past. The squabbles which occasionally occurred between the owners of merchant vessels and captains of the Royal Navy on account of salvage, were perfectly scandalous, and he trusted that we should hear no more of them. He had no objection to allow salvage in cases where life had been risked, but there were other cases in which he was strongly of opinion that none should be allowed. He thought assistance ought to be given by Her Majesty's ships without any charge at all. They were ships of the public, and when any services were required by the public, they ought to be gratuitously rendered. There could be no objection to provision by merchants and shipowners making good any damage to the clothing of seamen, who were always ready to risk their lives in aiding the distressed; but that a captain of a merchant vessel should have to sell his cargo to
 276
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he should move as an Amendment, that the Bill be read the third time this day three months, on the ground of the injury it would do to the property of the preferential shareholders.
 SIR HENRY DAVIE  said, he had never heard of any complaint in Scotland with regard to the proceedings to which the Bill referred, and he would, therefore, oppose the application of the measure to that country.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  would suggest that stringent powers should be given to the Chairman of the Company to preserve order in these quarterly meetings of the proprietors.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought the same argument that applied against the admission of the Crown nominees to Parliament, applied equally against the admission into the Court of Directors.
 319
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that though it might have been the intention of the late Government to go the whole length of proposing the abolition of salvage, he should by no means have despaired of shaking their resolution if they had submitted their proposition to the House. He must say, however, that he could find no record at the Admiralty of any such intention. By the common-law right the ship salved, became, as it were, the property of the salvor. What was the proposition which the Government now made? It implied a very great abridgment of that power. They proposed that bonds should be taken, and that all right of lien should be suspended on receipt of that bond. All these clauses which they were now discussing had been framed by his right hon. Friend the Judge of the Admiralty Court, and that, he thought, might be taken as a strong guarantee for their practical efficiency. His hon. Friend the Member for Bridport (Mr. Mitchell) had referred to the case of time  Rosalie. Rosalie
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM : At all events, had not the  Locust 285 Rosalie, "Lieutenant George F. Day, commanding Her Majesty's steam-vessel  Locust, Rosalie l. Locust, Rosalie "Bajada, Parana, Her Majesty's steam-vessel  Locust, "Sir—In reply to your letter of this day, I beg leave to state that, on reference to my journal, I find that Mr. Whitehouse, second-master in charge, and William Mason, able seaman, were of necessity placed on the sick list, suffering with illness produced, in my opinion, from over exposure in the hold of the bark  Rosalie. 286
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, the Directors were obliged by law to lay certain documents before the Quarterly Court of Proprietors, which were then placed in a room in the India House, and all proprietors had access to them. Suppose a meeting, at which there were only four or five proprietors, some one might get up and say there was not a quorum, and the Directors would then not be able to lay these documents before them. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had referred to the importance of the debates which took place in the Court of Proprietors; but he could assure the hon. Member that these discussions, which sometimes extended over several days, or to an advanced hour of the night, were exceedingly inconvenient, because they obstructed public business, and were generally carried on by only two or three proprietors. The business of a Quarterly Court ought not to be stopped by discussions of a useless character, and he hoped the precautions which the clause provided against such obstructions would be agreed to.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, that if they precluded proprietors from canvassing, they precluded the candidate, because no one could be a candidate who was not a proprietor. In point of fact, though the clause did not appear to be effectual, it did all that could be done, and he thought if they got the proprietors to pass a by-law to put an end to what all admitted to be an evil, that and public opinion together would prevent the binding of votes for two or three vacancies which now occurred. It would be much better that the candidates should send in their testimonials to the proprietors, and that the proprietors should then go to the election without canvass.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, he wished to call the attention of the noble Lord who had just spoken to the argument which he had used when he had advocated that the nomination of the six members whom it was proposed to introduce into the Court of Directors should take place in some other way than by election. The House was then told that distinguished men who had held high office and rendered great public services in India, would not condescend to accept a seat in the Direction by the ordinary means of election—that of canvassing for votes. The House was told that it was absolutely necessary to adopt some means to secure the presence in the Court of Directors of men of a superior stamp, and that they would not condescend to solicit the electors for votes. It would probably interest the House to observe how
 322 323 324
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he only wished to express the strong objection which he entertained to the practice of bringing on opposed and debated Bills at such a late hour [ half-past 1 o'clock].
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he considered the statement of the hon. and learned Serjeant (Mr. Serjeant Shee) was erroneous—namely, that Ministers take office upon a mere declaration; for, on the
 334
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he was not surprised to find the clause had given rise to the constitutional jealousy of the House; but he thought that jealousy might be much lessened if the Government would make a slight alteration in an earlier clause of the Bill. The only reason for supposing these Directors would be dependent on the will of the Minister, was to be found in the duration of their office and its renewal. He strongly recommended the President of the Board of Control to consider the propriety of limiting the appointment for a term of years without any capacity of reappointment. They ought not to have the power of returning the same six persons indefinitely, and if they wished to retain the services of the best qualified persons in India, they would make the office of brief tenure.
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he should support the clause. That the Directors appointed by the Crown should be liable to be dismissed by the proprietors of East India Stock, as suggested by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), seemed a proposition so utterly repugnant to reason that he imagined the Committee would not listen to it for a moment. He was not aware that the proprietors were empowered to dismiss even the Directors of their own nomination; at all events, no such dismissal, so far as he was aware, had taker place during the last fifty years.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he begged to move the insertion of words granting power to the Crown to remove any such Director upon an Address from either House of Parliament. As the clause stood in the Bill, Her Majesty was empowered, if She should think fit, to remove any Director appointed by the Crown for "inability or misbehaviour;" and he understood from the remarks of the First Lord of the
 307
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he had heard nothing to justify his withdrawing the Amendment. He was desirous to have the nominated Directors as independent as possible, and he was quite surprised how the right hon. Gentleman (Sir C. Wood), professing, as he did, to participate in that feeling, could vote against the proposition.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The hon. Member having mentioned a case in which I was personally concerned, I trust I may be excused for saying a word or two in reply to his observations. The facts were these: As regards the Sligo election, I wrote to my agent, stating that, so far as my wish was concerned, and those persons who felt disposed to attend to my wishes, my wish was that my tenants should vote for the two candidates then sitting—one of them being the hon. Baronet (Sir R. Booth), and the other an hon. Gentleman (Mr. Gore), who lost his scat at the last election; but I also stated that those tenants were at perfect liberty to vote as they pleased—and that no consequences whatever should ensue to them if they did not vote in the manner I wished. Four or five days before the election it seems that some of the ten-
 306
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I agree with my hon. Friend who has just spoken that the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Miles) has pursued rather an irregular course on this occasion, because, in asking a question of which he had given notice, he has entered into a very detailed and elaborate discussion of a matter which his question relates to. It is, Sir, a common saying, that it is a long lane which has no turning—even the longest lane has a turning; and I think that the longest bridge, even the Six-mile Bridge, ought to have an end. The object has been before the House ever since March last. The question has been fully discussed, and I think the opinion of he House was pronounced very emphatically upon it. It has been discussed, not July in this but in the other House of Parliament. It was the intention, as has been stated, of Her Majesty's Government originally, that these two priests should be prosecuted for the conduct which they pursued on the occasion of the Six-mile Bridge affair; and the Irish Government were informed that such was the desire of Her Majesty's Government. But the Irish Government, acting upon and with the advice of its legal officers, judged differently; and I have no hesitation in saying, that we approved of the decision so taken upon grounds which we afterwards stated to the House. It is not, therefore, the intention of Her Majesty's Government to order any further proceedings upon this case. Now, Sir, if hon. Gentleman, or any other person who had read the proceedings before the Clare Election Committee, had thought that the evidence given before that Committee would justify this House in taking the matter into own hands, and in giving directions for a prosecution, I think that course ought to have been taken at the time. This evidence was reported to the House in the beginning of June. If the matter had then been taken up, the assizes were coming on, and trial might have taken place. But the matter has been postponed until the assizes are over, and no legal prosecution could, I believe, now take place earlier than the spring of the next year. You would, therefore, be prosecuting these gentlemen in the year 1854 for conduct pursued by them in the summer of 1852. Well, Sir, it may be said that a prosecution is necessary for the sake of example. How can that be alleged? Why, since the Report of the Committee was laid before this House, we have had another election in the same county, and the very same candidates standing as
 297 298
 MR. HUME  said, that the petition was first put into his hands before the last election, but that as the petition against the seat was then pending, he consulted Mr. Speaker, and understood from him that it was desirable this petition should not then be presented. He accordingly refused to present it while the election petition was still pending.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he considered the House had to consider its own dignity and its own order quite as much in this matter as anything which had been suggested. But not to dwell upon that,
 394
 MR. LIDDELL  said, as he had not had any previous opportunity of addressing the House on this question, he wished to state his objections to the Bill—objections which were of so substantial a nature that he could not ride off upon the mere Amendments to be proposed. The House, be said, would recollect that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, at the very outset of his observations on the financial state of the country, had demanded and obtained a continuance of the income tax, in its present shape, for a longer period than had ever
 395 396 l. 397
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he did not think there was any hardship it the case suggested—that of a settlement in which a father is tenant for life with remainder to his son. Now the principle of the Bill was this. When an estate was derived from a person, the relation it which he stood to the giver of the bounty ought to govern the extent and character of the tax, and the tax would be measured according to the enjoyment of the estate and the relation of the giver. Supposing a will to be made under which the first taker should be eighty-five years of age, with remainder to his son, who might be only thirty-five years of age, the father's interest would be valued on the principle of its enduring probably not more than one or two years, and ten per cent would only be paid for that limited amount of enjoyment which would be measured by the value of the life interest of the first taker, If this exemption should be introduced, a great number of others must follow, and the Act would in fact become a mass of exemptions. The matter had received the most mature consideration, and he should vote against the proviso.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the clause was in strict conformity with the principle and tendency of the Act, and was nothing more than an importation into the Bill of the rule which had been acted upon for nearly sixty years.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he entirely dissented from the idea of legislating with regard to a particular case; and he must say, when a particular case had been repeatedly urged, hon. Gentlemen ought to recollect that that case might have been avoided. The father and the son, instead of alienating their estates, had chosen to preserve them. They had done this voluntarily; whereas, in their circumstances, prudence and discretion would have suggested a sale for the purpose of paying off the debts. To allow this as a reason for breaking down a general rule, would be most unjust. If it were allowed, a party succeeding to an inheritance worth 100,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to know what reason there was for this clause? If there was one part of the administration of the Company which deserved and had received more credit than another, it was the manner in which they appointed the members of the Council, and in which they had provided in expectancy for the filling up of vacancies which might occur from death or other causes. He certainly considered that to take away this power from the Company would be to deprive them of much of the  prestige
 MR. HUME  said, that before the Amendment of the hon. Member for Rochester was put, he had an Amendment, of which he had given notice, that he wished to propose—namely, that of the councillors to be appointed, one of them be a Hindoo, and the other a Mahomedan. Some persons thought that the natives had not conducted themselves so well in other situations that they should be appointed to the Legislative Council. He differed very much from those persons, because when he was in India he was as well and faithfully served by natives as ever he was in England. He believed that if a Hindoo and Mahomedan were appointed, it would tend to give confidence to the natives of the country, and would prevent those mistakes with respect to their customs and usages which often led to so much mischief.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he thought the Amendment raised one of the most impor-
 422
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he agreed with the noble Lord the Member for Lynn Regis (Lord Stanley), that, in proposing to appoint natives to the Legislative Council before they had been admitted into the civil service of India, was beginning at the wrong end; still he should support the Amendment, for this reason, that after admitting natives of India to be appointed to the Legislative Council, in consistency, and as a natural consummation, the right hon. Baronet the President of the Board of Control must admit them to the civil service. It was impossible to find an Englishman who had more decidedly pronounced in favour of English supremacy in all things than Lord Ellenborough, and yet both Lord Ellenborough and Mr. Elphinstone had strongly recommended, not that the natives should have seats in the Legislative Council, but that they should be members of a consultative council, which might be in attendance on the Governor General, to whom he might refer to ascertain the wishes and feelings of the natives on several points. It was impossible to look at the evidence before the Committee without being convinced that much difficulty had arisen in carrying into effect laws devised with the best intention, simply owing to the absence of means of obtaining a proper knowledge on the part of the Governor General in Council as to what the feelings of the natives really were.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he should support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose, because he thought it ought to be made imperative on the Governor General to appoint natives
 426 427 428
 MR. HUME , in reply, said, he must still maintain that the evidence of Mr. Halliday showed the fitness of the natives for places in the Legislative Council, and that the appointment of two of their number to that body would have a most valuable moral effect, as a proof of our sympathy with them, of our desire to study their wishes and interests, and to ameliorate and elevate their position.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, his object in rising was not to reply to the observations of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. W. Williams), so much as to express his astonishment at the manner in which some hon. Gentlemen opposite, who represented agricultural constituencies, had dealt with the whole Budget of the Government, and especially the present Bill, and the clause more immediately under discussion. In endeavouring to account for the conduct of those Gentlemen in supporting this Bill, and more particularly this clause, he had been compelled to fall back on an explanation of similar conduct given many years ago by the celebrated Adam Smith, with reference to the political ancestors of Gentlemen opposite. He explained the matter in a very philosophical manner. When contrasting the success that attended the moneyed classes with that of the landed interest, he said—
 "Their—the moneyed interest's—superiority over the country gentlemen is not so much in their knowledge of the public interest, as in their having a better knowledge of their own interest than he has of his. It is by this superior knowledge of their own interest that they have frequently imposed upon his generosity, and persuaded him to give up both his own interest and that of the public, from a very simple but honest conviction that their interest, and not his, was the interest of the public." 406 pro tanto 407 "If there be one article more than another with which it is of primary importance that a great commercial and manufacturing nation like England should be abundantly supplied on the lowest possible terms, that article is timber. Timber is not to be looked upon in the same light as most other commodities. It is against all principle to impose duties on materials intended to be subsequently manufactured; but timber is the raw material of the most important of all manufactures—that of the instruments of production. Suppose it were proposed to lay a heavy tax on ships, waggons, looms, or workshops, when completed; would not such a monstrous proposal be universally scouted? And yet this is what is being really done." Vœ victis! 408
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the point which had been chiefly raised had not been brought to his attention until he entered the House, when the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Palmer) raised the question as to the propriety of appointing this Committee now, with the prospect of the Election Committee sitting soon. He said he should therefore like to take till Thursday to consider what course he should advise.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that after hearing the hon. Member for Manchester, and the hon. Member for Peterborough, he was quite ready to concur in the Motion which was before the House.
 391
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : With regard to the first of the questions asked by the hon. Member, I have to say that it appears that, when the Austrian Government claimed the surrender, some two or three years ago, of certain Hungarian refugees who were then residing in Turkey, there was amongst those persons one named Kosta. The Turkish Government did not consent to surrender those refugees, but agreed to send them out of the territory of Turkey. Amongst the persons who accordingly quitted the territory of Turkey was this Kosta. He was understood to have gone to the United States of America, but he lately returned to Constantinople, and was afterwards at Smyrna. It appears, further, that the Austrian Consul, instead of applying to the Turkish authorities to take measures for the removal of this person, according to the agreement between the Austrian and Turkish Governments, took steps for seizing him and conveying him on board an Austrian ship of war. But, at the same time, it is, as I understand, stated that this was done with the consent of the Turkish Government at Smyrna. On this point, however, we have no positive information; but the concurrence which is said to have taken place is, that certain persons, engaged by the Austrian Consul, seized this man and placed
 381
 MR. DISRAELI  said, be wished the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to reconsider the case, as it appeared to him that the hardship it would occasion would be very severe. The right hon. Gentleman partly acknowledged that it was doubtful the amount which would be gained by this clause. It would be very desirable for the right hon. Gentleman to give the House some idea of the amount he expected. It would be, in his opinion, much smaller than the House imagined. With regard to the case which had been mentioned by the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford, he could not help fancying that he was acquainted with that case, and if he were, he did not consider that it was met by the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. If the case were the one with which he was acquainted, an estate had been left to a person who had a life interest in it; it was not an entailed estate, nor could father and son by combination alienate any part of the property. In such a case the present would be about as severe an act of legislation as could be devised by man. All the cases under this
 415
 MR. NEWDEGATE  desired to show the House the erroneous manner in which the public mind was impressed with regard to this question by some of the public journals. In one of the leading journals an article on this question appeared on Saturday, which commenced with—"The project of substituting a tax on successions for one upon income has met with but little opposition, or even criticism, in Parliament, and is not unpopular out of doors." That was the comment of the  Times Times 413 l. l. l. d. d. 414 d. d.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, this restriction was considered necessary for the proper working of the Indian Government, and he could not consent to give it up.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  opposed the Amendment. He thought it was strange that the hon. Gentleman who complained of the excess of Members in the Legisla-
 421
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, it was a mistake to suppose that that was a tax which would be peculiarly burdensome to the smaller proprietors. The fact was, that small landed properties were usually divided equally among the different children of the owner, and when they were sold out for the purpose of meeting the charges so created, the successors became subject to the legacy duty. He believed that if the opinion of the smaller proprietors were taken with respect to the Bill, it would be found that they were not so hostile to it as hon. Gentlemen opposite seemed to imagine.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, that, the General Committee of Elections was now in a peculiar position, three of its Members having resigned, and three more being required before it could pursue its duties. He thought that what the House had to regret, if not to complain of, was, that the gentlemen who had signed this petition did not present it in time for it to come under the provisions enacted by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) for this special purpose, by which provisions its allegations—though not immediately affecting the issue under consideration—might have been brought before the Election Committee appointed to try (Mr. Whalley's) right to his seat, and might, moreover, have been investigated on oath. The House should consider that there was important matter of precedent involved in this case; and, as a matter of precedent, they must consider whether it would be desirable that, when an election petition was pending, a petition relating to election matters in the same borough should be heard by another Committee—a Special Committee—not able to examine on oath, and yet inquiring before the Election Committee, which could examine on oath. It was important for them to adhere to some sound and strict rule upon this point. With respect to the numbers of the proposed
 393
  MR. CAYLEY  said, he would now beg to move the introduction of a proviso of which he had given notice. He contended that timber land did not, generally speaking, pay a higher rent than amble or pasture land.
 MR. CRAUFURD  then moved an Amendment, giving a power of appeal in cases where the difference between the assessment of the successor and of the Go-
 418 l.
 MR. DIVETT  said, he was of opinion, from his experience of Election Committees, that it was utterly impossible fairly to enter into the inquiry affecting the seat, if another Committee of this nature was sitting at the same time. He quite concurred in thinking full inquiry into this case was absolutely necessary; but he hoped that it would be postponed until the other Committee had reported.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had consulted his constituents as to the Budget, and they
 402
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he deeply regretted being obliged to say anything at that moment, but he would make but one remark. If it was desirable to lay down a new rule for any case similarly circumstanced as this, he hoped it would not be done in this case, for a reason which he would state. He said this petition was put into his hands when he was sitting in the House before for Peterborough; but objections having been taken by some to his presenting the petition, Mr. Speaker overruled these objections. However, he consulted his own feelings, and, considering that it might affect the petition which was then hanging over his head, he used all his influence to have the presentation of it put off as long as it was possible. He was eventually unseated, and the petition was then put into the hands of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), and it was in his discretion to have presented it at what time he thought best. He hoped the House would not put off the appointment of this Committee, seeing that the other petition now in existence referred only to his legal qualification. He begged, for his unfortunate constituents, that they would not prolong their present condition, which was one of internecine war. [ Laughter.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he was surprised that the noble Lord did not perceive the fallacies of his own argument. The duty which was about to be imposed had nothing of the nature of an excise duty, but was only a duty on successions to property, including timber. Not only the timber, therefore, which the noble Lord mentioned, but all those herring barrels and shovel hilts, and all the other articles, would be included for payment in like manner. The argument, therefore, of the noble Lord was wholly futile. It was not his desire to have made a single remark on that occasion if it had not been for the course of observation pursued by the noble Lord with regard to the landed interest. He deprecated these appeals to separate interests. Selfishness was bad, but it produced no public evil; but the separate interest of particular classes, if exclusively considered, went far to bring Government altogether to an end. With regard to this Bill he must say that he disliked it as much as any one else; but could they give him a reason why real property should be exempted from a duty to which personal property was liable? No doubt there would be great difficulty and expense in collecting it—expense and difficulty beyond anything that Parliament could see. They had reason to admire the great abilities of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Solicitor General in dealing with the Bill against the objections of hon. Gentlemen opposite. They made many objections; and it was very easy for captious men to object. However, the lawyers were equally ignorant as the rest of them, for they rose and debated continually. Nevertheless, this was called a well-drawn Bill. He had no doubt it was so, for to him it was quite unintelligible. But, indeed, the Judges would not care a single rush for anything that was said in that House; and he believed that, until they had a judgment on every clause of the Bill, it would continue to be impossible to know what they were to do under the Bill. But the expense of these actions would create great irritation in the country. It was not with the great landed interest, but among
 409
 MR. FRESHFIELD  rose to move an Amendment upon the 4th clause. He said, that under the General Legacy Act of 1796, the cases of persons to whom legacies were given to be enjoyed for life, or during some limited time, with a power to appoint the capital of the legacy for the benefit of any person or persons especially named or described, and of persons having any limited interest, and a general and absolute power of appointment, were provided for with an obvious intention on the part of the Legislature, that the legacy duty should attach equitably and fairly to the property as it passed into different hands according to the beneficial interest taken by each; and by the Act of 1805, 45  Geo. 399 "Where any person shall have a general power of appointment under any disposition of property taking effect upon the death of any person dying after the time appointed for the commencement of this Act over property, he shall, in the event of his making any appointment there under, be deemed to be entitled at the time of his exercising such power, to the property or interest, thereby appointed as a succession derived from the donor of the power." 400 "In case the power shall be so exercised as to vest the said property wholly or in part for his own benefit, and in case the person having such general power of appointment shall exercise the same in whole or in part in favour of any other person, the property so appointed as last mentioned shall be deemed a succession derived by snch last mentioned person from the donor of the power."
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he owed an apology to the House and to the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. G. Fitzwilliam), for having omitted to mention that the petition before the House did not refer to the last election, because it had been drawn up, signed, and sent to London previously to the last election. The petition now pending with regard to the hon. Gentleman referred altogether to his qualification; and he could not, therefore, see how this petition could in any way have any bearing on that; and what he feared was, that were this postponed till the others were disposed of, it could not come on till next Session.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had not heard the concluding observations of the noble Lord, and was quite unable, therefore, to say whether the noble Lord meant to oppose the Committee, the noble Lord spoke so very low. His words were so very indistinct that, although he (Mr. Bright) wished to give notice of another Resolution for Thursday with regard to instruction to the Committee, he was at a loss to know what to do, for if the noble Lord, were opposed to the appointment of the
 392
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the petition of certain electors of the city of Peterborough, complaining of the interference of the Earl Fitzwilliam at the election in December last, and at previous elections for that city. In moving for this Committee he should take up but little of the time of the House, because he should confine himself as much as possible to the statement of a few simple facts. It was a painful matter to him, rather than otherwise, to appear, in some degree, in the position of accuser of Earl Fitzwilliam, for whose private character, and his public character also, in many respects, he had always entertained a very high regard. But he had had placed in his hands a petition, signed by 219 electors of Peterborough, complaining of undue interference. He believed there were not more than 500 electors in the borough. The petition, therefore, was signed by so large a number of electors that it was impossible for any Member who was asked to present it on their behalf to refuse to proceed upon it, for he considered that it would be quite impossible for the House to refuse to appoint a Committee to inquire into its allegations. The petitioners referred to the election of July last (the general election), and also to the election of December last, in consequence of the death of the gentleman (Mr. Watson) returned in July. They state that on both occasions Earl Fitzwilliam had, through the instrumentality of his agents and servants, directly and indirectly, interfered, by intimidation, persuasion, treating, and offers of sums of money, in favour of the gentleman returned in July, and of the gentleman who had failed to secure his return in December. There was another allegation which was important—that they believed the petition against the return of the present sitting Member was not the petition of the persons whose names were appended, but rather the petition of Earl Fitzwilliam, and that they had reason to believe that all the expenses of the proceedings con-
 382 383 l. s. s. s. s. 384 "Madam—I much regret that since I last wrote to you upon the subject of the house in the Long Causeway, I find that the proposition which you have made of Mr. Chettle or Mrs. Elstone becoming tenants would be unavailable, as the vote of a non-resident could not possibly be secured; and this portion of his Lordship's property having at all times commanded a vote, it is of the utmost importance that the existing privileges should not be diminished. It will, at the same time, give me much satisfaction if I can serve your interest in any other form.—I am, Madam, your obedient Servant, "CHARLES SIMPSON." 385 l. 386 387
 MR. VANCE  said, he represented, like the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hadfield), a large civic constituency; and their opinion was the direct reverse of that conveyed by the hon. Member for Sheffield. They regarded this succession tax as a tax from which the farmers and small proprietary of Ireland would suffer a heavy blow. The capital of Ireland was in land, not in manufactures, and this tax would cramp the rising energies of the country. It was all very well for the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Crossley), who was a prosperous manufacturer, to look lightly on the consequences of this impost. The hon. Member very likely turned his capital two or three times over in a year, but the farmer only turned his capital over once a year.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he hoped the Government would listen to the objections that had been urged against establishing a toll bridge in this instance, and would therefore, desist from pressing that part of the measure. It was contrary to the direction of public feeling in the present day to be creating new tolls upon bridges, when they were doing away with the tolls upon turnpike trusts.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that the observations he made the other night were not intended
 430 l.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he was glad his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) had again raised the point, because it was desirable the public should become acquainted with the oppression to which they would be subjected.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had preceded him appeared to labour under a mistake. He had to inform the hon. Gentleman, that if a property were equally divided among the children of the owner, it would not be subject to the legacy duty.
 MR. MULLINGS  said, he could only repeat that he entertained a strong objection to the measure, because there were many persons who had advanced sums of money on mortgage without at all anticipating any such enactment, and it would press upon them with undue severity.
 MR. MALINS  said, he wished again to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the hardship and unfairness of the 34th clause, which would compel the son who had joined his father in encumbering the estate to pay the full tax upon succeeding to the property, although he would be only the nominal successor. He knew a case in which property to the value of 50,000 l. l. l. l.
 MR. MALINS  proposed an Amendment, to insert in Clause 49, after the word "documents," the words "except title deeds relating to land." He did not put forward any objection to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer having all such power as he should think desirable and necessary to enable him to collect the new duty; but he did urge upon his attention that he should not arm himself with powers which were offensive to the owners of property, and repugnant to the feelings of Englishmen, more especially so to the lower classes of the people. He submitted that the power of compelling the production of the sedeeds was unnecessary, whilst it would be extremely inquisitorial. As this was the last time he
 417
 MR. MALINS  said, he wished to propose an omission in Clause 23—the "timber clause." A great deal of confusion and irresolution had been manifested in their mode of dealing with that clause. No man of taste wished that the timber of the country should be cut down. It was now clearly evident that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had abandoned the original intention of his Bill, because as the Bill now stood, any nobleman or gentleman entering on the possession of his estate would pay nothing whatever for his
 403 l. l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. Cheers. 404 s. s.
 MR. MALINS  said, the case was one of considerable hardship, and he had hoped that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have made some relaxation. On each succession ten per cent would have to be paid, and in some cases the Chancellor of the Exchequer might soon rejoice in having possession of the whole property.
 MR. MALINS  said, that they (the Opposition) were not struggling for the great but for the small proprietors, and in this instance the small proprietary would suffer enormously. He predicted that the day would come when there would be an unanimous admission that this tax was in this respect a great blunder.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the great hardship which would arise under the second clause Suppose a stranger in London to leave an estate to A for life, and for A's son in tail, A would have to pay ten per cent in the first instance, and his son would afterward, have to pay ten per cent interest. Surely the right hon. Gentleman could not intent such an estate to pay ten per cent twice? To remedy this injustice, he would propose to add to the second clause a proviso to relieve the difficulty.
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, he understood—for he had not heard the speech of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright)—that the petition complained of undue interference by a Peer of Parliament with the election of a Member of the
 390
 MR. MANGLES  said, he objected to the Amendment, on the ground that there was no feeling of nationality in India. Indeed, they might as well give a seat in that House to a Spaniard or a German, and call him a representative of England, as place a native of Bengal in the Legislative Council of India, and suppose that he would represent the feelings or the interests of the inhabitants of the Lower Provinces. There was no approach to a community of interest or of feeling among the natives of India. With regard to the complaint that the natives were not represented in the Legislative Council, he would say, without hesitation, that there were hundreds of European servants of the Company who knew far more of India and of its inhabitants than any of the natives themselves. The noble Lord (Viscount Jocelyn) was mistaken in supposing that Ram Mohan Roy had anything to do with the abolition of suttee. He had no doubt that due weight was given by the Legislative Council to the opinion of the natives; but would it be supposed, if natives had been in the Council when Lord William Bentinck proposed the abolition of suttee, or when Lord Wellesley sanctioned the law which prevented Hindoos from flinging their children to the sharks, that they would not have opposed those measures? He was ready to go even further than the President of the Board of Control in advocating the employment of the natives; and he regretted that persons engaged in the judicial service, and especially in the Courts of Principal Suddur Ameen, and Sudder Ameen, did not receive more adequate remuneration. He desired to see prizes given to the natives in such departments; but he did not think they were fit, or that they would for many years to come be fit, to be intrusted with legislative functions. He considered that it would be an act of unkindness to thrust them forward to positions for which they were unfit, and he hoped, therefore, that the Committee would not assent to the Amendment.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, it had been asserted that the case had been argued with reference to a particular class. This he denied. The case had been argued with reference to this particular clause on the general rules of justice and the common interest. Hon. Members on his side of the House complained of the general injustice of the measure if the clause were to pass as it at present stood. And if it could be shown the Government were wrong, and they refused to give way, the consequence would be that first of all public opinion would be entirely against them; and next, when the measure was submitted to another House, where it would be looked at more judicially, the clause could not pass in its present form. The hon. and learned Solicitor General had said the arguments were
 416 ex post facto
 MR. ALCOCK said, he should move as an Amendment that the Bill be read a
an Amendment that the Bill be read a
 431
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was no objection to the Amendment, which was accordingly agreed to.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman gave him no option but to place assertion against assertion. The hon. and learned Gentleman stated that both his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General and himself had not attempted to show the necessity of investigating title deeds. He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) would not only reiterate the assertion, that he had shown the necessity of having the power they sought, but in addition thereto, he would assert that the hon. and learned Gentleman had never attempted to answer the point put in regard to the variety of interests in, and the different rates charged on, property. The hon. and learned Gentleman had not only not endeavoured to address himself to the point, but he had always eschewed the subject, and had not shown any reasons to the House against the proposition. He would ask hon. Gentlemen how it was possible to get at the amount of the tax payable, without having some such power as that now proposed, in order that an investigation might take place? He (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) wished only to add one word in explanation of something he had said on a former evening, and which he found had been misunderstood by some persons. He had been understood to say that the Commissioners of Inland Revenue would have no concern with the collection of the legacy duty. It was not his intention to convey such an impression; but what he intended to say was, that the ordinary duty of investigating the deeds, for the purpose of fixing the amount of duty, would rest with the Comptroller of the legacy duty.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that his reason for abstaining from taking part in the discussion on the timber clause was, that in the course of four debates on this subject he had already spoken on it to the best of his capacity; and having trespassed so often and so long upon the time of the House, he felt that he should be doing injustice to its patience if he entered any further upon the question. The hon. and learned Gentleman opposite inquired if he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) thought the clause on which the present Amendment was moved, a just clause? He had no hesitation in saying that he thought it was just; but they must judge of its operation, not by an exceptional case, but by its general effect. The hon. and learned Gentleman had said that the principle of the clause was to make a man pay upon that to which he did not actually succeed; but that was not a correct description of it. The principle of the clause was to make a man pay upon that which it was in his own choice or option to succeed. If a person, having expectations of a succession, should spend any portion of that succession before coming into its actual enjoyment, he ought not to complain, if, upon coming into possession, he was made to pay upon the whole. Extreme cases might, no doubt, be conceived, but it was impossible to frame a Bill which was to touch property at all without harshness in some instances. He asked the hon. and learned Gentleman, was it desirable, in the general interest of the country, or for the individuals themselves, that those who had pledged the
 412
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not agree to the insertion of these words. There was a large department of timber which was not applicable to the proviso, such as hedgerow and park timber, and there would be great difficulty in the assessment of the duty. How would they act with regard to Scotland? The wood there was the boundary between the arable on the one side, and the moorland on the other. But the main ground of his objection was, that he did not think the hon. Gentleman had shown that any successor would endure hardship under the Act, as he had the option of having his timber assessed in whatever way was most favourable to himself.
 The CHANCELLOR of THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was impossible to accede to the proviso, if it were only on the ground that the hon. Member had not laid down in his Amendment any distinct principle on which the exemption could be brought in without incurring other exemptions. The Amendment would leave the Bill in a state of great inconsistency, and would prove most unsatisfactory if it should be adopted in the case alluded to—that of illegitimate children.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the principle of this clause as to the duty payable, was precisely the same as that of the Legacy Acts.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the right hon. Baronet had discreetly abstained from attempting to demonstrate the truth of his assertion—that this tax would amount to confiscation. There was no foundation whatever for such a statement. The right hon. Baronet, on that as well as on former occasions, seemed to forget the mitigated burden which was to be enforced upon real property as compared with personality. How did the matter stand? For the sake of giving to the tax the most lenient form of which it was susceptible, he had proposed, instead of coming down upon the successor with the whole tax at once, which was done in other cases, to give him the power of spreading it over four years and a half; and, therefore, because he had proposed to grant him that very great indulgence, he was now told it was cruelty to deny the other gift of the whole unpaid residue of the tax. If the successor had only a life interest in the property to which he succeeded, he would not be required to continue payment of the installments due at the death of his predecessor; but if he had a continuing interest in the property, and if he was able to leave it behind him, there could be no reason why a tax due to the State should be remitted in his favour rather than any other debt to which he was liable. Was a tax to the State a legitimate debt or was it not? If it was, then he could only say that nothing could be more just than the clause as it stood.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had to state, in answer to the question of the hon. Baronet, that the term "moneys of the savings banks" was, strictly considered, a misnomer. There was no such thing as "moneys of the savings banks" in the custody of the Governments; but all the money received from the savings banks, when it had once been taken by the Government., became a debt from the Government to the trustees of the savings banks; and the Government were equally responsible for the repayment of the debt, whatever might become of the money with regard to which it was originally created. But if the hon Baronet's question referred, as he had no doubt it did, to the money received from the savings banks, the answer then was, that such moneys had been employed since the 20th of November, 1852, in the purchase of Exchequer bills, which had been remitted to the trustees of savings banks. The authority under which this was employed had been the authority of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as was the usual course in that respect. There was no objection whatever to place the amount of such moneys, and the date of the purchases, from time to time upon the table of the House; but on the 5th of July, or some other recent date, the information had already been laid on the table in a return moved for by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli). In that return the hon. Baronet would find the particulars he
 380
 MR. G. FITZWILLIAM , in rising to second the Motion of the hon. Member for Manchester, said, he begged to thank him for the courteous manner in which he had made his proposition to the House. The hon. Gentleman might have gone more explicitly into the circumstances laid down in the petition, but he had refrained from inciting the House to any discussion that might have produced ill-feeling, or protracted the debate to an unnecessary length, and had contented himself with a mere statement of the facts put into his hand. Perhaps the House, however, would allow him to say, in seconding the Motion, that the petition contained allegations of a very grave nature, and such as to convey serious reflections on the character of Earl Fitzwilliam as a public man, and he felt that he would very ill discharge his duty to the constituents whom he represented, as well as towards the character and position of Earl Fitzwilliam, were he, on the ground of the relationship subsisting between them, to resist the proposition which the hon. Member had made; and it was as much in vindication of Earl Fitzwilliam's character, as from a sense of the duty he owed to his constituents, that he asked the house to accede to the Motion of the hon. Member. He must say he did not think the circumstances, were completely similar, though they might have some analogy to those of the Stamford petition, to which the hon. Gentleman had referred. He thought they were calculated
 388 l. 389 Dodd's Electoral Facts. Dodd's Electoral Facts
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  trusted the House would not give way to the clamour of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite. He would ask the hon. and learned Gentleman to descend with him to the humble cottage of the labouring man—to look at the old arm chair, in which, perhaps, his father died, and to contemplate the ancient oak chest, inherited, perhaps, from his grandmother. The value of these, and of everything else in the place, must be assessed at succession, and, if the sum amounted to 20 l. 405
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he was never more surprised in his life than when he heard of the introduction of this Bill; for it would be in the recollection of the House that it was only a short time ago that he brought the conduct of this Judge under the notice of Parliament with reference to the case of Mary Hill, and then not all the adroitness, and all the talent, and all the pleasantry of the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department could get rid of the bad impression which the conduct of the learned gentleman created in the minds of hon. Members. And yet within three months after that occurrence the House was asked to increase the learned gentleman's salary, thus as it were passing a vote of confidence in the Judge, and stultifying its own previous decision. The eccentricities and peculiarities which characterised the administration of justice in the learned Judge's Court were too well known to need recapitulation; but, nevertheless, there were one or two instances of scenes in the Court which he must be permitted briefly to refer to. He held in his hand a report of the proceedings in the Middlesex Court, wherein it was stated that a person was brought before this gentleman to be re-examined, and he told the accused that he was convinced he was a thief, although there was no evidence adduced against him, nor had any trial taken place. Immediately another prisoner was brought before him, a woman who was not blessed with handsome features, and the learned Judge becoming jocular upon the villanous character of ask whether the woman was to be tried according to her physiognomy or according to the evidence. Scenes of this unseemly nature were constantly taking place in the Court over which this gentleman presided, and they did not always partake of the ludicrous—since in two cases where an acquittal had taken place, the Judge went the length of pronouncing the parties to be guilty in spite of the verdict of the jury of the contrary. Now, he would ask the House to add these cases to the medium
 432 l. s. d.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he agreed with the sentiments expressed with regard to this Bill by the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Locke). He ohjected to the plan for creating a new turnpike under this Bill.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he could not consent to this delay without concluding the only other statement of importance that he had to make with reference to this Bill. Well, then, this man was said to have been sentenced to ten years' transportation. Certainly a very severe punishment, considering the insignificant nature of the offence; and upon hearing the sentence, the man, who was of a rather violent temper, somewhat after the manner of Mary Hill, let fly a penny ink-bottle at the Judge, who thereupon, without any trial whatever, or without going through any legal proceedings, sentenced him to five years' additional transportation. He would say no more at present upon this to him painful topic; but before this Bill passed, he begged the noble Lord to inform the House whether what he had stated was a fact or not.
 MR. CROSSLEY  said, he was astonished at this opposition to the clause. If the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Pakington) had moved, on behalf of the land, a vote of thanks to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the consideration shown in this arrangement, he (Mr. Crossley) would not have been surprised; but he was puzzled to know on what ground they could complain of a most extraordinary indulgence and act of grace.
 SIR HENRY DAVIE  said, he had a question to put relative to the system of promotion in the dockyard at Chatham; and, having been a Member of the Committee which had inquired into matters of this nature, he hoped he should not be thought presumptuous in having thus put himself before the House. In a morning newspaper of Saturday last, a paragraph appeared, which, with the permission of the House, he would read. The paper was one that had very considerable circulation, and the paragraph was headed thus, "Dockyard appointments—Chatham and Admiralty Hypocrisy," and then it went on:—
 "The following facts will speak for themselves
 377
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he begged to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer if any moneys of the savings banks of the United Kingdom have been employed in the purchase of Exchequer Bills, since the 20th day of November, 1852, and, if so, to what amount and by what authority; and whether he has any objection to place the amount of such moneys, and date of the purchases, on the table of the House?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he thought it was utterly impossible to know what changes were contemplated by this Bill, until a map or plan of the proposed works was submitted to the House.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he did not think that it would be possible to maintain British power in India through native agency. Were hon. Gentlemen, he would ask, prepared to hand over the higher offices of the Indian army to natives? He thought the only answer could be in the negative, and he would apply the same principle to the offices in the Legislative Council and in the Executive Department, and reserve them for our own countrymen. Any one acquainted with the state of India—an empire comprising many nations, among whom the greatest hatred and jealousy existed—must be aware that the elevation of a Hindoo or a Mussulman to
 425
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, his hon. Friend had given him notice of his question—he was, therefore, prepared to answer it. It was true, as stated in the paragraph, that on a recent vacancy caused by the retirement of a person named Robinson in Chatham Dockyard, the names of two persons had been sent up, and recommended for the same by the captain superintendent of the yard, and that the names of these persons were the one Baines, and the other Pattison. It was also true, that Baines had been preferred. He would, however, state the circumstances under which Baines had been selected by the Board of Admiralty. He held in his hand the original letter from the captain superintendent of Chatham yard, which, in conformity with the recent regulations, had been sent to the Surveyor of the Navy, and the recommendations in which were limited to these two persons. [The right hon. Baronet then read the letter in question, which was from Captain Richards, superintendent of Chatham dockyard, and was to the effect that the persons whose names it contained were recommended by him for their capability and their good conduct, in the room of Robinson, retired; and that he had placed their names in the order of their respective deserts.] The passage in the  Morning Herald 378 Morning Herald 379
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to move the omission of all the words in the 21st clause, from the 35th line. The clause related to the interest of a successor in real property. The Amendment had for its object the prevention of the tax proposed to be levied in certain cases. He thought the provisions to which he objected most unjust and oppressive. But his objection applied most strongly, not to the bearing of the tax upon the wealthy, but upon the humbler classes of possessors of property. He appealed to the House against the infliction of this cruel hardship of the provisions in question, which, if allowed to stand, would, in many cases, amount to positive confiscation.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, until the Amendment was moved he was not, aware that the Bill contained such an injustice. This was not the case of illegitimate children, but the case of all bequests by strangers in blood. He did not see why a legitimate child should have to pay ten per cent after the death of the father to whom the property was originally bequeathed.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would now move, pursuant to notice, an Amendment in Clause 34, the object of which was to prevent the charge upon encumbrances created or incurred by the succession taking effect till "after the time appointed for the commencement of this Act." He could not allow this Bill to pass without again expressing the strong objection he entertained to the excessive injustice of its retrospective effect. He had already stated that in his opinion it
 410 ex post facto
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he believed there was but one feeling amongst the inhabitants of the metropolis with regard to improvements, and if the representative system were introduced into the metropolitan districts, he was satisfied that the public would be ready cheerfully to agree to an improvement rate. He thought it was extremely impolitic in the present day to create a bridge toll by this Bill.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, that the expressed desire of the Government to sustain the independence of Turkey against either Russian or Austrian aggression—a desire which he believed to be generally felt by the people of this country—would, he hoped, justify the questions he was about to put to the noble Lord the Member for London, and of which he had given him notice. He wished to ask the noble Lord whether he could communicate to the House any information with respect to the violation of the Turkish territory by the captain of an Austrian ship of war, who is reported to have seized an Hungarian refugee, resident at Smyrna, and to have carried him on board the Austrian vessel without the concurrence of the Turkish authorities? And also whether it is true, as reported, that the Austrian Government has demanded the expulsion of all Hungarian refugees from Turkey?
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he presumed that the objections taken to the Clause had two objects in view—first, to satisfy the natives of India, and next to improve the Legislative Council. He doubted whether the proposed remedy would accomplish the one object or the other. In the first place, he doubted or the whether it would satisfy the natives; for where there were so many nations and sects, the probability was that from whichever you took, you would displease all the others. The question then was, whether they were to govern India on English or Indian principles. He was convinced, also, that there was as much, if not more, knowledge of Mahomedan laws and customs to be found among the civil servants of the Company as among the natives; and it was not likely, therefore, that the efficiency of the Legislative Council would be increased by the appointment of two natives. It was not to save money that he objected to the Amendments, but because he believed that neither the Council would be improved, nor the people of India satisfied by the change.
 SIR. HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he should be glad if either the Amendment of the hon. Member for Montrose, or his own, were adopted, as the President of the
 420
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he wished to move the omission from the clause of the words "two persons having been ten years in the civil service of the Company," and the substitution of the words "three persons, being European or Native Indian subjects of Her Majesty, not in the service of Her Majesty or the said Company." He contended that it would not be necessary to have all the year round so large a body of men employed in the duties assigned to them by the clause as it stood, and paid at so great a
 419
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he promised the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Locke), that on moving that the House go into Committee on this Bill, he would make a statement with regard to it. In 1845, the Royal Commissioners for Metropolitan Improvements, in their second and fifth Reports, recommended that a new park should be formed in Battersea Fields, and that, in connexion with it, a
 429 l. quasi l. l. l. l. l. l.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he begged to explain that Ram Mohan Roy gave an opinion which led to the abolition of the suttee law.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN  said, he entirely agreed in the principle of the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Montrose. He thought it most important to open to the natives of India the door to the very
 423 424
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he was sorry to interrupt the hon. and gallant Member; but he found that an understanding had been come to with an hon. Baronet opposite, that this Bill should not be discussed until Thursday. It would perhaps be convenient, therefore, if the debate was adjourned till then.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, the House was not yet aware of the facts of the case respecting this discreditable Bill. The right hon. and learned Gentleman, like a dexterous advocate, had left out the strong points against the Bill, which he was able to supply from having been a Member of the Committee which sat in 1851, to inquire into the operation of the annuity tax. The Parliamentary borough of Edinburgh contained a population of 160,000. The ancient and extended Royalties contained 66,000 out of the 160,000, and that was the only part of the city liable to the annuity tax. This tax, as the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate had stated, was 6 per cent on the whole of the occupants. There were eight churches in the old Royalty, and two that had been taken down; but the congregations still assembled in other buildings, and for the ten churches there were twelve ministers. There were five churches in the extended Royalty, and six ministers, being eighteen ministers for fifteen congregations. Up to 1810, the annuity tax was collected by the corporation, who paid the stipends of the ministers. They gave the ministers fixed stipends, and the surplus balances were applied to municipal purposes. The
 447 l. l. l. l. l.; 448 l., l. l. l., l. l., l. 449 l., l. l. 450 451
 MR. J. B. SMITH : To six, as it was previous to the Bill of 1808.
 J. B. SMITH : My Report says that—
 MR. ELLICE  said, that the arguments in favour of this Bill seemed to be, that because the good citizens of Edinburgh showed an extraordinary impatience of taxation, therefore Parliament ought to cast the burden of that taxation on the Consolidated Fund. He had no objection to the people of Edinburgh making any arrangement they pleased with regard to their own religious taxation; but he certainly would not suffer them to put their hands into the public purse. One would fancy, to hear their complaints, that they were the only persons who suffered under such a grievance; but go where they would, he believed there was no part of this country where Dissenters were not taxed for the support of an Establishment. Look, for instance, at the churches in London, built after the great fire. As in Edinburgh, they were greatly disproportioned to the wants of the community, though there was now a Bill in another place for the removal of some of these endowments; but some of them, he believed, were supported by a tax on the coals consumed by the people; others, like the churches in Edinburgh, were supported by a house tax. That was the case with the great church of Bishopsgate: and in the city which he had the honour to represent—Coventry, a Bill was passed 150 years ago levying a house tax for the support of the church of St. Michael. With regard to the revenues of the Chapel Royal deaneries, he believed
 467
 MR. J. B. SMITH : Read what goes before.
 MR. J. B. SMITH : Not that; begin at the top of page 26.
 MR. J. B. SMITH : Yes it has.
 MR. J. B. SMITH : No, no!
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he wished to explain. The right hon. Gentleman had said that he recommended a portion of the dean's revenues should be applied to the clergy of the Canongate; but what did his Report say? "The Holyrood Palace is within the parish of Canongate—"
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, the right hon. Gentleman had read one paragraph from his draft Report, but not the whole, and therefore he thought he was entitled to set himself right with the House. His Report said—
 "The Holyrood Palace is within the parish of Canongate, but it has always been exempted from the payment of the annuity tax."
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman in the chair decided
 461
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he was anxious to state, very shortly, the grounds upon which he should vote against the second reading of the Bill. He admitted the annuity tax was a grievance, and that it was desirable some means should be taken for its abolition; but he considered that the Bill contained some provisions so objectionable, that, although they might put an end to the grievance, he could not vote for them. His right hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay) had made a most able speech in defence of a very bad Bill; but, however admirable his arguments, they could scarcely prevail in favour of such a Bill as this. The right hon. Gentleman told the House that the Church Establishment in Edinburgh was too large. That was a question for the people of Edinburgh to consider; but it was no reason why the Consolidated Fund should be called upon to pay for it. Another grievance stated by his right hon. Friend was, that the College of Justice was exempt from this tax. Well then, let the College of Justice be included. But he must object to the third portion of the Bill, for it contained two bad principles. The first was, that it rendered the Consolidated Fund liable for this payment. Now, he could see no ground why the Consolidated Fund of this country should be liable to pay for the Church in Edinburgh. When once the people of Edinburgh got their hands in the public purse, there was no telling when they would get them out again. The other principle was still more objectionable: he meant the proposal of taking the money which belonged to the revenues of the deans of the Chapel Royal. This was most objectionable, because this money was, in 1846, appropriated to a most excellent purpose, for it was then given by Royal grant to the Principal of the University of Edinburgh, and the Professor of Biblical Criticism. He (Lord Seymour) had hoped that, in future years, the Professors in other universities might have been remunerated from this fund. Any one who looked at the state of Protestant learning in this country and in Europe, would see great reason for saying that professors of biblical criticism ought to be maintained in our universities; and he was surprised that his right hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh, and the Government, who were anxious to promote
 464 465
 COLONEL BLAIR  said, he objected to the Bill, though on totally different grounds from those stated by the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. J. B. Smith), in not one of whose remarks did he concur. His objections were grounded on the broad principle that the Bill encroached on the institutions of the Church of Scotland, and on that ground he felt justified in opposing it. With regard to the reduction of the number of ministers, which formed the principal argument of the right hon. and learned Lord Advocate in favour of the Bill, he believed it could not be denied that the population of the two parishes where the reduction was to take place, the Tron and St Giles's, were the worst in the city, and to take away ministers of religion from those two churches would be to do anything rather than advance the spiritual education of the inhabitants. In these two parishes there was not a dissenting place of worship of any description. The population of Edinburgh had increased to the amount of 11,000 persons since the time that the arrangement had been made, and surely that was no reason for reducing the number of ministers of religion. In 1824 the number of the ministers was seventeen; but, it being felt that this was not large enough, the ministers themselves determined to elect another additional one, and that he also should be paid out of the fund from which they were supported—that was, that the same sum which was formerly apportioned among seventeen should for the future support eighteen ministers. It was no doubt, true that the late Government had determined to introduce a Bill on this subject; but he believed that that Bill did not contain any clause for the reduction of the number of the ministers, and that was the clause to which the Church of Scotland chiefly objected. To effect a settlement of this much-vexed question, the Church of Scotland was willing to concede many things, but never to give up what it conceived to be its rights, or to consent to do anything which should injuriously affect those who might come after. With regard to the application of the revenues of the deans of the Chapel Royal, that was a question which affected various counties in Scotland quite as much as Edinburgh; there were many, such revenues in different parts of Scotland, and cases had occurred where, in consequence of the decrease of the population in the parishes where they
 462 l. 463
 MR. BOUVERIE  said; that as one of the Members of the Committee of 1851, he approved on the whole of the general principles of the Bill, though he objected to some of its details. He quite agreed with his noble Friend who had just sat down, that it was very objectionable to implicate the Consolidated Fund in any guarantee for the payment of the ministers of Edinburgh in case of a deficiency in the tax. It might be said that the Consolidated Fund was only a conduit-pipe for the payment of the ministers; but when the Consolidated Fund was made a joint security for any payments, he was afraid the other party was very apt to slip out altogether. He did not like the name of the Consolidated Fund being introduced at all, and it was with great satisfaction, therefore, that he had heard from the Lord Advocate that he was ready to give up this part of the Bill. He also objected to that portion of the Bill which proposed to apply to the rebuilding of a church a large sum of money which had been paid by a railway company to the Corporation. It had been distinctly proved before the Committee that Trinity Church was quite unnecessary, and he thought it would be far better that that sum of 10,000 l. 466
 MR. F. SCOTT  said, he wished to call to the attention of hon. Members who had only just entered the House for the division, without having heard the discussion, that, though it had been stated this subject had been under the consideration of three successive Governments, this Bill had not been brought before the House until almost the very close of the Session. He believed that the principle of this Bill was very different from that which would have been submitted to the House by the late Government had they remained in office. [The hon. Gentleman continued to speak until four o'clock, when Mr. SPEAKER left the chair, and the House adjourned.]
 MR. COWAN  said, he thought the House was in full possession of both sides of the question, and he hoped they would at once proceed to a division, as the people of Edinburgh were exceedingly anxious to have the matter settled at once, and without delay. He concurred in the views of his right hon. Colleague in supporting the measure.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member was not confining himself strictly to explanation. The explanation ought to have reference to what had fallen from himself during the debate; but the hon. Member was replying to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman as to his conduct in a Committee of a former Session, and the propositions made in that Committee. The hon. Gentleman could not do this.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member could not reply to the right hon. Gentleman, and his explanation must be confined to the point which had been misunderstood.
 MR. MIALL  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay), that it was a great grievance that the citizens Edinburgh should be taxed for the maintenance of an Established Church three times as much as any other of the Scotch towns was taxed for the same purpose. At the same time, however, he was surprise that when the right hon. Gentleman was upon that subject, he had not perceived that the proposition of the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. J. B. Smith), to divide the present number of ministers by three, and reduce them to six instead of eighteen, was an exact remedy. The taxing of the large majority for the support of the religion of a small minority was a prominent principle in this Bill, and that was a principle which the speech of the right hon. Gentleman himself entirely condemned. Religious instruction had to be provided for
 468
 MR. HADFIELD  seconded the Amendment. He would remind the House that this provision was not an endowment provided by the piety and charity of former ages, but it was a provision under an Act of Parliament for the purpose of taxing people who were at one time of one sentiment. But now they were not; yet, with refined cruelty, the House was asked to tax all manner of Her Majesty's subjects for the support of opinions which the majority of them did not entertain. He could not but express his surprise that a measure of such a nature should receive the countenance of Her Majesty's Government. It was said that the right hon. and eloquent Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay) intended to give his support to the Bill; and curious should he be to hear from such eloquent lips a defence of it No man had more to lose in character either in that House or in the country, that the right hon. Gentleman; and he (Mr. Hadfield) would be glad to hear from him upon what grounds men were to be taxed for the support of religious doctrines which they did not believe.
 MR. JOHN M'GREGOR  said, he thought the principle of the Bill exceedingly unsound, and he had no hesitation in saying that it would excite considerable discontent in the minds of the people of Scotland. He believed, too, that that discontent would increase to such a pitch that the magistrates would in a few years find it impossible to levy the tax. He was convinced they would be laying the foundation of great injury to the Church of Scotland if they passed this Bill. When he was last in Edinburgh he had found that most of these established churches were empty; while, on the other hand, when he went to hear Dr. Guthrie or Dr. Candlish preach, their churches were quite filled. He disliked discussions of religious subjects in that House; but discussions of religious establishments did more injury to the establishments themselves than any other single thing.
 The LORD ADVOCATE,  in moving the Second Reading, said, that this Bill was introduced by the Government with a view to the settlement of a very troublesome local question. Undoubtedly it was a local question, but at the same time it was a question of that class and character which might very fairly form a subject for the consideration of the Government and of Parliament. It had been a subject of inquiry on the part of the previous Administration, and by a Select Committee of that House. Two different Administrations had brought in Bills with respect to it, and this Bill which he now asked a second reading for, in the most material points, was exactly the same as the Bill handed to him by his predecessor in office. It was not difficult to see why the Government thought this question deserving serious consideration. The annuity tax was a tax imposed on the house property of Edinburgh for the support of the clergy of Edinburgh. It was imposed in its present shape as early as the year 1661, or even previous to that date, upon the owners of house property in Edinburgh, for the support of the clergy of Edinburgh, and amounted to a tax of 6 per cent on the rentals. At the time the tax was imposed, the city of Edinburgh was deprived of a considerable
 441 442 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. 443 l. l. 444 445 l. l. l. 446
 MR. MACAULAY : Sir, the hon. Gentleman must expect to hear nothing that deserves the name of eloquence from me; but I think I may venture to hope that, in a very few words, I shall be able to put this question in the light in which I wish it to stand before the House and before my constituents. I should have thought the speech of the hon. Gentleman who move the Amendment had been intended as a
 452 453 l.; l. l.; l.; l. l. l., l. l. 454 l. l. d. 455 l. 456 457 l. l.
 MR. MACAULAY : I think the hon. Gentleman had better wait. What I have stated is in his own Report. There it is in print. The hon. Gentleman, I say, did propose that a portion of the revenues of the deaneries of the Chapel Royal should be applied to the support of the ministers. I say that to every one of the principles of this Bill—for these are the three principles of it—the hon. Gentleman has distinctly given his sanction, in the most formal manner, though not in his speech. This is not like bringing out  Hansard 458 "Your Committee are of opinion that it would be desirable to abolish the Annuity Tax in the Canongate; and as soon as there be funds available, by the decease of the present deans of the Chapel Royal, that there be appropriated out of the deans' revenues a sum equal to the payment of the present stipends of the two existing ministers; and that upon the decease of either there shall be only one minister, to whom an annual stipend of 400 l.
 MR. MACAULAY : But is that a question of principle? Has the hon. Gentleman been a Member of this House so long and he does not know that the difference between three and six is not a question of principle? What I say, is, that the hon. Gentleman, in every point of the Report that he proposed, affirmed the principle of this Bill. He affirmed the reduction of the number of ministers; he affirmed the abolition of the privilege of the College of Justice; be affirmed the principle of applying the whole or part of the revenues of the deaneries of the Chapel Royal.
 MR. MACAULAY : What! Does the hon. Gentleman mean to say he does not recommend the application of any portion of the revenues of the deans of the Chapel Royal to the support of the ministers of the Canongate? Is he not in favour of abolishing the privilege of the College of Justice? Is he not for reducing the number of ministers in Edinburgh? Was it ever heard of, Sir, that when a grievance was allowed to exist, when three remedies for it were proposed, when everybody was agreed that they were just remedies, and when the only difference was about the amount—one recommending one sum, and one another—that whether you should take 400 l., l., l., l. 460
 MR. MACAULAY : But I am speaking of this proposition:—
 "Your Committee are of opinion that it would be desirable to abolish the Annuity Tax in the Canongate; and as soon as there be funds available, by the decease of the present deans of the Chapel Royal, that there be appropriated out of the dean's revenues a sum equal to the payment of the present stipends." 459
 MR. MACAULAY : Very well. "Your Committee have heard the evidence of the minister, the town clerk, and the treasurer of Canongate." The hon. Gentleman may read it, but it has nothing to do with the question.
 MR. MACAULAY : Yes. "There shall be appropriated out of the dean's revenues a sum"—
 SIR ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL  said, he had concluded to vote against the second reading of this Bill, though he entirely differed from all that had fallen from the hon. Member for Stockport. He was quite it a loss to understand what had influenced his hon. friend the Member for Ayrshire (Col. Blair) to vote in favour of this Bill, apposed as he had been to the details of it, except that it was from a fear of identifying himself with the views expressed by the hon. Member for Stockport, and those around him. He himself, however, had no such delicacy, and he should go into the lobby with those hon. Gentlemen, perfectly assured that no one who knew him would ever suspect him of being opposed to the principle of a Church Establishment. He objected to the details of the Bill, as well as
 469 l.
 MR. HUME  was not one who would be suspected by the noble Lord of changing his vote without some very good reason; but he begged to say he was a better friend of the attorneys than the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, for he did not think it would promote their cause to attribute motives to Members acting to the best of their powers in the discharge of their duties. He believed the noble Lord had been perfectly sincere in his desire to procure the abolition of this duty. He (Mr. Hume) had always been of opinion that the whole system of licences should be taken into consideration. He objected entirely to every description of partial legislation, and thought it equally unjust to relieve one class, and to leave another burdened; but in that House almost every measure was a compromise, and both those who advocated particular reductions, and the Government who had to administer the public money, were called on to consider all the circumstances that might bear upon each case. He had supported throughout the general plan of the Government as exhibited in the Budget, because he thought that in the end it would lead to further relief from taxation; and if he voted for the Bill now before the House, he would be acting contrary to the understanding which he had hitherto gone upon. Whatever might have been done on other occasions with respect to this tax, the circumstances were now entirely altered. ["Hear, hear!"] Did those Gentlemen who
 479
 MR. C. BERKELEY  asked whether the noble Lord would name a day for re-resuming the debate?
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  observed, that according to the view of this question taken by the hon. Baronet (Sir J. Tyrell), all seminaries in which young ladies of the Roman Catholic religion were educated, ought to be open to unintroduced visitors. Now, he (Mr. Fitzgerald) would ask whether it would be tolerated that the officers attached to the camp at Chobham should visit, without introduction, the ladies' schools in that neighbourhood—for ho thought the one proposition was quite as reasonable as the other. The hon. Member for West Surrey had referred to the case of Mr. Conolly; but it must be remembered that Mr. Conolly, after embracing the Roman Catholic religion, induced his wife to become a nun, and when he again professed Protestantism he endeavoured to force his wife to leave the convent, which she refused to do. With regard to the allusion of the hon. Member for West Surrey to the Portuguese nunneries, he (Mr. Fitzgerald) might inform the House that in Portugal conventual vows could be taken for only one year. The hon. and learned Member for Ennis-
 509 l. l. 510 511 Evidences of Christianity, d.;
 LORD ROBERT GROSVENOR,  having presented a number of petitions in favour of the measure, said, that under ordinary circumstances he should have contented himself with moving the second reading of the Bill; but, as a good deal had passed which had a bearing on the subject since the Bill was read a first time, and he was placed in a very peculiar situation, he requested the indulgence of the House for a short time, while he stated the course it was intended to take. The present was a dangerous moment; it was already the 20th of July—many friends of the Bill were absent; and, among other discouraging remarks made around him, it was said that the friends of the Government ought to regard the Budget as a whole, and not take exceptions to particular items; that, as larger matters had been gained, smaller ought to go unnoticed; and that gratitude was due to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the financial scheme which he had laid before the House at a moment of unusual difficulty, and when a false step in financial matters might have been attended with serious consequences. But he asked the House to recollect that he had postponed the second reading of this Bill from time to time, in order to avoid embarrassing the Government, and in the hope that something would be done for the parties he represented; and certainly, if he had been called upon at an earlier period of the Session to state whether he ought to ask for a decision of the House on the Bill, though he would still have continued to entertain a strong opinion on the question, yet he would have shrunk from the task he had undertaken. The House, however, should remember that the financial measure of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had, since he brought this question forward, been subjected to the ordeal to which all
 476 mollia tempora fandi totus teres atque rotundus, l. l. l. l. 477
 MR. FREWEN  would also object to the second reading. One of the penalties was 5 l.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  hoped, that as this was a subject which excited great interest, the Government would allow the debate to be proceeded with on an early day.
 MR. SPEAKER : That Motion falls to the ground, and that question cannot now be entertained.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Order of the Day on the 22nd June was, that the Bill be read a second time; to which an Amendment was moved to leave out all the words after the word "that," for the purpose of inserting the Amendment of the hon. and learned Member for Bath. The House divided on the Question, That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the Question, and they came to the decision that the words do not stand part of the Question; then the word "that" stood by itself, and the question left to be decided was, whether the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Bath should be added; and that was the question now before the House.
 MR. C. O'BRIEN  considered that the promoters and supporters of the measure were actuated by different motives from those which they had avowed, and had been pushed on by parties out of doors in a spirit of vindictiveness, inspired by the violent schism which was raging within the Protestant Church. The hon. Member for Enniskillen (Mr. Whiteside) said that the cases brought forward only proved that the law of the land as it existed had been found sufficient to meet anything like duresse in regard to the execution of deeds. The measure before the House was insulting to Roman Catholic gentlemen, assuming as it did that they would not protect their own relatives. They ought not to legislate for a state of society which existed four or five hundred years ago, or such as might now exist in Spain or Portugal; their legislation ought to be of a more practical character. If the hon. Gentleman wished to conciliate Roman Catholics, and convince them of the error of their ways, this was not the way to do it, but rather to set a good example. He regarded, in fact, the measure not so much an attack upon Popery as upon the Puseyism of the English Church. Now, he was not there to defend the conduct of any one receiving the revenues of a Church, the doctrines of which they did not honestly profess; but he thought that, instead of venting their spleen upon inoffensive ladies of another communion, it would be more consistent if hon. Gentlemen would call a council or convocation, and ascertain what were really the doctrines of their Church,
 506
 MR. ROCHE  said, that the somewhat eccentric reasoning of the hon. Member for West Surrey, and the embittered declamation of the hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen, had neither of them detracted from the extreme pleasure with which he had listened to the liberal and Christian speech of the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire (Mr. E. Ball). If Ireland had always been legislated for in the spirit of that speech, he was sure that country would at this moment have been more tranquil, more loyal, and less disaffected, than it was, and that this country would have raised its name for strict justice and impartiality in its legislation. The hon. and learned Member for Enniskillen had cited cases for the purpose of showing that great abuses took place in convents; but these very cases proved that the present state of the law was sufficient for meeting these abuses, for successive Lord Chancellors had quashed deeds which appeared to have been made by persons under undue restraints in convents. The hon. and learned Gentleman also, by way of tranquillising his Catholic fellow-countrymen, had declared generally that the Catholic Church was hostile to liberty all over the world; but when he came to particulars, what did he lay hold of? He laid hold of the college question; and, because certain Roman Catholic ecclesiastics were opposed to the new colleges
 507
 MR. E. BALL  said, that throughout his life he had been endeavouring to understand something of religion; and, if he knew anything at all upon the subject, he should say that its chief feature was charity, and he felt that he should best carry out the religious feelings and principles which he entertained by extending that charity to those who differed from him in faith. When he came forward as a candidate for the representation of Cambridgeshire, it was very natural that his religious opinions should be made the subject of considerable discussion. For those opinions he had Suffered through life; and he thought it better and more straightforward to state in his Address that he was a Dissenter although he was at the same time strongly attached to the principle of the Established Church, and that he would never, in his place in Parliament, consent to give a vote by which the maintenance of the Established Church in this country should be perilled or its rights infringed upon. He still retained the principles which he then enunciated, and his intention was to cam those principles most rigidly into practice. That being the case, he felt bound to ask himself with reference to the question before the House, whether, in the course which he was about to take with respect to it, those principles were involved. The religious liberty which he claimed for himself, he believed he ought to extend to others; and when he was asked to do that which must be offensive to a large body of his fellow Christians, he felt called upon to inquire whether any facts had been laid before the House which would justify such a proceeding. He had heard hon. Gentlemen allege upon previous occasions that there were many instances upon record which tended to demonstrate that consequences the most deplorable arose from
 492 493 494 495
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridgeshire (Mr. E. Ball) that when he smiled at some of his observations, he did not do so because he was not as well inclined as the hon. Gentleman himself to be serious upon a serious subject, but he did so in consequence of the  naïveté "Ah! the good saint little knew,
What the wily sex can do." 501 502 503 Evidences Christianity. 504 505
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that neither the hon. Member for Carlow (Mr. J. Ball) nor the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, had, in his opinion, addressed themselves at all to that which was the real question before the House. The hon. Member for Carlow had pronounced a glowing panegyric upon the conventual establishments of Europe. But the merits of those establishments was not the question they had met to consider; and if it were, he (Mr. Whiteside) should claim his right to express the opinion which he entertained with respect to them. He believed that in proportion to their number, their wealth, and their influence in any country, in precisely the same proportion was human liberty crushed, the progress of knowledge resisted, and the march of human improvement impeded. But that was not the question which they were then called upon to discuss. The real question was, according to his idea, to consider whether any and what measures are necessary for the prevention of the exercise of undue influence in procuring the alienation of property of persons in conventual establishments; and he should, therefore, abstain from making any further observations upon a topic which must be deemed irrelevant to the subject-matter of debate. He had no intention whatever to raise upon that occasion a No-Popery cry; and he perfectly agreed with those hon. Members who said that interference in the regulation of monastic establishments, for the mere sake of interference, would be unjustifiable, and ought to be resisted. Facts, however, tended to justify that interference; and the House was bound to exercise that control with respect to convents which it maintained and put into execution in other cases. Was it not true that the laws of England gave security to a married woman when called upon to execute a deed conveying her property to an-
 496 497 l. l. 498 499 500 A cry of "No!"
 MR. J. BALL  said, he was glad to find that the discussion was not to turn on the second reading of a Bill which had been rejected and renounced by those who had formerly supported it. [An Hon. MEMBER: No, no!] He believed that the hon. Member who cried "no" was one of those who had voted against the second reading. It was difficult to find a Bill based on more false pretences. The hon. Member (Mr. T. Chambers) who had introduced it, called himself a Liberal, and yet he was doing the work of hon. Gentlemen opposite—the old friends of intolerance. He would admit that the Roman Catholics had nothing to complain of in the remarks made by the hon. and learned Member for Bath (Mr. Phinn); but he hoped the House would permit him to make a few observations in opposition to the Amendment proposed by that hon. and learned Gentleman. He objected to the
 486 Nunnery Question, "Perhaps there is nothing grander on earth than the sacrifice which is made by the delicate sex of beauty, of youth, often of high birth, in order to relieve in the hospitals that collection of all human miseries which is so humiliating to our pride, and so revolting to our refinement." "The nations who are separated from the Roman communion have but imperfectly imitated so generous a charity." "Every one who has been in Catholic countries, must have heard of and seen these Sisters at their various works of charity and mercy—educating the young, nursing the sick, feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, harbouring the homeless, imparting religion to improve the good and restore the bad; and all with that utter self abnegation, and self-devotion, and with that earnestness, tenderness and patience, which can only spring from the profoundest conviction, that, in so labouring, they are fulfilling God's win as revealed to man." 487 "And your Petitioners desire to state, that in their opinion the existence of monasteries and nunneries is utterly inconsistent with the constitutional principles of a free and Protestant country, and that facts prove them to be highly injurious in practice." 488 "Popery the Enemy of God and Man." "Popery like Paganism." "Popery unchanged." "Popish Bigotry." "Fifth of November" "No Popery." "Awful Perjury." "The Popish Creed." "Awful Guilt of the Roman Bishops." "Idolatry of the late Pope, Gregory XVI." Bulwark. 489 490 "A great drawback has hitherto frustrated all our efforts, and if it still continues, will be fatal to our plans. We refer to the state of the funds of Protestant Associations. With a few exceptions, the sums contributed have been so small that Protestants have been prevented from embarking in many hopeful undertakings, simply by the dread of pecuniary embarrassment." "Although the Anti-Popish struggle embraces every other, and must decide the fate of all churches and missions, as well as of every private interest, it is painful to think how little has hitherto been contributed towards its support, and how many of its publications and enterprises have gone down or languished, simply, from a total want of the necessary funds. "Let us not have our prayers for the downfall of Babylon turned into mockery, by being placed in contrast with paltry and. inadequate contributions." Fellow Christians! an awful responsibility rests now on you. Join our associations; distribute our tracts; circulate our periodicals; contribute of your means: and let there be no delay." "To circulate monthly information by means of tracts, and especially of the  Bulwark, Bulwark. "To form libraries for the especial instruction of females in the Popish controversy and struggle. Lastly, to raise funds for all these objects." 491
 MR. BRADY  said, the disease was the occasion of frightful ravages among the population, and any well-considered measure, having for its object to mitigate that scourge, would be received with gratitude and favour by the public. But the present measure, however well intended, was inadequate to carry out its object—it was not a compulsory measure that was required, but one which should meet the sympathies of the people, and which the people would assist in carrying out. He thought that the practice of placing vaccination under contract was injudicious, inasmuch as it made the medical profession lukewarm on the subject. As long as the Poor Law Board had the making of these contracts, so long would mischief exist.
 474
 MR. MAGUIRE  was one of those who voted in the chance divisions on the Motion of the Member for Manchester, which had been alluded to; but he had not spoken on the question of the repeal of the advertisement duty, as it might have appeared that he was influenced by personal motives. If he was influenced by mere personal motives, he should now vote against the Motion of the noble Lord; but he should not do so, and he had stronger reasons than ever for taking that course since the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that the attorneys were bred up to pay this tax. But, at least, they were not bred up to pay the income tax. The recent law reforms had cut down their business and their profits, and they were, therefore, more entitled to this indulgence than before.
 MR. MURROUGH  said, he had come down to the House labouring under a profound and unalterable conviction that he was about to record his vote in favour of one of those political shams of which this Session had been so fruitful. The noble Lord the Member for Middlesex had taunted the right hon. Gentleman the Member for
 478
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  must say, he sympathised very much with the pain which the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Murrough) suffered on account of the vote he was about to give; but he would respectfully suggest to him that he might very easily spare himself that pain by not giving it. There were two motives on which men generally acted—the one was from duty, the other was from pleasure. The hon. Member, it was plain, was not going to act for the purpose of duty, for he said he was about to vote for a political sham, neither was he going to vote for the purpose of pleasure, for he said it was painful to his feelings to vote for the Motion. Perhaps he would pardon him for offering a suggestion, that, in these circumstances, he would be acting entirely in accordance with the dictates of his conscience if he removed himself from the House altogether. But he must be allowed to say he thought the hon. Member had entirely mistaken the motives and character of his noble Friend's conduct. His noble Friend, at his suggestion, agreed to take the division on the second reading of the Bill; but it was not at all true that his noble Friend by that agreement in any way put an advantage into his hands. If he had done so, the hon. Member would have had a right to complain, or at least would have had some colour of complaint; but the hon. Member was perhaps not aware, that, this being a case of reduction of duty, it was not necessary to introduce it by a preliminary Resolution at all, and that, by not opposing his (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) Resolution, his noble Friend did not lose his right to introduce a Bill to take away the duty altogether. It was, therefore, a mere matter of courtesy that led to any arrangement between them. If it had not been for the attack just made by the hon. Member opposite, he should have been disposed to take up his noble Friend from an opposite point of view, and to compliment him for the tenacity—he would say the chivalrous tenacity—with which he had taken up the cause of this unfortunate and
 480 l. 481 l. 482 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 483
 MR. EWART  said, he was one of these who supported the repeal of the advertisement duty, and also the repeal of the duty on attorneys' certificates; but as he had to choose between the two duties, he could not hesitate to elect the repeal of the advertisement duty, which affected all classes of the community, believing that he should, by so doing, best discharge his duty to his constituents and the country.
 MR. BOWYER  wished to ask time opinion of the Speaker with regard to the form
 485
 MR. BOWYER : Then my Motion, "That the Bill be read a second time that day six months," falls to the ground.
 SIR GEORGE STRICKLAND  rose to object to the principle of the Bill. He thought the House went too far in compulsory legislation; and he was always a friend to the voluntary system whenever it was possible. The right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) had himself given the strongest reason why this Bill ought not to pass. The right hon. Baronet had shown that vaccination, as at present carried out, had already worked well, because it had reduced the mortality from smallpox from 116 to 16 in every 1,000. But the right hon. Gentleman wished to disturb the present good arrangement because some mothers had an objection to the operation. With the advance of education the small-pox would almost be rooted out, if vaccination were left to the voluntary principle. But there was too much resort to compulsion. One little measure was taken from Saxony, another from Austria, another from Prussia. There could not be one law for the rich, and another for the poor. The mother must be compelled to vaccinate; but in a rich man's house that was impossible. The House was going to force every one to give up prejudices against vaccination. If they acted more on the old English principle, and left people to the voluntary principle and to their
 475
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  moved the Second Reading of the Vaccination Extension Bill, and said that in addition to its claim to consideration derived from the passage of the Bill through the other House of Parliament, it was entitled to it also on the ground that it provided further security for protecting the people from the ravages of disease. The voluntary system had been found insufficient as a preventive of small-pox; and the principle of the Bill, therefore, was compulsory—and it was upon that principle that the Bill had been introduced into the House of Lords by a noble Friend of his (Lord Lyttelton); and, having been affirmed by that branch of the Legislature, it had now come down for the assent of the House of Commons. The report of the vaccination committee of the Epidemicological Society was the basis on which he founded his support of the measure. By this report it appeared that in periods of ten years previous, and ten years subsequent, to the discovery of vaccination, deaths in every thousand were as follows: namely, from 1760 to 1770, 108—from 1780 to 1790, 87; while from 1800 to 1810 they were 64, and from 1840 to 1850 they were only 16. These numbers related only to the bills of mortality. On the Continent of Europe, in twenty towns, the average previous to the introduction of compulsory vaccination was sixty-six and a fraction in a thousand, while subsequently the deaths fell to seven in a thousand. In almost all the countries of Europe vaccination was compulsory, with the exception of England and France. In some it was direct, by means of a fine; in others indirect, by subjecting the people to civil pressure by the deprival of some municipal and civil rights. The result of the system in England was, that from 1831 to 1841 the deaths averaged as follows:—
 
 
 London 10 in 1000 
 Glasgow 37 in 1000 
 All Ireland 49 in 1000 
 Connaught 60 in 1000 
 All England and Wales 21 in 1000 471 
 
 Saxony 8 and a fraction in 1000 
 Lombardy and Bohemia 2 and a fraction in 1000 
 
 1844–45 100 to 156 
 45–46 100 to 134 472 1847–48 born 700,000, vaccinated 400,000 s. d.
 SIR JOHN TYRELL  said, the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire, no doubt, deemed himself an authority on this question, having lately made a tour of inspection of nunneries. But it was desirable that this question should be decided on
 508
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the debate would remain in precisely the same position as if it had gone on until six o'clock, when the House must, necessarily, have adjourned.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  observed, that as there was some other business upon the paper, he thought, considering the short time that remained for its transaction, the best course would be to adjourn the debate. He, therefore, begged to move that the debate be adjourned.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that small-pox was undoubtedly one of the greatest scourges that afflicted the human race; but the success of the measures of precaution which had been taken against it, exhibited in a striking manner how foresight and prudence might mitigate such evils. He thought the right hon. Baronet had produced irrefragable proof that some measure such as was involved in the principle of this Bill was requisite for the
 473
 MR. HUME  said, he had been in the first instance intrusted with the presentation of this petition, but had induced the petitioners, after consultation with Mr. Speaker, to consent to its postponement till after the Committee had decided upon the first election. The petition now came after that election had been disposed of and a new election had taken place, and he thought it ought to be entertained by the House. This, in his opinion, was not a petition against Lord Fitzwilliam, but against certain practices in that borough,
 548
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he admitted that Earl Fitzwilliam was entitled to ask that these heavy charges should not be left banging over him until next Session; but at the same time he must express the decided opinion that this petition had been designed to prejudice the inquiry before the Election Committee, finding, as he did, from the journals, that Mr. Whalley, having been unseated on the 8th of June, and returned again to the House on the 27th, was petitioned against on the same day; whereas
 556
 MR. HUME  said, that the object of the hon. Gentleman (Sir H. Maddock) was merely to carry out in another form the proposal which he (Mr. Hume) made to the Committee the other night and which was then rejected, namely, to admit two natives as members of the Legislative Council. He considered that they were bound to respect the religious prejudices of the natives; and although the Government had refused to allow a Hindoo or a Mahometan to sit in the Council, it was only just that they should declare that the legislation of the Government of India under this new charter was not to be contrary to their religious prejudices and national habits. He thought that they had treated India with insult, by not admitting natives into the Council, particularly after the statement with regard to their fitness made by the hon. Member for Rochester (Sir H. Maddock). He feared the time would come, if they went on legislating against the prejudices and feelings of the natives of India, when the words of the hon. Member would be realised, and that you would not be able to keep them down by the sword. He should support the Amendment.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he objected to the preamble of the clause, as being calculated to convey an inaccurate view of the circumstances which had taken place with regard to the late Indian Law Commission. The preamble stated, that—
 "Whereas the Indian Law Commissioners, from time to time appointed under the said Act, have, in a series of Reports, recommended extensive alterations in the judicial establishments, judicial procedure, and laws established and in force in India, and have set forth in detail the provisions which they have proposed to be established by law for giving effect to certain of their recommendations, and such reports have been transmitted from time to time to the said Court of Directors;
 560 "The Act of Parliament which created those offices requires that new
appointments should be made as vacancies arise, and it is only by another Act that this obligation can be suspended." "If it be intended to submit to Parliament the abolition of the fourth member of Council, we see no objection to postponing the appointment till the sense of Parliament be taken." "It is probable that an application will be made to Parliament at an early period of next Session for authority to put an end to this commission. In the meanwhile we desire you will not fill up any vacancy which may occur."
 MR. HUME  said, that the Indian Law Commissioners had made a series of reports, in which they recommended extensive alterations in the laws and judicial system of India, and their reports had been transmitted from time to time to the Court of Directors. But, in the words of the preamble to this clause, "in the greater part of such reports and recommendations no final decision has been had." The reports of the Commissioners were here brought home to the Directors; and it was here that explanation was desired. Why had not the Directors attended to those reports? The truth was, the Law Commission had, to a great extent, been a failure; and the Court of Directors were now called upon to excuse themselves from blame, if they could.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  wished to know what reason there was for supposing that this clause would have any greater effect than the corresponding clause of the Act of 1833?
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he had no desire to throw impediments in the way of improving the law; but he must say, when the right hon. Baronet used the words "delay" and "disappointment," that there had been a deliberate breach and violation of the Act. The right hon. Gentleman would let this charge go by default. His object, however, was answered in having made the charge, and in seeing the hon. Member for Guildford (Mr. Mangles), and the hon. Member for Honiton (Sir J. W. Hogg), sit by without answering it.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, the hon. Member for Honiton told them the fifth member of the Legislative Council had been always appointed, but that the subordinate members of the Law Commission had been discontinued. That was precisely the charge he brought.
 MR. HUME  said, he must remind hon. Members that all the evidence that had been taken by the Committee upstairs proved that when attempts had been made to assimilate the laws of England and of India, those attempts had invariably failed.
 MR. HUME  said, he was of opinion, that to subject the Court of Directors to the supervision of the Board of Control in a matter of this nature, would degrade them in public estimation.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he took the same view of the clause, and at the same time he must declare his inability to discover a reason for what appeared to be a gratuitous insult to the Court of Directors. If the Directors were to be intrusted with power at all, surely they should be allowed to appoint their legal officer.
 SIR JOHN FITZGERALD  said, he thought there ought to be a check to the power of the Court of Directors in these appointments; he was aware of a case in which Sir James Grant, who had agreed with a predecessor of his in allowing an appeal by a native to a supreme Court, was superseded, and the Advocate General was appointed in his stead.
 MR. HUME  said, he was glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman's explanation, because the exclusion from the supreme command had long been felt by the officers of the Indian army to be a stigma upon them. They had great cause to complain of the situation in which they had been placed in this respect. In the Affghan war some of the officers of the Indian army had conducted themselves in a manner which would have been creditable to any service. They wanted a little more reform in the appointments in India, and if they had made more use of the Company's officers than they had done, they would not witness such proceedings as were now taking place in India. He would not say anything of Bombay, for he believed there was a great deal of talent there; but, looking to Bengal and Madras, he thought the time was come when some of the officers should be relieved from their commands.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he would suggest that the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman should be embodied in words and added to the clause, for he himself had certainly understood that the effect of the clause would be to exclude the Company's officers.
 MR. HUME  wished to know whether the Government were prepared with the alterations so much desired with regard to furloughs. The present system was a great grievance in the Indian army, and many officers suffered considerably through not being allowed to come to England on sick leave, though they might go to Australia and the Cape.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he begged to ask what the right hon. Gentleman intended to do with regard to the salaries of the Directors? He thought the original salary of 500 l.
 MR. HUME  wished to know if any re-
 572
 LORD STANLEY  said, he had no objection to the reduction of salaries; but he thought it was rather extraordinary, when they reduced the Commander in Chief's salary that they did not also reduce the Governor General's salary. By reducing one without the other, they increased the disproportion between the salary of the Governor General and the officer next highest to him in rank.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to know of what use Haileybury College would be if this new system were adopted? Was it to be supposed that the pupils, after acquiring all the learning which procured their admission, could learn anything more at Haileybury? He would submit to the Government that, having every testimony that they possessed the having civil servants of any public establishment ever known, why should they run the risk of destroying such an excellent body of men? He would suggest that, by way of a trial, one-third or one-half should be admitted by competition, and the remainder from Haileybury, by which means both plans would be tested, and the merits of each fairly ascertained. As to Addiscombe, he thought that touching that was the rashest act which could be done. No seminary had turned out so many excellent and superior men as Addiscombe. He would therefore move as an Amendment to be added to this clause:—
 LORD STANLEY  said, he would remind the hon. Member that that question would come before the Committee upon the discussion of the next clause. The present clause only said that from the passing of the Act all appointments to Haileybury and Addiscombe should cease, and he held himself free to object to the details by which it was now proposed to carry out the plan.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  admitted that it might be desirable to try the system of competition, but he was not prepared to adopt the system of competition absolutely. He considered that nothing could be better than the plan pursued at Addiscombe, where the pupils, after three years' study, underwent an examination, and those who most distinguished themselves were appointed to the Artillery and Engineers. The consequence was, that those departments of the military service of the East India Company were at least equal, if not superior, to any other similar services in the world.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he entertained a strong objection to the appointment of the Committee at the present time, and thought the matter might be much more effectually and satisfactorily inquired into in another Session. He was not at all responsible for the precedent which had been referred to, for he protested against the appointment of the Derby Committee, because the appointment of a Committee under the Grenville Act, and the appointment of another Committee at the same time, to make a loose kind of inquiry, was very likely to interfere with the administration of justice. In the Derby case, the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) advocated immediate inquiry, on the ground that there was an accusation against a Minister of the Crown holding a seat in the House of Commons. It had been said that this case was not like the Durham case, in which case the petition was presented for the purpose of stifling an inquiry into the election, He was willing to believe that to be the fact; but if a precedent should now be set, it was impossible to say what might occur in other cases. He thought it better to adhere to the ordinary rule, and not allow anything to interfere with the inquiry under the Grenville Act; and therefore he could not consent to the Motion.
 MR. ELLIOT  said, he thought that if an increase in the salary were not made, it would be impossible to obtain proper men to fill the office now that they had taken from it all other inducements.
 MR. ELLIOT  begged to ask the hon. Member for Manchester whether he would give up the names of the parties to whom he had referred; or whether, by concealing them, he would make himself a party to the charge?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he begged to ask the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, as it had been stated by the Government that a great number of British merchant ships are detained in the Danube in consequence of the state of that river, which had been produced by the neglect of the Government of Russia to discharge that which had been described by a Minister of the Crown as a great duty owed by Russia to Europe; and, as great loss must be occasioned to British merchants by the detention of those ships, whether Government would demand from the Czar compensation to those merchants for the loss inflicted upon them by the culpable neglect of the Russian Government; also, as it had been stated by the Government that repeated representations have been made to the Government of Russia respecting the interruption of the navigation of the Danube, whether the noble Lord would have any objection to lay upon the table of the House copies of the correspondence on the subject?
 LORD HARRY VANE  said, notwithstanding the speech of the hon. Member for Manchester, he still entertained very great objections to the course now recommended to the House. It might be desirable that inquiry should some time or other be instituted into the allegations that had been brought forward; but when there was a petition at this moment pending be-
 547
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he doubted whether merchants would have any claim for compensation on the ground stated by the noble Lord, because, although the Russian Government had not taken proper precautions respecting the navigation of the Danube—which we had a right to expect from it—yet natural causes had very much tended to obstruct the navigation of that river. An accumulation of mud had accrued at the mouth of the river, which had caused the waters to overflow the banks and inundate the country for several miles
 544
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I think, Sir the House was perfectly right in agreeing the other night, to appoint a Committee upon this subject. It is my opinion, that when you have a body of electors, or the inhabitants of a borough, complaining of acts of intimidation, and acts of bribery and treating, which prevent freedom of election, it is proper—unless there may be some impropriety in regard to the point of time—that the House should open its doors wide for the purpose of such inquiry I have always maintained that opinion, and have stated it when various Motions were brought before this House at different times. It is, undoubtedly, a very great inconvenience if the appointment of a Committee of this kind is found to interfere with that which is, in fact, the regular administration of justice under an Act of Parliament; and, I am sorry to say, that I cannot but think the House has been placed in the difficulty in which it finds itself upon the present occasion by the conduct of these petitioners. It is quite true, no doubt, that when the former election petition was before the House, it would not have been proper to have brought this petition forward, and to have asked us to appoint a Select Committee upon the subject to which it refers. But that Election Committee came to an end—they unseated the sitting Member—and it was then competent for those who, as I am told, had had the petition for many weeks in their possession, to present it to the House, and it was equally competent for the House some weeks ago to have entered upon this inquiry, and to have appointed the Committee now sought for. Instead of that, I know not whether this petition or the petition against the return of the sitting Member was presented first; at all events, they were presented nearly at the same time and this petition is brought under the consideration of the House at the moment that the election petition is about to be investigated in the due course of law. Undoubtedly, therefore, the petitioners do place this House in a considerable difficulty owing to the course they have pursued. The sitting Member has taken the blame upon himself, but he has given us no reason for his conduct upon that occasion,
 554
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I thought the right hon. Gentleman could not intend to assert that the Election Committee should be precluded from inquiring into all the allegations contained in the petition. However that may be, it is not probable that the Election Committee, having decided the first and main point in the petition, would require to go into the other inquiry; so that we are not likely to have two inquiries into the same subject going on at the same time. The Election Committee will have to consider the question of qualification or disqualification of the sitting Member; but this Committee is to inquire into an entirely different subject. What is the subject upon which this inquiry is asked? I very much agree with my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) in what he stated to the House; and, although we have certain Resolutions upon our books, I have always stated, that, in my opinion, there is no difference between an interference by a Peer and an interference by a Commoner; but I think that any gross interference with the freedom of election, whether by a Peer or a Commoner, should be made the subject of
 555
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he would state the opinions of the Government on that subject to-morrow.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had no wish to support any course which would meet the views just advocated by the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Roche), who distinctly stated that he valued the clause because it would cause a scramble amongst the Irish Bar for appointments. If the Scotch and English put forward similar claims, as they had a right to do, the scramble for patronage would be on a most extensive scale. He never heard a clause so weakly supported as the present was. If the appointments were vested in the Board of Control, the right hon. Gentleman would be subject to continual pressure on account of them. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman, in whatever view he might regard those appointments, as they concerned himself, would endeavour to relieve his successors from the odium that must attach to them in respect to those appointments.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the sole object of this clause was to remove the
 571
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, with regard to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Tipperary (Mr. F. Scully), he could state that two, if not three, of the gentlemen mentioned by the hon. Baronet (Sir J. W. Hogg) as having received the appointment were Irishmen. There was not the least wish, on the part of the Government, to keep this appointment in their hands; on the contrary, they left it to the Court of the Directors, subject only to the approbation and control of the Government. The sole object they had in view in this as in all other cases where the approbation of the Crown was made a condition of appointments, was to secure that the Court of Directors should make a proper selection.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the object of the clause was to guard agaist the possibility of an improper appointment; at the same time he attached no great importance to it.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the absence of the Governor General and the Commander in Chief must always depend upon circumstances; they often did more service to the country while absent from the seat of Government than they could have done had they remained there. He believed that the Governor General rather lost than gained by his absence.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  was understood to say that the only time to raise that discussion would be when a clause was brought up with reference to the subject.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he thought it would be exceedingly undesirable to make any legislative provision on the subject. It had better be left to be settled by regulations from the home authorities.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that having first proposed 500 l, l.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, there would be no such exclusion; it would be perfectly competent for Her Majesty to appoint a Company's officer Commander in Chief of Her forces, and consequently Commander in Chief of the Indian army.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that all salaries, without exception, were paid in Company's rupees.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he did not profess to know what had taken place ten years ago, and he did not think it wise to waste the time of the Committee in discussing by-past events of that kind. What they had to do now was, to provide for the future government of India; and
 561
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he feared that the progross of the Bill would not be facilitated by bringing charges against the Directors for what they had done ten years ago.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, by stating, that the reports of the Commissioners would be transmitted to the Indian Government for its consideration, with power to amend and adopt their suggestions.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he admitted that there had been great delay and disappointment in connexion with the late
 562
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he thought it desirable to keep the questions relating to the two establishments distinct, and he should now only address himself to the case of Haileybury College. In doing so, he did not think it necessary to add much to what had already fallen from the right hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay), whose statement was confirmed by all experience, that those persons who distinguished themselves early in life generally occupied prominent stations in after life. By the proposed system the persons admitted to Haileybury College would be in every respect as good as those admitted now by the nomination of the Directors, and there would be this additional advantage, that they would have proved their superiority in point of intellect. Admitting the efficiency of the Indian service, he still saw no reason why it ahould not be improved, and he could not see any reason why they should not take every possible means of insuring the best men for the responsible situations which had to be filled.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : So he might, but he would gain nothing by it personally.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he wished the subject of civil and military appointments to to be considered separately; and he was anxious now to take a division upon the question whether the appointments to Haileybury should be open to competition or not. He fully admitted the importance of this subject, and if it was the wish of the Committee he would not object to reporting progress.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was quite ready to take a division upon the question of competition with regard to Haileybury, and then to consent that progress should be reported.
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  said, that the General Committee of Elections yesterday proceeded with the appointment of the Members to consider the last return for the borough of Peterborough, and though, undoubtedly, the main point was one of law, the petitioners nevertheless took wider ground, and claimed for themselves, if they did not receive a favourable solution of that point, the power of going into the transactions of the previous election, for the purpose of showing that the hon. Member (Mr. Whalley) was disqualified by the proceedings which then took place, from holding his seat during the present Parliament. He believed the House was agreed on the propriety of maintaining the principle of the Grenville Act, and of keeping questions relating to elections out of the body of that House, so that they might not be decided by the party which happened to have the majority. It appeared to him that these points were not fully considered when this matter was first brought before the House; but, after the course already adopted, considering, too, the late period of the Session, and that the Com-
 553
 MR. ROCHE  said, that not one of the Irishmen who had received the appointment of Advocate General belonged to the Irish Bar; they were all selected from the English Bar. Upon the general question, he had only to say that it was not wished to keep the appointment, but only the  veto,
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he had to renew a charge which had been made some years ago by the hon. and learned Member for Carlow (Mr. J. Ball), that the Directors of the East India Company, particularly in the law appointments, made their selection almost entirely from the English Bar, and that no Irishmen were sent to India. He was anxious that this charge should not be made again, and he rejoiced that power was given by this Bill to the President of the Board of Control to see that these appointments for the future were fairly distributed.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that he had done all in his power to cause the petition to be presented as soon as the Committee on the former election petition had decided; but he had found great difficulty in getting any Member to present it.
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, he ventured to express an earnest hope that this subject would be again brought forward at the very earliest period next Session. It was now four years ago since the question of savings banks was inquired into by a Committee of that House; that Committee reported that the law required amendment, land it was, therefore, to be regretted that Government had not taken the question up much earlier. Next Session the House, it was well known, would be involved in discussions on Parliamentary reform, and he, therefore, hoped that the very first measure introduced next year, would be the Savings Banks Bill, so that the House might make progress with it before they reached more exciting, but certainly not more important, questions. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had said that he did not believe that there had been any gross or fatal mismanagement in these institutions; but he, for one, was hardly inclined to concur in that statement. There could, however, be no doubt of this—that the existing state of things was most unsatisfactory. Previous to the year 1844 the trustees were responsible for all the deposits; but in 1844 they were relieved from that responsibility—a measure which he heartily concurred in, because when these institutions were first established it was anticipated that the deposits would never reach more than 11,000,000 l., l., 539
 MR. RICH  said, the statement of the hon. Member for Honiton (Sir J. W. Hogg), did great credit to the Court of Directors, in the way of appointments. But the East India Company were subject to influences as well as other bodies, and he thought that it would be well to counteract them as far as it was possible. The President of the Board of Control would not have the direct appointment, but merely a controlling power to check any improper selection by the Court of Directors.
 MR. RICH  said, that before the clause was disposed of, he wished to know when the House would have an opportunity of discussing the subject of the Directors' salaries?
 MR. J. WILSON : The seat is claimed by the defeated candidate.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he must beg to interrupt the hon. Baronet. The hon. Baronet seemed to be proceeding upon the assumption that the petition from the electors of Peterborough complained that undue influence had been exercised by Lord Fitzwilliam at the election, with respect to which a petition had just been presented against the hon. Member near him (Mr. Whalley). The hon. Member, however, was wrong in making that supposition.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that he had a petition to present from a committee of the electors of Peterborough, with reference to the question which he had brought before the House a few nights ago. The petitioners desired to represent to the House the state of political commotion in which their constituency had been kept for a long time past. They said that they had had three contested elections since last July, and it was not impossible that they might have another very shortly. They stated that great injury would be sustained if the inquiry which they prayed for should be postponed; that a postponement to next Session would practically amount to a denial of justice. They did not think the fact that a petition was now pending with respect to one of the Members for Peterborough should interfere with an inquiry into a case of so grave a nature; and they, therefore, prayed that the House would allow a Select Committee to be forthwith appointed. In moving the instruction he now begged to propose, he should not have added a sentence had it not been for what had taken place a few evenings ago, when the hon. Members for Malton and Northampton objected to the course he proposed to take. The offence, however, to which his Motion had reference, was considered by the rules of the House an offence of so grave a nature that he was permitted then, and he was permitted now, to bring forward this subject before the other business, as involving a charge of interference with the privileges of the House, and with the rights of the constituencies by whom hon. Members were sent to that House. Both the hon. Member for Malton (Mr. E. Denison), and the right hon. Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith), seemed to think there was some connexion between the petition, praying for the inquiry now proposed, and a petition on behalf of one of the defeated candidates. He (Mr. Bright) did not see the least connexion between the two petitions. The question with respect to
 545 "If any specific case of bribery could be alleged against a person holding the high office of Privy Councillor, and it was only to be inquired into by an Election Committee, he thought the Grenville Act would be a great evil, as barring the House from the performance of one of the greatest functions it could perform, and which ought not to be set aside."—[3  Hansard, 546
 MR. BRIGHT  said, in connexion with this subject, he begged to say, that one reason why he proposed, the other evening, to abolish the oaths was, that he did not see how the Directors, considering the patronage they enjoyed, could well be called on to make the declaration which was included in the oath directed to be taken by the 12th clause. By that clause every Director had to swear that he would not—
 573 "directly or indirectly accept or take any perquisite, emolument, fee, present, or reward, upon any account whatsoever, or any promise of the same for or in respect of the appointment or nomination of any person or persons to any place or office in the gift or appointment" Cries of 574 l. l. l. l., l. l.; l. 575 l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the petitioners were not to blame for the delay which had taken place in the presentation of the petition. That delay arose, as he understood, from the difficulty of finding a Member of the House willing to undertake the labour and annoyance attending the presentation of the petition, and not from a desire to come in contact with any petition regarding the last election.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he did not think the hon. Member for Honiton had got well out of the matter. They were told in very glowing terms in 1833 by the then Secretary to the Board of Control that nothing was so easy as to give a good code of laws to India, and that the advancement of the natives to offices should be encouraged. On both those points there had been a great disappointment. Between 100,000 l. l. l. 564
 MR. BRIGHT  said, it was quite cheerful to see such virtuous indignation displayed in this matter, and a lecture had been read to him, not for the first time, by the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring), but in his speech he had seemed to admit the whole case, for he said that the consideration of the patronage was one reason why the salary was so low as 300 l. l. l. 579 l. l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  hoped the hon. Member did not mean to say that he was a party to the fraud. He had stated exactly what was told to him by a Member of that House; he knew to whom the appointment was offered, but not by whom, nor did he know
 580
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he should support the clause, from the conviction that never was there a time when greater responsibility rested upon the Crown and the Legislature, in reference to the Government of India, than the present.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he also concurred in this view, and begged to thank the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the steps which he had taken to amend the Bill, and to obtain the sentiments of the public with regard to it. If the Bill had not been withdrawn; or, had it been passed in its present shape, the trustees of the Cork Savings Bank would have been compelled to resign.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  hoped the Government would not abandon the clause. Any one who might refer to the list of Advocates General during the present century would find abundant reason for enacting the clause.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, that the cause of the breaking down of the Commission was, according to the evidence of Mr. Cameron, owing to the irresistible opposition of the Court of Directors.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he considered the course taken by the right hon. Baronet (Sir C. Wood) most unsatisfactory. Because a clause in an Act of Parliament had proved a dead letter, and an explanation had been asked, they were told it was useless to inquire into it. In fact, they were called upon to abandon the tenor of experience. But what was the use of experience if it was not to prevent them from doing formally what had been uselessly ten years ago? What had been the result of the very words they were here asked to enact? Nothing. Surely the right hon. Baronet, who professed such entire ignorance of what had taken place only ten years ago, with regard to the country he was governing, could explain why the Commission had been attended with such little result. At all events, Parliament had a right to know the reason, and it ought not to be deterred by the juggle of a double government from an inquiry into a subject of such vast importance.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he had endeavoured to introduce as little personal
 567
 MR. VANCE  said, that when the Bill was again brought forward, he should move that the Government guarantee be made retrospective, as well as prospective, at least so far as the Cuffe-street savings bank in Dublin was concerned.
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he concurred in this view, and would urge the House to proceed with the important Irish measures which stood upon the business paper. Unless those Bills were got on with, he really did not know when he should be able to give another day to them.
 MR. NAPIER  was as anxious as any one to see an efficient Savings Banks Bill passed, and begged to express his readiness to discuss the question at length were it to be proceeded with this Session; but he deprecated further discussion with regard to it under the present circumstances, when the Bill was actually withdrawn.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he wished to move, as an Amendment, to leave out the words—
 "The provisions hereinafter mentioned respecting the admission of students into the College of the said Company at Haileybury, that is to say, Sections 103, 104, 105, 106, and 107 of the said Act of the third and fourth years of King William the Fourth, shall be repealed." 581
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he thought there was one point upon which information was most necessary, namely, whether it was intended that natives of India should be included in the competition, and whether it was to be held out to them that all the services were open to them, if they had sufficient talent to obtain them?
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he would withdraw his Amendment on the understanding that they should begin with the clause to-morrow.
 MR. LOWE  said, that the hon. Member for Montrose had given the best possible reason for rejecting the present Amendment; for he had said that its object was to carry out that which the Committee had rejected on a former night. If so, surely the same reasons which led to the rejection of the former Amendment, would equally apply to this. But, taking the Amendment upon its merits, what taking it propose to do? It proposed to add the following words:—"That in making laws and regulations regard shall be had to the religion, and manners, and opinions of the different races of people inhabiting the said territories." Now, what was the meaning of these words? He took it, as a lawyer, that they were merely directory—that they added nothing to, and took nothing from, the powers of the Legislative Council, but would leave them exactly where they were. The words were, in fact, mere surplusage, and would have no legal effect whatever; or, if they had any effect at all, it would be a mischievous one, inasmuch as they would tend to introduce doubts as to the competency of the Legislative Council to deal with a hundred matters connected with the natives, and would therefore be a stumbling block in the way of carrying on the business of the country. But what was the  animus 559
 MR. ROBERT PALMER  said, that finding the petition under consideration did not concern the seat of the sitting Member, he no longer saw any reason why the Committee now sought should not pursue its investigations concurrently with those of the Election Committee, whose inquiry was mainly directed to the alleged disqualification of the sitting Member, by reason of treating imputed to him at the election preceding the last. Unquestionably, it was expedient that, unless for some very important reason, the investigation of charge such as those advanced against Earl Fitzwilliam, should not remain in suspense until next Session.
 MR. MANGLES  said, the hon. Gen-
 565
 MR. MANGLES  wished the hon. and learned Gentleman would give chapter and verse for the charge he had brought against the Directors. [ Cries of
 MR. MANGLES  said, he would appeal to the House whether such charges should be brought forward without any attempt being made to substantiate them? How could any Gentleman or man of honour hear such charges made with respect to a body of which he was a member, and not feel indignant? He appealed to the hon. Member for Manchester to name the parties to whom he had alluded.
 MR. WALPOLE : I distinctly stated that the question should be left to the decision of the Election Committee.
 MR. WALPOLE : That is true enough, but the Committee may not grant it, and, therefore, another election must take place. But what I was going to say, was this. We have already treated this as a question of privilege—we have granted the Committee sought for, and it now remains for us to determine whether we shall allow the inquiry to proceed now, upon the ground that the privileges of this House have been infringed. I think I have shown that no harm can result to the sitting Member from this inquiry, and your Sessional Orders declare that cases of privilege are entitled to take precedence of all other matters—I presume, because it is right that such cases should be inquired into without delay. If you do not grant this inquiry, and allow the Committee to be struck, having already agreed that there should be a Committee, you must necessarily postpone the investigation of a question of privilege till a distant period. Under these circumstances, although admitting that there are some difficulties in the case, I think we ought to allow the Committee to be struck in the present instance, and the inquiry to be proceeded with before the end of the present Session.
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, the allegations contained in this petition, as I understand them, do not relate to the same matter as those contained in the petition against the return of the hon. Member for Peterborough. I take it for granted that we all agree upon this principle—that when two petitions are presented relating to the same subject-matter, one requiring the appointment of a Select Committee where the evidence will not be taken upon oath, and the other being sent to an ordinary Election Committee, where the evidence will be taken upon oath, the former petition ought not to be allowed to proceed until the second has been disposed of; and, indeed, it is extremely questionable whether it ought to be permitted to proceed at all. Thus far all will admit, and therefore the present question is, do these two petitions relate to the same subject-matter? One—the petition presented by the hon. Member for Manchester—is a petition on the part of certain non-electors of Peterborough, complaining that there has been a breach of the privileges of this House, inasmuch as a Peer of Parliament interfered with the election which took place in De-
 550 551 552
 MR. T. BARING  said, he thought if the appointment were vested in the hands of the Board of Control it would be found that the Government were very much open to pressure from without, and that in order to satisfy some portion or other of its supporters it might make legal appointments which would not be preferable to those which were now made by the East India Company. At first he had no great objection to the chase as its stood, because he believed the appointment would be made in concert between the two bodies—the East India Direction and the Government; but if the Committee were to decide upon the principle on which it was now put, that it was to be in the hands of the Govern-
 568
 MR. T. BARING  said, the hon. Member who had just sat down was a man of business, and as a man of business he ought not to make statements to that House which he could not substantiate—he ought not, as a man of business, to snake imputations and attacks upon individuals unless he was fully prepared to prove and establish them. He (Mr. T. Baring) was a man of business also, and he must be permitted to state that in his experience he had not always found that those most suspicious of others were the most trustworthy themselves. He was sure that the hon. Gentleman did not do himself or his own character and feelings justice, because, as every one was disposed to judge of others by himself, the hon. Gentleman, he must repeat, did not do his own high character justice by spreading imputations and attacks of this kind. This question ought not to have been treated as a mere personal question. He was sure that justice was not done when it was made the vehicle of attacks upon a number of persons who were entrusted with the agency of the Government of India. This showed the feeling which some hon. Members and some persons out of doors entertained, namely, to make every constituted body, whether a Company or a Cabinet, which had possessed power for any length of time, the pointed aim of attacks. He (Mr. T. Baring) thought that it would be far more consistent with the high character of the hon. Gentleman, and the undoubted importance of the question, if he refrained as much as he could from showing that acrimonious opposition to those individuals who had
 576
 MR. T. BARING  said, there had been abundance of evidence before the Committee of the grievance which the present system with regard to furloughs inflicted on the Indian army, and which evidently arose originally from the time required to come to England before the days of steam navigation. What seemed to be the general desire of the witnesses examined before the Committee was, that the Company's officers should be placed in the same position as officers in the Queen's service.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, it is not necessary for me to detain the House at any length in explaining the reasons why I think it desirable to postpone the consideration of the Savings Banks Bill until the opening of next Session. As, however, not a single word has yet been said upon the subject of this important Bill, and as it has been allowed, at my request and by the favour of the House, to pass through several of its stages, and to be reprinted without any explanation of its provisions, perhaps it is right that I should state, in a very few words, how the matter stands. The great evil with respect to the present condition of savings banks is not so much any gross, or flagrant, or glaring abuse connected with them, as the want of that "perfect" security which every one must feel that they ought to afford. If we look at the enormous amount of money deposited in the various savings banks, and then take the mere figures which represent the total losses that have been incurred by depositors, no doubt the amount of those losses in relation to the total deposited is very insignificant; but the evil that is done in particular cases is unfortunately not to be measured by the actual amount of money loss. There is an amount of evil such as figures can convey no idea of; and, besides, it is impossible that the public confidence in those institutions can be that which it ought to be while those losses are liable to occur at all. What Parliament should desire to secure is, not that those losses should be rare, but that they should be altogether unknown—that no such thing should be allowed to take place. That being so, the question arises, how can that absolute security which is so essential be given? There is no doubt that where a body of trustees such as most of the body
 535 536 537 538
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would now move, that with respect to post-horse duties, the following Resolution be agreed to:—
 "That from and after the 10th day of October 1853, the Duties of Excise payable under any Act or Acts now in force on Horses let for hire, and on licenses to let-the same, shall respectively cease and determine; and in lieu thereof there shall be paid for and in respect of every license to be taken out yearly by every person who shall let any horse for hire, with or without any carriage to be used therewith, the following Duties of Excise (that is to say)— 
 
 Duty. 
 £ s. d. 
 "Where the person taking out such license shall keep at one and the same time, to be let for hire. 
 1 horse or 1 carriage only And where such person shall keep, as aforesaid, any greater number of horses or carriages, 7 10 0 
 Not exceeding 2 horses or 2 carriages 12 10 0 
 Not exceeding 4 horses or 3 carriages 20 0 0 
 Not exceeding 8 horses or 6 carriages 30 0 0 
 Not exceeding 12 horses or 9 carriages 40 0 0 
 Not exceeding 16 horses or 12 carriages 50 0 0 
 Not exceeding 20 horses or 15 carriages 60 0 0 
 Exceeding 15 carriages 70 0 0 
 Exceeding 20 horses, then for every additional number of 10 horses, and for any additional number less than 10 over and above 20, or any other multiple of 10 horses, the further additional Duty of 10 0 0" 585 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he believed in no case would a person now keeping horses which paid a duty but would pay a less sum than at present.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then moved the following Resolution:—
 "That from and after a day to be named, the Duties now payable in respect of Hackney Carriages, and Licenses to keep and let to hire such Carriages, within the distance of five miles from the General Post Office in the City of London, shall cease and determine; and in lieu thereof there shall be payable for and in respect of every Hackney Carriage which shall be kept, used, or let to hire within the limits of the Act of the present Session of Parliament, Chapter 33, for the better regulation of Metropolitan Stage and Hackney Carriages, the several Duties following (that is to say)— 
 
 £ s. d. 
 For and upon every License to be taken out yearly to keep, use, and let to hire any such Hackney Carriage 1 0 0 
 And for and in respect of every such Hackney Carriage as aforesaid, weekly and every week:— 
 Weekly Duty. 
 Where the License for such Carriage shall authorise the using and letting to hire of the same on every day of the week, the sum of 0 7 0 
 And where such License shall authorise the using and letting to hire of such Carriage, on every day of the week except Sunday, the suns of. 0 6 0" l. l. l. s. s.
 MR. BARROW  said, that, as the surviving trustee of a savings bank, he was not sorry to hear that the Bill was not to be persevered with this Session, as it was quite impossible to do the subject justice at this late period of the year.
 MR. OTWAY  thought that the right hon. Gentleman was mistaken there, for he knew that when the Governor of Bombay moved up the country he caused considerable expense.
 MR. OTWAY  would suggest that the salary of the Commander in Chief should be so fixed that it would cover all the contingencies of his pleasure trips, which were very expensive to the Country.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he must express a hope that the right hon. Gentleman would not yield to the proposition of the hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton (Sir. J. W. Hogg), for the hon. Baronet himself, in the case he had mentioned, had shown the necessity why a veto might well be vested in the hands of a Minister of the Crown.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman (Sir C. Wood) would inform the Committee what restrict-
 584
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  thought that his right hon. Friend had laid sufficient grounds for deferring this Bill till next Session, though he much regretted the necessity for such delay, considering, as he did, that the Bill was a measure of great importance. Several petitions had been presented against the Bill; some of which, emanating from trustees and managers, were entitled to consideration. But there were others which should be viewed with some degree of suspicion. He meant those which were got up by the paid officials of different banks, who, in some instances, looked naturally to their own interests—who particularly disliked the limit which might be placed upon their salaries. His right hon. Friend had referred in the course of his speech to two very important provisions in the Bill—the necessity for the fullest security that would be afforded to the depositors, and the rate of interest to be allowed. But there was another provision in the Bill, to which his right hon. Friend had not alluded, but which he ventured to think was very important; and that was, the amount which ought to be set apart to defray the expenses of management, which must necessarily be paid by the Government, and must, therefore, affect the amount of interest to be given to the depositors. The sums now deducted for management from the 3 l. s. 540 l. l. l.; l. l l. l.; l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. l. s. l. s. s. d. s. d. 541 l. s. d.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he must deprecate the introduction of isolated cases at this stage of the discussion. He regretted that the hon. Baronet (Sir B. Hall) had instanced a particular case. It was one which was well known to himself, and he believed he could give an ample answer to to the charge. There were a vast number of unusually small depositors in that bank, and it was known that the keeping of a number of small accounts was more expensive than the keeping of a few large ones. If any injustice were done to any party, it was, in his opinion, rather to the larger than the smaller depositors. There was a perfect answer to the charge of expending 6,000 l. ex officio; 542 l.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to inquire of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control relative to this clause, which provides that the Commander in Chief of Her Majesty's forces shall also be Commander in Chief of the Company's forces. He had some fears that the effect of this clause would be to exclude the Company's officers from the chief command.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  wished to know why some of the officers were paid in sicca rupees, while all the rest were paid in Company's rupees?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, it was hardly fair in any hon. Gentleman to assume that there was no disposition in the Government of India to pay attention to the feelings and opinions of the people. Besides, the hon. Gentleman had himself admitted that the duty of attending to the feelings and opinions of the natives in laying the basis of their legislation was recognised in the 26th clause, and surely that was enough.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he attributed the failure of the Commission to their having undertaken to do too much. He believed that one code of laws for the whole of India was impossible. He wished to know how the Board in England was to work?
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG,  in explanation, said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh had been appointed Legislative Member of the Council at a salary of 10,000 l., l. l.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, the hon. Members for Guildford and Honiton were exceedingly anxious that public business should be proceeded with, that the clauses of this Bill should be permitted to pass, and that objections should not be taken to a clause by an individual who said himself he did not mean to oppose it. The clause said generally that the Law Commission had made certain proposals, and that these proposals, which had had been submitted to the Judges of the three Supreme Courts of India, had been sent home. He admitted there had been considerable discussion upon them—that was always the case when there was diversity of opinion—but he denied that there had been any violation of the Act of Parliament by discontinuing to fill up an appointment which the Act of 1833 provided for. The hon. Gentleman was entirely wrong upon that subject. For many years there had always been a Legislative Member of Council, and he admitted it was in the contemplation of the Court of Directors in 1842 to abolish it. They had a distinct representation from the Governor General that the expense of the Law Commission was enormous, and that no adequate benefit was likely to arise from it; it was therefore suggested that the work of the Legislative Member of Council might be done by the Advocate General. In consequence of these suggestions, the matter was considered by the Court of Directors, who saw that as the appointment had been made by the direction of Parliament, it must be continued, unless the same authority discontinued it. It was discussed whether or not they should apply to Parliament; they determined not to do so; and the Legislative Member of
 563
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, it was very true that the hon. Member for Manchester had, throughout the whole of this discussion, indulged in personal observations, for which, however, he did not wish now to blame him. But when an hon. Member made a statement casting imputations on any man, and made it of his own knowledge, that statement must,  primâ facie, 577 l. 578
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG,  said, the present rules with regard to furloughs did not arise from any act of the Court of Directors, but were compulsory by the law as it at present existed. The object of this clause was to remove the restrictions, and give the home authorities power to make such regulations on the subject as they should think fit.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG,  citing the names of the principal men who had held the office of Advocate General in the present century, including Sir Robert Smith, Sir W. Burroughes, Mr. Cutlar Ferguson, Mr. Sergeant Spankie, Mr. Pearson, Sir J. Colville, Sir Lawrence Peel, and Mr. Jackson, challenged the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. J. G. Phillimore) to name a single one of those men who was not eminently qualified, by ability and learning, for the office of Advocate General. He (Sir J. W. Hogg) had certainly felt it his duty to oppose one appointment, and it was of Mr. Lyall's he spoke. But he opposed it, not with reference to the character or acquirements of Mr. Lyall, for he was well known at the University as a distinguished scholar and an accomplished man; but with reference to his standing at the Bar, which, being under six years, he thought was too junior to be appointed to such an office. He stated the whole truth, and did not withhold from the House the only case which perhaps might be subject to remark. He felt assured that it was not the intention of Government to throw any stigma on the Court of Directors; but the clause did appear to justify the statement made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Leominster, that there was "abundant reason" for it; and if it was only to show that this statement was without foundation, and that the series of appointments had been such as were beneficial to the country, he hoped his right hon. Friend would not persevere with the clause.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG,  in reply to the hon. Member for Cork County (Mr. Roche), mentioned the names of several members of the Irish Bar who had held judicial appointments in India, and among others, Sir John Franks, Sir Francis Macnaghten, and Mr. Stretrel. In the year 1844 or 1845, he had, himself, as Chairman, offered, through Sir Frederic Thesiger, the appointment of Advocate General at Bengal to five English Barristers, by all of whom it was declined. The offer was made through Sir Frederic Thesiger, because neither himself or his colleagues were sufficiently acquainted with the merits
 569
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that in the case of the bank referred to by the hon. Baronet the Member for Marylebone, the number of depositors whose deposits were under 30 l. l. s. l. s. d. 543
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : In point of fact the allegations contained in the petition presented by the hon. Member for Manchester were allegations that might be discussed and decided by an Election Committee, whether the circumstances upon which they were founded had taken place in July, 1852, or in the month of December, 1853. If any person could prove to him that the question with reference to those allegations could not be decided by an Election Committee, then he was ready to admit that his arguments fell to the ground. Believing, however, that that could not be proved, he should resist the Motion of the hon. Member for Manchester.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that the more he considered the question, the more he felt that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith) was right in the caution which he gave the House against appointing this Committee while a petition was pending relating to election matters for the same borough. The gravamen of the charge which was made against Earl Fitzwilliam, in connexion with the case before the House, was, that he had exercised an undue degree of interference in the election for the borough of Peterborough, which took place in July, 1852. Now, he asked, was
 549
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he would not be a party to any course that would imply a censure upon the East India Company for their appointments, nine out of ten of which were admitted by the Minister of the Crown to be unexceptionable.
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, that the hon. Gentleman had objected to the terms of his Amendment; but if he had only turned to the next page of the Bill, he would have found the very same words in the 26th clause quoted from the Act of 1833. So that whatever fault the words had was attributable, not to him, but to the Parliament of 1833. It might be that the words were mere surplusage in a legal point of view; but at all events they would afford great satisfaction to the people of India, and he thought that in itself was sufficient to justify their insertion.
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he wished to propose, by way of Amendment to insert "that in making laws and regulations, regard shall be had to the religion and manners, and opinions of the different races of people inhabiting the said territories. "If the natives of India had not as they ought to have, a share in the deliberations of the Indian Legislature, at least provision should be made that Indian legislation should not be offensive to their feelings. The 13th of George III. enacted, with this view, that there should be an appeal against the Indian Legislature to the Crown in Council; and the Act of 1833 gave to the Board of Directors power to disallow any act of the Indian Legislature within one year. It was expedient that adequate restrictions should be provided in this measure against the recurrence of such measures as those which, in several in-stances, had been within the last three years enacted by the Indian Legislature, offensive to the feelings and infractionary of the laws and religion of the natives of India. It had been stated in evidence be fore the Committee that of late years a great change was observable in the demeanour of the British officers, both civil and military who were intrusted with the administration of justice and the command of the army in India. It appeared that they were growing less attentive to the feelings, opinions, and prejudices of the people; and if the Govern-
 557
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, as the clause now stood the tenant could only recover compensation when he was evicted, or his tenancy terminated from the effluxion of time. Now he would suggest that the tenant should be entitled to compensation whenever the landlord required him to give up the tenancy.
 LORD STANLEY  said, the question of which he had given notice relative to national education in Ireland, required one or two sentences to make it intelligible. It was well known that that system was a system of united secular instruction, together with separate religious instruction; but in order to supply a deficiency which was felt to exist in a system of that kind, a rule was framed, by which, in addition to that theological and that secular teaching, a joint instruction was given, partly of a moral and partly of a religious character, to all the children in the school. In order to guard against any possible abuse, it was provided that the works used for that joint instruction should be subject to the approbation of the Board, which was composed of some of the highest authorities, both Protestant and Roman Catholic. A further security was also provided against
 654
 MR. HUME  was very glad to find the Government willing to avoid the mistake they had originally announced with regard to military appointments to the East India Company's service, and he was satisfied that the evidence before the Committee upstairs, and the opinions of the most competent authorities, would, were they equally accepted by the Government, equally induce them to reconsider their proposition with regard to admissions to Haileybury. He proposed to make the trial of throwing the admissions open to public competition by making that principle apply only to one-half, and if that trial should succeed it would be easy then for them to extend it to the whole. The manner in which the high offices in the civil service had been filled, and the general fitness of the civil servants appointed for their duties, was a proof of the success of the present system, and was a safeguard against any sudden change in the mode of conducting the business of the Government in India. He feared that to open the whole of the admissions to a public competition in the first instance, would be to run too great a risk. The trial was made in 1833, when the system of allowing each Director to nominate four
 659
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he differed from the hon. Gentleman in thinking that any difficulty would arise from admitting one set of persons by competition, and another by patronage. In his opinion the hon. Member for Montrose had taken a very reasonable course, and had made a most reasonable proposal. The object of this Bill was altogether experimental, and the Amendment was of a similar character. The hon. Member for Montrose said that instead of having only one mode of admission into Haileybury, they should have two, in order to see which succeeded best, and then adopt the one which was found to be most successful. This was a very grave and important question; they were about to interfere with the mode of admission into a service which had been found to be perhaps the best of which they had any experience, and therefore they should be very cautious as to how they altered it. The change now proposed evidently originated in the desire to carry out the great principle of competition, a principle excellent in itself, but not adapted to all circumstances. Some persons—as for instance the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. Macaulay), condemned those who were opposed to the principle of competition in this case, as though they favoured ignorance. He (Mr. V. Smith) did not think that that was a very just inference to draw; but he certainly was prepared to deny the assertion of the right hon. Gentleman, that academical distinction was the surest test of success in life. It was easy enough to quote particular instances; but, generally speaking, he did not think that academical distinction
 661 662
 LORD STANLEY  said, he was not about to enter into the question of public education at Addiscombe; but the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, so far as they applied to the civil service, did appear to him to deserve as well as to require some answer. The right hon. Gentleman, in the first place, had contended that those who had taken academical honours, and had distinguished themselves in competition in early life, had not, in the majority of instances, become successful at a later period of life; and, on the other hand, that many of those who had not distinguished themselves in early life had attained great eminence afterwards. Now, be (Lord Stanley) ventured to differ from the right hon. Gentleman with respect to both the one and the
 663 primâ facie 664 665
 MR. BLACKETT  hoped the President of the Board of Control would postpone the consideration of that portion of the clause which referred to the Addiscombe patronage, because it was contrary to the
 669
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  observed, that when he became a Member of the Committee on Indian Affairs, he entertained some considerable prejudice against the Company and their servants; but his experience on the Committee had proved that that prejudice was, to a great extent, unfounded. He believed, however, that in adopting the principle of competition, in lieu of nomination, they secured an important test, if not the best test, of merit. The result of his experience, however, had been to show him, that, from whatever cause, the nominations had all flown in one channel; for whilst the Hibernian Celt was unknown in India, the Caledonian Celt was quite familiar. The hon. Member for Honiton (Sir J. W. Hogg) had stated last night that the claims of the Irish Bar with regard to Indian appointments had not been neglected, and he mentioned the names of Sir Francis M'Naghten, Sir J. Franks, and Mr. Strettel, as persons holding judicial appointments in India. He (Mr. Fitzgerald) had made some inquiries on the subject, and had ascertained that Sir F. M'Naghten was appointed in 1815; that Sir J. Franks had been appointed 28 years ago, and that Mr. Strettel never had held a judicial appointment.
 MR. BLACKETT  wished to ask whether the alteration proposed to be made in this clause in any degree affected the conclusion to which the right hon. Gentleman had arrived in his speech upon the first reading of the Bill, when he said he thought it only fair to increase the salaries of the Directors when he proposed to diminish their patronage?
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he thought the hon. Member for Honiton had indulged its much undeserved censure of the hon. Member for Manchester. Surely it could not be said that when his hon. Friend was placed in possession of information relative to a great public scandal, it was his business to be silent. He gave the House all the information in his power; and he thought the hon. Gentleman showed remarkable courage in refusing to retract an assertion which he believed to be perfectly correct; and also that he showed a just sense of honour in refusing to betray the confidence which the hon. Member for Lambeth had reposed in him.
 MR. HUME  expressed a hope that the regulations would be laid before parliament as soon as possible.
 LORD STANLEY  said, that the question of the establishment of the Indian colleges was about the most important that could be mooted. It was, in fact, whether or no Natives of India should be admissible to the Company's service; because, to suppose that Natives, in any considerable numbers, would encounter the danger and expense, and cut through their habits and prejudices so far as to come across to this country in order to submit to examination in the establishments here, was the greatest fallacy in the world. To refuse to institute such colleges, was in effect to exclude Natives of India from the service. In discussing the second reading, he understood that one ground on which merit was claimed for the Bill was, its tendency to give encouragement to the more extensive introduction of Natives into the higher grades of the service. So far as he had yet got into the Bill, he had found nothing for giving a Monopoly of education to the college of Haileybury; nor had he seen anything pledging the House to keep up such a monopoly. He could not refrain from expressing his conviction that, in refusing to carry on examinations in India as well as in England—a thing that was easily practicable—the Government were, in fact, negativing that which they declared to be one of the principal objects of their Bill, and confining the civil service, as heretofore, to Englishmen. That result was unjust, and he believed it would be most pernicious. If men of high ability were desired in any service, that service must be made, to a certain extent, a close service—that is to say, no one should be admitted into it without having passed through a regular examination to qualify him for admission. In a few years it would be found absolutely necessary to admit Natives to the higher grades of offices; and if proper I machinery for qualifying them were not provided in India., the service could continue
 685
 COLONEL DUNNE  opposed the Motion, and said that he had not heard a single word to induce him to alter the unfavourable opinion which he had always entertained of the Incumbered Estates Court. The author of this Bill, the Master of the Rolls, admitted three years ago the utter failure of the objects which he had in view in introducing the measure; and his (Colonel Dunne's) opinion was, that no tribunal that had ever existed in Ireland had worked more iniquity or injustice to private individuals than this Incumbered Estates Court, which it was now proposed to perpetuate. Many private families had been ruined by its proceedings. What were the average prices of the land sold under the Court? The average price in Leinster was 7 l. s.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the hon. Member was out of order. The proper time to ask the question respecting salaries would be when the clause relating to them should be before the Committee.
 MR. ELLIOT  observed, that some of the most eminent officers in the Queen's service, who had held commands in India, including Lord Hardinge and Sir Charles Napier, had borne testimony to the admirable education afforded at Addiscombe, and had spoken in the highest terms of the efficiency of the artillery and engineer officers in the Company's service. He must say, with regard to the civil service, that he could not concur in the desire entertained in many quarters that it should be thrown open to competition. He believed that the mode in which the civil servants of the Company had hitherto been appointed, had tended very materially to promote the efficiency of the service. He had no doubt that, if persons were selected merely for their academical attainments,
 666 667
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he now wished to propose an Amendment, the effect of which would be to limit the amount of compensation to four years' clearly letting value of the land improved. These words were in the Bill as adopted by the Select Committee; and, as he was opposed to the principle of retrospective compensation at all, he certainly thought some limit should be placed upon it.
 LORD HOTHAM  rose to put a question to the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, of which he had given notice. The granting of charters, with limited liability, was a subject of great importance to large numbers of persons who had embarked their capital in steam navigation, and risked their fortunes in enterprises of various descriptions. The question had been frequently under the consideration of the House, and the subject, he believed, had occupied much of the attention of the President of the Board of Trade. He entertained a strong opinion against the propriety of granting these charters. He did not wish to make any complaint against the right hon. Gentleman for granting the charter to the Australian Direct Steam Navigation Company; but he wished to know if he had any objection to lay on the table of the House such information as would enable the public, and those interested in the question, to judge on what ground he had proceeded in granting that charter?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Before I advert to the question put by the hon. Member for West Surrey, I will state what has been our course of proceeding with respect to that very interesting and important question to which the hon. Member for Aylesbury has invited the attention of the House. The House will recollect that at an early period, in answer to questions put to me on this subject, I stated that demands had been made by Prince Menschikoff upon the Government of Turkey, which in the opinion of that Government, and in the opinion of her allies, England and France—were inconsistent with the independence of Turkey. At a later period, I stated, in reply to another question, that Her Majesty's fleet had been ordered to leave Malta, and to proceed to Besika Bay, in the neighbourhood of the Straits of the Dardanelles. The hon. Gentleman speaks of negotiations. That proceeding hardly comes under the designation of a negotiation. It was intended as a proof, and is a proof, how much Her Majesty has at heart the independence and integrity of the Turkish dominions. But when the hon. Gentleman complains that papers have not been laid on the table, and that this House is not in a situation to express an opinion on the course of proceeding adopted by Her Majesty's Government, I must say that I think, of all preparations for war, the best is to exhaust every means to obtain peace—that it is not until all the means of negotiation have been tried and have failed, that any Ministers would be justified in placing at hazard that peace which has happily continued for so many years, and by which the prosperity, the wealth, the commerce, and the liberties of Europe have been so largely promoted. If this is the case, I think the House will agree at once that while these negotiations are carried on, they can be better carried on from Government to Government than by laying all the papers connected with such negotiations before a popular assembly, and exposing to popular debate the matters involved in them. In so saying I have no doubt I ask much from the indulgence of the House—I have asked much
 651 652
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I think after what I have stated, the hon. Gentleman cannot expect me to name any particular time. It is not my intention to enter into the question which has been raised by the hon. Member for West Surrey (Mr. Drummond), as to the propriety of our sitting in winter, and having our holiday in summer. For my own part, I am one of those who agree with him. But whenever the House has met in the autumn, as it did last year, I certainly think our sittings in summer have not been much shortened. I think it is possible that another year—I will not say next year—we may be able to finish our Session at the end of June or the beginning of July, and in that case we might, if necessary, make arrangements for an autumn Session.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he could not but regret that the hon. Member for Manchester should, with such information, have made a charge such as that which he had made last night against the Court of Directors. He ought to have considered that they were now about again to place in the hands of these Directors the government of a great empire, and that therefore they ought to be persons of high character, and that there ought not to rest upon them the least suspicion of being accustomed to dispose of their patronage on any but public considerations. It was of the utmost importance, on the other hand—though the hon. Member seemed to think light of it—that it should not go out to India that these Directors were persons of any one of whom it could be said that he had disposed of his patronage in any such improper manner; and it was evident that the character of the Directors would be seriously affected by such charges as these. The transaction, however, to which the hon. Member had referred was between two persons, neither of whom were Directors, and neither of whom, so far as it had appeared to the House throughout, had any authority from, or any connexion with, any one of that body. He really thought that the hon. Member for Manchester ought more seriously to consider matters of this kind before he brought them forward as charges against the Company. If it were possible, it was the bounden duty of the Directors, having got the cue, to inquire whether any person had made such an offer in the name of any one of the Directors. Such an inquiry might utterly fail; but he would say, for his own part, that notwithstanding this charge had been hazarded, he thought the character of the Court of Directors—apart from the question whether or not they ought to be entrusted with the Government of India—would stand as high as ever in the estimation of the public, as men fulfilling the duties of their position with a full sense of its honour and dignity.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  intimated his wish that the House should come to a decision on the question that the Speaker should leave the chair, with the understanding that the Committee should then report progress.
 LORD NAAS  felt bound to express dissent from certain statements which had been made in the House that evening. It had been said that the party with which he had the honour to act, had obstructed in every possible way the passing of the Incumbered Estates Act at the period of its first introduction. But what were the real facts of the case? Why, it appeared that no division had been taken against the measure until the third reading, and upon that occasion twelve Members only
 696
 COLONEL GRENVILLE  said, he would now move to insert before the word "default," the word "wilful," with the view of enabling an evicted tenant, whose nonpayment of rent was not a wilful act, to claim compensation for any improvements which he might have effected.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he should vote for the Amendment, on the ground that the clause was one of forfeiture.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that Scotland did not require a Bill of this nature; and he congratulated the right hon. and learned Gentleman opposite on the position to which at length this measure had attained.
 MR. LAYARD : Before the noble Lord answers the remarks made by the hon. Member for West Surrey, he will perhaps allow me to ask a question on a subject of great importance. It is now some days since the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) requested me to postpone a Motion of which I had given notice, in consequence of negotiations being then in progress. It is understood that those negotiations consisted of a joint proposal from this country and France to the Government of Russia. I consented to the request of the noble Lord, and it will be in the recollection of the House that he promised to give me an early day for bringing the subject forward. I have since that time been given to understand that the noble Lord the Secretary for Foreign Affairs (the Earl of Clarendon), it another place, has stated that he will be prepared in the course of a few days, whether these proposals have been accepted or not, to lay before Parliament all the papers connected with this subject. During the last fortnight events of very great importance have taken place in the East of Europe. I will venture to state that, in the whole history of the intercourse of nations, acts so unjustifiable, so outrageous, sc dangerous as those which have been committed within the last three months, have never before been committed in Europe, The Government of Russia has sent a
 648 649 casus belli, 650
 MR. LAYARD : What, as to a day?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  considered that the point raised by the hon. Gentleman deserved the consideration of the Committee. They were called upon to effect an important change, and to open what had been termed a close service; some hon. Gentlemen were so carried away by the theory of competition, that they forgot there were other qualifications required for the Indian service than those which could be tested by examination as to learning. It was necesary to insure, on the part of the servants of the Company, the very highest qualities—honour, honesty, and attachment to the Government whose interests they were required to maintain. Under the system which it was now proposed to establish, it would, however, be impossible that anything could be known of the connexions, the early education, the dispositions, or inclinations, of the persons who came forward as competitors for appointments. All that would be known would be, that they possessed a certain amount of literary acquirements. The House of Lords was not a useless body, but it was not appointed by competition. They were hereditary; and how were they fitted for their exalted position save by the education they received from childhood—an education in principles, not literary acquirements, with which a man might be crammed. The real test of an Indian servant was the way in which he applied himself to, and performed, his duties; and that test the covenanted service of India had for years most
 668
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, it was not his fault that hon. Gentlemen did not attend in their places. He had declared his opinion, with respect to a particular course, during the ordinary routine of business, and he could not be held responsible for the number of persons present at the time.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the hon. Gentleman asked him a question, whether he intended to introduce a clause to fix the salaries of the Directors, and the answer he gave him was that it was his intention to bring in such a clause.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he pro-
 670
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : The hon. Member should confine himself to regular proceedings. When the question of disposing of the clause respecting salaries should be before the Committee, he would state what he intended doing.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had never connected the patronage with the salaries, and had all along repudiated the idea that the Directors received any personal benefit from the patronage. When on this subject he would take the opportunity of making a statement which he had been requested to make to the House. The hon. Member for Manchester had last night made a very strong statement to the House affecting the character and reputation of the Court of Directors. He had that day seen the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Court of Directors, and they requested him to make an announcement to the House to the following effect: They regretted exceedingly that charges of a general nature should be made in such a manner as was done last night by a Member of that House; that statements of that kind should have been made by an hon. Member in his place without at the same time imparting his authority. With regard to the charge so made, they felt that it was so general as to make it impossible for them to answer it except by expressing their disbelief that any member of their body had acted in any way whatever so as to warrant such a charge; but they stated that as on a former occasion, when charges such as these were brought forward, they appointed a committee to investigate those charges, and at the same time prosecuted to conviction certain persons who had been guilty of tampering with the sacred duties of the Directors, and succeeding in bringing them to merited punishment—so they were prepared to pursue on this occasion a similar course. They were anxious that this statement should be made in the face of the House and the country; and it was their earnest wish to have every accusation that could be brought against them investigated in the most searching manner. They called upon the hon. Member for Manchester—who must be anxious to see the Court of Directors, a body exercising important and responsible functions, able to refute these charges—they called upon him to produce the evidence on which he rested his charges, and they pledged them-
 672
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  did not quite understand the argument of the noble Lord. He said it was necessary to keep the civil service in India a close service, which he (Sir C. Wood) understood to mean that it should be kept in the hands of Europeans; and yet in order to effect that object the noble Lord proposed to admit more largely the Natives into that service. It by no means seemed to him (Sir C. Wood) necessary that all persons employed in India should be members of the civil service. It was incorrect to say that the law of 1853 had been made a dead letter, for the report of last year showed that the number of Natives employed in the civil service had increased to a great extent. He knew of no reason why that increase should not go on. With regard to education, he thought the only place where an education could be acquired that would fit a person for employment in India was at Haileybury. He did not believe it could be gained in India.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Certainly There would be an examination, not only on entering but on leaving college. The latter would be conducted by independent professors, and would be the test of fitness.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  disclaimed any intention of treating his hon. Friend's remarks with disrespect. It would be time to make regulations for the examination and admission of persons in India when colleges had been actually instituted there.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  thought it would be better to leave the arrangement as they stood in the clause, and to give the power to the Commissioners.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the argument of the hon. Member would be good against any alteration being made in a Bill.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that of
 644 bonâ fide;
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he would state to the Committee what course the Government now intended to pursue with regard to the appointments comprised in this clause. The original proposition of the Government had been that all the appointments to Haileybury should be thrown open to public competition. One hon. Gentleman had intimated his intention of moving as an Amendment to this proposal, that the system of appointments to Haileybury should remain by nomination as at present. Another hon. Gentleman, the Member for Montrose, had an Amendment on the paper, that only one-half the admissions to Haileybury should be open to public competition, the other moiety remaining the result of nomination as now. It was the intention of the Government on this point to adhere to its original proposition, and to throw all admissions to Haileybury open to public competition, the natives of India being admissible to that competition equally with Her Majesty's other subjects. With regard, however, to admissions to the military seminary at Addiscombe, the Government had seen reason to reconsider its original proposal. That proposal, as contained in Clause 33 of the Bill, was to render admissions to Addiscombe also matter of public competition, altogether abandoning the existing system of patronage in that particular. He had, however, since the Bill had been presented to the House, received many communications from Members of the Committee, Gentlemen who had thoroughly investigated the existing system, and who had intimate practical
 658
 MR. ROCHE  said, if the register were agreed to, the whole effect of the clause would be destroyed, because the moment a tenant gave notice to register, the landlord would give him notice to quit. It would therefore create bad feeling between landlord and tenant, and put a stop to all improvements.
 MR. CARDWELL  was glad to find, from the observations of the noble Lord,
 653
 MR. CARDWELL  stated the nature of the provision which he proposed with respect to the pensioning of the Cinque Port pilots, the object of which would be to place them in the same position as they now occupied. With this view their benevolent fund had been valued by actuaries with reference to their present and future liabilities, on account of allowances to superannuated members of the fellowship. Upon the assumption that these pilots would be entitled to be pensioned at the age of 65, the calculations of the actuaries to whom the matter had been referred, showed that there would be a deficiency in their present benevolent fund to pay those pensions, owing to the falling-off in the sum which had been re-
 641 l. 642 l. l., l.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he thought the clause, if passed in its present shape, would destroy a large class of tenants. He
 637 bonâ fide,
 MR. LUCAS  said, he also begged to
 640
 MR. MACARTNEY  complained of the manner in which the Court administered its functions, and thought, before its powers were renewed, its proceedings should be greatly simplified. Of the whole number of the estates that had been sold, the accounts of one quarter of them had not yet been wound up, and great delay took place in distributing the produce of the sales.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he looked upon the clause as the very essence of the Bill. It was a bad measure for a bad state of things; but the state of things as they existed rendered it necessary; and it was, in his opinion, much more important to make it retrospective than prospective. Let them compensate for what had been done, and leave the future to the good sense of the persons concerned, as was the case in England.
 MR. DRUMMOND  requested attention to the inquiry which he had given notice of his intention to address to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, whether an alteration might not take place
 645 in medias res, 646 l. l. seriatim, 647
 MR. H. HERBERT  said, his memory certainly differed from that of his right hon. Friend, for he distinctly remembered that he stated it could not come on till Monday. He believed his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Portarlington could corroborate him in his impression. [Colonel DUNNE: Hear, hear!]
 SIR H. HERBERT  said, he objected to the mode in which the Bill was being proceeded with. The right hon. Secretary for Ireland had informed the Irish Members that it would not come on again today, and colder that impression many of his hon. Friends had remained away from the House. It was with much surprise
 636
 MR. RICH  said, he had to propose an Amendment for the purpose of raising the question, whether or not the Natives were to be admitted to the Company's covenanted service: as regarded employment in the public service, the Natives were placed in a worse position by the present Bill than they were before. The intention of the Act of 1833 was to open the services to the Natives; and surely now, when our Indian Empire was more secure than it was at that time, it was not wise to deviate from such a line of policy. His object was, that all offices in India should be effectively open to Natives, and therefore he would not require them to come over to this country for examination, as such a condition would necessarily entail on Natives of India great expense, expose them to the risk of losing caste, and thereby operate as a bar against their obtaining the advantages held out to all other of Her Majesty's subjects. The course of education, through which the youth of India at present went at the established colleges in that country, afforded the most satisfactory proof of their efficiency for discharging the duties of office; yet, what was the reward of their ability? They were placed in the lowest places, if they even got them, and, after a service of ten or twenty years, they might have walked their hard course up to an appointment which a young civilian from England thought himself aggrieved if he were not promoted from after two or three years' residence in India. This was not just or wise, and would infallibly lead to a most dangerous agitation, by which, in a few years, that which would now be accepted as a boon would be wrested from the Legislature as a right. They had opened the commerce of India in spite of the croakers of the day—let them now open the posts of Government to the Natives, and they would have a more happy and contented people. He did not ask them to make the Natives councillors at once, but to establish some college where the Indians in India might have the same access to the public service as Englishmen had in England. When they considered the expense of coming over here, the rigours of our climate, and the risk of losing caste, it seemed harsh indeed to
 683
 MR. RICH  inquired, would there be a examination in India? He complained that he had received no answer whatever
 684
 MR. I. BUTT  moved the adjournment of the debate on the ground of the impossibility of discussing the subject at that late hour, two o'clock.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that even at that late hour he must ask for a short time the attention of the House. He was very unwilling to give a silent vote—the more unwilling as while he intended to support the proposal of the Government, he yet could not concur in all that had fallen from his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General for Ireland. He believed now, as he had done at the time, that the institution of the Incumbered Estates Court was a grievous wrong. But, retaining that opinion, he must consider, and ask the House to consider, all that had occurred. In 1849 that Court had been established, not, it must be remembered, as a part of the regular judicial system of the country, but as an extraordinary remedy for an extraordinary emergency—to meet, in fact, the state of things alleged to exist in Ireland in the accumulation of incumbrances upon estates. He objected to it then, on the ground that it was in effect forcing a Hale of all incumbered property in Ireland at a time when the circumstances of the country made it utterly impossible to expect purchasers for such a vast mass of property at a fair price. This was the great evil it inflicted. Events had fully justified this objection. Estates had been sold at ten or twelve years' pur-
 692 693 694 695
 MR. M'CANN  believed that the Incumbered Estates Court had given great satisfaction to the people of Ireland, and he trusted that a measure so important as the present would not be delayed.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, by this Bill it was intended to renew, for a period of two years, the presentation of petitions for the sale of incumbered estates in Ireland. He was altogether opposed to this extension of the power of the Commissioners. There were already arrears of business before the Commission which could not be disposed of under five years, and he was decidedly opposed, therefore, to any renewal of their powers by which the Commission might add to that amount of arrears. He had no objection to giving the Commissioners power for five or ten years to wind up estates now in the Court, and wipe off arrears, and he believed it would require ten years to do so. But, after all, the Bill before the House applied only to a certain class of cases, for, in order to have the advantages of the Act, the estate must be incumbered to the extent of one-half; for if the estate was only incumbered to
 686 687 bonâ fide l. l. 688 l. 689
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was in order. He was merely stating a fact. There was not a man in the world whom he would not sooner suspect than the hon. Member for the City of London, who was so goodnatured that he could not look vexed even when he got up to lecture him. But what he objected to was that he should be lectured by the hon. Member for Honiton, and two or three others, as if he had brought a charge against the hon. Member for Honiton or his co-Directors. If he had had a charge against them, he would have made it openly and directly; but his object was to show that these things were trafficked, and that he had shown; and he would go further and say that the mode in which the Government permitted this patronage to be distributed by twenty-four Directors, who were not directly responsible to any body, that that was a mode of distributing the patronage which actually encouraged the very practices which he believed the Government and the House would be anxious to prevent. In the course that he had taken with regard to the East India Company, he had endeavoured to fortify himself by authority that could not be disputed. He did not regret, so far as the Company was concerned, that he had mentioned the case of this person in the City, whoever he might be; but he had to apologise to his hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth that he did not ask his permission to repeat the story; but he confessed he had not thought of stating it until he was on his legs, and this question of patronage and the salary of the Directors was under discussion. He made the statement—he believed it to be true, and he believed it to be confirmed by the general impression out of doors. He defied any person in or out of the House to say, that he had sacrificed the public interest in any way by the statement that he had made on this question.
 MR. BRIGHT : I want the House to understand exactly what it was I said; and after that I shall leave the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Wilkinson) who is the authority for what I stated to the House, to confirm my statement. What I stated was this—that an hon. Member of the House told me that a near relation of his own had had offered to him by a person—a gentleman—so he was represented to me—an office or appointment in India; and that in the course of the conversation relating to it, intimations were held out as to what would be expected in such a case. The gentleman to whom the appointment was offered afterwards ascertained that it would be necessary for him to make a declaration or oath that he had not given, nor expected to be called upon to give, any compensation or payment for this appointment. When he ascertained that, he found that with his views upon the quession it was impossible for him to accede to the intimations that were held out to him, and at the same time conscientiously make the declaration required of him; the consequence was that he did not get the appointment, and I presume, if the appointment were given at all by this gentleman, he found some other person who was not so scrupulous as the gentleman to whom I have referred. That is the statement I made to the House—of course I do not again enter into the details of it; and I may now add that my hon. Friend the Member for Lambeth stated it to me in the course of conversation. Perhaps it was not desirable that, without consulting him, I should have stated it to the House. I can only say that I did not intend to state it before I rose to speak; but believing that similar cases on the part of the Directors were notorious, I did not conceive it would have roused such a feeling as it did last night. I said then that my authority was an hon. Member of this House. I did not state that he was then in the House, though I knew he was, because I was not aware that he was at liberty to give the name of the party. I did not wish to excite hon. Members of this House
 673
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he trusted when the hon. Member for Surrey made another speech, charging that House with being a
 680 l. l. l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  was not saying it was a case against the hon. Baronet; he was saying it was a case where this patronage had been offered for a consideration, and that was the statement he made to the House, and that statement was confirmed by another Member of that House.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman was departing from the arrangements which he had made to the house in his opening speech, by restoring to the Directors a portion of the patronage which he had originally proposed to take away from them, perhaps he would inform him whether he intended to add to the salaries of the Directors. The Bill did not fix the amount, and it appeared to him that it ought to be fixed. He should be glad to hear what the intentions of the right hon. Gentleman were on this point.
 MR. BRIGHT : But as to the amount of the salary, the right hon. Gentleman said nothing.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the proposition of the clause before the Committee was to restore the patronage of the Directors. The right hon. Gentleman had himself connected the question of patronage and salaries. Although he deferred to the Chairman (Mr. Bouverie), and would sit down, if wrong, yet he thought he was in order, and entitled to put the question.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he understood that in the course of the evening a Committee had been nominated, in pursuance of the Resolution adopted by the House last night, in the matter of the petition charging Earl Fitzwilliam with having interfered in various elections for Peterborough. It would be in the recollection of the House that, when he moved for the appointment of a Committee, he endeavoured to follow in all particulars, except in having reduced the number by two, the precedent of the Stamford case. He stated that his object in moving that the number of the Committee should be seven, was, that the General Committee of Selection might appoint five; that he should be chosen as another; and that some other Member of the House should be selected to watch the case for Earl Fitzwilliam. He understood that the House acceded to that view. He now found, however, that the General Committee had nominated seven members, and that he was not one of them, though there might, for anything he knew, be one of the friends of Earl Fitzwilliam upon the Committee. He was not aware that any of the Gentlemen who had been placed upon the Committee knew anything of the case; and if they did not, it would be necessary to have counsel, who were not the best parties to bring out the truth in such an inquiry, He should be very glad, personally, to be excused from serving upon the Committee; but having moved for its appointment upon the understanding that he should be chosen
 657
 MR. J. MACGREGOR  appealed to the right hon. Gentleman not to diminish the incomes of the Cinque Port pilots, the records of whose existence were perfect so far back as the year 1426. The custom always had been to give to superannuated Cinque Port pilots 50 l. 643 l., l. l.
 MR. MASTERMAN  rose to order.
 MR. MASTERMAN  considered every individual who had risen to defend the hon. Member for Manchester only made the case worse. Any one who had listened to that hon. Member must be aware of the stigma he cast on the Directors; he made charges, and then had not the courage to state where or who was the delinquent. He would not trust himself to use the expression of indignation which rose to his lips. He considered it highly reprehensible, first to bring a charge of this nature against a body of honourable men, holding high position, and of unblemished character, and then to shrink from substantiating it. For himself, he was a Director; he had always held a fair character in the world, and he repelled the imputation. He looked at the indiscretion which the hon. Member had been guilty of, and he asked where was the man, after this, who would trust himself to hold a private conversation with the hon. Member for Manchester? Then, there was the hon. Member for Lambeth, who had just reason to complain, as having been made the means of libelling the honour of the Court of Directors; but he thought the hon. Member was bound, as a man of honour, to endeavour to get rid of the obligation which now kept him silent, and to afford to the Court of Directors an opportunity of tracing this disgraceful charge to its source. He had beard many circumstances stated abroad of the same sort, and he could only say he had always followed up the slanders whenever he had an opportunity. The hon. Member for Manchester resolved in his mind to throw out charges against the Court of Directors, and the first opportunity that presented itself out came this story. He was astonished that a man of so much ability should descend to throw out reflections against a body of men whose honour he held to be unassailable.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  reminded the Committee that the hon. Member for Manchester most carefully guarded himself against breathing any imputation against any Director; but, on the contrary, he repeatedly said that it was perfectly possible that the Director in question knew nothing about it.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had taken credit for doing away with a large portion of the patronage of the Court of Directors, which he was now about to restore by this clause. He certainly had not supposed that the right hon. Gentleman would, without notice, have abandoned a part of his Bill. If it had been generally known, many hon. Members who had staid away from the House would have come down and voted upon the questions before the Committee.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  also intended to support the clause as it stood, thinking it better that the admission should be by competition, than by the present plan of nomination. But at the same time he was not insensible to the evil of cramming to which the principle was exposed, and he admitted that this evil should not be lost sight of in considering the difference between the two principles. He certainly did not think that the panegyrics which had been uttered upon the present system of nomination could be justified, because it was apparent, from the clearest evidence, that the persons employed in the judicial department in India did not possess even an average amount of talent. The existing system of appointment had been condemned by Lord William Bentinck, who said—
 "The bane of our system is not solely that the civil administration is entirely in the hands of foreigners, but that the holders of this monopoly, the patrons of these foreign agents, are those who exercise its directing power at home; that this directing power is exclusively paid by patronage, and that the value of this patronage depends exactly upon the degree in which all the honours and emoluments of the State are engrossed by their clients, to the exclusion of the natives. There exists, in consequence, on the part of the home authorities, an interest in the administration precisely similar to what formerly prevailed as to commerce, and directly opposed to the welfare of India."
 SIR JOAN YOUNG  said, the Commissioners had carefully considered the matter, and come to a decision upon it. He was not at present in a position to state the precise alteration which had been made in the rules by the Commissioners, and he confessed that, after reading the minutes as carefully as he could, and listening to parties upon either side, he was not surprised that different opinions should have been expressed in the other House on the subject, and that different conclusions should have been arrived at by noble Lords. The exact state of the case would be unintelligible without a long statement, and that statement he could not make until he had an opportunity of laying the decision of the Commissioners upon the table of the House. He, therefore, thought it would be better for the House to suspend its judgment until the papers were produced. With respect, however, to the nature of the education given under the National system in Ireland, there could be no doubt it was a separate religious and combined literary education. As the noble Lord had truly stated, it was intended that it should partake also of a moral and religious character, for he found it
 655
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he was never more astonished in his life at any statement than he was at that which he had just heard from the hon. Member for Kerry. He had never stated that the Bill would not be resumed to-day. Certainly, nothing of the kind had ever escaped his lips. However, if any inconvenience had arisen in consequence, he was extremely sorry. He was most anxious that the Bill should come on to-day, and he had even gone to his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade to ask him to allow it to take precedence of the Pilotage Bill, and, though his right hon. Friend was very anxious about that Bill, he kindly consented to allow this measure precedence.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he must admit the justice of the suggestion, and would promise to reconsider the clause before the bringing up of the Report.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he felt bound to defend the clause, which had been assimilated to the Poor Law Act, the Valuation Act, and the Scotch Act. If they permitted the principle of retrospective compensation at all, let them do it boldly and distinctly. If it were a good plan to give compensation for such improvements as were adjuncts to the land, it was good irrespective of any limitation of time.
 MR. NAPIER  said, that the statements of the right hon. Baronet had embarrassed him even more than the debate in the other House. He understood that the noble Earl at the head of the Government had distinctly stated what was the  ultimatum 656 Scripture Lessons
 MR. NAPIER  said, he must support the clause, on the ground of the different circumstances of the two countries.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he would undertake that this should be done.
 MR. NAPIER  said, he would have no objection to consider whether something, could not be done to have a register of improvements made, which would answer the same purpose.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  said, if this were such a very fair, proper, and just measure as had been represented, it would be extremely hard that the poor tenants of England and Scotland should be deprived of it. As this clause limited the Bill to Ireland only, he should move that the clause be omitted.
 MR. R. M. FOX  said, he should wish to move the omission of certain words so as to give the tenant the right to compensation without the landlord proceeding to actual eviction.
 MR. MANGLES  quite agreed that the hon. Member for Manchester had shown considerable courage. In charging a gentleman in the City of London, not connected with the Direction, the object of the hon. Gentleman was to throw doubt and distrust on the Court of Directors. The hon. Gentleman had shown the  animus
 MR. CONOLLY  said, he was opposed to the clause, as tending directly against the rights of property in Ireland. He would not relinquish his rights for any temporary popularity; and he would ask, who would buy property in Ireland if it were subject to a clause of this nature?
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, he begged to propose the following clause:—
 "Any judgment or decree obtained under this Act, in respect of Compensation for Improvements executed by any tenant who has been evicted from or put out of possession of his holding, shall be the first charge thereon; and, in default of payment within the time limited by the Court in that behalf, shall entitle the tenant to go forthwith into actual possession, or into receipt of the rents and profits of such holding as mortgagee thereof, and to continue in possession or receipt until fully paid oft with interest and costs."
 MR. KEOGH  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated various reasons in favour of his own proposition, but not one why the House should not now go into Committee upon the present Bill. He confessed he was at a loss to know what was the object of the hon. and learned Gentleman in the speech which he had just addressed to the House—whether it was to attack the Encumbered Estates Act, or to praise it—whether it was to assail the Court of Chancery, or to eulogise it—whether it was to obtain some simple system for disposing of encumbered estates, or to have a variety of very complex systems. He was certain of this, however, that the hon. and learned Gentleman had led the House astray as to the most material facts and circumstances relating to the Encumbered Estates Court. That could easily be proved from papers on the table of the House. The first point to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred was the length of time it took to get a sale in the Encumbered Estates Court. The hon. and learned Gentleman had endeavoured to persuade the House that a long time elapsed before an order for the sale of an estate in the Encumbered Estates Court could be obtained. But what were the facts as they appeared from returns on the table of the House? The number of petitions for sales since the establishment of the Court was 2,692; and the number of petitions fiated by the Commissioners was 2,668. From another re-
 690 l.; l. l. 691
 MR. WILKINSON : I wish to state, in reply to the observations of the hon. Member for Guildford, that I did not say that the party in question was in communication with a Director, but that he professed himself to be in communication with a Director, or other person who could secure the appointment. I trust the Committee will bear in mind that it was not. I who made the public charge; and I may say that. I should not have made a public charge of this sort unless I had been at liberty to give up the names of the parties concerned. Whether my brother will consider himself justified, under all the cir-
 679
 MR. WILKINSON : I hope the House will believe that I was anxious last night, when I heard the hon. Member for Manchester so severely attacked, and knew that I was his informant, to rise and corroborate his statement. The reasons why I did not do so were twofold: first, my statement to the hon. Member was made in private conversation, and was made in illustration of the manner in which, according to common apprehension, the great patronage of the Company was administered. That may be altogether unjust, and I am bound to believe hon. Gentlemen who say that it is so; but I say that there is a strong impression existing in the public mind to that effect, and having mentioned it merely as such, I must say it took me somewhat by surprise when the hon. Member stated publicly what I had told him in private conversation. That was one reason. The other was, that as I was not then at liberty to give my authority for the statement, I thought it would not be productive of any advantage if I did rise, and I therefore remained silent. I have now to state that the person to whom this transaction occurred is my own brother; and that it occurred about last October twelvemonth, though I cannot be altogether sure with regard to the month. I have had a communication with my brother this morning, but he does not feel himself at liberty—having given his word of honour—to divulge the name of the party. The House must, therefore, take the facts on my own statement. The circumstances occurred substantially as the hon. Member for Manchester related them. My brother was desirous to send his son to India, and he made no secret of his desire. Soon after a gentleman came to him whom he had known many years, and said that he could get an appointment for him. My brother said he was much obliged to him; but a long time passed, and the appointment did not come. At last the gentleman came, and hinted something very much to the effect of what the hon. Member for Manchester mentioned to the House last night. My brother, who was not at all acquainted with the forms of the East India House, had no idea that there was any impropriety in what was suggested by this gentleman,
 674 l. l.,
 SIR ARTHUR BROOKE  would suggest that the clause ought to be made to define more clearly what were improvements, and the person who was entitled to compensation for having made them—the tenant who held the farm, or the party who held the lease.
 MR. OTWAY  rose to ask the President of the Board of Control, whether he was now in condition to inform the House as to the dismissal of two Judges of the Sadder Adawlut Court? A short time ago two Judges were suspended by the Bombay Government, it was generally understood, on charges brought against them by a member very high in the civil service in that Presidency. That gentleman, Mr. Luard, was himself suspended by the Bombay Government. Shortly afterwards one of the Judges was promoted to the office of Judge at Poonah—an office in nowise inferior to his former one. The other Judge was offered the office of Paymaster General, which he did not think proper to accept, and he returned to this country. Shortly after that, Mr. Luard was restored to his office. He now asked the President of the Board of Control, whether he was then in a condition to inform the House of the cause of the dismissal of two Judges of the Sadder Adawlut by the Bombay Government, and whether he had approved of that act; also, whether he approved of the suspension of Mr. Luard, and whether that suspension was in consequence of charges brought by that gentleman against those Judges; and further, whether the suspension of Mr. Luard had been withdrawn in consequence of orders from the Home Government?
 MR. OTWAY  said, that the question of salary and patronage had been so repeatedly discussed that it was no wonder that hon. Members should feel desirous of being informed upon the first point. The effect of the right hon. Gentleman's alteration would be to give to the Directors from 1,000 l. l.
 MR. OTWAY  saw no reason why, in the course of time, the Natives should not be admitted into the military service, as they ought to be admitted at once into the civil service. He thought they might at once make them collectors—three or four to the district which was now done by one Englishman; and the consequence of that would be an improvement every way. He expressed his thanks to the right hon. Gentleman for the course he had taken as to admission to Addiscombe.
 MR. OTWAY  then, referring to the clause, complained that the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Charles Wood) had acted disingenuously in having induced a number of Members to vote for the clause giving the salary, under the idea that the Directors would be deprived of the patronage, and then turning round and giving them the patronage.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he was inclined to agree with the noble Lord in his view of the anticipated effects of the clause, but would suggest whether his end would not be gained by limiting the period within which the eviction could take place to ten years from the date of the completion of the improvements. He would move an Amendment to that effect.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he was so anxious to have a register of the nature referred to by the right hon. and learned Gentleman, that if he would give an undertaking to provide such a register, he also would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. GROGAN  said, he would now propose, as another Amendment, to add to the end of the clause the words—
 "Provided always, that such tenant shall give notice to the landlord within one year from the passing of this Act of the improvements for which he intends to claim compensation."
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  expressed his concurrence in the view taken by the hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  inquired if there would be an examination as a certain test for fitness on leaving college. I was not so stated.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  feared that competition would have the effect of excluding the sons and relatives of distinguished servants of the Company from the appointments which their friends had deserved. Not that he objected to competition, but he felt it was monstrous to discuss it without some scheme before them, to show how it was intended to work. He thought they were making a fearful experiment without adequate information to support them.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, that the subject of limited liability was one in which the trading interests of this country took a deep interest, and which required the exercise of the greatest vigilance on the part of the Government. He did not think that the precedents of the Board of Trade would be a sufficiently safe guide in the granting of charters with limited liability, as that body had granted charters to carry out the most trivial and useless objects.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  wished to point out that it was not only the Directors of the East India Company who were punishable for the sale, of patronage, but any third party who was guilty of a transaction so dishonourable could also be indicted and punished for it. He mentioned this because cases had occurred in which persons had pretended that they had the sale
 677 l., l., l. 678
 SIR J. W. HOGG : Against whom then?
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  suggested that as the existing state of things would be altered by this Bill, the nominations to Haileybury should be made by the Court of Directors, subject to the control of the, Board of Commissioners.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he could not assent to the clause, notwithstanding any precautions with which it might be guarded and fenced. He objected to the principle, convinced that it would prove most unjust if they gave retrospective compensation,
 639
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, as he did not regard the Bill as just or wise for Ireland, he certainly should not vote for its extension to England.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS : Sir, I heard yesterday the statement of the hon. Member for Manchester with great pain, but I am bound to assert that he did not refer to any Director as the guilty party. That he left such an impression on the House is but too clear; but it might, on the other hand, be equally true that the whole negotiations took place not only without the guilty knowledge, but even without the suspicion, of any member of the Court of Directors. I honestly believe that that was the fact. I believe that not one member of the Court, so long and so ably represented by the hon. Member for Honiton, is at this moment open to the suspicion of being a party to such conduct; and if it can be made out that the hon. Member for Manchester charged—as I believe he did—no one individual Director with the cognisance of it, then I think the time of the House
 676
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  considered that some hon. Gentlemen had made a mistake with regard to the admission to Addiscombe, for the youths went there to the higher branches of education, in consequence of their success in public competition. It was proposed to continue upon the present footing all the rest of the cadets sent to India; for it appeared to him when the number of Directors would be reduced from 24 to 18, that absolutely and in reality there would be a greater amount of individual patronage than there was when the civil appointments were direct. It appeared to him that the Commander in Chief would be a good person to have a portion of the patronage, and that the Court of Directors in their corporate capacity, might be entrusted with a considerable amount of it.
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he could not agree with the Amendment of his hon. Friend who had just sat down, for he thought that it would lead to extraordinary confusion if they admitted one-half the students into a college who were nominated by their friends, and another half composed of persons who had gained that position by their individual attainments. He was of opinion that all these admissions should be open to public competition. If the plan was to be adopted of sending men to Haileybury who had passed a previous examination, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman proposed to limit the number so admitted; because, if not, it appeared to follow almost as a matter of necessity that, once admitted, they would be supported and sent out to India, so that on their first examination the future prospects of the young men would altogether depend. He imagined that it would be far better if the admission to this seminary, or to some other place of education suited to the purpose, were left entirely open to all who chose to enrol themselves as candidates, and who had passed a sufficiently satisfactory examination, but leaving their future appointment to competition before their departure to India. The Government of India was mainly carried on by 600 or 700 English gentlemen, who were sent out there for that purpose, and it was, of course peculiarly incumbent on the Legislature to take every precaution to render the administration of India as perfect as possible. Now, though there could be no doubt that the civil service had been highly distinguished, yet it must be evident that out of so many there must be some who ought never to have been admitted into it; and he thought, that, with the view of securing at all times the best ser-
 660
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, as a humble English Member, he must protest against the application of the Bill to England, where it was not required.
 VISCOUNT JOCELYN : Sir, this is one of the most painful things that has ever taken place in this House. That one Gentleman should have mentioned in public what he heard in private conversation affecting the character of a body of gentlemen entrusted with great power and patronage,
 675
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, that in that case he would withdraw his Amendment, it being open to him to move the omission of the clause, if he saw fit, upon bringing up the Report.
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, he could not accept the Amendment of the hon. Member for the city of Dublin, and he should persist in moving, after that Amendment should be disposed of, the expunging of the clause.
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, he objected to the clause, as altogether opposed to all principles of legislation. Every kind of retrospective compensation was extremely questionable, but, if permitted, at all events the law should be so defined as that it should not lead to perpetual litigation. He thought the clause would prove so injurious in its effects, and would keep the country from one end to the other in such a state of ferment, that he believed the tenant would be no gainer by it if it passed. He would beg to move, therefore, as an Amendment, that the clause should be omitted, with the understanding that if the feeling of the Committee were in favour of retrospective compensation, the words recommended by the Select Committee should be inserted.
 MR. STAFFORD  said, so far as his memory served him, there was an arrangement made that this evidence should not be considered otherwise than confidential. He was sure that it was not from any wish to undervalue the evidence of these distinguished officers that the right hon. Baronet opposite had withheld it from the House; and, as Secretary to the late Board, he was quite willing to take his share of the responsibility incurred by the evidence being so withheld.
 MR. MACKINNON  said, he wished to draw the attention of the House to the system of manning the navy as pursued in France. They all knew that the French army was created by conscription, but with regard to the navy the means were different. Every person who had been afloat, either on a river or on the sea—even the man who managed a ferry boat—in short every person who gained his livelihood by living on the water, whether fresh or salt, was what was called "inscribed" by the authorities of his dictrict. Whenever a call was made by the Admiralty of France, or by the person at the head of that department, as many men as could be found to volunteer were procured from this inscribed list. If a sufficient number of these volunteers could not be obtained from men accustomed to the sea, then they extended the "inscription" to those who were on fresh water; and if a sufficient number were still not found, then they were balloted for in the same way as we did for the militia. He thought that a good deal of the cumbrous machinery of the present Bill might be done away with if the simple plan of the French Government were adopted. It would give greater power to the Admiralty to raise men, and in a much quicker manner.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, he could assure the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Williams), that the officers of the Navy were so cautiously watched that no improper punishments could take place; and, having had the command of two or three ships during peace, he positively asserted, from his own knowledge, that the fear of punishment was not the cause which prevented men from entering Her Majesty's service. He could assure the hon. Member that, with respect to one man who had made a great noise in a newspaper, that very man, on coming out of Exeter gaol, re-entered the service immediately; and with respect to another man, who the hon. Member wanted to induce the house to believe had been murdered by the officer of his vessel, so far from that being the case, he, also, had re-entered the service. The hon. Gentleman opposite was mistaken as to the reason why men of the best class could not be obtained immediately when wanted. The cause really was the conduct of that House in reducing at times the numbers of the Navy, and sending the best trained men adrift, and, therefore, the House ought not to be surprised that the men when wanted were not to be found. The right hon. Gentleman opposite was totally mistaken as to the popularity of the marine service as compared with the naval service. When the force was increased by 5,000 seamen and 1,500 marines, the 5,000 seamen, notwithstanding that high wages were given in the merchant service, and that seamen were in great demand in consequence of the requirements for California and Australia, had since December been raised, with the exception of about 800 men; whereas the Government had not yet got half the complement of marines voted at the same time. One thing
 751
 MR. HUME  said, that he had given notice of a clause to raise the number of the Secret Committee to four. The principal alteration, however, which he wished to see carried into effect was, that the Secret Committee should be required to keep minutes of their proceedings, and to report those proceedings to the President of the Board of Control. He did not object to a Secret Committee, but desired to see a record kept. He wanted to place the President of the Board of Control, and the Directors also, in a condition to record whenever they differed upon any matters of policy connected with the government of India. He thought the clause was one which, as a matter of precaution, no Government should reject. It was a very small cheek, but it would enable future Parliaments to apply a more effectual remedy.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he wished to cal the attention of the Committee to a proposition laid down by Mr. Martin Tucker the accuracy of which the President of the Board of Control ought certainly not to dispute. That gentleman laid it down as one of the first principles of Government, that the responsibility, whether for praise or blame, ought on all occasions to rest on the right shoulders. There was passage in the  Memoirs 766 Memoirs,
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, it appeared to him that his hon. Friend who had just addressed the Committee was mistaken upon one point. He (Mr. V Smith) believed the public were well aware that the orders signed by the Secret Committee in reality emanated from the President of the Board of Control, and that he alone was responsible for them; but he certainly did not admire the constitution of the Secret Committee, and he felt, with Mr. Tucker, that men were placed in a false and humiliating position when they were compelled to sign documents of which they entirely disapproved. For his part he should have preferred a system under
 767
 MR. HUME  said, one of his objects in supporting the clause was to enable the Secret Committee to communicate their proceedings to their colleagues in the Direction. At present the Secret Committee could not publish their protests without the consent of the President of the Board of Control, so that whatever information they might have would be completely locked within their own breasts. In the case of the war with Affghanistan, the whole Court of Directors applied to the President of the Board of Control to permit the Secret Committee to make known the facts to the Court of Directors. The President refused his consent, and, there fore, whatever was known on the subject was known to the Secret Committee alone.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to move the addition of a clause extending the qualifications of electors of the Court of Directors.
 SIR HERBERT HADDOCK  thought that persons who had spent the whole of their lives in India were much more likely to feel an interest in that country, and to select persons fitted for the position of Di-
 772
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  would beg to remind the President of the Board of Control that in his great speech on the Bill, he had stated that nothing could be said for the proprietors. He would inquire, therefore, why they were to be kept up? In considering this Bill he was reminded of the old story respecting Pope, who had a habit of saying "God mend me!" which being overheard one day in the street, he was answered, "God mend you, you ugly little brute! Why, it would be easier to make a new one altogether." So he said of the Bill. It would be better by far to introduce an entirely new form of government, and he should not vote for any attempt to mend the present bad system.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that there were several notices upon the paper besides that of the hon. Member for Montrose, of propositions for extending and improving the constituency of the East India proprietors; and he thought the whole of them ought to be taken in conjunction. They should consider, in particular, the proposal of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), who proposed to introduce a new clement into the constituency, consisting of the shareholders in undertakings for the internal improvement of India. It was said that the present Directors had no interest in the internal improvement of the country; and, therefore, by infusing this new element into the constituency, they would be taking effectual means for wiping away this reproach.
 MR. HUME  said, he would be content to limit himself to the first three lines of his Amendment, which proposed that the qualification of electors should be 500 l. l.
 The CHAIRMAN  said, that the ques-
 775
 MR. HUME  said, that was the principle he wished to establish.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he would now beg to move the following Clause:—
 "And whereas doubts have been entertained as to the extent of the powers granted to the Governor General in Council, by the 43rd section of the said Act of the third and fourth years of King William IV., it, is hereby declared that the said Governor General in Council shall have full powers to enact, alter, or amend any laws for the said territories (subject to the restrictions specified in the said 43rd section of the said Act, as well as to the right of disallowance of such laws vested in the Court of Directors by the 44th section of the same), without any previous sanction of the said Court of Directors, except in the cases reserved by the 46th section of the said Act, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in former Acts or Charters still in force and unrepealed." 776
 MR. J. G. PHILLMORE  said, he also feared that the Bill would prove delusive, and that although it professed to do justice to the Natives, the spirit of monopoly would still blight the hopes and break the spirits of the Indian people. While such a state of things continued, India would be attached to this country by no bond of affection, but would be retained by the power of the army and the terror of the sword. He implored of the Committee not to allow such an Empire to be governed in the miserable spirit of monopoly and exclusion.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he insist say the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control had not shown himself aware of the full importance of this Amendment. Upon it turned the whole question whether or no the Natives of India were to be admitted to the civil service of the Company. For himself, he thought the proposal of the Government, which professed to throw open the civil service to unlimited competition, but which at the same time absolutely excluded Natives of India, was a retrograde step. He did not say that because he approved of the old system of patronage, but because, while the old system could not have been permanent, the present plan would not be felt to be an abuse in this country, whatever it might be in India, and it would therefore be allowed to continue without improvement. He confessed he did not think it at all likely that many of the Natives of India would come over to be educated at Haileybury; but that was the less to be regretted, because the educational establishments in Calcutta and other large towns in India were of a very superior character. Let them suppose, for instance, that instead of holding those examinations here in London, that they were to be held in Calcutta. Well, how many Englishmen would go out there—or how many would send out their sons, perhaps to spend two or three years in the country on the chance of obtaining an appointment? Nevertheless, that was exactly the course proposed to be adopted towards the Natives of India. Now it struck him that it they wished to increase the eligibility of the Natives to the higher offices of the country, they could only do so in one of two ways—either by incorporating them with the civil service, or by admitting them to such offices without making them pass through the civil service at all. As far, however, as he could learn, the abstract principle of admitting Natives to high administrative offices was not contemplated on either side of the house, therefore it was not necessary to argue that question; all he would say was, that he believed they were bound to do so
 785
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he thought that the period of service for ten years from the age of eighteen was too short. He saw no sound reason for making this limit at a time when Parliament was offering additional inducements to seamen to join the Navy. It was true the men were eligible to re-enter at the end of ten years when they could have the pensions of 6 d. 756
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he was Chairman of the Committee, and he was anxious to know if the Committee would have any control as to the mode in which counsel should be heard. He apprehended if this Motion were passed, they would appear in the ordinary way. He thought they ought to be restricted to reasonable limits, and not to be allowed to take technical objections, otherwise the proceedings would be so protracted that they might not be able to report this Session.
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, he would appeal to the hon. Member for Manchester to leave the matter in the hands of the Committee, who would be quite ready to call in counsel if the necessity arose. At all events he trusted the hon. Member would postpone his Motion until he ascertained what course the Committee proposed to take. He (Mr. S. Wortley) felt quite satisfied they would make such arrangements as would be satisfactory to all parties.
 MR. ELLIOT  said, it would be very desirable to introduce the retired servants of the Company, but that there was so great a disproportion between the members of the two services. The retired military servants now in this country were over 1,400, but the civil were only about 280. The result would be that a large number of military men would be placed on the Board. He would, therefore, oppose the clause. He would not vote for any provision which would have the effect of prolonging the existence of the constituency.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that before going to a division, he wished to say a few words on what had fallen from the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. T. Baring). In what he had said, the hon. Gentleman was discussing a question far beyond the present Bill, and far beyond what the necessity of the case required. The East India Company was an anomalous body, which being first a trading company had acquired territory; its trade had been taken away while the territory remained; but it was found to be a body which had worked well for the welfare of India, and it was thought well that it should be continued. That was practically a fair ground for discussion. But if it was proposed, as was proposed by the hon. Member for Huntingdon, to endeavour to create an independent body to stand between the Crown and the Government of India, it was proposing a new and strange authority; and there was no necessity for discussing that question now, but it ought to be left to the consideration of Parliament at some future period to say whether such a body was to be created or not. It was an inappropriate subject to be discussed in that Committee, even if the innovation was not objectionabe in principle.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  had no objection to that course being adopted, but as it was most desirable to get through with this measure as soon as possible, he should propose to go on with it at 12 o'clock tomorrow, before the other Orders which stood on the paper.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he rose to make one inquiry of the Government with respect to the opinion which had been laid down by the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir J. W. Hogg). The hon. Director had stated that Her Majesty's Government were responsible for the peace and security of India, and that the responsibility must remain with those who exercised the power. He wanted to know—for he had never yet clearly understood it in the course of these discussions—whether the power of recalling the Governor General of India belonged to the Court of Directors, and was to be continued to them? He did not desire upon the present occasion to enter into a discussion whether that was a power which ought to be left to the Court of Directors; but every one agreed that it was one of the most important exercises of power that could be conceived. If Her Majesty's Government were to be held responsible for the government of India, it appeared quite impossible that they could completely fulfil that responsibility if no difference were made with regard to the power of recalling the Governor General. He had alluded to the subject before; and he should like to know whether it was the intention of the Government to propose any clause in order to deprive the Directors of that power if they still possessed it? Considering the immense responsibility of the Government, he thought that it was one which they should not be called upon to undergo while the power of recalling the Governor General remained with the Directors.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that not
 773 cadit questio;
 MR. NEWDEGATE  then rose to move the following Clause:—
 "At every ballot for the election of Directors of the East India Company, the proprietors of stock or shares in any company or association of persons established by authority of Parliament, or of the Government of India, for the purpose of effecting or carrying on by means of joint stock any undertaking of irrigation, drainage, railway or other communication, or other object of internal improvement in India, under the supervision of the Government thereof—such proprietors being qualified as hereinafter mentioned—shall be entitled to vote in respect of their paid-up stock or shares, according to the scale following, that is to say: one vote in respect of 2,000 l.; l.; l.; l. bonâ fide 789 790 primâ facie 791 l. l., l., l., l. 792
 MR. SPEAKER  said, if the Motion were carried, counsel must be heard in the ordinary way.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  stated, that his objection to the clause was, that it was the law as it stood now. The Court of Directors did by practice select their senior member, but they might choose any other.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he wished it to be understood that the Government had no intention of assenting to the lowering of the qualification. As regarded the question of proxies, it was for that House to decide between the evils arising from the voting by proxy and the injurious effect of reducing the number of the constituency which the putting a stop to this system would cause. On the whole he saw no good ground for making the proposed change in the constituency of the East India Company.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  objected to any increase of the constituency, as proposed by the several amendments. It would be inconsistent with the Charter of the Company and the decision of the House that the government should be vested in the East India Company—namely, the proprietors of East India Stock. If the Committee wished to alter that, they must reverse their previous decisions.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the responsibility of peace and war, and of negotiations with foreign Powers, had been for the last twenty years exclusively within the province of the Government of this country, and it was so proposed to continue it. During the whole of that time, as the
 765
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  opposed the clause on the ground that there was no doubt whatever with regard to the existing state of the law. Both the Attorney and Solicitor General in England, and the Chief Justice in Calcutta, Sir Laurence Peel, had been unanimous in their interpretation of it, and in their view of the power of the Government. His hon. Friend contended that the Government should not have that power; but he asked whether it was better
 777
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, it was impossible that he should have made any regulations of the nature referred to, until he knew whether the House would assent to the principle of the Bill which he had introduced.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the object of Her Majesty's Government was to do justice to all classes in India, and to extend the employment of the Natives, not only with regard to the numbers to whom employment was given, but also by promoting them to higher situations than they had hitherto filled. The hon. Member for Richmond (Mr. Rich) had stated that the clause in the Act of 1833 had been a perfect nullity—
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  proceeded to say that the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) had stated that the clause had been an entire nullity, and that the Natives had not been admitted into the service of the Company.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the object of the clause to which the hon. Member referred was to promote the general employment of Natives in India, and if the Natives had been generally employed, the clause was not a nullity. The hon. Member for Manchester had complained that much higher salaries were given to Europeans than to the Natives of India; but in the evidence taken by the Committee it was distinctly shown that a much higher salary was required to induce a man of ability to leave this country to undertake office in India, and to expose himself to the climate of that country, than would be received for the performance of similar duties at home. It was necessary that European superintendence should be maintained in India, and large salaries must be paid to officers who occupied high positions and who were called upon to discharge important duties. He must observe, however, that Natives of India had been admitted to much higher offices than had heretofore been open to them; and Lord Dalhousie had given to a Native the appointment of magistrate at Calcutta. Reference had been made to the petitions which had been presented to Parliament from India; but it was well known that those petitions were not wholly the production of the Natives, for they were partly got up by the English editors of newspapers. He would undertake to say that on of the petitions was written and got up by the editor of a newspaper at Madras, and was not, as it was represented to be, the spontaneous production of the Natives. It was not necessary, in order to insure the ge-
 784
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  thought that the decision of the Committee upon the previous question had determined that there should be no addition to the present constituency of the East India Company. If at any future period it should be found necessary to consider in whose hands the government of India should be placed, and whether the double government should be continued, or a single government substituted, then would be the proper time to take the proposal of the hon. Gentleman into consideration.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he concurred with the right hon. Gentleman on the great tranquillity existing in all parts of Ireland. There were no disturbances and no conspiracies to be feared. There was, therefore, in his opinion, no necessity for this Bill. The Committee, which sat to inquire into the state of society in the north of Ireland, did not report that any measure like the present Bill was required. Every measure proposed by the Committee had been neglected both by the late and present Governments, and instead thereof, the
 794
 MR. LUCAS  seconded the Amendment.
 795
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, out of the number of 21,000 boys educated by Government, only 3,000 afterwards entered the Navy. It could hardly be expected that a naval reserve, unless the proposed alterations were carried fully into effect, would enable Government to have that reserve which they contemplated.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that in his opinion the repeal of the manning clause in respect to the merchant service would undermine the popularity both of the mercantile and naval services. With regard to obtaining men, they would do much more by encouragements than by punishments, and there were great want of encouragements in the Navy. One great evil was, that the governing power—the Board of Admiralty—was political, and change as often as power passed from the possession of one party to that of another. There had been three First Lord of the Admiralty within the last twelve months, and changes so rapid necessarily had an unfavourable influence on the Navy. He had no doubt that the present First Lord of the Admiralty meant well by the Bills now about to be discussed; but who knew that he would be able to carry them out, or that the next First Lord might not altogether differ from him on the matter? With regard to punishments, there were some forty or fifty ships in which there were no corporal punishments at all and therefore it seemed to him that as regarded this point something depended upon the temperament of the man who commanded. The officer had too much power in respect to the infliction of corporal punishment, which should not take place except upon the sentence of some court of inquiry, consisting, perhaps, of three officers, that would also relieve the captain of a portion of his responsibility. He also thought that reports of the minor punishments as well as of the corporal punishments should be sent to the Admiralty; for the necessity of making these reports had a tendency to diminish the punishments. As to the punishment of death it stood out in the Articles of War in a most terrific manner; and so far they certainly needed
 752 l.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, this Bill had reached the present stage without one word having fallen from the First Lord of the Admiralty in the way of explanation of its provisions. It was read a second time between one and two o'clock in the morning, when no statement could well be made by the right hon. Gentleman. He was most anxious to give his assistance to any scheme for the better manning of the Navy; but he hoped that out of respect to the House some explanation of so important a measure would be given.
 MR. RICH  said, he must explain that what he had said was, that that clause was a nullity so far as the covenanted service was concerned. It was true that Natives had been admitted, under the Company's authority, to minor situations, but they then reached a wall which, by the rule of the covenanted service, was impassable.
 MR. RICH  must say, that he thought this statement most unsatisfactory. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir C. Wood) ought not, he thought, to have introduced this portion of the measure at all, unless he was prepared with the details necessary to carry it into effect, The alterations in the law would affect the Natives of India at once, although, strictly speaking, it did not take effect until the end of about a year and a half. Although he was certain his clause would be rejected, he felt bound to press it to a division, in order to show the sense entertained of what was due to the Natives not in word but in deed.
 MR. RICH  said, he had a clause upon the paper, but before moving it, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman (Sir C. Wood) whether he had framed any regulations to provide for the great difficulties which would attend the admission of Natives of India to the college of Haileybury. By this Bill, it was proposed to open Haileybury, but he had heard of nothing as to any regulations for enabling the Natives of India to bear the expense of coming to this country. Provision ought also to be made for their religious observances, and to enable them to keep caste.
 MR. RICH  said, he should support the clause, because it was calculated to give force and reality to the remonstrances which the Secret Committee made. It might happen that the President of the Board of Control might be a little wrong-headed, or rather too eager to engage war, and then the Secret Committee would exercise the useful power of being a kind of drag-chain upon the political eagerness of the Government of the day.
 MR. RICH  said, that having objections to the system of double government altogether, and feeling that the narrower the basis upon which the present Government of India rested, the less likely was it to be endured, he certainly should not vote for any extension of the constituency.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the Motion now before the Committee involved the question which had been raised before during these discussions, but which had never been fairly met by the President of the Board of Control, namely, whether the clause in the Act of 1833, which had been so often alluded to, had not, up to this time, been altogether a nullity. If any doubt had been entertained with respect to the object of that clause, it would be removed by reference to the answers given by the then President of the Board of Control to the hon. Member for Mon-
 779 l. l. "The pay and allowances granted under the present unjust and invidious system to the whole body of moonsifs, Sudder Ameens, and principal Sudder Ameens, or native judges of the people, 'the original arbiters in 19–20ths of all cases of litigation' in this presidency, do not exceed the aggregate sum drawn by eight of the covenanted or European Judges. Ought so monstrous a disproportion to continue any longer?" Evidence relating to the Efficiency 780 of Native Agents in India, "That your petitioners have already requested the continuance of the councils at the minor presidencies, and they now respectfully reiterate their prayer to have them constituted on the precedent of the council in the island of Ceylon, in which your petitioners' countrymen have enjoyed seats for a series of years; and as your petitioners understand that constitutions have been or are on the eve of being granted to the settlements of the Cape of Good Hope and New Zealand, admitting the Natives there to the same electoral and municipal privileges as the European colonists, they humbly and anxiously trust that your hon. House will not deem the barbarians of the former and the cannibals of the latter colony more deserving or more fitting to be intrusted with a share in the management of their own affairs, than the inhabitants of a country which for scores of centuries has been renowned throughout the world for its civilisation, literature, and commerce, and which had its own Sovereigns, Governments, and codes of law, long before the English nation had a name in history, That your petitioners will consider themselves and their community deeply humiliated and deeply aggrieved, if, after the open acknowledgments of persons high in office in this country and in England that they are as capable to hold responsible employments as the members of the now exclusive civil service—that they are their equals on the bench, and successful competitors in the study of European arts, science and literature—they are longer shut out from the offices for which they are confessedly qualified, while the savage Hottentot and New Zealander are preferred before them." "The disorders which have, in many instances, crept into the provincial administration, are such as even the press must be very wary in exposing. If every case of total incapacity and gross negligence and  crassa ignorantia 781 Calcutta Review, l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l, l. l. 782
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he must also beg to explain that he had said that Natives were now only employed in offices which were just as accessible to them before the clause was passed, and the barrier which that clause was supposed to throw down still existed.
 MR. BRIGHT  moved, "That in the matter of the Peterborough Election Petitions Committee, the parties have leave to appear by themselves, their Counsel, or Agents."
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the right hon. Gentleman spoke as if he (Mr. Bright) found fault with the Committee of Selection, or with the Gentlemen they had nominated. That was not the case. Only the course he had been recommended to take was, to adopt the precedent of the Stamford case, in which Sir William Page Wood, who had presented the petition, and who stood in the same relation to the Marquess of Exeter as he (Mr. Bright) did to Earl Fitzwilliam, was a Member of the Committee. However he did not want another word to be said. He was quite satisfied with the Committee, and he hoped it would conduct the inquiry in the best and most impartial manner.
 MR. BRIGHT said, he was afraid he should not be able to consent to the proposition. He moved for the Committee, following the precedent of the Stamford case, and he had been driven from that to
 760
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that if no other Member did so, he would move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, so hostile did this Bill appear to be to the liberties of Ireland, that he should oppose the second reading. For a considerable time past, crime had been decreasing, and there had been only two cases of murder recorded for a period extending over some months. Unless some explanation were offered by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Young), he should oppose the further progress of the measure.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  moved that the Chairman report progress.
 MR. AYSHFORD WISE  said, he should give his cordial support to the Motion of the hon. Member for Montrose, because it would do away with the system of canvassing by rendering it impracticable—because it would tend to break up the close system and clanship of East Indianism—because it would scatter the patronage and increase the interest taken in this country in Indian affairs. The present constituency was composed of 1,785 gentlemen and 411 ladies. The proposal now made would give the franchise to retired military and civil servants—from Bengal 893, Madras 597, Bombay 376; in all 1,866. These, with the others proposed to be added, would create a body of 5,000 electors. He thought the interests of India would be promoted by giving a share of the government to those who had served in that country, and who consequently took a concern in its welfare. Some time ago a numerously-signed petition from the retired servants of the hon. East India Company had been presented to the House, and he found, amongst others, the names of Colonel Morgan, C.B., Mr. J. A. Arbuthnot, and Archdeacon Harper, late Archdeacon of Madras. They stated that a long residence in India had made them practically acquainted with its affairs, and had given them a deep interest in its general well-being, and that having Government promissory notes, they necessarily had a great stake in the financial prosperity of India. They stated that
 771
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he was happy to bear witness to, and to corroborate the statements made by the hon. Member for
 793
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would be glad to hear what regulations would be made to enable boys after a certain age to age released if they did not like the service?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he must confess that he did not think that the punishment was the cause of the men not entering the naval service. The marines when afloat were, he believed, subject to the same kind of corporal punishment, yet there was no difficulty in getting men for that service, neither was there any difficulty in enlisting men for the Army. He regretted that the committee of naval officers had not gone into the inquiry, and probed the subject to the core, as to the causes why seafaring men did not prefer the Queen's service. It was very remarkable, but for some reason or other it was the only part of the Queen's service the people were not anxious to go into.
 MR. BAINES  said, as Chairman of the Committee of Selection, he wished to state the principle on which the Committee in this case had been selected, and he was anxious to do so in consequence of some expressions which he understood had fallen from the hon. Member for Manchester. The hon. Member for Manchester said it was the understanding of the House that he was to be a Member of the Committee. Now he (Mr. Baines) was not aware of any understanding that any particular Member was to be added to the Committee. When the matter came before the General Committee they looked at the terms of the reference, and found that they were directed to name a Chairman and six Members for the purpose of investigating the allegations of the Peter; borough petitions; and they thought they should best fulfil their duty by constituting the Committee as fairly and impartially, and as little open to exception, as possible. They found that the precedents in such cases differed. No doubt in the Stamford case the Committee of Selection put on the Committee the hon. Member by whom the complaint had been in the first instance presented to the House; but by way of counterbalancing him it was thought necessary to put another hon. Member on the Committee, to represent as it were the opposite party. Now that was a principle to which he very much objected. It was carrying on the old system of nominees, which had been abandoned by common consent. Then they looked at the other precedent, which in point of time, and he believed in nearly all its circumstances, was most similar to the present case, the Derby case, which occurred in the present Session. That was an inquiry into time allegations in a petition from the borough of Derby brought forward by the present Attorney General, and it was determined by the House that a Select Committee should be nominated by the General Committee of Selection, who did not appoint anybody who had previous impressions on the subject. They thought it best to name Gentlemen who were entirely uninfluenced by their previous impressions, and who would take their impressions from the evidence, and
 761
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, he could bear testimony to the tranquil state of the county of Kilkenny, and must defend it against the libel conveyed in the Lord Lieutenant's Proclamation.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he thought that the Bill was highly objectionable in this respect, that while it pretended to lay down the generous principle that no condition of colour, creed, or caste was to be regarded as a disqualification for office, it hampered the principle with such regulations and modifications as would render it all but impossible for the Natives to avail themselves of it. The Bill in this respect was a delusion, and would prove a source of chronic and permanent discontent to the people of India. Before the next Session of Parliament the principle of competition
 788
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he was anxious to see the introduction of a new element into the present constituency which should be capable of expansion hereafter. For that reason he was in favour of the clause of which the noble Lord the Member for Lynn Regis (Viscount Jocelyn) had given notice, the object of which was to give to the retired Indian officers of the covenanted service the right of voting in the election of the Directors; and should the clause of the hon. Member for Montrose be negatived, be hoped the proposition of the noble Lord would be adopted.
 MR. LOWE  said, he must object to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, because the clauses which prohibited canvassing for the Directorship had already been struck out of the Bill. It had been urged that, owing to the very onerous nature of the canvass, the persons best qualified for the office could not be induced to offer themselves as Directors; but the clause proposed by the hon. Member for Montrose would greatly augment the difficulty of the canvass by increasing very considerably the number of the constituency. Certainly, if the trouble of canvassing some 1,700 persons was a sufficiently formidable obstacle to deter gentlemen from offering themselves as Directors, that difficulty must be greatly increased by doubling the number of electors. The clause moved by the hon. Member for Montrose would also give the right of voting for Directors to persons who were holders of Company's paper to the value of 10,000 rupees, and to retired civil and military servants of the Company who had served for twenty years in India Now, the principle of this Bill was, until
 770
 MR. LOWE  said, he could not conceive on what grounds the hon. Gentleman who had moved the clause now under discussion could complain of the provisions of the present Bill with regard to the employment of Natives; he would beg to call his attention to the words of the 87th clause of the date of 1853, the effect of which was, that no Native was disabled from holding any place, office, or employment under the Company by reason of his religion, colour, or place of birth. But let the Committee see how the matter stood before this Bill was introduced into the House. It stood in this way:—The Natives were legally admitted, but practically excluded from the military service, while they were wholly excluded from the civil service. For the military service there was no claim made, and the noble Lord who spoke last was satisfied with their having been excluded; but the 87th section of the Act, if taken in its literal sense, applied just as strongly to the military covenanted service as to the civil covenanted service; and there was no reason, if they took the Act of Parliament and applied it logically, why they should not admit the Natives to the command of regiments, as well as to the high offices in the civil ser-
 786 787
 MR. MANGLES  said, he was sorry to be obliged to differ from his hon. Friend and Colleague the Member for Honiton on this question. It was his intention to support the Amendment of the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir H. Willoughby); and one reason why he should do so was, that he thought that the Court of Directors, if they were to be a respected and respectable body, ought to be preserved from the obliquy which in popular opinion attached to them from being the agents for carrying out unwise decrees. He did not, however, lay so much stress upon that argument. His main reason for supporting the Amendment was, that it was desirable that there should be such a check placed upon the mere will and pleasure of the President of the Board of Control as the protest of three well-informed officials, which check would only operate, of course, in exact proportion to its justice and reasonableness. He thought it also desirable that in such matters as peace and war, and others involving the stability of the Indian Empire, all measures should be carried out, not by the President of the Board of Control alone, but by the whole Cabinet of the day. It was said that the President of the Board of Control always consulted the Cabinet, and that his measures were always the measures of the Government. But this, at all events, had not always been the case. He believed that the right hon. Baronet, who at present held that office, was too wise and too loyal to his Colleagues to attempt to carry out any important measure, without consulting the other Members of Government; but they had the admission of Lord Ellenborough, in his evidence before the Committee of the House of Commons, that, when he was President of the Board of Control, he never consulted that great statesman, Sir Robert Peel, when he was at the head of the Government. And what had happened once, might happen again. Lord Ellenborough was asked—
 "Is not that a mere mockery as to check and control? Does not the President always conduct the whole business, and is it not the case that the other members of the board never do attend?" 769 "Never. When I was President of the Board, upon all matters of difficulty, I always went to the Duke of Wellington, who was at the head of the Government, because I knew that he had, not only a practical, but an intuitive knowledge of everything connected with India; and whatever I know, or whatever I think, upon the subject of India, has been very much brought into my mind by constant communication with him. But I never went to Sir Robert Peel, when he was at the head of the Government, to consult him on any matter."
 MR. T. BARING  said, he could not see the force of the argument of the right hon. President of the Board of Control, who had contended that there was an insuperable objection under this Act to any enlargement of the constituency so as to embrace any qualification except that of the possession of the present amount of the stock of the East India Company. The right hon. Gentleman had, therefore, opposed the proposed reduction of the qualification from 1,000 l. l. 774
 MR. T. BARING  said, if the division was taken on the principle of enlarging the constituency, he should vote for the clause, but not for a mere reduction of the qualification from 1,000 l. l.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he thought the proposition of his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose most reasonable, and he should therefore support it. Nothing could be more anomalous than that 1,374 men and 411 females, who might happen to be the holders of stock, which was to be had every day for sale in the market, should be the depositories of the power of choosing the governors of India; and, therefore, he thought any plan tending to extend the basis of the constituency was a step in the right direction.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that the hon. and gallant Admiral (Admiral Berkeley) had adverted to a case he (Mr. Williams) formerly brought under the notice of the House. A seaman jumped from on board one of the Queen's ships, off the coast of California, and the captain, instead of sending a boat to recapture him, ordered his men to fire upon him. Afterwards a dead body was picked up, which was supposed at the time to be that of the man who had been fired at. It now appeared from the gallant Admiral's statement, that that man had re-entered the service; but he wished to know whether that could be the case, and whether the man must not be tried and punished as a deserter?
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he had always taken a direct interest in promoting the welfare of the Navy, and although perhaps, with the exception of the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), no hon Member had opposed more votes of proposed more reductions in Committee of Supply, yet he could most conscientiously say he had never opposed a single vote which he thought was calculated to make the Navy efficient. He believed the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty was most desirous to place the Navy in that position which every man in this country must admit to be necessary and he looked upon the proposition to embody 10,000 additional seamen as in finitely of more advantage in protecting the coast from invasion than the enrolment of 80,000 militiamen, There would never be any difficulty in manning the Fleet, pro-
 748 749
 MR. OTWAY  would also support the clause. It frequently happened in India that officers were recalled by a dispatch, signed by the Court of Directors, when in fact the act was entirely that of the President of the Board of Control, and the Directors, who signed the recall, had strongly protested against it. This led to great practical inconvenience. Allow theta, how ever, to record their dissent, and they would be relieved from a disagreeable position. He thought it very important that it should be known in India which body was responsible for particular acts done.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  wished to know if, in case of emergency, Government had a power to give a bounty for enlistment? He was glad to hear of the number that had enlisted, but a period of seven months were required to get this number. He was told by naval men that a still greater number of seamen was required.
 MR. BOWYER  said, he would move that the Bill be read a second time that day three month's. He objected, to the passing of a general measure on account of the disturbed state of a few baronies; and he believed that the Riband system was now confined to a very few persons. He attributed the diminution in the numbers to the efforts of the clergy to suppress it, one of the most earnest of whom was Archbishop Cullen; and he knew that the course which the clergy generally had taken had had a most salutary effect. So far as the county of Down was concerned, he believed that Ribandism was almost entirely extinct. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Young) had stated that twenty-one counties were now proclaimed; but many of these Proclamations were, he believed, of old standing, and did not at all apply to the present state of things.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, the popularity of the service was so great, and the supply of candidates so large, that it became very difficult to make a selection. The boys were rather over than under educated under the new regulations. He was satisfied that the proposed system would lay the foundation of an excellent reserve of able seamen. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Henley) had asked why men could not be found to enter? There were various reasons which led to this result, one of the principal of which was, that there were so many desertions to the gold regions. Not a less number than 14,000 seamen had deserted their vessels in Australia. These men were of course reluctant to return, because of the probable consequences of their misconduct. He firmly believed that the steps to be taken would do away with any difficulty in manning the Navy at any time.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he believed the House was perfectly well ac-
 745
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  said, he must express a hope that the Admiralty would publish a part, if not the whole, of the evidence on which the report of the naval officers was based, because he thought it would be beneficial to the country, and important to the profession, that the opinions of men of high standing and great practical experience should be made public. If a precedent were necessary, they had only to refer to the French Commission appointed to conduct an inquiry for a similar purpose, in which case the evidence was fully and amply reported for the information of the public.
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  said, that one of the recommendations of the Report of the Naval Committee was not adopted, namely, that which suggested that able seamen who had served five years, should receive an addition of pay of one penny per day provided they enlisted for five years more.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that he had given notice of four clauses, but he should take the opinion of the Committee on the third and fourth only, embracing the question whether the Secret Committee should not have the power of tendering their advice and opinion, and, if necessary, of entering their protest, with respect to all orders from the President of the Board of Control. The object was to impose something in the shape of a cheek on those wars which had proved so mischievous and disastrous to India. He would propose that the Court of Directors should select the third member of the Secret Committee. The senior Director was now appointed; but the Court of Directors should be able to choose the best qualified person to form, with the Chairman and Deputy Chairman, the Secret Committee. The senior Directors was now appointed; but the Court of Directors should be able to choose the best qualified person to form, with the Chairman and Deputy Chairman, the Secret Committee. He referred to the Affghan, Scinde, and present Burmese wars, as showing the necessity for a check on the President of the Board of Control. He would now beg to move the third clause of which he had given notice, and which was marked "Clause C," as follows:—
 "That the Secret Committee of the Court of Directors shall consist of the Chairman, Deputy
 762
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would now propose "Clause D."
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, be thought it was necessary to introduce some check upon the Indian wars, and he had merely endeavoured to bring forward some improvements which appeared to him to be called for. The check he proposed might be inconclusive, but, at all events, it was a step in the right direction, and it could never do any harm that a Minister on the eve of a rash and ruinous enterprise should be warned of the consequences of a course he was about to follow. Under the present Bill the power vested in the President of the Board of Control was so despotic, that, if he chose to declare war against China—which, he supposed, would be the next war we should be involved in—he might do it, for at present there was no one to restrain him from it. He felt certain that his proposition was a good one, from the weakness of the reasons urged by the hon. Member for Honiton against it. If the Amendment he proposed were open to any real objection, it was that it was a milk and water one; but, at any rate, to give three gentlemen well qualified to form an opinion the power of coolly mid calmly stating that opinion upon paper, could never be productive of anything but good.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that this increase of pay would have involved an increased expenditure, which would be unnecessary and improvident.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he was flattered by the confidence which the hon. Gentleman reposed in him. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that this question had been considered by him most anxiously and in all its bearings. He had consulted all the officers on whose authority he thought he could most rely, and had endeavoured to exercise a calm judgment regarding it, and he was bound to say that he could not conscientiously recommend any departure from the present system. The power and the responsibility were so much in the hand of one man on board ship—the power no less than of causing happiness or unhappiness to every person on board—that he was bound to admit the great interest attaching to the question; but the more he had thought on the subject, and the more inquiry he had made, the more was he satisfied of the great importance, both as regarded the interests of discipline and the happiness of the ship's company, of having the power concentrated in the hands of one man, and that man the captain. He was afraid that any such co-ordinate power as it was proposed by his hon. Friend to confer upon the other officers along with the captain, would interfere very materially with discipline, and cause jealousies, heartburnings, and divisions, that would operate most injuriously upon the men. Considering the passions that were frequently excited on board ship, and the difficulties often experienced in managing a large body of men—in circumstances so peculiar, he was afraid that under the system of the hon. Member it would be found impossible to maintain discipline in Her Majesty's Navy.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he would be always most happy to attend to any suggestion of his hon. Friend; but the subject he had introduced did not bear on the manning of the British Navy. It referred only to the employment of a certain number of Africans on the African station, and he had only to say he was not aware that there had been any diminution in the number of boys so employed.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  replied, that by a provision of the existing law, bounty was given, on certain conditions, to men entering the service after the issue of a Royal proclamation, and that provision was enlarged by a clause in the present Bill.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he would remind the gallant Officer that this Bill proposed to double the existing period of service, and that the recent reduction of the time in the Army rendered it improbable that Parliament would sanction a further extension in the Navy. The number of 2,000 boys had been gradually increased, and the service had been found to be so desirable, that the boys, instead of wishing to leave the service, were inclined to stick to it.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he thought that the hon. Member ought to be more guarded in his statements in future. The man who was reported to have been shot after jumping overboard at San Francisco, had now re-entered on board a Queen's ship, and had not been called to account. There was, however, no question as to his identity.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, the rules of the Admiralty were to the effect that boys were not to enter unless with the consent of their parents or relatives. From the great number of candidates, and the large power of selection, there need be no
 758
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he regretted that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had not confined his observations to the Bill before the House, as some of his remarks applied to the merchant service, and not directly to the Queen's service. In some respects the gallant Officer was not quite accurate in his statements. It was true that the militiamen received a bounty of 6 l.; l. l. 753 754 755
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he could assure the hon. and gallant Member for Bath (Captain Scobell), that it was not from any want of respect to the House that he had asked them to go into Committee on this Bill without making any statement. He agreed with what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member for Brighton (Sir G. Pechell) that it was most desirable they should perfect this measure with the least possible delay. He thought they had arrived at that period of the Session when it was desirable to occupy the time of the House as little as possible with speeches, and that it would be better for them to proceed at once to the consideration of the measure in detail. As it was wished for, however, he could have no objection to lay before the House a short summary of the provisions of the Bill. When he last had the honour of being at the Board of Admiralty he thought it his duty to bring in a Bill with reference to the manning of the Navy. By that Bill, which was passed in 1835, the time of the duration of the service was limited to five years on board Tier Majesty's Fleet; but, practically; though it was limited to five years, seamen generally, by enlisting in particular ships that had already been some time in commission, did not serve more than three and a half years. The House would observe that the consequence was, that when a ship was paid off, the seamen had acquired the most perfect discipline—the men had been trained to a knowledge of gunnery—through the teaching of the officers they had obtained a thorough familiarity with their various duties, formed habits of seamanship, and had acquired such a degree of perfection that it was most desirable they should remain in the service. The House was in possession of the report of the committee of naval officers, and they had also the Order passed by Her Majesty in Council, upon the advice of the present Board of Admiralty. By that Order in Council, and in conformity with the report of the naval officers, peculiar inducements had been held out to seamen voluntarily to change the period of their enlistment from the limited period of five years to that of ten, and in consideration of their acceptance of
 746 d. d. d. 747 d.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, that he had spoken only of the Secret Committee, who carried out the orders issued by the Government. All the administration orders of India issued with the Court of Directors, and all the administrative duties distinctly differed from those of the Secret Committee.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, he could not, consistently with his sense of public duty, support the clause. It had been asked, why the orders of the President of
 763 pro hac vice 764
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not overlook the suggestion thrown out by the hon. Member for Lambeth, as to the establishment of courts-martial on board ship, similar to those which already existed in the Army. He felt grateful to the right
 757
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he understood the noble Lord the Member for London had no objection to lowering the qualification, and he would, therefore, suggest to the hon. Member for Montrose to divide his clause, as he had mixed up several Platters into one, and there were many hon. Gentlemen who would vote for one portion of it, but who would be unwilling to vote for the entire.
 SIR THOMAS ACLAND  wished to take this opportunity of calling attention to a subject closely connected with the present, though it certainly did not come within the operation of the Bill. He alluded to the employment of native African boys in the squadron on the west coast of Africa. These boys became exceedingly valuable as sailors, and he thought it was of great importance to encourage the practice, especially when they considered the very great increase that had taken place in the consumption of palm oil, and which would render our trade with Africa much greater than it had hitherto been. He had been informed that some difficulties
 759
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he thought that, so long as it should be the pleasure of Parliament to continue to govern India, in the name of a Company that had no real existence, it was of very small importance how matters of this description were controlled. He thought the Committee was placing itself in a dilemma with regard to the position in which the Indian
 768
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  hoped, if this Bill passed, that no Native of India would think of coming to England and attempting to become a student at Haileybury. No man who knew him could have a doubt of his friendly feelings towards the Natives of India, or of his desire to see them employed in every situation for which they were fit; but the Act of 1833 already sufficiently provided for that. That that particular provision of the Act referring to this subject, was not immediately carried out to so great an extent as some seemed to have desired, was naturally to have been expected; but the numbers employed in different situations had been yearly increasing, and the nature of the offices were becoming higher and higher since 1834. He conceived it to be a great error in the present Bill to propose to admit the Natives of India to an equality with a class of civil servants with whom they could never amalgamate. The attempt, he was sure, would only result in embarrassment and difficulty. He feared that when the Native civil servants were raised to any high position, so as to have under them highly-educated and spirited young Englishmen, it would be found difficult to keep the latter in due subordination. Besides, it appeared to him that it would never do to have two scales of salary for officers holding the same situation and doing the same duties; and yet there was abundant evidence before the Committee that it would be sufficient to give the natives one-third of the salary allowed to Europeans of the same rank. These being his views, he could not support the Motion.
 VISCOUNT MONCK  said, he was not one of those who desired to abolish corporal punishment in the Navy altogether, as he thought that in some cases it was necessary to maintain discipline, but it ought to be limited in a greater degree than it was at present.
 MR. J. A. SMITH  said, he thought it desirable that some Court should be established for trying appeals in those numerous cases of hardship and grievance which were repeatedly occurring between the Government of India and the Natives. He saw no difficulty in this, and the principle had already been acted upon. In the case of the French claims, and many other disputed points, they had been reserved for the decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. The want of some such provision in the present Bill he regarded as a grave omission, inasmuch as it deprived a portion of Her Majesty's subjects of the possibility of obtaining the redress of grievances under which they believed they suffered. If the hon. and learned Member divided upon his Amendment, he should feel bound to vote with him.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he was glad this question had been embodied in a clause. He was surprised that his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Control, with his experience, should say that the vicinity of public offices did not promote the easy transaction of business. Take the case of the War Office and the Horse Guards; these being close together a great deal of preliminary business was settled orally and without correspondence; while, on the other hand, the office of the Duchy of Lancaster being at a distance from the Treasury, the only business transacted between them being questions of the rights of the Crown, all their communications were carried on by correspondence. He (Mr. V. Smith) had had some ex-
 822
 MR. VERNON SMITH  then rose to bring forward the clause of which he had given notice. He said that at any rate it could not be thought that he was casting any imputation on his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Control by this clause, for he proposed to increase his salary. He did not, however, mean the increase of his salary merely, but his object was to elevate his position to that of Secretary of State for India, and to raise him from an inferior position as a Member of the Cabinet. When this office was first created, the President of the Board of Control had a salary of 2,000 l. 823 l. l.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to abolish the removal of the poor, and to equalise the rates for their maintenance, and to make other amendments in the laws relating to the relief of the poor.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he could not admit that he was blameable for making a change from the Bill as it had been originally introduced. He had already made another alteration in deference to the opinion of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright), and if that were to be characterised as unfair or insincere, they might as well give up the idea of ever going into a Committee with the view of improving the details of any Bill. It had clearly appeared from the evidence that the claims of the Indian army were fully met, and that no son of an Indian officer who was otherwise competent would fail in obtaining his commission. The principle was not followed out in the British army, and he saw no reason why it should be adopted in the Indian army. The tendency of the evidence went to show that the sons of officers would rather suffer than benefit by the change proposed.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he believed it might be possible, to some extent, to curtail the correspondence connected with Indian matter's; but to what extent that curtailment might be carried he was unable to say, and should not like to give an opinion without more experience. Whatever this might be, however, he would not delude the Committee with the idea that there would be any great saving in that respect. The principle of the double government had been now recognised, and if the Court of Directors were to continue to have their staff of officers, and the Board of Control theirs, he did not see how any
 821 l.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down materially differed from the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for Leominster (Mr. J. Phillimore). That proposal had been so completely met by his hon. Friend the Secretary for the Board of Control (Mr. Lowe), that it was not necessary for him to say one word about it. With regard to Colonel Frith's claim, it was not upon the East India Company, but against the King of Oude. Had it been against the East India Company, the Company might have been sued like any other body.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the claim of Colonel Frith was not as stated by the hon. Baronet, namely, that the Company should interfere to enforce payment of a sum of money from the King of Oude. The case was this—Colonel Frith being in command of a force at Oude, advanced his salary and other funds to defray the expenses of moving the troops about from one place to another, to serve the purposes of the East India Company. The King of Oude did not deny the debt in the first instance, but paid interest upon it. Subsequently the East India Company appropriated a part of the King of Oude's territory, and upon doing so they absolved him from all claims on the part of their servants, and took those claims upon themselves. Thus Colonel Frith was shut out from making his claims against the King of Oude; and though he might have no legal claim, he had certainly a strong moral claim against the Company. Colonel Frith had been for forty-five years a servant of the Company, and his father had been their servant before him; he believed that several thousands of pounds were fairly due to him, and all he asked was, that some tribunal should be appointed before whom he might bring his case. What was asked was, not that that House should decide, but that the House should appoint a tribunal for that purpose.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, in moving the clause of which he had given notice, his object was to establish a more speedy, effective, and less expensive administration of Indian affairs in England. It would be difficult to show why there should be two departments, destined to act together for the carrying on of the government of a great country, sitting at a distance from each other of two miles and 1,200 yards, which the new distance table, he believed, showed the India House was from the Board of Control—and which separation occasioned much useless labour, considerable delay, and great expense. He was of opinion that this would really be a practical Amendment, and as such he submitted it to the Committee. If acceded to, it would materially reduce the expenditure of the Home Government of India. The present annual expenditure of the Home Government of India actually amounted to 183,370 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 819 l. l. l. l. l. 820 "Everything, all the world over, moves faster now-a-days than it used to do, except the transaction of Indian business. What with the number of functionaries, boards, references, correspondences, and several governments in India—what with the distance, the reference for further information made from England, the fresh correspondences arising from that reference, and the consultation of the several authorities in England—the progress of any great public measure, even when all are equally disposed to promote it, is often discouragingly slow."
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had presented a petition from a gentleman who had been em-
 813
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  moved the insertion of the following Clause:—
 "And whereas it is expedient that a tribunal should be constituted to decide upon and take cognizance of any disputes that may arise between the Government of British India and any Native Prince not a British subject; and to interpret ally treaty of which the meaning may be disputed between any Native Prince and the British Government, be it enacted, that the Queen's Judges at each Presidency shall henceforth be respectively a competent court to decide any question in dispute between the Government of British India and any Native Prince not a subject of the British Crown, who shall appeal to such tribunal, and that an appeal from the decision of such tribunal shall lie to the Court of Privy Council in this country, and that such decision of the Court of Privy Council shall be final." 809 l. l. 810 811
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, the hon. Baronet (Sir J. W. Hogg) had unfairly attacked him in attributing rancour and want of generosity on the part of those who did not approve of the government and conduct of the East India Company. He must contend with respect to the tribunal he wished to see established, that analogous tribunals were to be found, not only in this country, but in foreign countries, and he was justified, therefore, in seeking to get them introduced into India. He did not concur in the opposition to the tribunals, because English Judges would be appointed by the Crown. He was satisfied sufficient time would be given to the Judges to acquire local information and experience, and that tribunals presided over by Crown Judges would be more efficacious and advantageous to India. He would admit that there were difficulties
 817
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he also was extremely glad that the Government had given way to this proposal. It was extremely undesirable that the Gentlemen entrusted with great public duties should be underpaid.
 MR. AYSHFORD WISE  moved a clause, that one-third of the pupils admitted to Addiscombe College should be selected from the sons of officers who were or who had been in the civil or military service of the East India Company, and that the selection of such persons should be made by the Governor General of India for the time being. This clause was to have been submitted to the consideration of the Committee by his hon. Colleague, who, he regretted to say, was obliged to remove from London on account of ill-health, and he must ask for the indulgence of the Committee whilst he endeavoured to prove the propriety of the proposal. No such proposition would have been thought of if the right hon. the President of the Board of Control had adhered to the statement he originally made. He stated, and indeed, the 32nd clause of the Act was so submitted to the House, that the nomination to Addiscombe and Haileybury should be withdrawn from the Directors. This clause was one of the few that he and his friends around him approved of. They had supported the Minister in all his endeavours to reform abuses and open the patronage; but all of a sudden this clause was withdrawn, and, as he thought, most unjustifiably withdrawn, proving, to say the least, on the part of the Minister, great indecision, or, what was worse, great insincerity. What had the right hon. Gentleman said on the 3rd of June? "Merit, and merit alone, is to be the test of introduction to the civil service and to the scientific branches of the Indian Army, and he proposed to throw open the nomination to Addiscombe." But what had the right hon. Gentleman said three days ago? "He had received such strong representations from Members of the Indian Committee, that he resolved to abstain from interfering in any way
 828 l. l. l. "The House is aware that at present every Director receives 300 l. l. l. l. "Their salaries are a trifle—300 l. 829 l. 830
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, as a person deeply interested in this measure, he begged to tender his thanks to the Government for having allowed this "one" Amendment to pass.
 MR. LOWE  said, that the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman had been principally directed to the injuries which in times gone by the population of India had suffered at our hands. It was not worth while, however, to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman into that discussion, because we had now to deal with questions of the present day. The proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman was this—that the Judges of the Supreme Court in India should be established as a sort of Amphyctionic Council to decide disputes between ourselves and the Native States; but that proposition involved the question of the propriety or necessity of such a Council existing at all—a matter upon which the hon. and learned Gentleman had not touched—whether it would be advantageous to set up such a power superior to the Administration, not supported by physical force. How far such a power was calculated to work out its ends, when reason was often silent, and force was only listened to, he must leave the Committee to decide. But, more than this, the experience of history taught us that, if arbitration between States were to prevail, it must be between independent States of something like equal power. There was nothing in history to show, when one State was immeasurably more powerful than the other—when one was entirely dependent for its existence upon the other—when one was in the position of protector, and the other of protected, that the interposition of a judicial tribunal, such as that proposed by the hon. and learned Gentleman, would have any other effect than to introduce the arts of chicane and deceit, leading to embroilment and dissatisfaction. Such being the position of affairs, he saw nothing that could be gained by the establishment of the institution now recommended. What was the nature of the Court proposed? He should have thought, at all events, that such an institution should be one which stood at least impartially between
 812 imperium in imperio,
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that it would no doubt be thought a concession in some quarters that the Government, which had steadily rejected every Amendment to their Bill, had so promptly and generously repented in time to give this one their support. He, however, who ventured to think that the President of the Board of Control had hitherto been paid quite enough, could not see in this Bill merits so extraordinary as to warrant his voting for an accession of salary to its author. He could not, therefore, give his vote in favour of the proposition.
 SIR CHARLES BURRELL  agreed that it was extremely undesirable that
 827
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he conceived the proposition for augmenting the Directors' salaries perfectly well founded, as at present, unless they were paid by their patronage—an idea which they scouted—they were not sufficiently paid. With regard to giving one-third of the appointments to Addiscombe to the Governor General of India rather than to the Directors, he entirely approved of it. It was one of the highest distinctions of the Horse Guards that there this consideration was attended to, and meritorious officers found a recognition of their merits evinced towards their sons. Perfect purity was not to be expected where responsibility was distributed among a body of men. The Governor General was, in his opinion, the most proper to hold this patronage, and
 831
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he had no objection to support the proposition that, whatever was the salary of Secretaries of State, the President of the Board of Control should have the same. He objected, however, to the style and title of the President of the Board of Control, who had no Board over which to preside.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  compared the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Leominster to the empty declamations of a schoolboy; but, while it was characterised by all the empty vapourings of youth, he regretted to say that it contained also the rancour of manhood. He did not know whether the expressions used by the hon. Gentleman escaped him in the heat of the argument or not; but when he mentioned one or two instances and spoke of the East India Company as a body, he said that if individuals in private life had acted in such a manner they would have been excluded from society—they would have been expelled and turned out of the community as a disgrace to society. Now, if from interested motives, he had wished the hon. Gentleman to have adopted any particular course, he should have asked him to indulge in violent declamation and abuse, for he should have felt that such a course would have no weight with the House or with the country. He would not follow the hon. and learned Gentleman into the course of proceedings alleged by him to have been pursued towards the Rajah of Sattara, because every invective he had heaped upon the East India Company, fell upon that House and upon the Government, who in every one of those proceedings had confirmed and sanctioned the decisions of the East India Company. With regard to the Rajah of Coorg, however he must state that that Rajah had been dethroned by Lord W. Bentinck, than whom a more humane Governor General had never existed. He was the last man who would have been guilty of oppression towards any individual, or towards any Native Prince, to whose rights he was always the most considerate. He challenged the hon. and learned Member to move for the papers connected with that dethronement, and upon those papers to bring the facts before Parliament. The Rajah of Coorg had been a kind of state prisoner for sixteen or seventeen years. He applied for leave to come to this country for one year. His application was granted for the purpose of bringing his daughter to this country. While in this country, Her Majesty had been pleased to stand as god-mother to the Rajah's daughter. He confessed that he could see no interference with the rights of private life, in this or in anything that had been done with regard to the Rajah of Coorg. He had come here specially and specifically on leave for one year: that leave expired, and he supposed that the act of hardship alluded to by the
 815 816
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, he must express himself as being exceedingly well pleased at his right hon. Friend's having made, and at the noble Lord's having acceded to this proposition. He was sure that all his colleagues in the Direction, and that everybody connected with the Government of India, would rejoice that the House of Commons should place the President of the Board of Control in the position which the magnitude and importance of his position not only warranted but required. As regarded the desirability of having a permanent Secretary at the Board, he entirely agreed with the noble Lord, and thought with him, that it was of the greatest importance to have in every department of the State some officer of the kind who did not change with the Ministry of the day, and who, long practised in his office and unbiassed by political feelings or by motives of interest, might be the depository of that information which was so useful in every case, and in the case of India so essential to the incoming Minister of the department.
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he agreed in part with the proposition of the hon. and learned Mover of this Amendment, for he thought some appeal should be provided against the acts of the Government of India, and that some independent tribunal should be established for determining differences as between that Government and the Natives. He had been intimately acquainted with many of the Native Princes, and he was bound to say that generally he knew of no just ground that they had of complaint against the Indian Government; and he believed that they were for the most part impressed with a sense of gratitude for the protection they received from that Government The case of complaint alluded to by the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) might bear inquiry, as questions upon which diversity of opinion existed; but the best mode of arranging all such differences was by means of such a tribunal as had beer suggested. There was, however, one case of gross political injustice that had not
 818 quasi
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he would support the clause, as there was so much practical good sense in it. When he held office in Bengal, he could say that not one-thousandth part of what he sent home for revision and advice was ever looked at. An immense mass of unreadable matter was sent home from India. He should therefore support the Amendment.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, there were very good reasons why it was impossible that the President of the Board of Control should, in the existing state of things, assume the title of a Secretary of State. The province of a Secretary of State was to convey and to signify the direct commands of the Crown, and so long, therefore, as the Government of India was conducted on the principle of a double government, it was impossible that those direct commands could be conveyed by the President of the Board of Control. The Minister, therefore, who directed that department of the public service could not assume the functions of a Secretary of State. He entirely agreed, however, with his right hon. Friend (Mr. V. Smith), that, for the reasons which he had stated, it was desirable that the President of the Board of Control should be placed, in regard to dignity, position, and salary, upon the footing of a Secretary of State. It was impossible to deny that the functions which he had to perform were equally important with those of a Secretary of State. It was impossible to deny that the consideration which he ought to enjoy, so far as that consideration depended upon the means which the salary afforded, ought to be equal to that enjoyed by a Secretary of State, and that there ought, in fact, to be no distinction between the position of the Minister of the Crown who performed the onerous and important duties of President of the Board of Control, and that occupied by any one of Her Majesty's Secretaries of State. Persons were very apt either to say that salary was wholly unimportant, or else that it was merely the object of selfish, grasping views. He looked upon this matter not as a person in the position of an officer of the Crown; but he trusted that he and his Colleagues might be allowed to claim for themselves the right of looking on it in the quality of independent Members of Parliament, and of persons attaching value and importance to considerations connected with the public service. Certainly, whether in office or out of office, he was prepared to say that it was for the advantage of the public service that persons holding high and responsible office under the Government should receive salaries commensurate with the position which they occupied, the functions which they performed, and the expenses to which in the performance of those duties they were necessarily exposed. It must also be borne in mind that persons whose whole time and
 825 826
 MR. BECKETT DENISON  said, he objected to the introduction of the proposed exemption. He had never known an in-
 832
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he agreed to the proposal that persons who were not paupers should be admitted into the county lunatic asylums, when there was accommodation in such asylums, upon an extra payment; but he considered that the treatment of such persons should be precisely the same as that of the pauper lunatics.
 MR. FRESHFIELD  would suggest that the terms upon which persons who were not paupers might be admitted into these asylums should be fixed or approved by the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He believed that at present the ordinary charge for lunatics belonging to the borough or county in which an asylum was situated was 8 s. d. s.
 MR. FLOYER  said, he had given notice to substitute for this and other clauses the following clause:—
 "That it shall be lawful for the board of guardians of the union from some place or parish in
 833
 MR. KENDALL  said he wished to move the insertion of words which would have the effect of exempting the residences of all the officers and servants of asylums from rates. His object, he said, was to increase the inducement to parish officers to send pauper lunatics to the asylums, for he had found that nothing had that effect equal to low charges: and, as the charges per head were necessarily regulated according to the expenses of the establishment, he wished to reduce those as much as possible, in order to enable a reduction to be made in the rates of admission.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would consider the suggestion of the hon. Member for Exeter (Sir J. Duckworth), and would consent, when the Bill was reported, to the introduction of words which would meet his views.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he considered that the clause in its present form would enable the visitors to arrange the terms upon which lunatics who were not paupers should be received into the asylums.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that the clause proposed by the hon. Gentleman would open up a subject which would require very much discussion. It would, if adopted, alter the whole law of parochial settlement itself. But in the present Session of Parliament it was impossible to discuss the question. It would, however, demand the attention of the House at the earliest moment in the next Session. He would, therefore, suggest that it would be better to allow the present clauses to stand, which made no alteration in the existing law, and not touch the principle of the law of settlement until it could be dealt with in an enlarged and comprehensive manner.
 SIR JOHN DUCKWORTH  said, he thought that when paupers from other boroughs or counties were received into an asylum, or when persons who were not paupers became inmates of an asylum, some further charge should be made, beyond that for lodging, maintenance, clothing, medicine, and care, for the use of the building.
 MR. CORRY  said, that as Chairman of the Committee he could state that, although this was not strictly speaking a creditors' Bill, the creditors had the deepest possible interest in it, because they would not consent to waive a great portion of their claim, or to capitalise their debt, unless the preference shareholders consented to the passing of this Bill. The Eastern Union Railway Company was now absolutely insolvent, while at the same time it was exposed to a ruinous competition. Mr. Brassey and the other creditors had no faith in their present security, for they knew that unless some arrangement could be come to for the working of the line with one of the powerful companies, and for an understanding with the preference shareholders, it was worth nothing. He believed that this Bill would very much improve the property of the preference shareholders, and he strongly recommended the House to read it a third time.
 MR. HUME  said, he had read with great regret the long details which had been handed round to hon. Members. But he would ask, whether the power of Parliament ought to be thus appealed to? He did not think Parliament ought to be appealed to in order to interfere with previous arrangements. He was himself a considerable holder, and he did not think that the present Bill would tend to do justice to all parties. It would be one of the greatest calamities that could happen if that House once admitted that Parliament could be unjust. He admitted that injustice had taken place, but he had always protested against such acts. He hoped this House would not agree to anything unfair; and
 888
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that in consequence of the Resolutions not being in the hands of Members earlier, he was not so fully prepared to speak on them as he might otherwise have been. He was satisfied, however, that the second Resolution was very objectionable. In the first place, as the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) had said, an option was given to the holders of South Sea Stock of converting it into other stocks, which they had already had the option of doing, but which they had refused. Where was the use of making this offer a second time? [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: That is not so.] Was it not so? Then, this was a consequence of not having had time to consider the Resolutions previously to their being called upon to speak on them. He had understood that they were to have the option of accepting the 2½ per cent stock, and that failing, the Treasury were to have the power to make a bargain with them to accept 3½ per cent. He objected altogether
 907 l. l. d. d. l.
 MR. TATTON EGERTON  said, though the question was one in which many of his constituents were greatly interested, he would not have trespassed upon the House had not the arguments of his right hon. Friend (Sir J. Pakington) been completely misrepresented both by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, and the hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton (Sir J. Hogg), who had accused him of treating it as a question of the producer against the consumer. The hon. Baronet had talked of the concessions made by the Company; but what had been the very gravamen of the charge against it? No doubt it was quite true that the Company had carried out the recommendations of the Committee of 1836; but then each concession made had been wrung from the East India Company most unwillingly. A friend of his had sent out a large cargo of salt to India, and when it arrived he found that he had to pay the duty upon it before he was permitted to take the salt over the vessel's side. The hon. Gentleman talked of the reductions of the duty, but he had forgotten the increase from 2 l. s. l. l. 944
 MR. HUME  said, he entirely agreed with the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken, except that he could not allow that that House ought not to give its attention to the taxation of India. If they were not to have a responsible Government in India (which they could never have), where were the natives of India to look but to that House? He had taken part in the struggle for the removal of the salt tax at home, and they had all seen the wonderful results which had occurred in social
 946
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, that in the strictest sense of the term the salt trade was a monopoly, because it was only the East India Company who could sell salt. The right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Board of Control had stated that there were no complaints on that subject from India; but the petition of the Native inhabitants of the Presidency of Bengal, setting forth in what way that monopoly injuriously affected the poor of India, amply refuted that statement. Then the right hon. Gentleman said that salt was not regarded in India as it was in this country; but the fact was, that salt fish was a common trade among all the nations of Asia, from the banks of the Caspian to China, and the Company's monopoly had, he believed, had a most injurious effect upon the fisheries in India. When it was stated that the salt duty was only at the rate of 10 d. s.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he had never heard of a subject so full of anomalies as the India question; but it was long before he could have imagined such an anomaly as hearing a free-trade Minister standing up for the interests of the salt producers of Bengal, and giving an explanation of the word "monopoly" which would, he trusted, make the right hon. Member repent ever having applied the term to the corn laws. It was twenty years ago since Mr. Wilbraham brought forward a proposition against the Indian salt tax, and in the debate which ensued, Mr. Charles Grant, afterwards Lord Glenelg, said he did not defend it. No one could deny the expediency of removing it, and the Government thought it should be got rid of as soon as possible. Mr. Cutlar Fergusson, the advocate of the East India Company, could only defend it by saying the prejudices of the Indians were so powerful as to offer a complete bar to the substitution of any other tax; and on the assurance that the Government would consider the alteration of the tax as soon as possible, Mr. Wilbraham's Amendment was withdrawn. The Parliament consented to leave the abolition of the tax to the discretionary power of the local authorities in India; but now that they heard arguments Lord Glenelg would have been ashamed to use, he trusted they would not consent once more to leave the question in such hands.
 MR. BLACKETT : The clause says, "or some other Member of Her Majesty's Government."
 MR. HUME  said, he was surprised at the remarks of the noble Lord. He thought it was highly desirable, as he understood the right hon. Gentleman (Sir C. Wood) to admit, that there should be an annual statement on the Indian finances; and as the practice began by Mr. Dundas had been since discontinued by subsequent Presidents of the Board of Control, he thought it was absolutely necessary to secure the performance of this duty by Act of Parliament. If the noble Lord was afraid of long speeches, he (Mr. Hume) would next Session submit a Motion that no Member should address the House for more than one hour at a time.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, the object of the clause of which he wished to move the insertion, was to secure at least a discussion on. Indian affairs in each Session of Parliament, and was strictly in accordance with the opinion which the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control had expressed in favour of such an annual statement of Indian finance. It might, indeed, be said that it was unusual to bind the Government by enactment on such a point. But he thought it was expedient under the peculiar circumstances of the case. The Government were not forced by the necessity of taking a vote to bring the subject forward; and the promise of the right hon. Gentleman that such a statement should be made, could only bind him, and might be disregarded by his successors.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he concurred very much with the hon. Gentleman in his opposition to this clause. He held in his hand a statement showing, in a tabular form, the patronage distributed by the Directors between 1835 and 1851, and from this return it appeared, that in that time no less than 4,569 cadetships had been given away by the Directors, which gave to each Director ten cadetships and a fraction a year, and to the Chairman and Deputy Chairman twenty and a fraction. Now it appeared, from the records of the Court of Directors, that each cadetship was valued at 1,000 l., l. l. l.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he thought this clause was a departure from the under standing which had been come to with his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester (Mr. Bright) for the withdrawal of the pecuniary qualification for the office of a Director; and his hon. Friend being unavoidably absent, he could not promise for him that he would not propose to strike out this clause on the third reading, should it non be agreed to.
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he wished to know if this clause had not been enacted in consequence of the late strike? Why had not notice been given of it?
 The CHANCELLOR, OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if the Committee felt inclined to discuss the subject of the sixpenny fare, and whether the legislation of the House,
 970
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he agreed with those who thought the House ought to resist anything like a concession to clamour. He lamented very much the state of things out of doors, and chiefly for the sake of the persons who had occasioned that state of things, for there could be no doubt that the persons engaged in the cab trade would be those who would suffer the most inconvenience from the strike. In taking such a course they had been ill-advised; but at the same time he could not help reminding hon. Gentlemen that the present difficulty, and the public annoyance experienced, had been brought upon the House by their own conduct. If the Select Committee asked for had been granted, all the details connected with the matter would have been properly examined, and the mistake would not have been made which had involved them in so much difficulty. Another time, in legislating, the House should remember the good old proverb, "The more haste, the less speed."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that if there was any wish on the part of the Committee to have further time, the Government were quite ready to consider this clause on the third reading, and for that purpose he would agree to the Motion for reporting progress. There had been from the beginning a great deal of debate whether the salary of the Directors bad not been placed too low. Many hon. Members had expressed themselves of the same opinion with the noble Lord the Member for Lynn Regis (Lord Stanley), who on the second reading of the Bill said that the salary of the Directors was too low. Their observations seemed to have a great deal of force and truth, and the increase was agreed to rather in consequence of what was said by hon. Members, who appeared to give good reasons for their opinion, than from any desire on the part of the Government for the increase in question. The question that he wished the House to decide was, which was the best way of obtaining the services of the best men in the Government of India. If the Directors were to have the disposal of so many millions of men and the revenues of India,
 967 l. l.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he must oppose the clause, which he considered to
 960
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he did not object to a statement on the Indian finances being made. On the contrary he thought it would be very useful to restore this custom. All that he objected to was, the making it compulsory upon the President of the Board of Control by Act of Parliament to make his yearly statement.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I wish to say something with regard to what appears
 952 l. l. 953
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I should not have risen to address the House but for one observation of the noble Lord who has just sat down. The noble Lord says, if this was a Motion to repeal the tax upon salt in India, he would have supported it. I think the noble Lord brought an accusation against my right hon. Friend (Sir J. Pakington), and said there was an inconsistency between his speech and his Resolution. The noble Lord said that my right hon. Friend's speech was in favour of the abolition of the tax in India, but that his Motion was not for the repeal of the tax, but for an alteration in the mode of raising it. I think, Sir, that I have a right to conclude that the noble Lord himself was in favour of making some change, and that was the reason why I took the liberty of rising, because I could not easily see how my right hon. Friend was open to the charge which would be inferred from the observation of the noble Lord. For the argument of the noble Lord was this:—Carry the Resolution, but that will not be a repeal of the tax, which is so odious. Now, my right hon. Friend said—The first step that I have to take is to destroy the monopoly, and when I have destroyed the monopoly, I will defy you to raise an excessive tax in the country. The observation of the noble Lord does not answer that position which was taken up by my right hon. Friend. Nor, Sir, can I agree with the noble Lord as to the difference which he has so precisely laid down between the revenue of England and the revenue of India. The noble Lord the leader of the House of Commons tells us that he recognises no identity between the revenue of England and the revenue of India. I should like to know whether that is the opinion of those colleagues of
 954 955
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he wished to suggest that if the House agreed to the clause, it should also be enacted that the statement of accounts should be made in pounds sterling, and not in sicca rupees.
 MR. DISRAELI : I am not aware that I made use of the word "monopoly." The hon. Member has had some experience in other assemblies, and he is always ready with suggestions, at all times interesting, and sometimes, when you are speaking, inconvenient. I want to draw the attention of the House to the real point before us, and not to be diverted by foreign considerations. Is it or is it not the fact that the present state of the law, and the fiscal regulations in India with respect to the production of salt, are an enormous grievance, tending to the degradation of the
 956 Laughter. 957
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, these Resolutions come rather suddenly upon the consideration of the Committee. I myself, certainly, not having had the advantage of being in the House yesterday, only learnt at a rather late hour this morning that it was the intention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to call our attention to the consideration of this very important subject. This is to be regretted, because, although these Resolutions apparently have a limited scope, and seem, at first, to be composed with some simplicity, really, if examined, they will be found to involve very important considerations. In the first place, we must recollect that the stocks to the commutation of which those Resolutions particularly refer, form part of a great financial scheme that was brought before the consideration of the Committee, and the results of which were immediately to affect the Budget of the right hon. Gentleman for this year. The right hon. Gentleman
 896 l. l. l. l. 897 898 899 900 l. 901 l, 902 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. DISRAELI : Well, 3,100,000 l.
 MR. DISRAELI : Yes, I have seen the balance sheet; but there are many things in balance sheets which are not known to the world, and which, I think, ought to be mentioned in discussion. Many persons do not see balance sheets, and in a popular assembly, when we are touching upon subjects of this nature, it is quite legitimate to take the opportunity of bringing, and frequently bringing, the most salient and important facts before the public in general. I thought it possible that the right hon. Gentleman would have favoured us with some observations upon these points, and that he would have contradicted me in my statements if I were erroneous in my recollection. But there is one point which we shall not find even in the balance sheet, and that is the intention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with regard to the unfunded debt in future, and especially in the interval during which that important power is sought to be exercised by the Government; in fact, I will not say "interval,"
 903 l.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, it seemed to him, on a consideration of the mode in which the Government and the representatives of the East India Directors had met the proposition, that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Droitwich had the best of the argument. The right hon. Baronet had pointed out the monopoly existing in India—a monopoly odious in itself, and pernicious to the country—and the Members of the Government and the hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton (Sir J. Hogg) had attempted to meet the argument by saying that that was not a monopoly, which was one of the grossest kind. Although he thought the Government had the worst of the argument, he saw a line of argument which they might have taken, and which was unanswerable, and which would prevent him from voting with the right hon. Member for Droitwich, namely, that whatever might be the merits of the question, that was not the place to deal with it. If that House took upon itself to deal with the details of the fiscal measures of India, they would adopt the first step towards effecting the ruin of the British rule in that country. It had been truly said by Napoleon to Talleyrand, that if ever the mode of communication between England and India was of such a nature that England could undertake the internal administration of the affairs of India, they would lose that country, because the Government of every dependency should be localised in that dependency. He desired to know whether the House would undertake the trouble to fill up the vacuum in the revenue of India which such a Resolution as that proposed would create? They would, also, throw whole classes out of employment by this very deceitful Motion. On these grounds he should vote against the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. FREWEN  thought that they were knocking under to the great proprietors by amending the Act in this manner. It was notorious that it was not the men who owned one or two cabs who had organised and were carrying on this strike, but the large cab proprietors, and it would be fat better for the House to adjourn the consideration of this question for a few days, and when the cab proprietors came to then senses, no doubt the House would entertain any reasonable proposal for the relief of any real grievance under which they might be suffering.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he hoped they would remember the Bill originally proposed to fix the salaries of the Director at 500 l. honorarium l. l.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he would also agree to this clause.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that this question had already been raised, and the House had decided that the Government of India should remain for a time entrusted to the East India Company, and it ought not therefore to reopen the question raised by the hon. Member.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had given notice some time ago of his intention to bring up two clauses fixing the qualifica-
 963 l. l.,
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he had no objection to the clause.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, it was true the right hon. Gentleman had expressed great respect for Lord Dalhousie, but, as he was commenting upon the policy of the Government, declared in Lord Dalhousie's minute, the terra "dodge" could only be regarded as applying to that noble Lord. The right hon. Baronet had referred to what had taken place in years gone by, when, undoubtedly, a monopoly with regard to the sale of salt in India had existed; but the Resolutions of the Committee of 1836, as the right hon. Gentle-
 929 Cries of l. d. 930 931 l. 932 l.,
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  thought that if the right hon. Baronet had concluded his speech by saying that, in the name of the people of Droitwich, he called upon the House to alter the mode of levying the duty upon salt, his appeal would have been much more consistent with the arguments he had used. There had been various anomalies and contradictions during the debates on this measure, but be certainly had been surprised to hear the right hon. Baronet appealing to God and man against the enormity of imposing a duty upon the food of the people. A right hon. Gentleman who had advocated the maintenance of a duty upon corn, and upon other articles of food in this country, now appealed to the House to declare that it was utterly impossible, in the face of God and man, to maintain one single tax in India upon an article of consumption. The people of India paid a tax upon one single article of consumption—salt, and the right hon. Gentleman and his Friends considered that tax so utterly unjustifiable
 928
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he should, perhaps, save the time of the House by stating his views upon this Bill. It came to them recommended by the unanimous vote of a Committee formed of Gentlemen most competent for such an investigation, and it was with pain he differed from the unanimous finding of that Committee, but he felt it impossible to give his vote in favour of the third reading of the Bill. The Bill was promoted by the shareholders of the Company, and not by any creditors, and therefore the point to be considered was whether the preference shareholders had consented to an abrogation of their statutory rights. In consequence of negotiations with the preference shareholders, a Bill was introduced in 1852, and the Select Committee required to know if the preference shareholders consented to the creation of a stock having preference to theirs. The preference shareholders had a meeting, and said they would not agree to anything which affected their property in regard to claims posterior to their own, but they would agree to affecting their property in favour of claims anterior to theirs. The Act of 1852 accordingly passed, authorising the raising of preference stock, overriding the preference shareholders, for the purpose of liquidating the debts of the Company. The creditors were not paid off, and this year this Bill was introduced again to alter the standing of the preference shareholders. It was important to ascertain
 887 l. l.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, that as a director of the Company, he was anxious to answer the objections made by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, and those of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Montrose. He denied that the object of this Bill was repudiation. It was because he disapproved of repudiation that he was in favour of this Bill, and he sincerely believed that if the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had been one of the Committee, he would also vote for the third reading. The facts of the case were these. Mr. Sturge, a very wealthy preference shareholder, made a communication to the directors, and implored them to intercede with the creditors not to press their claims; as, if so, the line would be stopped altogether, and nobody would get anything. These negotiations lasted for five months, and Mr. Brassey, having given up 15,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. 889 l. nisi prius l. l. l.
 MR. HUTCHINS  said, he should support the Motion of the hon. Member who had just sat down. He thought it most essential that the House should have had notice of the sum intended to be proposed by the right hon. Baronet. The only thing they found on the paper was, that the President of the Board of Control was to move a clause, fixing the salaries of the Directors, and if for no other reason than that nothing more definite was stated, he should vote against the clause.
 MR. HUTCHINS  said, he strongly objected to the improper way in which the clause had been introduced. It had been put on the paper without notice having been given, and it was not right to press it on the Committee.
 MR. HUTCHINS  said, he had been present at an interview between a deputation of cab proprietors and the Secretary to the Treasury, and could state that his hon. Friend had done his utmost to arrive at an equitable conclusion as regarded all parties. It appeared, however, almost impossible to satisfy the proprietors. He hoped the Committee would proceed to pass these clauses.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, the first Resolution had been allowed to pass on his side of the House without objection; but the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would perhaps permit him to suggest that the language of that Resolution extended to a remoter period than he had intimated, and that it included the 5th of April well as as the 5th of January, to which he intended to limit its operation. Perhaps, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman would so far modify the terms of the Resolution as to make it accord with the statement which he had made. With regard to the second Resolution, he felt it his duty to oppose it in every possible way. He would also take an early opportunity of bringing under the notice of the House the question involved in the Act of Parliament which had already been referred to. He begged, however, to call the attention of the Committee to the real question involved, which was, whether Parliament would confer on a body who stood in the situation of trustees for those who had no power to act, or even to speak for themselves, the power to meet the views of the Government in such a manner as to sacrifice very largely the interests of those for whom they acted as trustees? He thought the right hon. Gentleman could not have fully considered the extent of the matter. The parties were not free agents. The Company, as trustees, were to have power to commute, and the holders were to be consulted as free agents. The Committee were called upon a few hours' notice to confer on the South Sea Company the power of commuting certain stocks, and stocks standing in the hands of the Accountants General; and if these stocks were not the property of parties who had the misfortune to have their affairs in the Court of Chancery or Court of Bankruptcy, he did not know to what stocks the Resolution applied. If they applied to these stocks, then he was satisfied the Committee ought never to agree to the second Resolution. But, whatever the class of persons to which the stocks might refer, he opposed the Resolution on the ground that it was not just or right to convert stocks in the way proposed without the consent or sanction of the pro-
 909 l. l. l. l. l. l. 910 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 911 cestuique trusts l. l., l., l. l. 912
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that in agreeing to the first Resolution he could not accept the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the amount that would be charged upon the Consolidated Fund. According to the best calculation he could make, the amount to be paid off would be between 9,000,000 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to know what amount would be required to pay off those persons who assented to the commutation of the South Sea Stock?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  wished to know whether the 6,100,000 l.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he objected to the clause. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, in the early stage of the Bill, fixed the salary at 500 l., 964 l.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he intended to have moved for an inquiry into the allegations of the petition of Mr. Rigby Wason, and, therefore, wished the Bill to be recommitted, that investigation might be made into the charges of a petition so important, which alleged that the
 "directors of the said railroad company, as promoters of the Bill now before Parliament, although, as trustees for all classess of shareholders, they are bound to act justly towards the six per cent preference shareholders, did improperly suppress part of a chain of evidence, for the purpose of inducing the Committee on the said Bill to arrive at an unjust decision, and to disturb an agreement which the said directors clandestinely concealed from the said Committee, entered into between the directors and the six per cent preference sharholders, by which, in consideration of the latter assenting to the retention of certain provisions in the said Bill affecting their legal rights, the directors agreed not to lower their preferential share."
 MR. JOHN M'GREGOR  said, he thought the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, was very greatly mistaken as to the operations that would take place under this Resolution. As to a bargain having been made before, it should be recollected that that bargain was made under peculiar circumstances. At the time the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed his measure to the House, the funds were rising, and the greatest unanimity was felt with regard to those measures both in London and elsewhere; and to his knowledge great sums had been transferred into the bankers' hands for the purpose of taking advantage of them. But soon after, political matters on the Continent, and other questions, gave a different tendency to the money market, and, though money was abundant, the same desire for investing did not exist as at the time when the right hon. Gentleman proposed his measures. Now, looking at the whole of the financial measures of the Government, and looking at the prospect of a not favourable harvest, he thought this
 908
 MR. JOHN M'GREGOR  regretted exceedingly to hear the speech of his hon. Friend the Member for Kidderminster, with regard to the great economical principles of the salt duties; but, as he conceived the Amendment to be a most dangerous experiment, he would vote against it, differing altogether, however, from the financial principles of the hon. Member who had just sat down.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he thought that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control had abounded in serious mistakes and misrepresentations of the question before the House. The right hon. Baronet
 933 934 l. l. s. d. l., 935 936
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, the question was one that applied particularly to the people of India, and nut to the people of England, for the former would have to pay the money. Further time ought to be given for the Committee to consider such an important matter before voting those sums of money.
 MR. WISE  said, no one could fail to be struck with the manner and time of the proposition of the right hon. Baronet, which was made without notice, or opportunity of knowing what the salaries were to be. He did not blame the Directors—they were wise in their generation; but the present Motion was a most unreasonable one, and he should give it his most cordial opposition.
 MR. WISE  seconded the Amendment, he said, that he was in the happy and independent position of a person who had never held a railway share in his life. He was influenced in the course he was adopt-
 886
 MR. LOCKE  said, he thought, with the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), that justice ought to be done in this case independent of the present state of things. When the conduct of the Dublin cabmen was contrasted with that of the London cabmen, it must be remembered that the latter had never had an inquiry referred to them. He thought it would be much more Consistent to leave the responsibility of arranging the matter in the hands of the Government; but he entertained a strong opinion that the scale of fares laid down in the Bill was not remunerative. He certainly thought that at least an inquiry into its justice should have been made before such a reduction was attempted.
 MR. WIGRAM  said, he now wished to move the addition of another Clause:—
 "That all fines and penalties incurred by the sentence or order of any court of justice within the territories under the Government of the East India Company, and all forfeitures for crimes of any real or personal estate within the said territories, and all real and personal estate within the said territories, escheating or lapsing for want of an heir or successor, and alt property within the said territories devolving as  bona vacantia 962
 MR. WIGRAM  said, he would now beg to move the addition of the following Clause:—
 "That no law or regulation made by the Governor General in Council under the powers of the Statute 3 & 4  Will. 961
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, that the object of the proposal was to secure the services of the best men. It was not to be expected that gentlemen returning from India, with large fortunes, would undertake the arduous duties of Directors, unless a proper remuneration was given. He thought hon. Gentlemen committed an error in confounding patronage with salary. Persons disposing of patronage derived no pecuniary advantage from it. The patronage of which the Secretary to the Treasury disposed was enormous; but would any one, for that reason, say he ought to have on salary?
 MR. SPOONER  said, the question then before the House was, not as to the amount of salary; but the question was, that the house should go into Committee to consider it.
 MR. SPOONER  quite agreed with the right hon. Chancellor of the Exchequer that this question must be treated as a question of justice, and without any reference to what had taken place. He was one of those who believed, with the hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford, that they ought not to have fixed the fares, without evidence before them that those fares were just. His conviction was then, and it still continued the same, that it was not just to require them to go for a sixpenny fare at all.
 MR. LOWE  said, that to carry two, meant that they were not to be compelled to carry more than two, and not that they were to be limited to carrying two only.
 MR. LOWE  said, he would not detain the House very long, but there were one or two remarks which he felt it was necessary to make before a division was come to upon this question. There had really been so much eloquence, and—the hon. and learned Member for Leominster (Mr. J. G. Phillimore) would excuse him for saying—so much declamation on this point that he feared there was some danger of their losing sight of the real question at issue, that which the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich wished the House to vote upon. The first thing the right hon. Baronet had done was to recite the Act 3 & 4  Will. 947 Cries of non sequitur. 948 d. d. 949 950 951
 MR. LOWE : There is no monopoly in either case.
 MR. MANGLES  said, he must protest against these continued attacks upon the honour and integrity of the Board of Directors. It was not a question of pecuniary compensation which would induce men to dispose of the patronage which would be in their hands. He and his co-Directors took a solemn oath upon every occasion of an appointment being made, that they had not nor would not receive any consideration in money or money's worth. Although he felt bound to defend their own conduct, yet he was quite ashamed to advert to such a fact. As to the intimation respecting the independency of their constituencies, he begged to tell hon. Gentlemen, that his own constituency was an independent constituency. He had
 966
 MR. WALPOLE  would suggest that they really ought not to divide. He felt the cab proprietors were very much in the wrong; but he could not conceal from himself that the House had been a little inadvertent. Let them put themselves right by adopting the two clauses proposed by the Government, and then all would go well.
 MR. THORNELY  said, in that part of the House many Gentlemen entertained a very great disposition that the question should be adjourned. He owned he felt surprised at the very large sums proposed to be given to the Directors and Chairman, and if the proposition were persisted in, he should move, as an Amendment, that the former should be paid 500 l. l. Amidst cries of
 MR. VINCENT SCULLY  said, that trifling as the occasion might appear, there was an important constitutional principle involved in the present discussion. If the Committee were now to yield to the dictation of a particular class of persons, who happened to belong to the metropolis, it would open a most dangerous precedent to encourage the future adoption of a similar improper course by other classes who might have any fancied or real grievance to complain of. It would also create very just discontents in provincial districts, from whence decorous remonstrances often remained unattended to by the Legislature. It would suggest to the car owners of the city of Dublin, as well as to other classes there, that their local grievances would have a much better chance of being speedily redressed if they now had their own local Parliament in College Green. A deputation from those Dublin car owners was at present in London, seeking by legitimate means an alteration in the Dublin Carriages Bill, and their conduct afforded a striking contrast to that pursued by the cabmen of London. Members of the House had certainly suffered some personal inconveniences during the last two days; but those might be easily obviated, either by proper official regulations, or, if necessary, by immediate legislation. They could all remember when, in the year 1848, a special Act of Parliament had been passed through all its stages in a single day, in order to suppress summarily what had been called the "cabbage-garden rebellion" in Ireland. The present state of things, however, should at once be put an end to in one way or other; and as it was a sort of little London cab rebellion, he thought it lay entirely with the Executive Government to suppress it in such form as they might think best. He could not think they were now proposing the most effectual course. Were he allowed to offer a suggestion, he would state that they might never again have so good an opportunity to pass a law
 971
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the intention of his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Home Department, whose state of health prevented him being present, had been simply that the Legislature should put itself quite in the right towards the cab interest, while
 968
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was a matter of great regret and concern to him that he had been prevented by circumstances from paying the respect that was due to that House, and he must say the justice that was due to the Government and to himself, by replying on that occasion, and on the discussion of these Resolutions, to an attack which had been made by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli), and by the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, upon the Government, not with reference to these Resolutions merely, but with reference to an Act of the present Session, and to the whole financial policy taken by the Government. That at this moment was totally impossible. [ It was now within a minute or two of four o'clock, the hour of adjournment. 913 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was no practical difference between them. He now asked the Committee to make arrangements with respect to payments due on the 5th of January next. He did not ask them to make arrangements with respect to payments that would become due at a period after the meeting of Parliament next Session. These the House would consider when the proper time came. There was a portion of payments due on the 5th of April, in addition to what were due on the 5th of January, and that portion constituted the difference between the hon. Baronet's statement and his own. That difference was about in round numbers 2,000,000 l. maximum 906 l.; minimum
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would now propose the Second Resolution.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was not very easy to answer the question of the hon. Baronet without answering at the same time the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli). If the hon. Baronet meant by the "charge" the loss which the country would suffer, and which the right hon. Gentleman had spoken of as a certain loss, without at all putting his authority in competition with that of the right hon. Gentleman, he ventured to say that there would be no loss, but a considerable gain in consequence of the operation of the plan as it stood at the present moment.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Bouverie—The three Resolutions which I have laid upon the table will not require from me any lengthened statement. The first Resolution, I may say, explains itself. It is simply to enable me to make provision to charge upon the Consolidated Fund the sums which the public will be bound to pay in the month of January and the month of April next under the notices which have been given according to the statute passed in the present Session of Parliament. At the same time I shall be quite ready to enter into any further explanation of that Resolution which may be desired by any hon. Member. With respect to the second and third Resolutions, they will require a few words of explanation. The second Resolution provides that the South Sea Company may be permitted, within a time to be limited—
 "To commute, if they shall think fit, such portion of the capital stock of the Company as stands in the names of the Accountant General of the Court of Chancery of England and Ireland respectively, and of the Accountant in Bankruptcy in England, and likewise such portion as stands in the names of trustees and others disabled from voting in the general Court of Proprietors of the said Company." 891 892 l. l. l. 893 l. s. 894 895
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The amount was 3,100,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Certainly.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the total amount which might have to be provided for upon the 5th of January would be 6,100,000 l. l. maximum l. l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Have you not seen the balance sheet?
 MR. WILKINSON  said, that grateful as he was to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for his scheme of finance generally, he must say, in justice to Gentlemen op-
 905
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, that although the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) had characterised the plan of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, so far as it had been carried out, as a failure, he contended that no human wisdom could have foreseen the events which had taken place since that proposition had been submitted to Parliament. Whatever want of success there had been in the measures of the Government, he did not attribute it to any deficiency of talent in the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. GOOLD  said, that as a Member of the Committee to which the Bill was referred, be was quite prepared to defend the decision to which they had arrived.
 890
 MR. GROGAN  said, that if he understood the clause rightly, it was to allow cabs, which were only licensed to carry two, to break the law by carrying more, and get additional fare for it. He had no objection to the cabs carrying more than two, but he did not like to see it put in the light of an infraction of the law.
 MR. GROGAN  did not wish to stand in the way of an arrangement, but the clause would not carry out the object in view. He certainly would oppose it in the interest of the public.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  moved, according to notice, that the Bill be read a third time that day three months. He said, that on the last occasion when the matter was brought under the notice of the House the Bill was re-committed on the ground that the first Committee had decided in favour of it without having obtained the assent of the majority of the shareholders. No less than 300,000 l. l.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would not discuss the second Resolution
 904
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he would like to know the exact amount that would fall on the Consolidated Fund. So far as he could make out, it would be 9,500,000 l. l.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, that the question before the House was simple and easy of solution, if irrelevant matter were not introduced into the discussion. He admitted that there existed just ground of complaint anterior to 1836; and, as something had been said in reference to himself, he begged to say that the opinions he then expressed he still entertained. He was then, as he was now, hostile to monopoly; but the House had not heard how the matter stood anterior to 1836. Before that period the East India Company had the monopoly not only of the production but also of the sale of salt, and nobody could import salt, except at a duty imposed by the Company, which amounted and operated as a practical exclusion of all foreign salt. That was the just and well-founded complaint of the merchants, particularly those of Cheshire and Droitwich; and the complaint of the Indians was, that there existed a sub-monopoly, which operated to their disadvantage—that the sales were by auction and only at stated periods, and the quantity being limited the Company could impose upon salt whatever price they chose. Now, the proper Parliamentary course when a Committee had made a Report, was not to fix upon one particular witness, and quote what he had said before the Committee, but to refer to the Report come to after long and serious investigation. Well, the Report of that Committee contained three Resolutions, which, being acted upon, did away with all those disadvantages to which he had just adverted. By these Resolutions, the Committee submitted with confidence the following recommendations:—
 937 "That the Government do abolish the system of periodical sales, and do keep their golahs at all times open for the sale of salt at the cost price, in quantities not less than 100 maunds, the purchaser to pay in addition a fixed duty on removing the salt from the golahs." "That salt manufactured in any country other than the district subject to the Bengal monopoly, may be sold at such times as the proprietors may please, in quantities not less than 100 maunds; and that such salt on being removed do pay the same duty as that sold by the East India Company, and no other duty or charge whatsoever, except a fair and reasonable rent on such salt as may have been bonded." "That the duty to be imposed shall be fixed at the lowest rate consistent with the maintenance of the revenue, and not exceeding the average rate of the net profit of the Company's monopoly for the last ten years." 938 "In the Board's opinion, the correct principle which ought then to have been, and now to be adopted, in calculating the prime cost of homemade salt, is to add to the price actually paid to the Molunghees so much of the expense incurred by Government in bringing it to market as would be incurred by private individuals or a joint-stock company for the same purpose, on the supposition that the salt were manufactured under an excise
 939 "Necessity may unfortunately compel this Government for the present to continue to raise an objectionable impost upon an article of first necessity, but nothing can justify the Government in pursuing for this purpose a system which unduly exposes a portion of its people to disadvantages that are rapidly depriving them of their means of livelihood." If it be objected that to do so will involve a sacrifice of revenue, I reply that, even if it should reduce the revenue, the plea cannot be admitted. This is a question of duty and justice, not one of expediency or profit. If it be admitted, as I think it must, that the people are bearing an unfair burden, it is the duty of Government to lighten it at whatever sacrifice. Lastly, if it should be objected that this revisal of the selling price of native salt in India will create remonstrances, and raise clamour among the owners and exporters of salt from England to India, the answer is easy; the Act of the Government here can be shown to be founded on justice and necessity; any clamour against it in England, therefore, will have no foundation in justice or reason, and accordingly it ought to be, and safely may be, disregarded." 940 "It so happened that, long before I ever thought of coming to England, or being examined on this subject, and without the slightest regard to any inquiry of this kind, I had a casual conversation with a man likely to be very well informed upon these subjects; an East Indian, a deputy collector, and a man who has mixed intimately and familiarly with the Natives from his birth, and has been officially employed among them, and is thoroughly acquainted with all their concerns. I happened to ask him (and to jot down, as I was accustomed to do, the heads of his information) something about the cost of salt to the Ryots in the Bengal villages. I had no conception whatever that it would ever turn to account in this way. When I saw the evidence of Mr. Aylwyn, I turned to it, and I found it remarkably corroborated by the statistical tables which have been referred to. He told me that in a Bengal village, salt costs to the peasant, one anna and a-half to one anna and three-quarters a seer; that will be at the rate of about 1¾a lb. The consumption is at the rate of about half' an anna a head per measure; or six annas, equal to about 8 d. 941 942 943
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, it was now his duty to appeal to the Government and to Parliament whether the time had not arrived at which the monopoly of salt possessed by the East India Company ought to be entirely abolished. He made the Motion in no party sense, and with no party object, but rested it entirely on the merits and justice of the case. If there was one portion of the House to which he appealed more earnestly than to any other, it was to Her Majesty's Government; and he did so on the ground that, in whatever light the subject was viewed, it was the duty of Parliament to put an end to this obnoxious monopoly, which had been the subject of long and just complaint both in England and in India. Whether it was viewed as affecting the welfare of India, the trade and commerce of England, or the consistency of their commercial legislation; on either or all these grounds he thought he could show that this was a question entitled to the gravest consideration of Parliament, and one on which he thought he should be able to show that Parliament had had no fair option. He did not need to remind the House that in all countries salt was a first necessary of life; but in India, where the diet was vegetable, it was particularly more required than elsewhere. In India that necessary of life was scarce, the supply was deficient, and the price exorbitantly high. In England there was no limit to the supply, and the price was proportionately cheap. Why did not the usual law of supply and demand operate in this case? What was it
 914 Calcutta Review, calcutta Review l. s. Calcutta Review "Now commences the chief iniquity of the system. A great proportion of the salt for inland consumption throughout the country is purchased by large wholesale merchants at less than 4 rupees the maund" [10 l. s. s. s. 915 s. s. s. l. l. l. l. l. lb.; 916 "The pressure of the salt tax on the labourer could not be regarded as severe, inasmuch as it was the only way in which he contributed to the pecuniary necessities of the State; in all other respects he was not necessarily subject to taxation." "That the people in the interior still buy their salt at a price which presses hardly on their means, and that no small portion of the community obtain no salt at all, but are obliged to substitute for it adulterated and often deleterious articles, are, unfortunately, notorious facts." "It is generally understood by those best acquainted with the subject, and it cannot be denied by any one who looks into the details, that the present price of the Government manufactured salt in Bengal is very much raised to the consumer in the market by the necessary want of economy, not to say extravagance, connected with the Government system of manufacture, and by those many speculations and extortions and corruptions which are inevitable in such a system, and carried on with such instruments." 917 Domestic Medicine, "Salt is a natural stimulant to the digestive organs, and seems absolutely necessary to the health of the animal body; for those who neglect it as an article of diet have a weak and depraved digestion, and engender worms; often with frightful rapidity." "A mode of punishment formerly existed in Holland, which places the effects resulting from a total disuse of salt, more especially in moist climates, in a striking point of view. The ancient laws of the country enacted that certain convicted men should be kept on bread alone, unmixed with salt, as the severest punishment that could be inflicted on them in their moist climate. The effect was horrible; these wretched criminals are said to have been devoured by worms engendered in their own stomachs." "Be it noted that this effect was produced upon these persons by confining them to a vegetable diet uncorrected by salt. A diet wholly vegetable is the diet of numerous classes in India, and a diet almost wholly so is the diet of the rest of the population. A punishment, therefore, the most horrible and loathsome which human barbarity ever devised in the dark ages, for the torture of the worst criminals, is the fide which the East India Company maintain and defend as one of their principal fiscal resources, and which they deliberately run the risk of inflicting, in this the nineteenth century, upon the millions of innocent men whom humane England has confided to their governance! Not only do multitudes of natives die annually in the interior of disease produced by the want of a sufficient supply of salt to sustain life in a healthy state; but no man who has used his opportunities of observation among them can entertain a doubt that many of those who survive and are met with in every part, victims to the most loathsome and miserable diseases, gradually making them objects truly horrible to behold, owe the origin and the inveterancy of their sufferings to the same cause, which converts the blood in their bodies into a mass of corruption." Calcutta Review 918 "The curse which this tax thus proves to the country is manifest to every one intimately acquainted with the condition of the poor; not only do they suffer from the ruinous price at which it is sold, but from its deleterious character. They eat, but they are not satisfied; they heap on salt, for which they have paid dearly, but there is no savour in the rice. And those who cannot afford to purify it are compelled, in violence to their habitual cleanliness in diet, to consume a large proportion of injurious sand and filth. Disease is the inevitable result, especially in a low country, and where vegetable diet is the universal food. Every one acquainted with the constitution of the Bengali, knows that the prevailing complaint of the country is worms. A missionary of twenty years' experience in dealing with the bodies, as well as the souls of the natives, once told us—'If ever I am at a loss to know what is the matter with a man, I prescribe salt and pomegranate bark, for he is sure to have worms, whatever other complaints he may have.' To this state of the native constitution are to be imputed many diseases of the digestive organs and bowels; that general debility, which induces recurring fever, and causes fatal results to accrue from cholera and other violent attacks, while it is the immediate producer of that most loathsome judgment, not unfrequent, among the poor, of being literally eaten up by worms." Calcutta Review 919 "It is well known to all persons acquainted with the history of the West Indies during the slavery period, that a portion of salt fish was regularly served out to the negroes as an essential and legal part of their rations, without which they could not subsist, nor work in health for their masters." Travels "That in the remotest parts he visited in Hindostan he found a small addition of salt fish valued as a grateful relish to their vegetable food by all classes of natives able to consume it." "I have seen a French ship arrive on the west coast in the sardine season freighted with the usual supply of Nantes sardines. I have seen her readily sell off canister after canister of them, containing, perhaps, two dozen fish, to the English residents, for 18 s. s. s., 920 "Your Committee cannot conclude without expressing their conviction, that however modified the monopoly may be, the evils of the system can never be totally eradicated but by its extinction; and, entertaining a strong opinion that the interests of the consumer and revenue will ultimately be best secured by a considerable reduction of the duty under a system of free competition, they repeat the expression of their hope that the Government will not neglect to give their early and serious attention to this important subject." Laughter. 921 922 bonâ fide "To warrant the Government of Bengal in continuing this system, I conceive it is essential that the operation of the system should clearly involve no injustice to the importer of salt from without, or to the producer of home salt in India. The representations of the Revenue Board, in my humble judgment, have established that under the existing system, no injustice is done to the importer of salt, but that great and growing injustice is inflicted on the native producer of that article. For, the importer of salt from England or from elsewhere has a right to expect that he should not be exposed, by the determination of the Government of Bengal to retain the monopoly of salt in its own hands, to any greater competition than he would have to contend with if the monopoly were abolished, and the traffic in salt, like the traffic in any other article, were carried on by ordinary traders. The Government of Bengal, acquiescing in that principle, have long since given effect to it by establishing that the selling price of their native salt shall consist of the amount of the import duty on foreign salt, plus the cost of manufacture and conveyance for sale of the native article." l. 923 plus 924 s. d. 925 926 "If it be objected that to do so" [to lower the price] "will involve a sacrifice of revenue, I reply, that even if it should reduce the revenue, the plea cannot be admitted." "This is a question of duty and justice, and not one of expediency or profit. If it be admitted, as I think it must, that the people are bearing an unfair burden, it is the duty of the Government to lighten it at whatever sacrifice or cost." "And whereas by the Act 3 & 4  Will. 927 "And whereas the said East India Company have continued to carry on the manufacture and sale of Salt, from the date of the said Act to the present time, notwithstanding the aforesaid provision. "And whereas it is expedient that the said Salt monopoly should absolutely cease and determine: Be it Enacted, That from and after the first day of May 1856, it shall be unlawful for the said East India Company to continue the manufacture of Salt as at present carried on by them in the province of Bengal, and that such manufacture shall absolutely cease, whether carried on by the East India Company or on the account and under the control of the said Company, and that the manufacture and sale of Salt in India shall be absolutely free, subject only to such Excise or other Duties as may now or from time to time be levied upon such Salt so manufactured."
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  was sure the right hon. Baronet did not mean intentionally to misrepresent him, but he must state that he had said nothing of the sort. He entertained the greatest respect for Lord Dalhousie, and he had applied the word "dodge" not to the conduct of the noble Lord, but to that of the Company.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, as one who was present at the interview of the cab proprietors with the hon. Gentleman, he thought it right to state they were satisfied with the Resolutions so far as they went, but that nothing would completely satisfy them except a shilling for the first mile.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he rose to corroborate the statement of the right hon. Gentleman. He had that afternoon been present at a deputation of cab proprietors who had waited on the Under Secretary of State, and he had heard that deputation state positively that the Resolution just read from the Chair, had been laid before them previous to the occurrence which had lately taken place, and the reason of the delay in bringing it before the House had been a mere question as to the wording of the clause, which had only been settled a short time ago. He certainly hoped that Her Majesty's Government would not give way on this occasion. As one of the Metropolitan Members, he had been very anxious to see any just demands which the cab proprietors might have met in a proper spirit, and settled if possible; but, at the same time, he was bound to say that the circumstances under which they now came before the House were very materially altered by the course which they had pursued, He thought the most dignified course for the House to pursue would be to look upon these men now as entirely out of court; when they had brought their cabs back on the stands, then let them petition Parliament, and any just grievances which they had might be redressed in a fair spirit.
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he also wished to move the addition of a clause. He thought the time was arrived when it was fitting Her Majesty's territories in the East Indies should be governed in Her Majesty's name. If the authority of the East India Company had not been diminished, he should still have been of the same opinion; but considering how greatly the power and authority of the Directors had been shorn by this Bill, it appeared to him the more deserving of consideration. Although obedience had been shown, the name of the Company had not been treated with that respect which was to be expected on the part of the rulers of so great an Empire. The Company was ordinarily called by the name of "John Company," which was more jocularly changed into "Honourable john," whilst the illiterate people of India imagined the Company was an old woman. He could not imagine there could be any objection to the proposal, and he thought it scarcely possible to overrate the importance of having justice and the law in India administered in the name of Her Majesty.
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, that two of the reductions in Bengal had taken place under himself; and one great reason for the step was, that the amount of salt stored in the golahs, or Government warehouses, had become so enormously disproportionate to the demand, that it was considered desirable not only to reduce the duty, but the production of the article itself. Accordingly he diminished annually the quantity produced; and he could bear his testimony to the truth of what his hon. Friend (Sir J. Hogg) had said respecting the alarm of the people. Indeed, so earnest were their remonstrances in some cases that they had found it necessary to alter the plans of the Government. He was himself an advocate for the gradual reduction of the duty. That gradual reduction had gone on while he was in Bengal, and he thought it would have been right to have continued it to the present day. At the same time he really believed that the more they reduced the duty the less would be the quantity of English salt that would be consumed in India. It was proposed that the present system should be superseded by an excise duty on home-made, and a customs duty on the imported article. Now, though he decidedly objected to any enactment of Parliament on the matter, he was quite willing that the plan itself should be tried. He must say that he was surprised Mr. Halliday should have thought the excise system practicable; but that gentleman had certainly had more experience than himself. The salt manufacturers in Bengal were thousands in number, and the quantity made by each was very small, so that he should himself have thought the expense of the preventive force, necessary to prevent frauds upon the revenue, would have swallowed up most of the revenue itself. But still he was most ready to sanction any measure to es-
 945
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, the right hon. Gentleman proposed by this Resolution to give to certain persons, who could not under the present Act avail themselves of the offers therein made, the same terms that were offered to the South Sea Company itself; but the right hon. Gentleman went further, and proposed that these persons should now have the advantage of a fresh arrangement—a new offer, much more advantageous than that which was offered to the South Sea Company. If this was carried into effect, they would see two distinct parties holding South Sea Stock—those who had made a bad bargain, and those who had made a good bargain; and who could doubt that the former of these would be highly dissatisfied with their position? He thought it was pretty evident that those who had not accepted the former proposition of the Government, had not lost anything by their holding back. The injustice done, was to those who had placed confidence in the right hon. Gentleman. He objected to this arrangement as wrong in principle, and must therefore oppose the Resolution.
 MR. HUME  said, there was only one part of India which was adapted for settlement; but he had heard of no difficulty of obtaining land in any part of India. The great evil was, as proved by two able witnesses, that it was no use cultivating any district in the interior, because the produce would not bear the expense of its conveyance to the coast. The means of transit was, therefore, the first consideration. Lord Dalhousie had directed his attention to this question; and it was to be hoped that improved means of conveyance would soon be provided. He believed it was possible to purchase any quantity of land; and no doubt the Indian Government would have an eye to that, for the sake of their revenue. The object of his hon. Friend was a benevolent one, but he did not think it could be accomplished by a Resolution of that House.
 SIR JOHN FITZGERALD  said, that the great want of internal improvements in India was owing to the fact, that the money accumulated there by Europeans was taken away from the country, instead of being expended in it; and persons who had been twenty years absent from India found the country on their return in precisely the same state as they had left it, without the least perceptible advance. He had travelled through India and other parts of the world, and he could declare that be never saw a population in a greater state of misery than that under which the natives of India laboured. He believed it would be impossible for the House to obtain correct information of the real state of the country until the evidence of native witnesses was taken. He considered that the condition of the people of India was so bad, that any change that could be made in it must be for the better; and he should, therefore, support the clause before the House, as being a step in the right direction.
 MR. HUME  said, no one had submitted more grievances of the inhabitants of India to that House than he had done, and he was sorry to say with very little success. He did not say that the fault always lay with the Court of Directors; but this he must say that one great cause of discontent among the natives of India was, that that House so frequently rejected claims of which there could be no dispute. Whether the proper tribunal for hearing such claims should be the Lords Justices or the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, he was not prepared to say; but this he knew, that the question was of such grave importance as to deserve a better answer than that given by the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe). He hoped the noble Lord the Member for London would not say that it was too late to discuss the question. Believing that there were wrongs inflicted, and that there were at present no means of remedying them, he felt himself bound to support the clause proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Leominster.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he could assure the House that he had no wish to intrude unnecessarily or presumptuously on their time. But he could not help observing that the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe) was not an older Member of that House than himself, and he should add that as regarded public opinion, and he might almost add as regarded decency, he could conceive nothing more impolitic than that the cases of persons of high rank in India, whose grievances had been brought under the notice of that House, should be passed over in the tone which had been assumed on that occasion by the hon. Member. He would support the proposal of his hon. and learned Friend, on the simple ground that no wrong should
 1016 "he hoped the Charter of the Company would not be renewed without their consenting to the appointment of some body, whether members of the Privy Council or of a Special Committee, who would relieve the House of Commons from the odium of resisting the just applications of individuals, through a sense of the inconvenience of the precedent, or from a conviction of their own incompetency."
 MR. HUME  said, that he certainly did not see what the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland had to do with this matter.
 MR. HUME  said, he would be very glad if his hon. Friend the Member for Manchester would go to time India House, examine the different departments, and see what was done; and if he should do so, he did not think he would return from the opinions he then entertained. The hon. Gentleman seemed to think that nothing was done in Leadenhall-street; the fact, however, was, that the supervision of the entire affairs of India came under the charge of the various de-
 1032
 LORD STANLEY  said, the President of the Board of Control had not assigned a single reason for not acceding to the proposition of the hon. Member for Manchester. It was admitted by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir C. Wood), that whenever a single government should be established, it would no doubt be more convenient to unite the offices as was now proposed; and that disposed of every other objection the right hon. Gentleman had made, because he merely made it a question of time. With regard to the expense, any temporary expense that could be incurred was altogether inconsiderable when compared with the expenses of the Indian Government. As to the inconvenience that might be caused to Directors, if they referred to the Court of Directors as at present constituted, it would be seen that the great majority of the Directors were not at the present moment engaged in other business. Any measure was rather desirable than otherwise that would tend to confine the Directors to the duties of their office as Directors. They sometimes heard that the double staff was a security for the business of detail being more efficiently transacted, but he thought the fact was exactly the reverse. When they had two sets of permanent officials employed to go over the same business, the chances were much greater that the business would be neglected than if it were placed in the hands of a single staff of officers. He cordially supported the Amendment.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he should also support it. The argument of the right hon. Gentleman, that as the Directors were to be an independent body they ought to sit in a separate building, was trivial. As to the argument about expense, it was utterly worthless. He considered that a superfluous speech at that time of the Session was mischievous, and should say no more.
 MR. HUME  said, he would second the Amendment, although not upon the same grounds as the hon. Gentleman who moved it. He remembered some time back that
 1034 l. l., l.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he had always guarded himself against making a charge of a corrupt exercise of patronage by the Directors; but he must remind the Committee that this phrase of paying in patronage had been a common phrase, and was well understood, and until this year no one had thought of taking exception to it; and, indeed, the noble Lord the Member for the City of London (Lord J. Russell) last night said, that the possession of patronage—without supposing an improper use of it—gave consideration and dignity to a man. He objected altogether to the system of paying in patronage, and he wished the patronage could be exercised in some other mode, but he protested most earnestly against their being paid both by patronage and salary.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, that although he could not compliment his right hon. Friend (Sir C. Wood) upon having made many concessions in the course of the discussions upon this Bill, yet he thought that what had occurred that evening was a sufficient justification of his conduct. This was a question of some interest. Their object was to procure the best men. In ordinary cases a competent salary was one means of securing good men; but this was not an ordinary case He confessed he was one of those who thought that 500 l. l. 1040
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he felt that the right hon. Gentleman opposite was not justified in saying that the clause was agreeable to the majority of that House, as that was a conclusion which could only be determined by the result of the approaching division. In the meantime, however, he must remind the Committee that they had as yet heard no reasons to determine them to accept the proposal. And as the salaries were to be paid out of the revenue of India, it was the more incumbent
 1039
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he would wish to make a few remarks in reference to the question put by the noble Lord opposite (Lord J. Manners) before the Committee came to a division. The noble Lord had said that no reasons had been given for nominating this particular sum of 1,000 l. l. l., l. l. 1041 l. l., l. l. l. l.;
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that Sir Robert Peel never brought forward any measure on this subject. He only suggested the point to Lord Althorp as one well worthy of consideration. His Lordship promised that it should be, and no doubt it was, considered. He supposed, however, that it was then found that there were, as it certainly seemed to him to be the case, practical objections to any such tribunal being constituted. He did not see any reason why the subject should not be again considered, with a view to the introduction of some measure, if it were practicable; but he could not pledge himself to the erection of such a tribunal, to which at present he did not see his way.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : My hon. Friend who has just sat down seems to have omitted one consideration—and really the most important consideration in this question—whether the clause proposed will give a useful and efficient remedy for the wrongs complained of. That is really the most important question of the whole. My hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis) says that there are grievances—that there are cases in which the Government of India is in the wrong, and the complainants are in the
 1021 1022 1023 1024
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, the clause did not seem to him to be framed in such a manner as to be added to the Bill; and he doubted whether, if it were properly framed, the proposal was one that would be at all adapted to the situation of India. He thought it was utterly unsuited to the present situation of India; and he did not see how, under these words, anything could be done by the Government of India to give effect to it. Therefore, he did not see that it ought to be adopted.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he believed the office was looked to more as one of patronage and honour than of direct emolument; and there were hundreds of merchants in the City having a knowledge of Indian affairs, who would accept a po-
 1037
 MR. DISRAELI  said, as he knew that important business was to come before the House, he would detain them but a very short time; but he could not overlook one or two observations of the right hon. Gentleman. In the first place, he entirely protested against the new view taken by the Government that the failure of their great financial scheme was to be attributed to the state of the weather or of the Continent. The state of the weather or the Continent had nothing whatever to do with it. It was condemned at the first by all practical men, and he knew numerous instances in which funds were held by corporations and individuals who went for consultation to those whose opinions carried the greatest weight on this subject, and by whom the scheme was universally condemned. There was one society he recollected particularly—of which, he believed, the right hon. Gentleman was a member—the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, which held 15,000 l. 1008
 MR. DISRAELI : I meant the loss of the 100,000 l.,
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the Committee had, in fact, prejudged the private Bill, as the whole scheme involved in the Resolutions went on the assumption that the South Sea Company would obtain the powers provided for by the Bill.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he felt the importance of maintaining the Court of Directors as a control over the despotic power of the Board of Control. To secure their independent exercise of this control, it was necessary that they should have se-
 1033
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  then brought forward the clause of which he had given notice, for fixing the salaries of the Directors. In Committee he would propose to fill up the blanks in the clause with the sums of 1,500 l. l.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  would not follow the hon. Member into the various
 1031 l.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the Government had originally introduced a provision with respect to the admissions to the military college at Addiscombe, but had since withdrawn it in consequence of the general opinion which was expressed by the House on a former evening in favour of retaining the present system. The question had been already discussed by the House, and he hoped that they would now adhere to the decision which they had most distinctly pronounced.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he would take that opportunity of stating that upon this subject he had had no communication whatever with the Directors. The reason which he gave for his proposition might be a good one or it might be a bad one, but surely the noble Lord had not listened to what be said in introducing the clause otherwise he would hardly have stated that he gave no reason. What he stated was that he had been told by Members of that House, as well as by other persons, that a salary of 500 l.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  believed that there was not the slightest doubt that a Member of the House being nominated a Director by the Crown, must vacate his seat under the Act of  Anne,
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  would remind the hon. Gentleman that it was not a very usual course to move the rejection of a clause upon the third reading, when that clause had passed through Committee without any objection being taken to it. The question for the House to decide upon was, not whether the army in India should be the Queen's army, but it was the mere number of the European troops in the Company's service. The Company's forces were now precisely what they were seventy years ago, while the Queen's troops had been considerably increased, and, therefore, what the hon. Gentleman desired had in reality taken place, no increase in the Company's European troops having been effected since the year 1788. During this time it would be remembered that there had been a considerable addition to the territories of the East India Company, and there had been a considerable increase in the Native army. It had been thought desirable by the Government of India, and had been recommended by Lord Dalhousie, that an increase should be made in the East India Company's European forces. The old clause said that the number should not be beyond 12,000 men, and this clause that the number should not be beyond 20,000; but neither of these clauses defined that the number should absolutely be either 12,000 or 20,000. It was desirable when
 1045
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that he had stated on a former occasion how desirable it was that there should be no distinction between the Directors, and he had accordingly reduced the qualification of the elected Directors from 2,000 l. l.,
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would not divide the Committee upon this Resolution, but would reserve to himself the power of taking the sense of the House upon the principle involved at some other opportunity. In the meantime, he wished to know when the Bill to be founded on these Resolutions would be brought in?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that when he had before addressed the Committee upon these Resolutions, he had done so in almost total ignorance of what the effect of them would be upon the public and the persons interested, supposing them to receive the sanction of Parliament. Even after the lengthened statement of the right hon. Gentleman, the objection which he entertained to this measure had not been obviated—that objection being that it gave a power to trustees to effect a commutation of the South Sea Stock without the full consent of all the per-
 1002 l. s. d., 1003 l. l.; l. l.; l. s., l. 1004
 SIR FITZROY KELLY : And is now.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to put two questions to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer with respect to the Resolutions now on the table of the House. The first was this—supposing the Resolutions received the sanction of Parliament, and any number of persons should elect to com-
 980
 MR. GLYN  said, he should certainly agree with what had fallen from the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. J. B. Smith) if he thought with him that this could be regarded as a new offer; but the words of the Resolution explicitly conveyed the meaning to be, that the parties now to be benefited were those parties who by some oversight, or some imperfect comprehension of their position when the previous Act was passed, had not the power of receiving any offer, or exercising any option whatever. The real question was, whether, in point of fact, it was more convenient for Her Majesty's Treasury to make arrangements with bodies like these, and with trustees, or with large classes of individuals? and, speaking practically, he thought there could be no question on the point. Everybody knew that the Chancellor of the Exchequer always went into the market to negotiate at a disadvantage; and the only way in which be could possibly be expected to negotiate with advantage in this instance was to be empowered to make over to the South Sea Company, in lieu of stock they now held, a certain portion of the stock of the national debt. He thought that a more economical, and in every respect a better, mode of dealing with the question than any that he had yet heard suggested. There was only one part of the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer which he disagreed with—he alluded to the announcement that it was not his intention to proceed with a Bill for the purpose of settling the question with regard to the funds in the hands of the Accountants General. He knew of no class of persons who were in a more hopeless or helpless position than those unfortunate people whose funds were in the Court of Chancery. They were so placed that every contingency operated against them, and nothing for them; and therefore he did hope that the right hon. Gentleman would give his attention to the subject, and not omit the very first occasion that presented itself of settling this very important question. With regard to the unfounded debt,
 1006
 MR. HADFIELD  seconded the Resolution. He believed India had not derived that advantage from her connexion with this country which she had a right to expect, and that the Government had been guilty of neglecting the interests of that part of Her Majesty's dominions.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he objected to statement of the right hon. Gentleman (Sir C. Wood) which cast the responsibility of this increase of salary upon the House. Certainly nothing which he (Mr. Hadfield) had said could have led the President of the Board of Control to entertain an idea that the salary was too small. He thought that the amount originally named was ample. There had never been any difficulty in obtaining Directors when the salary was only 300 l. l. l. l. l.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he would re-
 1035
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the hon. Gentleman was quite right in saying there appeared to be an intimate connexion between the Resolutions and the object of the Bill he spoke of; but, nevertheless, the connexion was as wide as possible. The reason why these persons were unable to accept either of the options contained in the former Act was, that by the constitution of the South Sea Company they were unable to express any option whatever; and this Bill was introduced to enable them to avail themselves of the opportunity of converting their stock, should they choose so to do. They asked Parliament to enable them to avail themselves of that commutation if they thought it necessary, but it was a Bill with which the Government had nothing to do. It was, in fact, a private Bill for the convenience of the stockholders.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that last night, in his absence, the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control had inserted an additional clause in the Bill, reintroducing, as a qualification to all seats in the Court of Directors, the possession of a certain amount of the Company's stock. He (Mr. Bright) thought that it had been agreed that that clause should be left out, and there was reason to complain that the right hon. Gentleman had given no notice of his intention to bring it forward.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he took a different view of this subject from that of the noble Lord, who seemed to think that no evil could now be done in India, and that what had occurred under Warren Hastings could not occur under Lord Dalhousie. Now he (Mr. Bright) was of opinion that in the last fifteen years, as in the cases of the Rajah of Sattara and the Ameers of Seinde, there had been committed crimes of as great magnitude as there ever were in the earliest and worst times in India. With regard to this clause, it was really intended to meet two sorts of cases. Firstly, cases like that of the Rajah of Sattara and the Rajah of Coorg, and Native Princes, who, because they were not deposed, were said to be independent; and, secondly, cases in which subjects of the Queen had claims which could not be decided in a court of law. The noble Lord had not touched on this last class of cases; he had dealt only with the first category of grievances, and on that point perhaps he could understand the weight of the agreements adduced. There might be a difficulty in establishing a tribunal for the case of Native Princes who, being deposed and imprisoned or sent to other countries, died prematurely; but with regard to the case of the claims of British subjects, there could be no difficulty. Since he had referred a short time ago to the case of Colonel Frith, he had seen the opinions of two eminent counsel, Mr. Serjeant Spankie and Sir Herbert Compton, which confirmed what he had stated, namely, that there was undoubtedly a great moral claim on the part of Colonel Frith against the East India Company, but there was no legal tribunal in which it could be prosecuted. He would read an extract from the opinion of Mr. Serjeant Spankie, to the effect—
 "That referring to another case, Colonel Frith's was a stronger one, as the money he claimed had been applied to the purposes of the Company; but the courts of law and equity had no power to enforce contracts made with the Company in their political capacity." 1025
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the right hon. President of the Board of Control wished the Committee to believe that the time and energy of these Directors were exclusively devoted to their labours in the India House. Now, he believed it was quite notorious that several of the Directors, probably a majority of them, attended there very little; and, in point of fact, their duties in the actual administration of Indian affairs were much more nominal than real, because they all knew that when persons were elected without much responsibility, the business gradually got into the hands of heads of departments. They had themselves seen Members in that House who certainly had not taken any very active part in the management of East India business, and, indeed, he found that nearly the whole of them held various other appointments. Almost the whole body were directors of insurance offices, or railway companies, of banks, or other undertakings. In point of fact, unless the directors of those undertakings were mere shams, they could not attend to the service of the East India Company, for he defied anybody to do it unless they possessed greater powers than any individual he was acquainted with. Besides, it must be remembered that some of these gentlemen
 1038 l. l. l., l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he now would move a clause providing that suitable offices shall be provided for the East India Company and for the Board of Control, if possible, under the same root. Haying already proposed this clause in the Committee on the Bill, he should not now repeat the arguments which he then brought forward. He thought it was impossible to doubt that great delay in the transaction of business was caused by the fact of the two departments being separated by a distance of between two and three miles. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control had on a former occasion opposed this proposition, on the ground that it would be highly inconvenient for Directors of the East India Company, who were engaged on business in the City, to attend meetings of the Board in the neighbourhood of Downing-street. But it could not be expected that the President of the Board of Control should go to the other side of Temple-bar. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) had said that evening, that the Government of India was complicated and dilatory; and this was a plan to diminish those evils. The right hon. Gentleman (Sir C. Wood) did very quickly what he had to do; but he did not always do it very well, and he would have more time, and probably do things better, if his communication with the India House was more direct. He (Mr. Bright) proposed that the building for the combined departments should be in Downing-street, and, therefore, as that was a favourite locality, the right hon. Gentleman would probably offer, on this occasion, less stringent objections than he had urged when this suggestion was last before the House. A proposition had been carried the other night, for increasing the salary of the President of the Board of Control to 5,000 l. 1030 l., l., l. l. s. d., d.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to propose a clause, declaring that if a Member of that House should be nominated a Director by the Crown, he should not continue to sit in the House unless re-elected.
 MR. MURROUGH : Mr. Speaker, I believe that it is utterly impossible to overestimate the importance of the clause which has been moved by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Leominster, and met with such contumelious flippancy by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kidderminster, not merely in reference to the fortunes and vicissitudes of individuals, but also in its relation to that vast and momentous question of Indian government, which has so lately attracted the attention and engrossed the discussion of the House. I conceive that the intelligence of this country may be more forcibly addressed to the real condition of India through the medium of those cases which have just been mentioned, than by any generality of statement, however well such statement may be authenticated, When it is desirable to attract the understanding of one people to a consideration of the sufferings of another, you must illustrate rather than declaim; in
 1017 1018 Musæ Cantabrigienses; 1019 "Rather coin their hearts And drop their blood in drachmas, than to wring
From the hard hands of natives their vile trash By any indirection."
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, that he would withdraw that part of the clause which gave an appeal to the Lords Justices, which was, indeed, only inserted as a security against frivolous complaints. He would, indeed, withdraw the whole clause, if the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) would say that it was the intention of the Government to give effect to the suggestion of Sir Robert Peel, which met the approbation of Lord Althorp.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he would beg to propose a clause providing that any person suffering under alleged wrongs at the hands of the Indian Government should be enabled to lay his case before the Lords Justices, and if they allowed a further prosecution of the case, that it should be referred to the decision of the Privy Council. Having already explained his motives for making this Motion when he brought it forward on a previous occasion in another shape, he should not trouble the House at any length now. He had first intended to propose that those cases should be laid before the President of the Board of Control, but on consideration he had thought it better to substitute for that Minister the Lords Justices as the tribunal, because he believed that their position excluded them from all political influence. The grievances suffered by our Indian fellow-subjects were flagrant and notorious, and for them to remain any longer without a mode of obtaining redress was inconsistent with the character of a civilised country. On a former occasion he hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe) had objected to the tribunal which he (Mr. Phillimore) proposed to establish, that it would have to be administered by the objects of a State which was a party to the suit. But it was an inseparable characteristic of international law that it should be administered in that manner; and Lord Mansfield had laid it down that any other mode of trial in the case of an international dispute would be manifestly unjust, absurd, and impracticable. Now, the fact was unquestionable that the Native princes of India were loud in their complaints, and it was equally undoubted that here was no tribunal to try these cases. These princes complained that their territories had been absorbed, and themselves condemned upon  ex parte 1013 l. . l., l. l. 1014
 MR. AYSHFORD WISE  moved that Clause 29 be disagreed to. He would not press his proposal to a division, as his only object was to elicit from the Minister for India an explanation, and to ascertain the exact meaning and intention of the Government with regard to this clause, which had been passed at an early hour in a thin House without a single remark. The 29th clause enacted that the limit of the European troops of the Company and of their troops in training should be extended, and permitted the Company to increase their force composed of British subjects from 14,000 to 24,000. Some years ago Parliament fixed the limit at 12,200 men, and also authorised the Company to employ 8,000 Imperial troops on paying the cost of the same. In 1813 Parliament authorised the Company to call for any number of the national forces, and they required at that time 20,000. The force now in India amounted to about 30,000 men, and under this Act the East India Company might ask for 50,000 men on paying the necessary charges. Now he wanted the House to
 1042 1043 1044
 MR. AYSHFORD WISE  then moved the Clause of which he had given notice:—
 "And be it Enacted, with regard to admissions into the Military College at Addiscombe, that the nominations shall be made by the Chairman of the Bard of Directors, the President of the Board of Control, the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and the Governor General of India, respectively, for the time being, in equal proportions of one-fourth of such nominations."
 MR. HEYWORTH  rose to move the clause of which he had given notice. It was his opinion that no form of government could materially improve the condition of India while the present tenure of land existed, and that if the system of freeholds were introduced, the same beneficial result would follow that had taken place in this country and the United States.
 MR. MALINS  said, that at present the time of the Lords Justices was fully occupied with the business of the Court of Chancery, and if they were compelled to take up all the cases that might be brought before them by the "Young India" party, he should wish to know what would become of the suitors in the Court of Chancery?
 MR. MALINS said, he should support the clause, for he would, if he had taken any part in time discussion of this subject, have moved a clause to the same effect as the one now brought forward by the Government. When the number of Directors was decreased, and consequently the duties of the remaining Directors proportionately increased, and when they were expected to devote the whole of their time and attention to the consideration of affairs connected with the government of a mighty Empire, he saw no reason why such persons should not receive a salary adequate
 1036 l. l., l. l. l.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to know whether the South Sea Company, as a Company, had not refused the terms offered, and whether the effect of this measure would not be to introduce a power of voting by persons that would override the vote of the corporation?
 MR. SPOONER,  said, he wished to know what was the amount they would have to deal with, provided the second Resolution was agreed to? He wished to call the attention of the Committee to a Bill which he held in his hand, which contained exactly the same provisions that were embodied in the Resolutions now before the Committee. All the arrangements in favour of the South Sea Company were in this Bill, just as he found them in the Resolutions, and he hoped some explanation of the connexion between the two would be given.
 MR. LOWE  said, he should not attempt to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman into all the topics he had gone into; in the first place, because the question had already been partially decided by the house when in Committee on the Bill; and, in the second place, because the remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman were entirely irrelevant to the new proposition, such as it was. The proposition before the House was this:—
 "That persons suffering under alleged wrong may lay their case before the Lords Justices, and that if they shall allow the further prosecution of the case, it shall be referred to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, and the decision of the Judicial Committee upon such case shall be final." 1015
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would answer, No; and in reply to a previous question of the hon. Gentleman, as to the amount of stock to be dealt with, he had to repeat what he had stated yesterday, that it would be something over 2,000,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the last Resolution was one required by justice. It was unnecessary to make any remarks respecting it; but he wished to make one observation with reference to what had fallen from the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner). The hon. Gentleman seemed to
 1009
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Bill would be in the hands of hon. Members on Tuesday.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I may answer those questions without any difficulty. With respect to the first question, our intention is, in case any commutation on the part of these trustees should be effected, that the means for that commutation shall be provided by the creation of new stock. With regard to the question of the increase of the capital of the national debt, my expectation is that this arrangement will be effected with some diminution of the capital of the national debt. It is a very small amount—scarcely worth mentioning—but I have no doubt that, instead of an increase, it will occasion a diminution of the capital of the debt. With regard to the third question, who the persons are that stand upon the Accountant Generals' accounts in Bankruptcy and in Chancery, I shall give an answer which will probably be the most intelligible to the hon. and learned Gentleman, with his professional knowledge. I believe that they will be the same miscellaneous description of persons as those who stand upon the Accountant Generals' accounts in other larger stocks. With respect to their relation to the South Sea Company, that, I apprehend, is a question of law, which I am not well able to answer it the present moment. I presume, however, but I speak under correction, that he Accountants General must be partners in the South Sea Company, just like any other partners in respect of those stocks, and that the persons to whom those stocks really belong can have no legal rights as partners in the South Sea Company. I will not go into the question of how they are to be protected, or whether they are
 981
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in introducing these Resolutions yesterday to the notice of the Committee, for two reasons I confined myself very strictly to a brief and dry comment upon the text of the Resolutions. One of those reasons was, that at the present period of the Session, and in the present state of the business of the House, I was not willing, without necessity, to occupy the time of the Committee, and thereby contribute to the prolongation of a Session which has been unusually long and laborious. And the other reason was, that in my judgment the time for a full discussion of this question had not yet arrived. But the speeches which were subsequently made gave a much larger range to the subject, and have imposed upon me the necessity, which for the reasons I have stated I much regret, of troubling the Committee at greater length than I should otherwise have done, and of bringing before them matters to which I did not advert in my opening address. In point of fact, three subjects of a character in a great measure distinct have been so far introduced to the notice of the Committee as to make it necessary for me to remark upon them, two of them being subjects which undoubtedly demand, or will demand, a fuller consideration than any that they can now receive, and the third being the subject of the Resolutions upon the table of the House, which I conceive, with great respect to the Committee, to be a matter of minor range and scope. The other two subjects are the merits or demerits, as it may be, of the Act of Parliament passed at an early period of the present Session, and the subject of the unfunded debt. Both of these are matters of great consequence. Both of them are matters which we can at present discuss with only a partial and limited knowledge, the circumstances not being ripe for the Committee to form an opinion upon them. I have to apologise, therefore, for the necessity of touching upon them. It is a necessity, however, which has been occasioned by the speeches the have been made. Now, as regards the present Resolution, to which I will first
 982 983 984 l. 985 l. l. l., l. l, 986 l. 987 988 989 l., bonâ fide bonâ fide maximum 990 l. alter ego 991 992 993 non constat l. 994 "In the forty years now completed, the interest of money in the funds had fallen 2 per cent. Looking, then, to the increasing commerce and prosperity of this country—to the vast amount of capital at their disposal—at the great influx of capital from foreign States, where the same confidence as to political affairs did not exist—was it extravagant or unreasonable to suppose, trusted as this country was to an indefinite amount by the whole civilised world, that in the next forty years the interest on the money in the funds might fall from 3 to 2 per cent?"
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Well. if that were his language, surely he has no right to talk now of persons being misled by the calculations of the Government. Did I subscribe to that? On the contrary, I did my best on the instant utterly to protest against it, and to expose the gross futility of such a notion. How did I describe that measure to the House in introducing it? The right hon. Gentleman said, that I seemed to be under the impression that I was going to effect a gigantic operation, and to think that I was destined to bring about some wondrous
 995 "I do not recommend the proposition that is now before the Committee as a proposition which can effect any sweeping or fundamental change; but I venture to recommend it to them as a proposition which is just and prudent in itself, and which will probably lay the foundation for more extended improvements in future."—[3  Hansard,
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Oh, you mean the disappearance of that which was anticipated as gain, and do not speak of any absolute loss. I am glad I understand that. With respect, then, to the measure generally—I mean the Act of the present Session—what I do say is, that whatever attacks may be made upon me, my defence must necessarily stand over until the time when the dissentient stockholders shall be paid off. I cannot make it now, for two reasons—first, because the saying what I might say would not, perhaps, be altogether for the public interest; and, secondly, because we cannot anticipate, except within certain limits, what will be the precise state of circumstances upon the 5th of January and the 5th of April next. I wish that persons should contemplate the measure, so far as it has gone, upon a knowledge of the exact truth. Upon this point I have already re-
 996 per se 997 l. l. l. l. 998 l., l. l., l., l., l. l.; l., l. 999 l. l. l. l., l.; 1000 l.; l.; l., l.; l. l., l. s. d. l. d. d. d. l. s. l., l. s. l. l. 1001 l.
 MR. EWART  said, he thought the hon. Member for Honiton would be conferring a
 1011
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he understood the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say that he would object to any new offer being made; but, were these new terms or were they not? They were made in favour of persons who were formerly disabled from accepting the
 1007
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  would not enter upon the question of the general policy of the Government; but with reference to the Resolution before the Committee his objections were very strong. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said there was a class of parties who were unable to take advantage of the present Act; but instead of confining himself to the terms of the Act, he introduced into the Resolution a fresh option—that of taking the 3¼ per cent stock of 1844. He must complain of the large powers conferred on the Treasury by this Resolution. He did not know a more dangerous licence than that of placing in the hands of the Treasury the power of dealing with persons as to
 1005 l.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, that the Resolution only expressed the opinion and wishes of himself and his Colleagues. Twenty years ago, an application was made to the Government of India for a large tract of uncultivated land, and 1,000,000 acres were granted for forty years; but it turned out that the land was only taken by the applicants for purposes of jobbing, and the result was a total failure. Any system of freehold in India would not be practicable or desirable, for the revenue of that country was derived almost exclusively from land, and it would be extremely unwise to anticipate the revenue by selling great districts of land. But at present any person might have a grant of any uncultivated lands for forty years, on the following terms: the whole of the ground to be entirely free for three years, and one-fourth entirely free for the whole forty years; on the other three-fourths, after three years, one-twentieth part of the revenue would be charged each year, until, by degrees, a maximum was attained of 1 s. d.
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  begged to supply an inadvertent omission in the account of the dethronement of the Rajah of Sattara, given by the hon. Member. The Governor of Bombay to whom he had alluded was Sir James Carnac, who, in the Court of Directors, was one of a very small minority opposed to the general opinions of the Court against the Rajah. But he had no sooner investigated the case in India, which he did immediately after his arrival in Bombay, than he found ample reason for changing his opinion, and agreeing with the majority of the Court of Directors. The House must see, then, with what fairness the Court of Directors and the Board of Control had acted in sending to Sattara to adjudicate upon the case the very man who had formerly held an opinion adverse to their own, and had recorded that opinion in very strong language. Respect for the House induced him to abstain from referring to the language used by the hon. and learned Member for Leominster in introducing this clause; but he had been sufficiently long in that House to be aware that, when an hon. Member ventured to indulge in such language, it proved injurious to no one but himself. The clause was in itself most objectionable, because it referred to matters of public policy, and he thought the House was scarcely prepared to sanction the establishment of a tribunal which should sit in judgment upon the acts of the Government of the country. To govern India well they must send out good and competent men; but to say that the acts of the Government should be criticised and overruled by any tribunal, however well constituted, would certainly not advance the object they had in view. The jurisdiction of the Admiralty Court had been cited; but surely there was no analogy between that tribunal and the one which this clause proposed to establish, for, though
 1027
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  was inclined to agree with the hon. and learned Member for Newcastle-on-Tyne (Mr. Blackett), who with so much moderation and tact had brought back the House to the real difficulties of the case. The question was, whether that House was a fit tribunal for the investigation of wrongs occurring even at home, and still more whether it was a fit tribunal for wrongs inflicted upon a people differing from us in race, language, and religion? If it was not, then there was great force in the argument that a tribunal should be constituted, to relieve this House from the difficulty, not to say the impossibility, of redressing wrongs which yet it professed to do. But the proper tribunal was, he feared, not that which the hon. and learned Member for Leominster proposed. He wished to know, however, if an award was made by the
 1020
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that the hon. Member who moved the Amendment had introduced for about the thirtieth time into the discussion the argument that the Directors were paid by patronage, and he must therefore either believe that such was the case or that it was not; and if he believed that such was the case he believed necessarily that the Directors had exercised that patronage in an unworthy, base, and perjured manner; but he was sure that the hon. Member did not believe that such was the case. If the Directors were called upon to make a return of the distribution of their patronage to the House of Commons, it would be equally reasonable to call upon the First Lord of the Treasury or any Minister of the Crown to make a similar return. He was convinced that, on the whole, the patronage of the Dihau been exercised in the most worthy manner. He remembered no very long time ago visiting a school in the neighbourhood of London, where one of the Directors of the East India Company had given away no less than seven cadetships as prizes for industry and merit, and he really did not believe that it was an extreme case. But with the declaration upon oath, and after an experience of many years, during which not more than three instances of corrupt practices had been suspected, he should have thought that the allegation which had been brought forward and the arguments founded upon it might well have been spared.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, the next best thing to making no speech was to make a short one. So he should simply say that, as a double Government was to be kept up, it would be wise to retain the establishment at Leadenhall-street.
 SIR HERBERT MADDOCK  said, he, know there were cases occurring in India for which there was no proper tribunal With respect to the case of the Rajah of Sattara, to which the noble Lord alluded it divided itself into two parts. There was, indeed, a question of disputed succession, but there was a previous question of deposition, and when that occurred, he (Sir H. Maddock) happened to be chief secretary to Lord Auckland, the Governor General, who was then at Simla. It happened that the Governor of Bombay, under whom Sattara was placed, had lately arrived from England, and from being a Director of the East India Company, had been appointed directly to the Government of Bombay. He had also recently been Chairman of the Company. Immediately on his arrival, the question, which had been going on long before, came before, him for his decision, and he intimated to the Governor General that he proposed to go to Sattara himself, and have an interview with the Rajah. He went, and the consequence was the deposition of that prince, which was reported to the Governor General for his confirmation. Now, he
 1026
 Mr. HUME  said, he differed from the noble Lord as to the principle of this Bill. He regarded that principle as bad, and as adding another eleemosynary institution to those which already existed. He was one of those who considered the principle of the poor-law was bad, inasmuch as it tended to destroy the desire on the part of the poor to provide by industry and prudence for the maintenance of themselves and their families. He had opposed the extension of the poor-law to Scotland, and he believed the result of that extension had been a considerable increase of pauperism in that country, and almost the annihilation of that feeling which formerly prevailed generally there, that there was an obligation in every family to support their own poor relations, rather than allow them to be dependent on the charity of others. He believed that persons became paupers generally from their own imprudence—the want of self-command. What was wanted was that kind of education which inculacted self-dependence and self-command, by which persons were induced when they had it in their power to make provision for
 1107
 MR. MACKINNON  said, when he suggested the other day that the example of France should be followed with regard to a rescription of seamen, it was far from his intention to recommend a forced contribution; but it struck him that in the event of volunteers not coming forward in the numbers required, whether it would not be as well to have a list of available seamen, who might be applied to—not to be forced, but to volunteer into the service; by which means there would be a tolerable certainty of finding a number of men who might be induced to enter the service.
 MR. HUME  said, he regretted that the clause did not go further, and that Her Majesty's ships should not render assistance to vessels in distress without claim of any kind. He thought it was demeaning to the Navy of England that they would not do their duty without being bribed. The United States Navy made no charge, neither did the Navy of France, while the charge made by Sweden was greatly modified; but this country, which ought to set an example of liberality to all the world, proclaimed by this clause that her naval officers and men required to be bribed to do their duty. He would not divide against the clause, but he protested against its insertion.
 MR. HUME  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman had not sufficiently answered the objections against the clauses as they stood in the Bill. He had known instances in which men had been taken from merchant ships to join vessels of war, not because the men of war wanted them, but because they were allowed to volunteer. He would admit that in many cases the vessels of the Royal Navy had assisted merchant vessels; but in the majority of eases the men had left their legitimate employment, and had thus disabled the vessel in which they had engaged. He had himself known a case where a vessel had been deprived of twelve or fourteen of her hands by a man of war, and had afterwards been rescued from consequent shipwreck by another vessel of war, which claimed salvage for the
 1120
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he would remind hon. Members of the evidence of Captain Sir James Stirling, given before the Committee in 1848, which was strongly in favour of the views entertained by the hon. Member for Gateshead. He would support the clause, on the ground that the power now given to the Navy to take volunteers who might desert from or abandon the merchant service, tended to legalise breaches of contract on the part of the seamen, and promoted quarrels between masters and servants.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he should support most cordially the proposal of the hon. Member for Gateshead. It seemed to him that the proposal was not only in accordance with the principles of strict justice, but that it would also be beneficial to the Navy itself. He would admit that no very great number of men bad been taken from the merchant service, but he still remained of the opinion which he had just expressed. He wished to call the attention of the House to the fact, that at present there existed no necessity for retaining a privilege based upon an unsound principle. He could conceive that in a time of necessity it might be found advisable, for the time, to violate the rights and privileges of British subjects, for, in point of fact, that was in reality what the operation of the clause really was; but it was not desirable in time of peace to confer a privilege of this kind on the Navy, and he was satisfied that it would be more for its advantage if it were to rely upon the volun-
 1122 veto.
 ADMIRAL BERKELEY  said, that hon. Gentlemen had entertained the House with instances of bad treatment which had been experienced by individual merchant ships; nit it would be perfectly easy to retort by adducing as numerous instances of cases in which seamen had been driven to volunteer by the harsh and cruel conduct of the masers of merchantmen. For example, he knew of an instance where the men of a Merchant vessel had hoisted the usual signal; but the captain of Her Majesty's ship finding that she was badly manned, instead if accepting the volunteers, endeavoured to make up the quarrel which he found existed between the master and his hands. What was the result? Why, another man of war round the ship soon afterwards, and the men, jumping overboard, swam to it and begged to be taken in. The House voted 14,000 l.
 MR. HUME  said, he entirely agreed with the hon. Member who had just spoken with regard to the importance of removing every possible restriction from the mercantile marine, and he considered the Government perfectly right in resisting the present clause.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman, by adopting the Amendment, meant to blow up the rocks of the north coast? That, he thought, should come under a different clause.
 MR. HUME  said, he wanted hon. Gentlemen to explain how the Irish Board could have get possession of such a sum. He thought the Government should proceed immediately to reduce the Irish light dues.
 COLONEL DUNNE  wished to know how the debt of 171,000 l.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he fully concurred with the hon. and gallant Member with regard to the necessity of encouraging, in every possible way, the aprenticeship system. So much importance did he attach to this point, that he thought the Government would be amply justified in offering a bounty to shipowners for the purpose of securing it. He recollected the time when the British Navy was principally manned from that source. He was well persuaded, also, that much of the melancholy loss of life accruing from shipwrecks and disasters at sea, arose from the insufficient manning of merchant ships. He must say that he had viewed with considerable dismay the introduction of a Bill into that House which took from the Royal Navy the advantages which it formerly enjoyed of looking to the merchant service as the nursery of her seamen, and which had enabled our fleet for two centuries to maintain our national honour and independence.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, the British Navy had never been backward in the cause of humanity; but it ought to be remembered that the rescue of ships in distress was apart from the usual routine of naval duty; that it was accompanied fre-
 1116
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he objected to the clause, because it left everything to the decision of a magistrate. He should, on the third reading of the Bill, move a clause, giving the power of appeal from the decision of the magistrate or Police Commissioner in every case fall-
 1136
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he would suggest that when the Government should introduce this measure next Session, it should be made a general measure, applicable to Scotland as well as to England. He hoped it would be kept in view also that the Bill should not supersede, but should tend to stimulate, private exertions.
  MR. WILLCOX  said, that the shipowner would derive but little advantage from the liberty now granted to him of manning his ship with foreigners, because the loss which the merchant ship sustained generally occurred at sea, where the master could obtain no recruits. The cases in which men usually volunteered from merchant vessels into the Royal Navy were when they had been twelve or fourteen months at sea, and when they had large arrears of pay to receive. They then hoisted the red shirt, their usual signal to a man of war, received their wages, and left the ship to shift for itself. He had good reason to remember an instance of this kind. A merchant vessel, called the  Anna Robinson, 1126 l. l. l. l.
 MR. ADDERLEY , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, that it was not his intention to press the measure beyond that stage this Session, and he only moved the second reading now in the hope that if the House affirmed the principle of the measure, Government would be induced to take the subject up the very first week in the next Session. The Bill was simply a measure of a permissive character, and it proposed to empower counties and boroughs to establish reformatory schools, to which young criminals should be sent, thus introducing a new treatment to a certain extent for such young criminals, namely, that of industrial training, and applying the principle of parental care and home influence to criminal children, instead of subjecting them to the process of imprisonment in gaols. That was the simple object of the Bill, and it would be seen that the evil which it sought to remedy was a great one. It was no less, indeed, than the existence throughout this country, but more especially in large towns, of a class of children who, being entirely destitute of parental care, were rapidly falling into dissolute habits. This class was not composed of children who had decent homes, nor of children who had parents to keep them in better ways than habits of crime, but was composed of orphan children and the children of infamous parents, or, as was most frequently the case, of children living under the root of a cruel stepfather or mother; or the children of sailors or miners, who were much absent from their homes. In fact, speaking generally, they were children who had no home but the wide streets, and who were likely to lapse into criminals as they grew up. Nobody could dispute that such a class of children existed, but it was said to be doubtful whether it led
 1100 1101 1102 1103
 MR. FREWEN  said, he objected to the radius of four miles from Charing-cross. The House ought to know that this was called a West-end clause and a House of Commons clause. If the clause stood as at present, it would include Wandsworth-common and the end of Streatham, where there was very little chance of a back fare, and would exclude the populous districts about Mile-end. He would propose as an Amendment, that the outside boundaries of the metropolitan boroughs should be adopted as the limit beyond which the increased charge should commence.
 MR. FREWEN  said, that whatever point the circle were taken from, it would be unfair to certain districts. The further end of Eaton-square, and probably part of Hackney, would be beyond the circle now proposed.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he was of opinion that, as the hon. Member had given notice of his intention to move the clause on the third reading, it was not competent for him to move it at the present stage of the measure.
 MR. SPEAKER : Before the House proceeds to business, I have to announce that preparations have been made for carrying out the new mode of taking divisions in this House. I propose that the following rule shall be laid down, which I hope will prove satisfactory:—
 "When the House is about to proceed to a division, the Speaker will direct 'strangers to with-
 1113
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he did not think it necessary to trouble the House at any length in reply to the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Scobell), for he was sure the House would think it right that he should confine himself to the point immediately before them, instead of going over again the same ground as they went over in the recent discussion on the manning of the Navy. The House was not now discussing the manning clause; but another clause, which had been proposed by his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Bath, who seemed to think that the British shipowners were not likely to care for the security of their own ships, and who, therefore, for the purpose of benefiting the shipowners and insurers, thought it desirable that the Legislature should step in with a clause describing the number of men and apprentices that should be carried by each. The hon. and gallant Member had said very emphatically on a former occasion that there could be no better argument for
 1129
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he hoped the House would bear in mind that every provision which this Bill contained was intended to benefit the shipowners. The only question which remained between the hon. Member for Gateshead (Mr. Hutt) and himself, therefore, was, whether the power of receiving volunteers from the mercantile marine should be placed under strict regulations, or should be absolutely and entirely abolished. Let the House consider that the British Navy was spread over the most distant seas for the protection of the merchant service—that it often answered the convenience of the mercantile marine to receive assistance in the shape of additional hands from Her Majesty's vessels—and then let it say whether there should not be a power on the part of the Navy to receive from other quarters the men so given up for the benefit of the merchant service. The Bill did not propose that that power should be exercised arbitrarily and tyrannically; on the contrary, the regulations under which the Admiralty would permit it to be exercised were exceedingly strict. Again, the hon. Member complained that the merchant service had to pay the wages in advance, and that that operated as an inducement for the seamen to leave their vessels. This Bill remedied that evil, and therefore that objection no longer existed. Then the hon. Member complained that the shipowners had additional wages to pay in consequence of losing their hands through desertion into the Queen's ships. Now, as regarded that point, it would not be possible to give an indiscriminate power to the Law Courts to deal with the demands that
 1119 Inconstant.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, there had been already so long a debate, and so decided a division on the question of the admission
 1135
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he thought, whatever gain might arise from the transaction contemplated, he might venture to assure his hon. Friend that Ireland would come its for her fair share of it. It did so happen that there was in Ireland a balance in hand of 100,000 l. l. l.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, this was a question which peculiarly belonged to the representatives of the shipping interest to decide. It was proposed by a Gentleman representing one of the first ports in the kingdom, and who also conducted the business in which he took part in that House with such conspicuous ability as to render him an efficient representative of the shipping interest. To expend a stun of 100 l. l. 1132
 MR. F. SCULLY  brought up a clause which was intended to prevent the cab proprietors again suddenly withdrawing their cabs from the streets, by giving power to the Commissioners of Police to withdraw or suspend the licences for cabs in the event of their being withdrawn two consecutive days, without a notice of ten days having been given by the proprietors, or to the magistrates to inflict a fine not exceeding 20 s.
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he must most earnestly entreat the Government not to sanction the reimposition of those restrictions against which the shipowners had so long and so manfully fought, but rather to allow them every facility for the carrying on of the mercantile marine; and if they did so, he had no fear that they would be able to compete with any nation in the world.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, it was true that the power which landlords had formerly possessed of distraining growing crops had been repealed in the year 1846, in conformity with a suggestion of the Devon Commission, of which he had been a member. But landlords had been placed by that measure in a worse position than other creditors, who might seize the crops as well as any other goods of a debtor. The result was that many frauds and scenes of violence had arisen in consequence of tenants having entered into collusive arrangements with persons who obtained executions against them, and then seized their growing crops, so that the landlords had no means of recovering the rents to which they were entitled. The Bill now before the House contained many clauses of a mitigatory character as regarded the recovery of rent. For instance, under the existing law a landlord had the power of distraining for any amount of rent that might be due to him; but by that
 1114
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  brought up the Report from the Select. Committee
 1099
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he had often objected to the political government of the Navy; but as long as that system continued, he thought he might congratulate the country on having the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Navy. He had already done great service to the Navy; and he would remind him that he possessed great power, and if he only carried out the principle of encouragement to serve in the Navy, he would be placed in a proud position, for he would be known as one who had given encouragement to the British seaman; he would receive a reward
 1112
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, that it had been admitted that the shipowners had received a great deal of benefit by the pro-
 1121
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, be had now a clause to propose, the object of which was to prevent ships from being inefficiently manned. He considered that some such enactment was necessary for the safety of the vessels and their crews, and for the security of the marine insurers. The Government had already adopted the principle of his clause with respect to transport and emigrant vessels, and he contender that the vessels for which he proposed to legislate were in still greater need of such a protection. In 1851, there were between 700 and 800 shipwrecks; in 1852, between 1,000 and 1,100; so that they were evidently on the increase. Owing to the change in the law as regarded apprentices, their numbers had diminished from 34,000 in 1849, to 14,000 at the present time. It was most essential to keep up the supply of young hands on board ships. Emigrant vessels were allowed to sail without apprentices; and the consequence was that many went without entirely, and there was only one apprentice, on an average, to between 500 and 600 tons of shipping. It might be said that they took boys without apprenticing them; but there were not more than 2,000 of that class. The clause he now proposed would tend to remedy the
 1128
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  seconded the Amendment. He said, that the admission of foreign seamen to the coasting trade was contrary to the recommendation of the Select Committee on the Manning of the Navy.
 MR. G. THOMPSON  said, he thought that the observation of the right hon. Baronet, that only 170 men had volunteered into the Navy during a period of
 1125
 MR. I. BUTT  thought that the hon. Member for Tipperary (Mr. F. Scully) was out of order in proposing a clause at the present stage of the Bill of which he had given notice for the third reading. He should wish to hear Mr. Speaker's opinion on that point.
 MR. VANCE  wished to call attention to a particular grievance affecting the harbour of Kingstown. At present foreign vessels bound to Dublin, whether they entered the harbour or not, had to pay large dues for the maintenance of that harbour, whereas if they were bound to Liverpool, and took refuge there, they had nothing
 1134
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the question was far too important a one to be left in the hands of private Members, and he would urge the Government to take it up. He did not, however, expect any good result from any system which should provide for the children for a short time only. In order to eradicate bad, and inculcate permanently good, principles, it would be necessary that the reformatory treatment should be continued. He also entirely concurred in the proposition that, wherever it was possible, the parents should be made responsible. He thought the present a peculiarly favourable time for commencing the experiment, either on a large or small scale, and hoped the Government would give a promise that they would in the next Session introduce some measure for that purpose.
 MR. BAINES  said, as Chairman of the Committee which sat on this subject for two Sessions, he begged to express his perfect concurrence in the object which the hon. Mover of this Motion had in view. He felt strongly that there did exist such a want as the hon. Gentleman had referred to, to which it behoved Parliament to address itself with the least possible delay. At the same time, he did not think that the Government were open to any reproach for not having introduced a measure upon the subject, the Report of the Committee having been so recently presented on the 28th of June, that no Bill satisfactory in all its details could, by possibility, have been prepared upon it. He was glad to perceive that the principal recommendations of the Committee, before whom a large, number of witnesses were examined, had been embodied in the Bill of the hon. Gentleman. The first was, that there was no sufficient provision by law at present for that class of young offenders who were, as it were, just entering on crime, or who were found guilty of minor offences. This was a very important point, because he was convinced that imprisonment in gaol was perfectly inefficacious for the purpose of
 1104 "Of 4,397 boys and girls received into the New York House of Refuge previous to January 1,1849, it is believed that three-fourths have been saved from ruin, and reformed. Of the condition of the 2,250 inmates received into the Philadelphia House of Refuge previous to January 1849, quite as favourable a report would be fully warranted. The accounts received of many of them show, not only the uprightness and respectability of their character, but their enterprise as men of business, and their worth as contributors to the welfare and advancement of the communities in which they live. The evidence of this is drawn from a variety of sources—from the masters and mistresses of the
 1105
 MR. R. M. FOX  said, he hoped the Amendment moved by the hon. Member for Newry would receive the favourable consideration of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, and of the House. He must protest against any charge being brought against the Irish fund of 91,000 l.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  begged to express his thanks to the Government for the attention which they appeared to have devoted to this subject, so different from the reception which a similar measure received some five or six years ago. The real way, he was convinced, to bring this question before the public, was not so much as a matter of beneficence as one of economy; for how much more economical must a reformatory principle prove than the lavish expenditure consequent upon the constant prosecutions and reprosecutions of these young children? He trusted that the Government would lose no time in remedying time crying injustice of the present system, which undoubtedly constituted the most defective portion of the legislation of our Statute-books.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  seconded the Motion.
 MR. INGHAM  moved the following addition to Clause 29:—
 "Excepting as to ships employed in a coasting voyage from one part of the United Kingdom to another, or in a voyage between the United Kingdom and the islands of Guernsey, Jersey, Alderney, Sark, or Man, or from one of the said islands to another of them, or from one part of either of them to another of the same, or employed in fishing on the coasts of the United Kingdom, or of any of the said islands, in which cases, and every of them, the whole of the crew shall be British seamen."
 MR. LOWE  begged to state that the clause met with the approval of his hon. Friend (Mr. Fitzroy).
 MR. LOWE  brought up a clause, which, he said, he believed to have been framed at the request of the cab proprietors themselves, and which would undoubtedly benefit the public. The object of the clause was, that where a cab was hired by time, after the first hour the cabman could demand for every quarter of an hour 6 d. s.
 MR. LOWE  said, he had been requested by his hon. Friend (Mr. Fitzroy) to propose
 1137
 MR. LOWE  then moved the substitution of the words "Temple-bar" for "Charing-cross" as the centre of the circle from which to calculate the four miles.
 MR. MANGLES  said, he should also support the Amendment. He would mention a case which occurred in a foreign port, where a boat's crew, under the command of a lieutenant, took several men from out of a merchantman in a way that was extremely offensive. The ship was consequently greatly crippled for want of hands. As to the assistance said to be rendered by the Royal Navy to merchant vessels, it was not once in a thousand times that it was required. For the most part, the merchant service relied upon themselves, and their vessels were generally extremely well provided. It was only miserable undermanned ships that required assistance, except in extreme circumstances. At all events, if only 170 men had been obtained in eighteen months by this means, he submitted that it was not worth while to retain it.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he thought that in a case of so much difficulty they ought to endeavour to steer a middle coarse; and he should, therefore, support the proposition of Her Majesty's Government. He was sure they would all be anxious to remedy what was really a seri-
 1127
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he considered the clause to be a specimen of inconsiderate legislation, and he should feel it his duty to oppose it.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  would suggest that the question should be postponed till they could consider the different circumstances of different ports. He knew that the state of Plymouth was very much the same as that of Liverpool, and he thought that at some future period the subject was well deserving of consideration.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he begged, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Collier), to move the following Clause:—
 "That where any seaman or apprentice, who shall have committed any offence punishable under the Mercantile Marine Act, 1850, by summary proceeding before a justice of the peace, shall arrive or be found on shipboard within two miles of any borough in which there is a justice of the peace capable of exercising summary jurisdiction under the said Act, such offence shall, for the purpose of giving jurisdiction to such justice under the same Act, be deemed to have been committed within the limits of such borough."
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he was also of opinion that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had not met the case fairly by stating that the Navy had a set-off on the ground of having done service to the mercantile marine. There was, however, a great difference between allowing a vessel of war to accept the men, and enabling her to take them. He believed, however, that the evil was not quite so great as many of the shipowners imagined, for it appeared by the returns recently published that the number of seamen who had been so taken was exceedingly small. The principal evil consisted in the fact of the seaman knowing that as soon as a man of war hove in sight he was at liberty at once to go on board her; and he had it upon the authority of masters of vessels themselves, that this frequently produced a degree of insubordination amongst their crews that hon. Members could have no conception of. He was certain that whenever a merchantman fell in with a man of war in want of hands which she could supply, she would gladly do so at all times; and he believed that there was such a good understanding between the two services that there was no necessity for a law of this sort.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, the First Lord of the Admiralty had stated, upon a former occasion, that under the new regulations it would be impossible for the officers of the Navy to bring forward an extravagant claim for salvage. Now the case of the  Rosaline,
 MR. V. SCULLY  said, he thought the arrangement proposed a very bad bargain for Ireland. He had heard nothing which could induce him to believe that that country would derive any benefit from it.
 MR. KIRK  then moved—
 "That in Clause 5, line 12, after the words 'and the produce thereof' the words 'shall in the first instance be applied for the purpose of finishing any works commenced by those bodies respectively, or for the purpose of forming any Harbour of Refuge on the eastern coast of Ireland, and the residue of such monies, after such application aforesaid,' should be inserted." 1133 l. l.
 SIR WILLIAM VERNER  said, he could not allow the Bill to pass without making an observation. He wished English Members to be aware of the true nature and character of this measure, as its objects were in accordance with the principles advocated by chartists and repealers, and they tended to put down the gentry of Ireland, and raise up the tenants in their places. In illustration of the objects of the advocates of the Bill, he would refer to the meetings which had been held by them out of doors, and particularly to an assembly at Kells, in the county of Meath, at which the hon. Member who represented that county (Mr. Lucas) attended, and declared that he and his coadjutors were pledged to oppose in Parliament any Government which did not make Cabinet questions of "religious equality" and of "tenant right," as embodied in Mr. Sharman Crawford's Bill, and also complained that certain Irish
 1115
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he was glad that the Admiralty had resolved to give up their own claims for salvage on the pretence of loss of stores, &c., and said that some gross eases of overcharge on the part of the Admiralty had led to the outcry against any charge whatever being made by the Royal Navy.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he had opposed the Militia Bill, and though he should support this Bill, he did not do so because its principle was the same as that of the Militia Bill. In the first place there was no ballot, and in the next place there was a less number of men and less expense, besides which it was the popular service, which the people of England would never say a word against. Although he always tried to keep down the estimates, this was an expense for which he would stand up.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, that in some cases the existing law was useful, as it enabled the master of a merchant vessel to put any troublesome hands on board a ship of war, He thought it would be better to substitute the words in the clause "to leave," instead of "to desert," without permission of the captain.
 SIR GEORGE TYLER  said, he had oftened listened with regret to hon. Gentlemen when they condemned naval officers most unjustly and improperly, and without any feeling for a profession which had the real benefit of the country at heart. It had been too much the practice in that House to reprobate the officers of the Navy for acts which were not their own. They were bound by an Act of Parliament to claim salvage for the services they performed, and it was too bad to blame them for obeying the law of the land.
 MR. CAIRNS  said, he wished to propose to amend Clause 4, so that from line 31, it should stand as follows:—
 "And such aggregate fund shall be applicable to the purpose of the services in respect of which the said tolls, rates, fees, and payments are levied, and to the execution of works necessary or expedient for permanently reducing the expenses of such services; and save, as hereinafter specially mentioned, to no other purposes whatever." l. 1131 l. l. l. l.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he wished to propose a clause to the effect that where cases for salvage services are rendered by any ship belonging to Her Majesty, or by the commander or crew thereof, no claim shall be made or allowed for any loss or risk thereby caused to such ship, or to the stores or furniture thereof, or for the use of any stores or other articles belonging to Her Majesty, supplied in order to effect the salvage service.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he would be sorry to renew a debate which he thought had been concluded; but the hon. Member for Bridport had referred to a particular case, which it might be as well to notice in a few words. It so happened that he had glanced at the official documents connected with the case of the  Rosaline, 1117
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that he was about to make an acknowledgment to the Committee which he regretted that he had not had an opportunity of making in the presence of his noble Friend the Home Secretary, who had just left the House. He was about to say, that when the great question with respect to the militia had been brought forward six or seven months ago, he was one who had not been sanguine in the belief that voluntary enlistment for service on shore in the United Kingdom would take place to the extent which had been already witnessed. He did not then very firmly believe that the present generation, gallant as he knew them to be, were fired with that martial spirit for the defence of their native country which would immediately have induced them in such large numbers to come forward to volunteer for military service. He had heard upon a former occasion his hon. Friend near him (Mr. Mackinnon) refer to the system of naval service which existed on the opposite shores of the Channel. No doubt, there was a large population living on the shores of the Mediterranean, of the Atlantic, and the opposite shore of the British Channel, all of whom were brought under a system of compulsory service the most perfect which the ingenuity of man could devise. There was not a seafaring man on the shores of France who, within a certain age, was not compelled to serve in the public marine. It was a system as perfect as ingenuity could make it; but it was altogether compulsory. He (Sir J. Graham), however, was most anxious to adhere to the principle which had been laid down by his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Bath (Captain Scobell), which was, that he should exert every endeavour to obtain the service necessary for the safety of this country by inducement rather than by compulsion; and, acting upon that principle, he had lately discussed the operation of it with respect to the regular service of the Queen's Fleet. He was now anxious to call the attention of the Committee to the extension of the same principle to enlistment for the defence of our shores by means of a system of naval volunteering, analogous to the system which had been established for the home defence
 1110 l. d. 1111
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that virtually the ballot, which had heretofore existed with regard to the land service, had been abandoned on account of the success which had attended the voluntary system. He was therefore anxious to try the same plan with respect to the coast defences, entertaining very little doubt that voluntary enlistment would answer every purpose.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he should be extremely sorry if the House, in an unhappy hour, were induced to part with the privilege referred to. When his hon. Friend spoke of the privilege as being obsolete, if he meant that it was a right of ancient date, long recognised by that House and the country, he was right in using the expression; but if he meant that it was obsolete in the ordinary sense of the term, he could only say that the privilege had been recognised by statute from the time of George II., and had since that period been in constant use. The abuses attaching to that privilege had been progressively modified, and, he believed, would be finally rectified by the present Bill. Among other remedies for existing evils, this Bill provided that where a seaman should volunteer into a Queen's ship from a merchantman, he should not be able to demand his wages on the day of quitting the ship, as had hitherto been the case, but that he should not be entitled to demand his wages until the ship returned home. The hon. Member spoke of the present question being one of right as well as of policy, and he would first consider it as a matter of right; and he must contend that the system of allowing men to volunteer from a merchantman into a Queen's ship was recognised by law as a right, and for one hundred years seamen had had the right of at once breaking their contract with the shipowner, to enter in a ship of war, and
 1123 Inconstant, "That in future, whenever the captains, commanders, and commanding officers of Her Majesty's ship enter men from merchant vessels, they shall report the same to the commander in chief or senior officer; which report is to contain the following information, so far as it can be obtained:—1. The name and tonnage of the ship, the name of her owners and master, and the voyage on which she is employed. 2. The regular number of her crew. 3. The number of the men, and their ages, who volunteered for Her Majesty's service, and whether they had previously served in the Navy. 4. The cause of their leaving the ship; whether the master made any objection to their leaving, and, if so, on what grounds; and whether men could be obtained at the place to fill up the crew, 5. Whether the men, on joining Her Majesty's service, received their arrears of pay and clothing; and the amount of their pay per month to be stated." 1124
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he regreted to be compelled to take a different view of this measure from that which had just been expressed by his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose. Up to the present time he did not think that the time spent in discussion had been misspent, and he was extremely glad that the hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley) had had an opportunity of expressing his views upon this important subject. So far from agreeing with his hon. Friend the Member for Montrose, he thought that it was highly expedient that the House should affirm the principle of the Bill, which was, as its title indicated, for the better care and reformation of juvenile offenders. He could not believe that the House was at all prepared to negative such a principle. His hon. Friend the Member for Montrose stated that he considered it part of the principle of this Bill, that if provision were to be made for the better care and reformation of juvenile offenders, it should be out of the Consolidated Fund. But neither he (Sir J. Graham) nor the Government were at all prepared to admit that particular provision, for he thought it entirely open to the House to consider from what source the expense of these establishments should be provided. In the case of Glasgow it was not paid by any public fund. He had
 1108
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, he had received many representations from the inhabitants of the east end of the metropolis protesting against Charing-cross being selected as the centre of the four mile circle. The four miles would just go beyond Whitechapel, and would exclude the hundreds of thousands who lived at Mil-end, Limehouse, and parts adjacent, while it would include Chelsea, Lambeth, and the country districts beyond them. He would propose St. Paul's, which was adopted as the central point of the metropolis in some recent Acts of Parliament.
 MR. HUTT  proposed to qualify his clause by introducing for "desert," the words "leave the ship," and after "leave the vessel in which he was engaged," to introduce "without the consent of his captain."
 MR. HUTT  said, this Bill proposed to renew the provisions of a former Act, by which sailors belonging to the merchant service were permitted to desert their ships in order to take service on board a man of war. Now he had himself presented several petitions against that law from some of the largest seaports in the kingdom, and he thought the House could not but view with great disfavour a provision which was in itself so hostile to the spirit of the time, so utterly subversive of the order and discipline of our merchant service, and so thoroughly opposed to the interests of morality. It had been said before, and would probably be repeated that evening, that the law in question had not been productive of any practical inconvenience. He could only say, in reply, that having himself been associated for many years with a maritime constituency, he hail received the strongest remonstrances against the present law, and had presented innumerable petitions against it. He could appeal to facts. Not many months ago a ship belonging to Mr. French, of Hull, happened to be in the port of Valparaiso at the same time with one of Her Majesty's frigates commanded by Captain Fanshawe. The frigate was in want of hands, and the merchant vessel, having completed her cargo, was about to leave the port when two of her men went off and joined the frigate. Next morning the master was required to appear before Captain Fanshawe, and pay the wages of the men who had left his vessel, and to hand them formally over to Her Majesty's service. He was then obliged, of course, to go in quest of additional hands, and the owner of the vessel had actually to pay 40 l. 1118
 VISCOUNT MONCK  moved the omission of the words "growing corn, grass, hops, and roots, fruits, and other produce," from the 71st clause. His object in proposing that Amendment was to prevent the reintroduction of the very objectionable right of distraining growing crops. That right had never existed in Ireland until the year 1816, and it had been abolished in the year 1846 in compliance with a recommendation of the Devon Commission. In moving that Amendment, he stood, therefore, on conservative ground, for he was for leaving things as they were. He admitted that there were many provisions in the Bill which would effect valuable improvements in the existing law; but he should rather see it lost altogether than carried with the words to which he was then objecting.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, nobody can doubt the importance of the subject to which the Bill of the hon. Member for North Staffordshire relates; and I think the House will be unanimously of opinion that the Bill may be read a second time, if it be so read with the full understanding that the object is to have the Bill printed, that it may be read and discussed between this time and the next Session of Parliament. The object in dealing with crimes and offences may be said to be threefold—in some cases the object is example, in others the object is a combination of example and reformation, and in others it is altogether that of reformation. With regard to crimes of great violence and atrocity committed by full-grown persons, the interests of society require that the punishment should be exemplary and penal—that they should deter others from the commission of similar crimes. In such cases reformation is out of the question. The greater number of crimes committed by adults are of a mixed character, in the punishment of which example is required for the purpose of deterring others from imitation, but with respect to which hopes of reformation are not to be abandoned.
 1106
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  could assure the right hon. Gentleman, whom he begged to compliment on his watchfulness, that there was no such intention. The majority of the persons affected were not the officers of the Court, but the practitioners in the Court. With regard to the officers' fees, they were governed by a general Act, which provided that all such fees payable, or to become payable, should be carried to the suitors' fee fund.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he must contend that the mode of procedure under this clause was more likely to ensure a beneficial alteration, and one in conformity with the principles of the charity, than the mode now in existence, for it provided that things should not be done in a corner, as was now too frequently the case.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he should oppose the Amendment. There were numerous instances in which it was absolutely necessary to have new schemes for the management of charities, and he was convinced that the machinery provided by the clause would prove in such eases both simple and efficacious. Every publicity would be given to the proceedings of the Board previous to any alteration of the schemes, and he did not see that wrong could be done to any one.
 MR. HUME  said, he had never brought forward charges against Sir James Brooke.
 1161
 MR. J. A. SMITH  seconded the Motion, because he was most desirous of hearing From the Government, or from the hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton (Sir J. W. Hogg), or from the hon. Member for Guild-Ford (Mr. Mangles) some explanation of the extraordinary circumstances related to He House by the hon. Member for Leominster. He should not have taken this step
 1177 1178 "We agree with Sir Charles Metcalfe, that a system of non-interference, granted on a regard for the rights of an independent Sovereign to protect his subjects, from our intimate connexion with the Nizm's Government, would have great and decided advantages, and it is one which we must endeavour to establish; provided always, that the irresistible strength which our protection affords to his Government be not converted to the oppression of the people." "And constituted in our minds the strongest possible objection against the withdrawal of all interference with the acts of a Government which we are hound by treaty to protect, however tyrannical or oppressive it may be." "Salterton, July 9, 1853. "My dear Sirs—I much regret to hear that the authorities to whom you addressed yourselves have not thought proper to interpose in your behalf, as I was induced to hope that a more favourable view might have been taken of your case. I am of opinion that, under the peculiar circumstances of your claim, as British subjects, upon a Prince in close alliance with ourselves, and over whom we assume the right of exercising a paramount influence, this might have been done with-
 1179 "I may, perhaps, be under an erroneous impression in this matter; and I, of course, do not pretend to pronounce a positive judgment on the resolution adopted by Sir Charles Wood, as I remain ignorant of the grounds on which he has taken it.—Believe me, dear Sirs, yours, very sincerely, "J. S. FRASER. "To Jevanjee Pestonjee, Esq., and
Rustomjee Viccajee, Esq., London." 1180 1181 primâ facie
 MR. H. G. LIDDELL  said, this was no common case of debtor and creditor, nor was the position of the firm, as regarded the British Government, to be regarded as the ordinary position of a British subject. The parties in this case were in the proud position of an ally of the East India Company, who had come forward at a moment of great peril to give assistance to the British Government, and in that character the whole case ought to be viewed. If the debt was incurred contrary to the law of the country, how was it that the Government was silent upon the conduct of the Resident during the many years that these transactions were carried on with his connivance and approval? The firm advanced money to the Nizam by bills, which were banded to the British Resident, who for warded them to the different British officers commanding the contingent, who were empowered to receive the money. This was proof sufficient that the advances were sanctioned by the British Government. Would the transactions have been sanctioned by the Resident, unless countenanced by the higher Indian authorities? The constant silence maintained by these authorities was a tacit assent to the justice of the claim. That was an answer to the strong argument that the law was broken in making these advances. With respect to the assertion that this was an affair between the firm and the Nizam only, he would say, was honour to be ignored in such transactions? Were not obligations of honour equally binding between a nation and individuals, as between two individuals? These were not the only benefits the firm had conferred on the British Government. The firm had improved lands which they had been invited to settle upon, had extended cultivation, and opened out lines of road, and that was conferring a benefit of no small character. The very unjustifiable way in which the British Government withdrew their protection from this firm, added no small force to their claim upon Parliament fur protection. Now these persons came forward at a critical period, and assisted the British Government when they could not obtain assistance elsewhere; yet the British Government had not hesitated, in order to satisfy claims of their own upon the Nizam, to take possession of the very districts which these gentlemen had improved, and which formed part and parcel of the mortgage solemnly executed in their favour by the hand of the Nizam himself. This unfortunate family had been bandied
 1192
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  observed, that in Committee on the India Bill it was proposed to add a clause for the creation of a special tribunal to consider cases such as the present, the President of the Board of Control (Sir C. Wood) took upon himself lie responsibility of saying that the existing tribunals were sufficient. Here was a case which had been sent to India and sent home again, and now came to that House as the last Court of Appeal; and, there fore, he thought the President of the Board of Control, instead of having recourse to subtle, ingenious, and artful objections, for the purpose of overthrowing the Motion for a Committee, would have acted a part more consistent with the course he took in opposing the proposition to which he had referred, if he had said at once that this was a question open to inquiry. The case was me where the ordinary tribunals were evidently insufficient, and the Legislature was the only Court of Appeal. It had been advanced as a reason against entertaining the proposition before the House, that, if the present case were entertained, numerous others would be brought forward also.
 1193 l. particeps criminis, 1194
 MR. HUME  thought no one could have listened to this debate from the commencement, as he had done, without being satisfied of the absolute necessity for inquiry in this case. The opinions upon it were so various that even the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control differed with the hon. Baronet the Member for Honiton, while the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Wigram) differed from both, so that the matter was all uncertainty, and all these contradictions fully proving, as he had remarked before, the absolute necessity for a further investigation of the whole case. But the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge argued that neither this House nor the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council was competent to decide upon the case. Well, but if that was so, which he (Mr. Hume) would not believe, who could decide it then?
 MR. HUME  observed that then came the absurdity of that position, for how could they be satisfied with the case without an impartial and fair inquiry into its merits, when they all differed about it? The fact was, the House could not be sufficiently informed and satisfied in cases of this nature without full inquiry; and it was to be regret-
 1206
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the objects of the Amendments winch it was the intention of the Government to introduce into the Bill were—first, to preserve the most perfect equality among all religious sects and denominations in the Colonies; and, secondly, to leave to the Colonies the free and uncontrolled management of all their affairs, both ecclesiastical and civil. He hoped, therefore, that hon. Gentlemen would be content to postpone their opposition to the Bill until the Amendments were upon the table.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he wished to know who was the real father of this Bill? There seemed to be no one who would own himself its parent, although the hon. and learned Solicitor General might, perhaps, be regarded as its putative father. According to the statement of that hon. and learned Gentleman, however, he intended to propose amendments which would completely change the character of the Bill. Now he (Mr. V. Smith) would ask the House whether, upon the 8th of August, they would be prepared to enter upon the consideration of an entirely new mea, sure? and he would also ask if the hon. and learned Solicitor General wished to bring forward any Bill on this subject, why he did not introduce it on his own responsibility, or postpone the introduction of a measure until next Session? He (Mr. V. Smith) regarded this Bill as an interference with self-government in the Colonies, and it had been so denounced in the public prints by Sir James Stephen, whose opinion on the matter was well entitled to consideration. He (Mr. V. Smith) thought the table of the House ought not to be loaded with new Bills, night after night, at this advanced period of the Session.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he objected to the postponement of the consideration of the Bill. He had such a strong feeling against the measure that he should oppose it at every stage. The hon. and learned Solicitor General himself had assured him that the Bill in its present form was most objectionable, and that nothing but a new Bill would meet the circumstances of the case. He was very much surprised to find a Government which, at the commencement of the Session, had assured the House that they would not sanction anything like an interference with the freedom of the Colonial Legislatures, helping on such a Bill as this; and he appealed to the hon. Member for Kidderminster (Mr. Lowe), and to the right hon. Baronet the Member for Southwark (Sir W. Molesworth), to say whether it would be acceptable to the Colonies. He should at once move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he had on the paper a notice of Motion for a Select Committee to inquire into the cost, maintenance, and general administration of the metropolitan police: but under the circumstances of the Session he would do no more on the present occasion than call the attention of the House generally to the subject. The inhabitants of the metropolis felt the cost of the police force to be a very serious grievance, and all the more so that it had been increased, within the last few years, to an enormous extent, without any adequate reason, and with no adequate result. The increase so complained of amounted to no less a sum than 100,000 l. l. l. 1165 1166 s. s.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART : I rise, Sir, to put a question to the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, of which I have given him notice, on a subject of the greatest importance, not only to this country, but to the whole of Europe. The House is well aware that there has been upon the paper for some time a notice of Motion relating to the settlement of the Eastern question, in the name of the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard), which Motion was originally based on one which stood in my name. The hon. Member for Aylesbury has more than once shown a desire to bring this important subject be-
 1162
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, on the last occasion when this important subject was mentioned, the House concurred with Her Majesty's Government in the opinion that it, was not desirable to have a discussion, in the present state of the negotiations, in this House. I am quite ready, however, to give my noble Friend and the House all the information that it is at present in my power to afford. When the Ambassador of His Majesty the Emperor of Russia left Constantinople, it appeared to Her Majesty's Government that it was desirable that there should be a conference with the representatives of all the Great Powers of Europe, in order to endeavour to arrive at terms which might put an amicable termination to the differences between Russia and the Sublime Porte. It was the opinion of the Government of Austria that it was not desirable to have any such conference while the matter remained in a state of diplomatic relations, and that it would not be advisable to have such a conference unless the Emperor of Russia, by invading the Principalities, should, for a time at least, put an end to the  status quo 1163
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he would assent to this suggestion, and withdraw the Amendment with the view of bringing it up upon the Report.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he now rose to move the extension of the exemption to
 "any funds applicable to persons of the Roman Catholic persuasion, or that shall be under the superintendence and control of persons of that persuasion." Geo. 1159
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he would amend the clause by omitting the words "as compared with any other religious persuasion or sect, or the members thereof."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he must oppose the Motion, for he must confess that some of the principal advantages which he expected to accrue from this measure would be gained by means of it. The power was necessary in order to secure that trustees performed their duty, and it would not be exercised without the intervention of Parliament.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I would not like to be responsible for naming any particular time. I do not know exactly how many days the Government of His Majesty the Emperor of Russia may take to consider the proposition made to them. I should think that proposition left Vienna probably on Sunday last, and the right hon. Gentleman will be able to calculate, as well as I can do, how long it may be before an answer can be returned from St. Petersburg or Constantinople.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that the Government had not adopted any charges against Sir James Brooke. When he (Lord John Russell) was in the Foreign Office, he directed the letter of the hon. Member for Montrose, which contained many charges against Sir James Brooke, to be sent to that gentleman, requesting him to give any answer he might think proper with regard to it. The inquiry, however, which the Government proposed to institute had no reference to those or any other charges against Sir James Brooke, but was simply of this nature—whether it was desirable that Sir James Brooke, he being the rajah of a foreign country, should continue to hold the various offices under the Government of this country which he had occupied for a considerable period. At the same time the proposed inquiry would give an opportunity to invessigate any charges that might be made against Sir James Brooke, who was himself anxious that such an inquiry should be made, and who had repeatedly declared that he would never shrink from the strictest investigation into his conduct and proceedings. He need hardly state, after the several Motions which had been made in that House, that Sir James Brooke, previous to his leaving this country, was fully informed of the charges which had been brought against him.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : The proposition was an Austrian proposition, though
 1164
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he would now move that this Bill be read a Second Time on Monday, with the object of giving the House an opportunity of seeing several clauses which had been prepared by his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General, who had paid great attention to the subject, and which, it was thought, would effect in an unobjectionable manner all that was necessary for the purpose of the Bill. These would be laid before the House either to-morrow or the next day. He believed that no Member of the Government
 1208
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that, undoubtedly, if the House chose to reject this Bill at once, it was perfectly competent to them to do so; but he did not think the House could maintain that they would not, even at this period of the Session, enter upon the consideration of new Bills, when they were night after nigh sending up Bills to the other House of Parliament. Only that night they hat sent up three Bills to the other House from whom he hoped those measures would receive due attention. The right hon. Member for Northampton (Mr. V. Smith seemed to consider that it was too late in the Session to attempt to legislate on this subject; but he (Lord John Russell) must own it appeared to him that there were matters of great moment with reference to the position of the Church in the Colonies which ought to be the subjects of legislation either at the end of this Session or at the beginning of the next Session of Parliament. He thought they ought to place the Church of England in the Colonies in the same position as any other religious sect. In Canada, for instance there were Wesleyans, Baptists, and Presbyterians, who possessed certain right and privileges; and was it unfair that the Church of England should enjoy privilege
 1210
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL , in moving that Mr. Speaker leave the Chair, said, that he did not think it necessary to make any statement to the House with respect to the general provisions of this Bill. He had stated, at an earlier period of the Session, in going over the general - views of the Government with respect to education, that the object was the better management, and, in some cases, the improved application of the charitable trusts of this country. The question, in fact, was one which for a long period had engaged the attention of Parliament. In 1816 Lord Brougham, then Mr. Brougham, had brought this important subject prominently before the consideration of Parliament, and both Parliament and the public had taken a great
 1154 1155 1156
 MR. DISRAELI : There was a phrase in the noble Lord's answer to the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone, which appeared rather obscure to this side of the House. The noble Lord stated that the proposition agreed upon in Vienna had received the approbation of the Governments of France and England. I inferred at the moment, that, of course, it had received the approbation also of the Governments of Austria and Prussia; but as there seems to be some misapprehension on this side of the House, perhaps the noble Lord will add a word of explanation.
 MR. DISRAELI : I wish to ask the noble Lord whether there is any particular time when Her Majesty's Ministers are induced to believe an answer will be returned from Constantinople and St. Petersburgh?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he objected to the House proceeding with the measure at this time of the year, while he fully recognised the necessity of some legislation on the subject in respect to the Colonies, the union of whose Church with the Mother Church of this country he was most desirous to preserve.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he had abstained from distributing it for the simple reason that he thought it was a libel from beginning to end. The hon. Gentleman was wrong in supposing that the document was printed. A printed copy was presented at the Foreign Office, but the one sent to him was in manuscript; and, indeed, it was so full of libellous matter that had any hon. Member proposed to have it printed, he would have considered it his duty not to allow the Motion to proceed.
 SIR C. WOOD  could assure his hon. Friend that nothing was further from his intention than in any way to disparage the character of the petitioners who now made their appeal to the House; and if he did not feel that he had to discharge what he believed to be a public and paramount duty, be should experience considerable pain in taking the course he was about to pursue. But he thought before he sat down he should be able to show the House that there were grounds for resisting the claims of these petitioners—grounds which had not been touched upon, or even alluded to, by either of the hon. Gentlemen who had addressed the House—grounds of such paramount importance, that he should most seriously neglect his duty if he did not urge the House in the strongest manner
 1182 1183 l. 1184 "The Minister (Chundoo Lall) informed me that from certain districts assigned to the Parsecs I should receive a portion of the monthly payments due on account of the contingent; but this was a matter entirely between the Minister and myself, and involved no intercourse, negotiation, or question whatever between the Parsees and the Resident. The main object of what I said (to Mr. Smith and Sir C. Wood) was to show that our interference, if called for at all, was so on the exclusive ground of that protection which is due by any Government to its subjects, when seriously aggrieved by the act of another Government. I have stated distinctly the ground, and the sole ground, as it appears to me, on which our interference could be justified; and this would extend no further than to suggest to the Nizam that it would be but an act of justice to the Parsecs to cause their complaints to be inquired into, with a view to their being redressed if well founded. The present Minister by no means assents to the correctness of their accounts." "I have a strong impression on my mind of having advised the Parsee not to take the talookhas from Chundoo Lall, and warned him at an interview, in the presence of the Resident, that they would not, and could not, get any direct guaransee from the British Government." "I can positively say that I more than once warned them of their ruin, and I was astonished that cautious merchants, like the Parsees, were so rash as to risk their money in such transactions." 1185 1186 1187 1188 "He expunged this essential clause, broke down the fence which was raised to cover the public property against the rapacity of his partisans, and thus, levelling every obstruction, he made a firm broad highway for usury and oppression to renew their ravages throughout the devoted revenues of the Carnatic." 1189 Geo. "And whereas the practice of British subjects lending money, or being concerned in the lending of the same, or in transactions for the borrowing money for or lending money to the Native Princes in India, has been productive of much mischief, and is the source of much usury and extortion; and whereas the wholesome orders of the Court of Directors of the United Company of Merchants trading to India have not been sufficient to restrain and repress the same; and whereas it is highly desirable that such practices should be prevented in future, &c., persons lending, borrowing, &c., without consent of Government to be guilty of misdemeanour; and bonds, &c., to be null and void." Mutatis mutandis, "The Nabob pleaded inability to pay the troops their arrears. Here was a difficulty. The Nabob had no money; every public supply was empty. But there was one resource which no season has ever yet dried up in that climate. The saucers were at hand—that is, private English money-jobbers offered their assistance. Messrs. Taylor, Majendie, and Call proposed to advance the small sum of 160,000 1. 1190 Geo.
 MR. E. BALL  had listened attentively to this debate, and with an anxious desire to arrive at a just conclusion upon the case, and he must say, that upon the whole he saw no reason why the claim of these gentlemen ought not to be satisfied. They were, in his opinion, cruelly treated when they were sent back to India under the expectation that their case would receive the consideration of the Company. That was conduct which no honest individual would have been guilty of; and in matters of this nature, he, for one, could recognise no distinction between a public Company and a private individual. It was the duty then of the Company to have seen that this claim was satisfied before they obtained possession of the land upon which it was received; and he trusted the House would make good that deficiency by granting the inquiry now asked for.
 MR. MIALL , said, he was not satisfied with the proposed Amendment, and should, therefore, move that the clause should be omitted.
 MR. MIALL  said, that as the previous clause had been expunged, this clause which reserved the rights and privileges of the Church of England with respect to charities should also be expunged.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he must congratulate the noble Lord and the Government on the near prospect of passing a Charitable Trusts Bill after a delay of thirty years from its first introduction. He felt quite confident that it would prove highly beneficial.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he must support the Amendment. The question before the Committee was this: What power ought to be conferred on the Commissioners for the purpose of making new schemes for charities? The clause applied to those cases exclusively in which the Court of Chancery could not interfere, and to cases in which an Act of Parliament was necessary. Now, was it desirable to give to the Commissioners a power to devise a scheme which might alter the intentions of the donor? It was no doubt desirable that the Commissioners should have power to change a scheme on the application of the trustees or the parties interested in the trust, but this clause would invest the Commissioners with an arbitrary authority not possessed by any body in the country. His feeling was in favour of the Amend-
 1158
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he condemned the operation of the mortmain laws  in, toto,
 MR. HADFIELD  seconded the Amendment. He considered that the House had already wasted sufficient time this Session on questions of religious controversy affecting this country, without entering into colonial disputes. He believed that there was not a single Colony which would consent to accept a Church Establishment.
 MR. DRUMMOND  said, he begged to ask the noble Lord the Member for London, whether a copy of the charges against Sir James Brooke, contained in the hon. Member for Montrose's (Mr. Hume's) letter enclosed by Lord Clarendon to Lord Dalhousie, were communicated to Sir James Brooke previous to his leaving this country, or whether Her Majesty's Ministers took leave of Sir James Brooke previous to his return to Borneo without letting him know those charges under which they had at that time resolved to arraign him? The House would remember, when the hon. Member for Montrose brought forward charges against Sir James Brooke, the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) declared them to be utterly unfounded, and yet he saw by the papers of the House that the Government had adopted certain charges contained in a letter of the hon. Member (Mr. Hume), and sent by Lord Clarendon to Lord Dalhousie, with a specification of the points on which inquiry should take place.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that no person could have listened to the able speeches which had been made upon either side without coming to the conclusion that this was case well deserving consideration, and one which the House, although it might not find itself in a position to decide as to what should ultimately be done with it, at all events would not hesitate to refer to some judicial and competent tribunal. They had heard from the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Control, ant from the hon. Member for Honiton (Sir J. W. Hogg) most conclusive testimony as to the character and services of the petitioners; and it was only fair to infer that gentlemen of such respectability would no bring forward a fraudulent or an unjust claim. The petitioners had come to this country twice, and had travelled from 25,000 to 30,000 miles in the prosecution of their claim, the facts of which, he might venture to say, were not disputed at all. He thought that the statement of the hon. Member for Honiton (Sir J. W. Hogg) was, on the whole—unlike some of his state-
 1200 l. 1201 1202 prima facie l. 1203 l.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  rose to move, as an Amendment—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty praying that the case of Jevanjee Pestonjee and Rustomjee Viccajee be referred to the Privy Council." 1167 l. l. 1168 1169 l. 1170 l. l. l. 1171 l. l. 1172 l. 1173 1174 l. Rabelais, 1175 l. 1176 "With too much heat
We sometimes wrangle when we should debate," Dii tutelares
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought it was unfair that a proposition of this important nature should have been brought forward in the manner that it had been, without any previous notice whatever. He put it to the noble Lord whether he would not withdraw those words for the present, and bring them up on the Report, when there might be an opportunity of discussing them.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he should move to omit the words "or upon any report of an inspector or information otherwise obtained."
 MR. HENLEY  said, he believed that so far as the administration of charities was concerned, the clause would be wholly inoperative.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that no one seemed to know who had charge of this Bill. They did not even know who had put it down for a second reading. [Lord J. RUSSELL: I don't know.] It seemed plain that the Government would not have anything to do with the Bill in its present shape; and he (Mr. Henley) would ask, therefore, whether there was any prospect of legislating satisfactorily and effectively on the subject during this Session?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he must express a hope that this clause would not open the door to the establishment of a new set of fees in the Court of Chancery after they had been so recently regulated by Parliament.
 MR. WIGRAM  hoped that whatever course the House might deem it desirable to take with reference to the question before them, they would not at all events consent to refer it to the consideration of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, because that tribunal was constituted with the special view of entertaining cases of appeal, and could not efficiently or conveniently deal with complicated cases such as that they were then discussing. With respect to cases of that character it would be much better that interference should take place directly from their own conviction, after inquiry, by means of a Bill—a mode of dealing with such subjects for which the records of Parliament furnished more than one precedent. He apprehended, however, that the real question for their consideration was, whether they ought to attach any weight to the investigation which had been made both by Lord Hardinge and Lord Dalhousie, with reference to the claims of those Parsee gentlemen. He was strongly of opinion that the greatest reliance ought to be placed upon the
 1204
 MR. WIGRAM : The hon. Member for Montrose had misapprehended his argument. What he said was, that if the House could be satisfied with the justice of the case, it was perfectly competent to deal with the claim at once.
 MR. INGHAM  begged the House to remember that under the law which established the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, that body was empowered to entertain any question that Her Majesty might think fit to refer to it. It had been said that it was a very inconvenient tribunal for taking evidence; but in the present ease it would not be called upon to take evidence, but only to pronounce an opinion on documents already in the possession of Members of that House. He thought it was incumbent on the Company to satisfy the claims of those gentlemen, seeing that the Company had knowingly become possessed of land which had been previously pledged to them; and he should, therefore, certainly give his Vote in support of the Motion.
 MR. MANGLES  thought the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire (Mr. E. Ball) had entirely mistaken the conduct and functions of the Home Government. The reason why these gentlemen were told that their claim would be entertained by the Government of India, was not for the purpose of getting rid of them, as the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire seemed to suppose, but it was because the Home Government made it a practice not to interfere primarily in these matters. How could the Home Go-
 1207 l.
 MR. ROUNDELL PALMER  said, he thought that a clamour was raised against this Bill by some hon. Gentlemen who were desirous of creating a prejudice against the measure out of doors by misrepresenting its character. The question had been asked in a manner which he considered was not very respectful to such a body as the bishops of the Church of England, for whom he believed that House generally entertained respect, with whom this measure had originated. He thought it was perfectly well known that the Bill was the result of the mature and deliberate consultation of the bishops of the Church of England in this country, and of several of the Colonial bishops, who met to consider by what means they might best accomplish the objects desired by the members of the
 1211
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, being responsible, not, indeed, for the provisions or terms of the Bill before the House, but for having drawn the attention of Parliament to this very important subject, and it being also his opinion that this measure had not been fairly attacked in the discussion that evening, he thought it right to say a few words before the question was put. He thought it was not at all difficult to explain in general terms the form which this Bill had assumed. He believed that the positive character of the provisions of the Bill, which were objected to as tending to create an Established Church in the Colonies, was
 1212 status 1213 1214
 SIR JAMES W. HOGG  said, the question resolved itself into this, whether the case was or was not one of an exceptional character. As stated by his right hon. Friend, the claimants were men of high character; he could bear testimony to that himself. They were engaged in trade at Bombay, and being desirous of establishing a mercantile concern in the territory of the Nizam, they went there, and were employed in collecting the revenue, receiving a commission for their trouble. It was very is well understood in the native States that it those who were employed in collecting the revenue were expected to make occasional pecuniary advances. The Nizam called upon these native gentlemen to make him an advance, and in their petition they stated that, not having the money themselves for this purpose, they were obliged to borrow it in different parts of India, for which they had to pay high rates of interest. Having borrowed the money themselves, they advanced it to the Nizam, charging a still higher rate of interest. At last their creditors insisted upon payment; they therefore went to the Minister of the Nizam, and they received some land by way of security. This was the old story of the Nizam. He borrowed from everybody, and paid nobody; and ever and anon, when creditors were importunate, he assigned some territory, of which he left them in possession just so long as he thought sufficient to enable them to repay themselves. As soon as that time arrived, he assembled his Rohillas or Arabs, and turned the party out. This was always the case. Now, these parties had been warned by the British authorities; they knew the danger they incurred, and also the advantage they would obtain provided they succeeded according to their anticipations; and they incurred all the risk with their eyes open. This really
 1195 "The Governor in Council being of opinion that any interruption to the trade should be removed, as far as practicable, will comply with your request, so far as to grant you a letter to the Resident at Hyderabad, requesting him to use his endeavours to obviate the evil complained of; and you will do well to deliver the letter personally, in order to explain matters to the Resident, so as to enable him to represent things in their true light to His Highness the Nizam's Minister." "In transmitting to you the enclosed copy of a petition from Pestonjee Merjee, dated 30th July last, stating that he intends proceeding to Hyderabad on a mercantile speculation, and soliciting your aid and support in furtherance of his objects connected therewith, I am directed by the Honourable the Governor in Council to request that you will be pleased to extend such attention to the petitioner as you may think proper." 1196 1197 1198 Geo. Geo. 1199
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  concurred with the hon. Member for Manchester in thinking that provisions should have been made in the Bill recently before the House for a tribunal to inquire into all cases of grievance. He would assume, for the sake of argument, that the House would vote in favour of this proposition; but could the petitioners obtain—he would not say a verdict or a decision—but even a hearing? The Judicial Committee of Privy Council was a Committee of Appeal; it was not a committee of original jurisdiction; and he
 1205
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  would support the Amendment, but upon grounds entirely distinct from those advanced by the last speaker. He considered that this was not a period of the Session at which the House could enter upon the discussion of a measure affecting interests so large and important.
 The MARQUESS of BLANDFORD  said, he deemed it necessary to explain some points to which the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Wigram) had adverted in terms which might tend to prejudice the question in the minds of many persons. The first objection which the hon. and learned Member had urged against the Motion for the second reading of the Bill was, that at this late period of the Session it was impossible the Bill could pass into law, and that, therefore, it was not advisa-
 1221 "Such arrangements should be made as to secure to archbishops, bishops, and the several members of chapters, dignitaries, and officers of cathedral and collegiate churches respectively, fixed instead of fluctuating incomes, in a manner most befitting their spiritual character." 1222 Vict. 1223 Vict. l., 1224 l. s. d. s. d. l., l., l., l., l. 1225 l. l. l., l. 1226
 The MARQUESS of BLANDFORD  said, that after the strong feeling which had been expressed on this subject by hon. Members, and really out of respect to the House of Commons, whom he did not wish to see expressing an opinion adverse to the great principle of the Bill—particularly as he believed many Members were really inclined to support it, although they objected to his proceeding with it at this late period of the Session—for these reasons he should not proceed any further with the Bill at present. At the same time he was glad to say he had obtained the permission of the Government to lay the same Bill on the table of the House, without opposition, at an early period next Session.
 MR. COWPER  said, the hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that the Bill as it now stood was unobjectionable. He (Mr. Cowper) still entertained many objections to it; and he would venture to suggest to the hon. Member, that at this late period of the Session he should proceed no further with it, particularly as it was generally anticipated that in the following Ses-
 1237
 MR. COWPER  said, that the House had declared by a large majority in favour of the principle of diminishing the expenses of elections, to which, having gone through an election contest himself, he had no sort of objection. But he must say that he thought this clause had been drawn in too stringent a form. As it at present stood, it appeared to him to be a mere snare for candidates who might find themselves guilty of violating the law without knowing it. It was made an offence by the clause, for instance, "to hire, employ, or engage any band of music, or any musical instruments."
 1238 l.
 MR. H. T. LIDDELL  said, he entertained strong objections to the Bill, because he mere fact of a band of music performing in any town or village where an election was going on, or within ten days after such election, might endanger the seat of a Member who had been elected by an overwhelming majority.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he thought it rather hard that, after all the discussion that had taken place on the subject of this
 1242
 MR. COWPER  said, that there was a large class of persons having votes, many of whom were not able to comprehend the details of public questions, and he thought it no disadvantage that such persons should have the assistance of party symbols to guide them. If they were to obliterate all party distinctions, so that the voter should not be able to distinguish between the Blue and the Orange parties, he would soon lose all concern in the election, except so far as his own interest was concerned. He (Mr. Cowper) believed that in the absence of wiser views on political subjects amongst a large body of the electors, it was well that men should have the distinctions of party to guide their consciences.
 Mr. H. T. LIDDELL  said, that with a view of nullifying the operation of the Bill, he should move that the word "shillings" should be substituted for "pounds."
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  said, that having been supported on every occasion by large majorities, it was not his intention to withdraw the Bill.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY  said, that the effect of the Amendment would be this. Supposing a very wealthy man happened to be a candidate, he would pay the fine of 100 l.
 MR. CRAVEN BERKELEY , in moving that Mr. Speaker leave the Chair, with a view to the House going into Committee on this Bill, said, it was his belief that it had at last been so modified as to meet the views of hon. Members generally, and he hoped, therefore, that there would be no further objections to it. It was now a Bill merely to prevent the use of bands, bellringing, and colours, at elections.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that he hon. Baronet the Member for the University of Oxford (Sir R. H. Inglis) had come to the same conclusion with the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Wigram), but they differed very much as to the reasons for arriving at that conclusion. He must add to the number of those who differed in their reasons for taking the same course. He entirely disagreed from
 1219 1220
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he was extremely sorry that the noble Lord opposite had not thought it proper to yield to the suggestion of his (Lord J. Russell's) right hon. Friend the Secretary at War, that he would postpone this measure until a future period. He was of opinion that it would be far better, at that late period of the Session, seeing that the measure under their consideration could not pass into law in the course of the present Session, that the noble Lord should consent to its postponement. He was the more anxious that the noble Lord should still adopt that course, because, if he should press his Motion to a division, he (Lord J. Russell) should most undoubtedly feel it his duty to vote against the second reading of the Bill, and in taking that step he might be conveying a false impression both to the House and to the country of the sentiments which he entertained with reference to the principle of the noble Lord's measure. That was a principle which he was by no means certain might not be a very fit principle for the adoption of Parliament on some future occasion. He would not now say whether or not, in his opinion, the principle was expedient for the adoption of Parliament; all he would say was, that if, at this period of the Session, the second reading of the Bill was pressed, he must, as a matter of public convenience, vote against it; and this necessity he did not wish to have forced upon him. He should not have troubled the House further on the subject, but that the hon. Member for Marylebone (Sir B. Hall) had made some observations which he thought it as well to correct. The hon. Member seemed desirous of conveying the impression that he had been made a martyr, a victim to obloquy on all hands, as the proto-propounder of the principle that the revenues of the Church should be applied in the manner most calculated to promote the great purposes for which the Church was established. The hon. Member was quite mistaken if he supposed that the idea originated with him. About twenty years ago, a Commission was appointed by Sir Robert Peel, then Minister of the Crown, of which the especial object was, to consider the episcopal revenues and capitular revenues, the mode in which parochial instruction was given, and the manner in
 1232 1233 l. l. l. 1234 1235
 MR. GEACH  said, that there was a large class of the community whom they would not admit to the franchise; but they had a right to express their opinions, and what means had they except by assembling in processions of showing their sympathy for one candidate or the other?
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he should move, in pursuance of notice, that the Bill be deferred for three months. He had read the Bill carefully over, and he thought he had designated it as it deserved when on a former occasion he had called it a mean, low, dirty Bill. It was a dangerous and delusive measure; it was a trap set for unwary men who might suddenly find themselves to have been guilty of an offence which they had had no intention of committing, and therefore subject to serious pains and penalties. It restricted the liberty of the subject, and yet it had been brought in and fathered by one who professed to be an extreme Liberal, and by another who professed to be a Conservative. The Bill, he was persuaded, would do no good; and therefore he begged to move that it be postponed till that day three months.
 MR. E. BALL  said, he must deny that the tenantry were driven to the poll by their landlords in the manner described by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, who had stated what was utterly contrary to fact. Did the hon. Gentleman not know that those things of which he complained were commonly done, not with the wish, but in opposition to the wishes of candidates; and that if they had their will there would be no treating, and no lavish expenditure beyond the legal and necessary expenses of the election? He (Mr. Ball) believed that the consequence of this and similar measures would be that the better class of men would be prevented from entering that House, and that their places would be supplied by others who would condescend to flatter and cajole the multitude, and who would make intrigues more frequent, and expenditure more lavish.
 MR. F. H. BERKELEY  said, he was astonished, after this measure had been so fully discussed and approved of by such large majorities, that Gentlemen, led on by a Minister of the Crown, should now stand up and attempt to pull it to pieces in detail. He knew by experience that there could be no worse system in the world than that which now prevailed at elections in this country, and that flagmen, and banners, and bands of music tended to keep up a state of feeling which ought, by every means, to be discouraged. The people,
 1241
 MR. F. SCULLY  must say, that he thought the best course would be to postpone legislation upon this subject until the next Session of Parliament, when the whole question of a reform of the representation was to be brought before the House.
 MR. GRANVILLE VERNON  said, he gave full credit to the noble Lord for the excellence and sincerity of the motives which had actuated him in bringing forward this measure. It was well deserving of consideration, but he objected to the manner in which it had been introduced to their notice. He earnestly hoped that in a future Session Her Majesty's Government would take the subject into their own hands, and that the solution of a question of such great importance would not be left to an individual Member of that House, who, with the best intentions, must necessarily be partially and imperfectly informed. Had the noble Lord any knowledge of what the views of the clergy generally were upon this question? He (Mr. Vernon) regretted much that that House had no means of knowing in any authoritative form what those views were. It seemed strange that the Established Church was the only corporation (if he might use the term), the only body to whom the privilege was denied of deliberating and discussing its own wants and necessities. He did not, of course, wish to revive the anomalies of the old Convocation; but he believed that very unfair and unfounded impressions existed as to the objects of those who sought to call some such deliberative assembly into action. He trusted that means might yet be devised by which the Church at large, including both laymen and ecclesiastics, might be enabled to consult upon such matters as this present measure, and to give to Parliament, with all the weight of authority, a formal exposition of their opinion. He believed that if such a right were given to the members of the Church, the hands of the Queen's Government would be materially strengthened in the promotion of some really practical measure of sound and searching reform.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he cordially concurred in awarding to the noble Lord the Member for Woodstock all praise for the zeal, industry, and ability he had displayed in bringing forward this measure; and if the noble Lord, instead of following the advice of the noble Lord the Member for London, should think it right to go to a division, he had not the slightest hesitation in saying that he should vote for the second reading of the Bill; for although it was in vain to expect that it could be carried through this Session, it was still of some importance to have the sanction of that House, if possible, to the principle of the Bill now, and then to have it circulated throughout the country in the recess, with a view to its reintroduction next Session. The noble Lord (the Marquess of Blandford) had stated that he thought he had succeeded in convincing the House and the public that there would be no confiscation either of episcopal or capitular property by
 1236
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, that the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman to postpone the Bill till next Session came rather too late, he thought, after it had already gone through Committee once, and been amended and again recommitted. For himself, he would rather take a good thing when he could get it, than trust to any Government for what they would do next Session. The hon. and learned Gen-
 1239
 MR. WILSON PATTEN  would suggest, that as this was almost the last Wed-
 1243
 MR. WIGRAM  said, that though he did not wish it to be understood that he did not concur in the general views expressed by the noble Lord who had brought forward this measure, yet he was opposed altogether to the Bill in its details, and he thought it extremely undesirable that the House should read it a second time. He was as desirous as the noble Lord to render Church property as conducive as possible to the spiritual benefit of the community. The circumstances which had occurred in the country had affected Church property, like other property, and it had risen in value. Vast towns also had grown up for which no adequate provision was made in respect to spiritual purposes, and he concurred in the noble Lord's view, that where one branch of the Church was provided with more than it needed, the surplus should be applied to supply the districts where spi-
 1215 1216 l. 1217
 MR. MALINS  said, that they had already so many pains and penalties, and so many rounds for making elections void, that he was exceedingly unwilling to add another to the list. He trusted, therefore, that if the Bill went through Committee, it would be with the Amendment of the hon. Member for Hertford, and not with the clause as it then stood, which would have the effect of causing the seat to be void. The House having now affirmed that general principle, he would suggest that they should suspend legislation on the subject till they saw the Reform Bill which the Government had intimated their intention of bringing forward next Session.
 MR. MALINS  said, there could be no doubt, that under this clause, a candidate who hired a band of music through an agent would forfeit his seat. He thought it was most desirable that elections should be conducted peaceably, and that electors should have an opportunity of fairly and dispassionately expressing their opinions in favour of the candidate whom they desired to support. He begged to suggest to the right hon. Gentleman (Sir J. Graham) whether it would not be desirable, for the purpose of insuring peaceable elections, to do away with the system if open voting, and that, instead of the present mode of taking the votes, voting papers should be sent round to the houses if the electors. As the general feeling of the House seemed to be in favour of postponing the whole question until the next Session, he should beg to move that the Chairman do now leave the chair.
 MR. WALPOLE  wished to put a question to the Government as to the bearing this Bill would have with regard to agency on the part of candidates or Members. The maxim of law being,  Qui facit per alium facit per se,
 MR. W. BROWN  said, he hoped the clause would pass without the proposed Amendment, because he thought it most objectionable that any stimulus should be given to the passions of the people at elections.
 MR. W. BROWN  said, he should support the Bill with the greatest pleasure. He could conceive nothing more likely to warp the judgment of electors than the excitement of the colours and emblems used at elections; and he thought it important, therefore, that they should be abolished.
 MR. W. F. HUME  said, he entirely concurred in the propriety of postponing this Bill until next Session, and he should therefore move that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again that day three months.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that whatever difference of opinion there might be with regard to the manner in which Church property was to be dealt with, every one was agreed that the time had come when some steps should be taken to cause that property to be administered in the manner best calculated to contribute to the usefulness of the Church. Feeling that, he was obliged to his noble Friend (the Marquess of Blandford) for the care he had taken in the preparation of this
 1227 Times 1228 l. l., l. l., l. l. l. 1229 l., l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 1230 l. l. l. l. 1231
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, he was in favour of the principle of the Bill; but the question was whether the mode proposed by the Bill was the best mode. He thought that the penalty of losing the seat was altogether disproportionate to the offence.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he thought the best course would be to give up this Bill, and to proceed as soon as possible with the next order on the paper, the Lunatics Care and Treatment Bill. He entirely concurred in the recommendation of the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins) that, on the whole, it would not be advisable to proceed further with this measure during the present Session. He (Sir J. Graham) was aware, from experience, of the great abuses which took place with regard to the use of flags and banners at elections; and not only was the employment of great numbers of flagmen by opposing parties a means of corruption, but it frequently led to serious breaches of the peace. He thought it would be impossible, in a measure dealing with the question of the representation generally, to overlook the employment of flagmen, but he would be sorry to see provisions adopted affecting the seats of Members on account of bells being rung or
 1240
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, it was his intention to second the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend. At the same time he was bound to own that he did not agree with his hon. and learned Friend, except in regard to the motives of his noble Friend. To the object, and to the means by which his noble Friend desired to attain that object, he was, and always had been, irreconcilably opposed. He held in his hand petitions signed by the members of ecclesiastical bodies in almost every diocese of England, expressing in the strongest terms their sense of the inexpediency of the measure and of its injustice—if injustice and inexpediency could ever be separated. The proposition of his noble Friend, if it were carried out, would have this result, at least, that the property of the oldest landowners in the kingdom (and, without disrespect to the House of Blenheim, it might be said that the property of those landowners were their's one thousand years before an acre of land could have been held by the house to which the noble Lord belonged) would be transferred wholly to the charge of three laymen sitting in London. And this was a proposal made by a member of a Commission appointed to make inquiry on the subject! Member though he was of that Commission, his noble Friend did not rise to state that he spoke the opinions of any human being but himself. That Commission had not made a Report. Whether the majority might agree or differ from his noble Friend was uncertain; but one was entitled to assume that he had brought forward the Bill on his own sole responsibility. This, then, was a Bill which took away the property of the oldest landowners in the kingdom—which, on the principle of centralisation,
 1218
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL,  in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, he wished to explain that its object was to improve and amend the administration of the charity. The funds to be dealt with by this trust, which were originally only 40 l. l.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he thought it necessary to propose an Amendment in the 60th clause, under these circumstances. The clause provided that the Act should not extend to the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, London, or Durham, or to any college or hall therein. Now, the London University was peculiarly situated. That institution had the power of sanctioning and increasing within its own compass any place of education in conformity with the principles of the University, and in a manner to merit the approbation of the trustees and governors. If the words remained as they now stood, "any college or hall" might exempt from the operation of the Act any of those educational institutions which receive the sanction of the London University, and are thereby brought within the provisions of the Statute, and constitute a component part of that University. He proposed that the Act should not extend to the Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, the University of Durham, or any college or hall in the said Universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he begged to express the gratification with which he had heard the concluding sentences of the noble Lord's (Lord J. Russell's) speech, for while he thought it would be unjust at once to include Roman Catholic charities within the operation of this Act, he was convinced that it would be extremely undesirable to exempt them for ever from participating in so beneficial a measure. Now that the noble Lord had made this concession, he strongly impressed upon the House the expediency of at once accepting it.
 MR. HUME  said, he was one of those who had objected to the appointment of the Committee, and he had done so on the ground that for such a long period so few instances of absence of the Speaker had occurred when his services were required. He was also of opinion that in all cases where a deputy was appointed, the principal was apt to take a little licence. He did not rise on the present occasion to oppose the measure before the House, but to express a hope that during the next Session there would be more time to get through the business without converting night into day. He could not think that it was advantageous that Members of that House should return home daily between 2 and 3 o'clock in the morning, and have to leave again to be at the morning sitting at 12 o'clock. He strongly objected to these midnight sittings, and should, if he were in the House next Session, when he knew he would get a majority, put a stop to the sitting at 12 o'clock. It was not right that, as at present, at the close of the Session Bills of importance should be brought forward in a hurried manner, and adopted without discussion.
 MR. HUME  said, he did not wish to enter into any of the details of the question, but having on a former occasion found fault with the appointment of Sir Henry Barkly to the governorship of British Guiana, he was bound now to admit that he had left the colony in a most satisfactory state, and in possession of an excellent Government. Looking at the present
 1293
 MR. HUME  said, he must complain of the vast expense of this establishment, and also of the great delay and expense in the printing of the catalogue. The catalogue already consisted of 1,200 folio volumes, and had cost 100,000 l. l.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, who had been the inspecting architect in Paris, on whose reports to the Board of Works the sum annually required to be voted in the estimates was granted? He also begged to ask, whether any new architect had been appointed to make those annual reports, and whether any special report had been made that the former architect had generally neglected his duty? If an annual report was made, it must have been either a fabrication, or have been made without any proper inquiry as to the state of the building, and what vote was necessary for its repair.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, that some of
 1302
 MR. HUME  said, he thought the character of that House required that more money should not be granted until some account was given of the money which had already been voted. The better course, therefore, would be to postpone the vote.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, he thought it unnecessary to postpone the Vote; but he was of opinion that the Committee should not only be furnished with the Report of Mr. Albano, but with the previous Reports of Mr. Burton, that they might see whether he had stated the house to be then in a good state of repair. They should also have a return of the sums which had been expended on this building for the last eight or ten years, and they would then be in possession of the whole facts of the case, and would be able to guard against the recurrence of what had taken place.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he did not see any necessity for postponing the Vote, but thought that they should be furnished not only with the reports of the architects in past years, but also with a detailed statement of the manner in which the money voted was said to have been expended.
 MR. HUME  said, the only instance of a similar Vote was in the case of Captain Denman, when he burned some barracoons on the Coast. The law gave to every sailor and to every man a premium for taking slaves afloat, but on shore there was no law to justify the seizure of slaves. He saw by the public papers that Major Hill, the Governor of the Gold Coast, had presided at a court-martial which resulted in the execution of two chiefs of the Fantees within the British lines. He thought that the circumstances attending the execution of those chiefs were highly disgraceful to the country. A letter had been written by Mr. Cruikshank, the Acting Governor, to the Duke of Newcastle, on the subject; and the Duke in his reply expressed a hope that there would be no repetition of those scenes. He wished the production of the papers connected with the whole subject, because it seemed to him that naval men were inclined to go out of their way for the purpose of entering upon duties that did not properly come within their province. Captain Dunlop went thirty miles into the country to capture slaves. He protested against this system of making war upon native chiefs. He wished to have the opinion of the law officers of the Crown as to the legality of this proceeding, and he would, therefore, move that the Vote be postponed until that opinion be laid before them.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he must protest against the doctrine laid down by the hon. Gentleman. The practice was when a new Vote was proposed to give information at the same time in respect to it.
 The ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that, in considering this Vote, the Committee would bear in mind that the offices of Attorney and Solicitor General were devoid of salary, the only emoluments attached to them being the fees derived from patents. When it was thought desirable to alter the patent law, and to reduce the fees payable from patents, the law officers of the Crown at once placed themselves in the hands of the Lord Chancellor and the Master of the Rolls; but before the Amendment Act was passed they went out of office, and the new scale of fees was fixed, not during the time he had the honour to hold office, but while the late Government was in power. Since then two reductions had been made in the fees, owing to the increase of business under the Amendment Act, the first being a reduction of one-quarter, and the other of one-half of the scale formerly in use. At the same time a great change had taken place in another respect; for whereas under the old system the law officers of the Crown received the fees from patents in lieu of salary, for
 1313
 MR. HUME  said, that before agreeing to this Vote, he would like to have an account of all the money which had already been expended upon the Houses of Parliament, and an estimate of what more would be required to complete the works. He thought the time had now arrived when that House should come to some determination as to what additional sum was to be expended. Upwards of two years ago he asked for an estimate of the work which then remained to be done, and was told that such an estimate could not be prepared. Five years ago he declared that as long as the present system continued—as long as Sir Charles Barry lived—the new houses of Parliament would never be finished. He was convinced that there would be constant alterations going on, not for any beneficial purpose, but merely to please some middle-aged taste. Why, the very locks and bolts on the doors appeared as if they belonged to the age of Tubal Cain. They were proceeding, in short, in a very reckless way, and the affair altogether was most discreditable to the parties concerned.
 LORD SEYMOUR  said, it was satisfactory to hear from the right hon. Baronet (Sir W. Molesworth) that there were hereafter to be no unmeasured works to pay for, that there were no balances left, and no liabilities for the future. The Committee would in future have an estimate laid before it of what was to be done, and would thus have it in its power to question such expenditure before it was incurred. There was one point which remained fur consideration, and that was—the remuneration of the architect. He wished to know if anything had been clone by the Government to settle the amount of that remuneration.
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER  said, the question of the remuneration of the architect was brought before him during the month of May, and it had been quite impossible for him in the state of legislation in that House to undertake the settlement of that question; but he agreed with his noble Friend that a much longer time had elapsed than was desirable with respect to the matter, and he hoped to be able to proceed with it immediately after the termination of the Session. He confessed he sympathised with many of the complaints made with regard to the expenditure for those Houses; but his hon. Friend (Sir W. Molesworth) had made every exertion that man could make
 1316 bonâ fide
 MR. HUME  said, on a former occasion a Committee was appointed to attend to the ventilation and lighting of the House, and upon it were Mr. Locke, Mr. Stephenson, and other Gentlemen. He understood, however, that that Committee had never yet been consulted. He wished to know, therefore, now that Dr. Reid was dismissed, who had charge of the ventilation of the House?
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, that even in the chamber in which they were then sitting there was not an existing arrangement that formed part of the original plan. Everything had been changed and altered, and he believed that the cost of the alterations could not be less than 15,000 l. 1317
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he could not believe there was any justice in the accusation which the hon. Gentleman made against the Select Committees of that House appointed to try Election Petitions. They were appointed under an Act of Parliament—the Chairman, especially; were appointed by a selected number of Members; generally they were eminent for their experience; and many of them possessed great knowledge of the law. He believed they had conscientiously discharged their duties, and that the House had every reason to be satisfied with the conduct of their Committees. At all events, having made these Committees judicial bodies, it was not becoming in that House, without very grave proof indeed, to attempt to disparage their authority. As to the particular question put by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole), he had only a few words to say. He must be well aware, although the hon. and gallant Member for Lincoln (Colonel Sibthorp) appeared not to be, that the Commissioners were appointed according to Act of Parliament, and upon the nomination of persons of various political opinions. He believed, too, that the gentlemen appointed had been persons of various political
 1311
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : We propose to deal with the sum of only 500,000 l. 1281 l. l. l. l. 1282 l. l. l. l. l. 1283
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, before I move that you should leave the Chair, in order that the House might resolve itself into a Committee of Supply, I wish to state the intentions of Her Majesty's Ministers with respect to the government of the island of Jamaica. I am not going to enter into a history of those dissensions between the House of Assembly and the Legislative Council of Jamaica, which have led to the suspension of the whole legislative functions in that colony. I will only state, upon that subject, that the House of Assembly passed Bills in reference to the revenue and to the finances of the island, and for carrying on the public service, which appeared to the Legislative Council to be of so objectionable a character, that they refused to them their concurrence. The consequence was, that the Governor in Council then felt obliged himself to suspend the meetings of the Assembly; and the whole machinery of legislation in the island has thus been arrested. Now, in looking at any question relating to the condition of the West India Colonies, we must, no doubt, always bear in mind that during the last twenty years two very great changes have taken place in those colonies; changes which were enforced by Acts of
 1275 1276 1277 1278 "With the prospects which are before us, it is perhaps of little present use to say what might be done by a single-minded effort for the peace and welfare of the island; but as all this ruinous distraction, by the frequent recurrence of which Jamaica has been throughout its annals so unhappily distinguished, appears to me to be the direct and unavoidable result of some perversions of the model institutions of England, so I believe that the main and immediate mischief would be remedied at once by reverting in those few particulars to English rules, and by the honourable House of Assembly being contented with a power as perfectly analogous to that of the British House of Commons as it might be possible to make it, which, after all perhaps, would be found to be as great a power for every good purpose as that which it possesses at present, or even supposes itself to possess. Therefore, whensoever and in whatsoever manner, opportunity and leisure may be found or created, I recommend that your attention should be given, first, to a regulation of the civil and ecclesiastical establishments, by reductions which shall either be prospective or shall be made upon the basis of a fair and moderate compensation for existing interests; secondly, to the provision of a permanent fund for the payment of the reduced establishments; thirdly, to the enabling of the governor for the time being to employ Ministerial officers holding seats in the Assembly to bring forward Government measures in that House." 1279 1280 l.,
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that in seconding the Motion of his hon. Friend, he would not make this a personal question, because he believed there was only one
 1270
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I think, Sir, notwithstanding what the hon. and learned Gentleman has said, that if the House should be of opinion that any class of Her Majesty's subjects would run any great risk of being injured in their property, or in the application of that property to charitable and beneficent purposes by the enactments of this Bill, this House would give a favourable hearing to any apprehensions and complaints upon such a subject. I cannot think that it is sufficient to say, supposing that there is that just ground of apprehension and complaint, that, because there have been Bills introduced for several years which have not contained any exemption of this description, therefore "whatever may be the evil and the injury to you, you have found it out too late; you must submit to the depreciation of your
 1261 1262 l. l. l. 1263 1264 "That no use, trust, or disposition of real or personal property now limited or made, or hereafter to be limited or made, to or for any charitable purpose for the benefit of Roman Catholics within Great Britain or Ireland, or any other part of Her Majesty's dominions, and in conformity with the doctrine, discipline, canons, laws, and usages of the Church of Rome, shall merely for or by reason of such purpose be, or be deemed to be, superstitious, unlawful, or void."
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I am not aware whether it was discussed or not. The words are evidently very wide, and it is obvious that I could not propose words of that kind without exciting a great deal of discussion. If I proposed, on the other hand, to limit them, the limitation also would require a great deal of discussion, and would provoke contending feelings on the part of Protestants and Roman Catholics. I think every man would agree, and I believe the hon. and learned Gentleman himself will not deny, that these Roman Catholic charities ought not to be set aside merely on account of their coming within the law of superstitious uses. At the same time, I doubt not that there are Roman Catholic charities which, whether justly or not, some hon. Gentlemen opposite would declare to be so mischievous and so opposed to their own views of national policy, that they would never consent, by such a large clause as that, to give them the validity and the force of law. If that be the case—if I cannot, on the one side, relieve the Roman Catholics from the just apprehension that their charities may be rendered null and void by the provisions of this Act, and if I cannot, on the other hand, frame a clause by which those charities may be saved from such consequences—I think it is a case for exempting them for the present from the operation of this measure. The hon. and learned Gentleman says that they will have the same security under the proposed law that they have under the existing law. But it is a very different thing silently to connive at the violation of the law as we do in many respects—both the Government and the law officers of the Crown are continually permitting violations of the law to take place, because an exact observance of it in every respect might occasion such a scene of discord as would make the coun-
 1265 1266
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he had now to propose, in the 60th clause, after the exemptions of cathedral or collegiate churches, to extend the exemption to funds for the exclusive benefit of persons of the Roman Catholic persuasion.
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he hoped the Committee would call for an explanation of the various items in this Vote. The fees paid to the law officers of the Crown were stated at 12,000 l. l.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he had felt it to be his duty, having been a Member of the Select Committee, to express the opinion that the Resolutions now before the House were expedient, and that this proposition was, of all, the best which the Committee could submit to the House. Almost every combination of circumstances that could occur with reference to the subject of these Resolutions was well considered by the Committee before the Resolutions were adopted. They provided for the occurrence of circumstances which all whom he addressed sincerely hoped might not be in their experience. With respect to the objection of the hon. Member for Manchester, it did not appear to be valid; nor was he (Mr. Disraeli) aware that it was unknown to any party of Gentlemen in that House, that the hon. Member for Kilmarnock would be proposed by the Minister as Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means. It had always been the practice on the first Committee of Supply to propose that the Member who was to act in that capacity should take the Chair. It had been his (Mr. Disraeli's) duty when he had the honour of a seat on the Treasury bench, to propose a Gentleman, and he followed the precedents. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) was perfectly aware of his intention on that occasion, and approved the name he brought for-
 1272
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it appeared that a sum had been annually voted for the repair of this building, and that it had never been expended upon it. He wished, therefore, to know whether the money had been spent at all, or to whom it had been paid? The case was not merely one of flagrant neglect, but it was also involved in much mystery. He did not think the Committee would be furnished with the information required unless the Vote was postponed.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he considered this be an important matter. He perfectly recollected the circumstances under which this case was brought before the Treasury during the last Administration. A representation was made to the Government as the state of the British Ambassador's residence at Paris. The representation was, fact, made by no other person than Lord Cowley himself. The expressions in the letter of Lord Cowley were, that such was the state of the residence of the English Ambassador at Paris that it would require to be immediately looked into. It was under this state of circumstances that his noble Friend then at the head of the Board of Works (Lord J. Manners), called his attention to the subject, and the then Government thought it their duty to send a professional gentleman—he believed Mr. Albano—to make a report on the matter. But no report was ever received by the late Government from that gentleman. The late Government certainly objected to the great expenses which were considered requisite for the Ambassador's residence at Paris; at the same time it was not for them to say that the expenses were not necessary. But he must say that Ministerial responsibility appeared, in this case, to be very seriously involved. According to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman (of course he was not bringing this against the right hon. Gentleman himself as a charge) his unprecedented state of a public building, which be was sure could not be equal-
 1303
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the noble Lord seemed to think, if there was any danger to be apprehended to Roman Catholic charities, that he (Mr. Newdegate) was the most likely person to cause it. Now, he thought if any danger were to occur it must, come from the Government, because it was impossible any proceedings could be taken without their sanction. And as it was clear they would not be out of office before next Session, they could give a guarantee that there should be nothing done in derogation of the just claims of the Roman Catholic community, which would afford a valid security; meanwhile they might forego their present intentions as to the positive exemption of Roman Catholic charities from the guardianship of the law against abuse, which they proposed to extend to all other similar property. The proposal of the noble Lord to exempt all roman Catholic charities from the operation of the ordinary law of the country, was to allow them to fall under the absolute control of a foreign Power, which was attempting to enforce its tyrannical authority in this country against the will of the Legislature, the Sovereign, and the people. Evidence had been given before the Mortmain Committee by Roman Catholic priests and laymen, which showed that the only security which Roman Catholics had for their trusts being carried out according to the intention of the donors, and the rights and wishes of the recipients, was the protection extended to them by the law of England. He could not conceive a more inopportune moment for the intended withdrawal of the protection of the law of England from all trust property held by English Roman Catholics, for charitable and religious purposes; it was notorious that Cardinal Wiseman, the temporal as well as spiritual plenipotentiary and representative of the Pope, had been intruded upon this country, contrary to the law of his country and of Europe, and that this foreign agent was using at this moment his plenary powers to grasp for his master, the Pope, and to appropriate according to the decrees of the Roman Propaganda, the whole of the property held in trust by the English Roman Catholics; while a similar process was being carried out by the Car-
 1267
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he did not think they could extirpate slavery as long as they encouraged slave-grown sugar. Was there any prospect of putting an end to it? He thought not. He believed the old slaveowners were much kinder to their slaves than we were to the natives for whom we exerted ourselves.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he begged it to be understood that he did not object to the reward, but quite the contrary.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, the noble Lord talked about Acts of Parliament as if he believed that Acts of Parliament had never done anything unjust. He believed they had very often; and, for one, he should be very sorry to have his property secured to him only by the justice to be found in Acts of Parliament.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, a more gross and wasteful expenditure could not be conceived than those Commissions. He had always set his face against Commissions. The Commissions that had already been issued, and were still to be issued, were nothing less than gross jobs and gross frauds on the public. A Commission was issued to put an end to corrupt practices. He had yet to learn what corrupt practices were. Whatever might have been done in the City of London—and what was done was wrapt up in mystery—he defied the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) to prove that bribery or corruption had taken place in the constituency he (Colonel Sibthorp) represented. These Commissions were established for party purposes to give employment to hangers-on. They were to give employment to briefless barristers until those barristers could find a client to entrust them with their affairs. The Government had projected five or six Commissions which had done nothing, or nothing that was of any real public value. Five or six more Commissions were to be appointed, and they would also do nothing. What were those Commissions for? They were not really to put an end to corrupt practices, they were only to give employment to hangers-on. Were they to go on for ever in such a course? If he were to move the suspension of this Vote, he should be told the money was paid, therefore it would be useless to do so. He wanted to know what had really been done? Bills of all sorts were projected. A Bill was to be brought in by one hon. Member, and then they were told that the noble Lord was at work, and another Bill might be expected. This Bill manufactory appeared to be at work as vigorously as the chicken-hatching establishment in Leicester-square. He hoped the Committee would see an end of this wasteful and useless expenditure of public money.
 MR. E. BALL  said, that he had lately visited the lower regions, for the purpose of seeing how the ventilation of the House was managed, and he had found a large fan there worked by two steam engines, which pumped up the air through the floor. The exhalations from the river hung in a cloud about the towers of the House, and he believed that these were brought down with the soot and smoke into the House by the working of the fan, which occasioned a vacuum.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, that no allegation of corruption had been made against Irish constituencies. These expenses, therefore, and no part of them, could be charged to the account of Ireland. It was perfectly true that the Commissioners had been appointed by the Chairman of the Committee before which the case had been heard; but he would ask whether there was a single man prepared to say that the greatest injustice had not been done to individuals in the present Session by Election Committees? In six cases out of seven, he was convinced that their decisions ought to be reversed; for he could put his hand upon some where gentlemen had been unseated without the shadow of a cause. These cases could not, probably, now be remedied; but there ought to be some security against a repetition of such decisions, for really no man's scat was secure under such a system.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER : Was that Bill discussed in this House?
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he could not accept the new Amendment, because it appeared to be a violation of principle, and an admission that a different system of legislation was to be applied to Roman Catholic charities to that which was applied to others.
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, he viewed with very great regret and alarm the course which had been now adopted with respect to this Bill, because, although the words were few they were pregnant with mighty consequences, and involved a most important principle; and he must entreat the attention of the House to the period at which the noble Lord had thought proper to propose this most formidable Amendment. The Bill was introduced into the House of Lords under the auspices of the Lord Chancellor. It received the most careful consideration of a Committee of that House, consisting of per-
 1256 1257 Will. "not to extend to the Universities, nor to Cathedral or Collegiate churches, nor to any funds belonging to any persons of the Jewish persuasion, or to the people called Quakers, or to persons of the Roman Catholic persuasion, and which shall be under the superintendence and control of persons of such persuasions respectively." 1258 "The trustees of Roman Catholic charities may be guilty of any amount of maladministration without the Roman Catholics, for whose benefit the trust was created, daring to ask relief, because the issue of an application with that object may be a declaration that the charity was  ab initio ex officio 1259 ex officio 1260
 SIR FREDERIC THESIGER  said, that this charity was founded in the reign of Edward VI., and at that time the Corporation of Bedford were appointed as the trustees. Various Acts of Parliament passed since then had introduced new trustees, and what he thought had led to the vicious system which now prevailed was the law which allowed eighteen of the trustees to be annually elected by the scot and lot voters of the borough. This law had enabled needy men to get into the trust, and the consequence was that while many relatives of these trustees had become recipients of the charity, one of the trustees himself was actually an inmate of the almshouses which the charity supported. It was hardly likely that such men could administer the charity with strict impartiality, and hence this measure had been introduced at the earnest entreaty of some of the most respectable and influential inhabitants of the borough.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he regretted that the subject had not been taken into consideration at once. He had had the honour of presenting many petitions from Sheffield and other places, praying that increased facility for postal communication with the Colonies might be provided, and the subject was one in which he took great interest. Before the reduction of the rate of postage in this country took place, the annual number of letters conveyed through the post-office amounted to about 75,000,000, while this year the number was expected to amount to 400,000,000; and the gross annual revenue at present was greater than it had been before the reduction was made. He most cordially agreed with the principle that the postal arrangements of the country ought not to be made mere matter of revenue, but that in a great commercial country like this the utmost facility should be afforded for postal communication.
 MR. MACARTNEY  said it would be in the highest degree desirable to obtain from Sir Charles Barry an account of the total
 1315 surveillance
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, it was stated that the payment, if made, would not be legal, and no answer had been given to that statement. If it were not shown to be a legal payment, the House of Commons could scarcely be asked to vote the money.
 MR. I. BUTT  moved that the Bill should be divided into two parts, so that the clauses which enabled grand juries in Ireland to borrow money from private sources should form a separate measure. He could offer no opposition to such a measure; but he objected to those portions of the Bill which would give the commissioners of Works a power of imposing on the grand juries in Ireland the cost of maintaining all the piers along the coast of that country. These clauses of
 1319 1320 Dublin Gazette 1321
 MR. JAMES M'GREGOR  believed the cause of the diminution of visitors to arise from the fact that the doors of the Museum were not left open all the working days of the week. When visitors arrived from the country, one of their first visits was to the British Museum; but knowing nothing of the days when it was open, they often went on days when it was shut, and getting disgusted, they refused to go back. He wished the authorities would arrange that the Museum should be open for six days in the week.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the Treasury was responsible for the Vote. He must admit that the whole matter was involved in con-
 1304
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the Vote had been printed with the others, and had been before the House for three months, and it was quite competent for any Gentleman who required further information, to ask
 1307
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the circumstances to which the Vote referred took place in the years 1848, 1849, and 1850, when Captain Dunlop, having discovered that certain slavedealers belonging to Sierra Leone had a number of slaves in the interior of the country, succeeded in liberating a large number of them. He liberated 700 slaves, and saved from mas-
 1306
 MR. J. WILSON  said, that if his hon. Friend would move that the papers should be laid on the table, he should have great pleasure in laying them before the House.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he must oppose
 1305 l. l.,
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the 12,000 l. l.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the hon. Gentleman did not seem to be aware that the fees payable to the law officers had been reduced one-half since the passing of the Patent Law Amendment Act. They were now under the supervision of the Lord Chancellor and the Master of the Rolls, who were empowered to reduce them whenever they thought proper. It was fair to recollect that a very large amount of work and very great responsibility now attached to the law officers of the Crown in connexion with the patent business of the country. The rate before the Committee was really a nominal amount, and not a charge upon the country, inasmuch as it
 1312
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to know whether the 12,000 l. l., l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he hoped the Committee would adopt the rcommendation of the Committee on Official Salaries, and resolve to remunerate the law officers of the Crown by a fixed salary out of the Consolidated Fund, instead of the present fluctuating and precarious system—precarious, he meant, as regarded the public—of payment by fees.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the Committee would feel some satisfaction at what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer respecting this huge job. His (Mr. Bright's) objection to the architect of that House was, that he always overlooked the question of expense, and while earning a name for himself, he was destroying their credit as guardians of the national finances. He hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would see to the preparation of a plan as well as of estimates, and that Sir Charles Barry should not be allowed to go beyond it.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the Act of Parliament directed that the compensation should be given for services rendered afloat, and the Vote now proposed was contrary to the course usually adopted. Nothing could be more disadvantageous than to reward men for going on marauding expeditions, many of which were of no service either to the negroes or to the country.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that by treaties with civilised nations they acquired the right to take ships and liberate slaves, and by Act of Parliament rewards were given after certain proofs of the fact. Did the noble Lord mean to say it was the same thing when men from the Queen's ships interfered with savage tribes on the coast of Africa—war, slavery, and plunder being their natural condition—and when they broke up barracoons and created as many disorders as they professed to repress? If they once admitted the principle, it would be easy to get up cases of the kind and come every year for Votes of that House. Let them settle the matter by Act of Parliament, and then the Votes would be taken on a recognised principle. But he really thought the noble Lord had in this instance presumed on the credulity of the Committee to induce them to pass this Vote.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he quite agreed with the noble Lord that it was not desirable to carry the remedy further than was absolutely necessary; but he was not sure that the Committee in the present instance were not doing so; at least, although he had been in the House about ten years, he had not known any occasion—certainly not more than one—in which the House had not been able to sit in consequence of
 1271
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, that as the representative of a class of the community who were largely interested in Jamaica, he was anxious to express his full concurrence in the proposals of the Government. Never had a Colony been so much abused and neglected as Jamaica; but he hoped her evil days had passed away, though before she could be made thoroughly prosperous and contented, her constitution must be assimilated to that of the Canadas. With respect to the guarantee, he was in general opposed to the system; but in the present instance, considering the injurious legislation which was applied to the Colony previous to 1846, he
 1294
 MR. WISE : With reference to the fitting up of the dining-room as a chapel, he could not see that it was more decent to use that room than a ball-room. There was an English church close to the Embassy which met the wants of the public.
 MR. WISE  said, he wished to have some explanation in regard to this vote. He observed that one of the items of the vote as a charge for fitting up the dining-room a chapel for public service for English visitors and residents at Paris. Now, the fact was, that there were already six or seven Protestant chapels at Paris, where the English people might not only worship according to the faith of the Church of England, but might also improve themselves in the French language. The explanation he wished to have was, what portion of this sum of 5,820 l. l., l. l. l., l. l. l., 1301 élite,
 SIR JOHN YOUNG  said, he was ready to accede to the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and to limit the operation of the measure to the fifty-four piers in question. It was not the intention of the Bill to impose any new burden upon the counties. He admitted that, as the Bill was rendered at present, it would have the effect of empowering the Board of Works, if they thought fit, to place
 1322
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought they ought to be furnished not merely with the Report of Mr. Albano, but also with the Reports which had been made in past years.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  said, he conceived that no subject could be more interesting than the present, inasmuch as it concerned the health and the comfort of those who, night after night, were obliged to sit in the same impure atmosphere. The Chief Commissioner of Works must have been mistaken when he said that nothing had been done without consulting the Lighting Committee, because Members of the Committee had informed him (Mr. Osborne) that thirty-four lights had been placed behind the back benches contrary to their opinion, and without consulting the Committee. It was impossible that those lights should not greatly alter the ventilation. The hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Locke) had also told him that the intensity of the lights, and the extreme heat they produced, would absolutely char the roof of the House in a very short period. He (Mr. Osborne) was convinced that unless the ventilation and lighting of the House were put upon a better footing, the lives of many valuable Members would be sacrificed.
 MR. MALINS  said, he believed from his own experience that a better ventilated or more comfortable room than that House could not be found anywhere.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he would appeal to hon. Gentlemen to say whether it was possible to have a worse ventilated building than that in which they were then assembled. He had been informed by Mr. Goldsworthy Gurney that by the expenditure of a very few hundreds of pounds he could make the ventilation of that House as complete as the one in which they formerly sat, and no one could desire a better ventilated room than that was. He wished to know if Mr. Gurney's opinion had been taken upon the subject?
 MR. WALPOLE  begged to explain that in his previous observations he had implied no doubt upon the impartiality or the honour of the Commissioners. He had simply called attention to the fact of there being a danger of the expenses becoming excessive, and suggested that they should be paid a certain fixed amount, instead of by a given sum per diem.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he did not wish to find fault with the Estimate, but he desired to ascertain what precautions were taken against undue charges under this head. There had been five or six Commissions—Hull, Cambridge, Canterbury, Barnstaple, and Tynemouth. It was found in the case of revising barristers that they were in the habit of spinning out the number of days when paid by the day. If they were about to pay these Commissioners by the day, he was apprehensive, unless there was some check, these charges would run up to a considerable amount. What he wished to ask Her Majesty's Government was, whether any instructions had been given to these Commissioners at the time of their appointment as to the way in which they were to be paid—whether they were to be paid by the day, or a certain sum for the duties which they had to discharge? There was another circumstance to which he wished to call the noble Lord's attention. He mentioned neither names nor places, but he had reason to apprehend that in one case at any rate an immense number of witnesses had already been examined; and, as he had been informed, a similar number was likely still to be examined; whereas if the inquiry had been prosecuted by examining One or two persons, to prove a vast class of cases, he would not say dozens but hundreds of witnessess need not have been called. He
 1309
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he wished to call the attention of the Government to a subject of some importance to the country. It could not have escaped the notice of the Government that a large number of petitions had been presented from different parts of the United Kingdom, and also from the Colonies, from Canada, the West Indies, and other of our various colonial possessions, in favour of the establishment of a cheap and uniform system of colonial and international postage. He undertook, and in fact was under promise, to bring this subject under the consideration of Parliament, and he gave notice for a Committee on the subject, thinking that a Committee was the best mode of proceeding for the purpose of inquiring into the present state of foreign and colonial postage, and to ascertain how far it was practicable to make a uniform charge of a penny for the transmission of letter from any part of the United Kingdom to parts beyond the sea where British mail packets touched. He submitted the proposal of this Committee to the Government; but the Session was far advanced at the time, and considering that the Government had themselves submitted a proposal to the Colonies for reducing materially the rate of colonial postage, and rendering it more uniform, he thought he should be exercising a wise discretion in not pressing his Motion during the present Session. His object, therefore, in rising on the present occasion, was to explain why he did not bring forward the Motion, and to explain
 1295
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that might have been so. His object was not simply confined to the question of postage rates between this country and the colonies, but involved also the question of foreign postage. Nothing could be more anomalous or unsatisfactory in that respect than the present state of things. In the United States a letter was carried 3,000 miles for three halfpence, while at home a letter was carried to any part of the United Kingdom for a penny; but the transmission of a letter across the narrow sea to Calais cost no less a sum than 9½ d. vice versâ, 1296 s., l.
 MR. W. BROWN  said, he must express his surprise at the statement which he found in the printed return of the number of persons admitted to the British Museum from Christmas, 1846, to 1852—namely, that while in 1850–51 the number of visitors amounted to 2,527,216, it fell in 1851–52 to 507,973. He thought there must be some mistake.
 MR. KEOGH  said, that he must admit that the hon. Member for Youghal had fairly stated what would be the effect of the Bill, if it passed in its present shape. But it would be very easy to alter it in Committee, so as to limit it to what was its real object, the making better arrangements for the maintenance of the piers which the counties were at present liable to repair.
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, with regard to the execution of the two chiefs, the facts were, the King of Ashantee marched a large army into the territory of a chief under our protection. The natives organised themselves for their own defence, and the Ashantees were anxious to precipitate a collision, and it was entirely owing to the tact and judgment of Major Hill that a war was avoided. The two chiefs who were executed were tried by the chiefs in their own territory, and no British officer was present; and Major Hill only was there, at the request of the chiefs themselves, to see justice done.
 MR. BOWYER  wished to know whether the Chief Commissioner of Works was prepared to open the windows; and if he was
 1318
 MR. BOWYER  said, he had great fault to find with the lighting and ventilation of the House. He was sure any hon. Member who had come into the House just before the morning sitting, when it was empty, must have felt that the place was like a vault; and the reason was that the free air of heaven never blew through it. His notion of ventilating the House was, that the windows, which were ornamented with those strange beasts—he did not know for what reason—should be made to open, so as to admit the air to blow thoroughly through the House. If that were so, there would not be, as now, a residium of foul air in the chamber in which they sat. The windows might be handsome enough as specimens of medieval art; but no one would pretend that, with those beasts daubed over them, they admitted light; and they certainly did not admit air, because they did not open. So far as ventilation was concerned, they had better close them up together, both to the light and the air, and use gaslight all the year round.
 MR. BOWYER  said, he willingly joined in the desire which had been professed by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) to protect from confiscation the charities of Roman Catholics; but he must say he infinitely preferred the practical remedy proposed by the Government. He asked for that remedy, and he accepted the Amendment, not because he desired exceptional legislation, but because these Roman Catholic charities being already the subject of exceptional legislation, it was necessary that they should be protected in the manner now proposed.
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, that all he asked was to be informed under what authority this money was paid to the officers and crew of the ship in question?
 SIR GEORGE PECHELL  said, he wished to know the scale on which these rewards were to be paid. It seemed strange to have this Vote at all, as there was a special provision to pay for slaves liberated on the Coast under an Act of Parliament. By what authority, might he ask, was the money voted? Did the Admiral on the station come in for any share in the case of the slaves rescued by the  Alert
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, the original estimate for the new Houses of Parliament was 700,000 l., l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had listened with great attention to the interesting statement of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) who, he thought, had done very right in giving this explanation before the conclusion of the present Session. He (Sir J. Pakington) wished to say that it was on no personal ground, and for no private reasons, that he had addressed questions on this subject to the noble Lord, but because, considering the great and dangerous crisis which had lately arisen in the affairs of Jamaica, he thought it was the duty of Her Majesty's Government to state to the House the view they took of that crisis, and the nature of the measures it was their intention to recommend. The noble Lord had commenced his observations by drawing a comparison between the three great West Indian Colonies of Guiana, Trinidad, and Jamaica, and stated the difference between the quantity of sugar exported from those colonies in 1840 and 1852. The noble Lord had also adverted to another most important element in the question—the supplies of labour which those colonies had respectively obtained. The noble Lord had not, however, alluded to another equally important consideration—the comparative price at which these sugars had been sold, and the comparative profit which had been derived by the exporters. It was not his (Sir J. Pakington's) intention to follow the noble Lord at any length in his observations on this part of the subject, for it would be impossible to do so without entering, to an extent which he thought unnecessary and unbecoming on this occasion, into the whole of what was called the West India question; neither would he avail himself of this opportunity to enter into that long-agitated question to which the noble Lord had alluded—namely, the policy of the noble Lord's Government in 1846. He (Sir J. Pakington) had repeatedly declared his opinion upon that subject, and it was well known to the noble Lord, who had to-night expressed his belief that the policy adopted in 1846 was a wise policy. He (Sir J. Pakington) thought it therefore his duty to say that he had in no degree changed the opinion he had before avowed, that the policy of 1846 was most unwise, and had proved
 1284 1285 "Your Lordship is aware that the whole course of fixing, raising, and managing the public revenue in Jamaica is exceedingly faulty and perverted. The Government is in no way represented in the House of Assembly, nor has it any organ there by which any tax can be proposed, or any estimates of expenditure, or of ways and means, can be laid before the Legislature. All advice by way of message from the Governor as to particular measures is regarded as dictation, and resented as breach of privilege. No Member has more right or authority than any other to recommend the sort of taxes that are to be imposed, or the rate of duration of them; and so jealously careful is the Assembly of its privileges, that the revenues for the most part are voted only from year to year. Every Member has the right also to propose a grant or appropriation of public money, and in the course of each Session a number of miscellaneous grants, though of much less amount now than formerly, are successively authorised, without much reference to estimates, or to the ability of the revenue to bear them, and towards the end of the Session are included in one enactment, each individual Member who has a grant to propose being naturally inclined to reconcile other Members to his own measure by consenting to support theirs. Upon the whole, it may be truly said that there is no system or consistency whatever in the conduct of the financial affairs of the colony, nor any recognised organ of government or legislation which has the power to bring about effectual and comprehensive improvements." 1286 "The Sesssion of the local Legislature was brought to a close on the 26th of February, as reported in my despatch No. 16, March 1, 1852. It had been chiefly remarkable for the renewed pertinacity with which the Government here is entirely excluded, not only from those functions in the body of the Legislature which the Crown exercises through its Ministers in both Houses of the English Parliament, but from all guidance, even by advice, of the proceedings of the Assembly." l., l. 1287 l., l. l. l., 1288 1289 1290 1291 1292 s. d. s. s. d. s.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : No, it was the Postmaster General.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The debt amounts altogether to 700,000 l.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he did not rise to make any exception to what had fallen from his right hon. Friend near him.
 1273 1274
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  (in the absence of the two hon. Members for the Borough) said, he had been requested by several of the inhabitants to represent to the House their repugnance to the present Bill, which they stated to be adverse to the wishes of nineteen out of every twenty of the ratepayers. Sixteen hundred out of eighteen hundred householders had petitioned against the Bill, and certainly when he looked at its provisions he thought the House ought to hesitate before they passed it. He was surprised to hear the hon. and learned Attorney General state that some of the trustees were men in the lower walks of life, and consequently that they ought not to be in such a position. He
 1253 l. l. l. l. "He was satisfied, under the existing system, the charity, upon the whole, had been well and honestly administered, and that nothing could be proved to have been done either by the present trustees or their predecessors to justify so great a change as that which was recommended." 1254
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, that in desiring to call the attention of the House to the Report of the Committee with respect to the Office of Speaker, he should wish to act in conformity with the doctrine of his right hon. Friend and Colleague (Mr. Gladstone) that the man who at this period of the Session made a long speech was an enemy of his country; he would therefore trespass but a short time on the patience of the House. He was the more induced to conform to that rule, inasmuch as, having repeatedly brought the subject incidentally before the House, having brought it before the House in a somewhat more formal manner on the 17th of last November, having on that occasion received encouragement from the right hon. Gentleman who then led the House (Mr. Disraeli) and having, at the same time, received encouragement from the noble Lord who now led the House, he was induced, in the month of February, to introduce a Motion for a Committee, and that Committee having been granted by the House without any division, and that Committee having met and agreed to the Report which had been presented, he considered that he was in a position to call the attention of the House to the subject as one on which there had been no opposition. The House itself had admitted the evil, and the necessity for a remedy. Nor had he heard of any objection to the Report of the Committee, except one in which individually he concurred—namely, that it did not go far enough in providing a remedy. When he found that the Committee could not unanimously and cordially concur in the larger measure of relief which he desired, but were ready to adopt a plan which met a great many of the existing evils, he should ask nothing more of the House than that it should
 1269 "That, whenever the House shall be informed of the unavoidable absence of Mr. Speaker, the Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means do take the Chair for that day only: "And, in the event of Mr. Speaker's absence continuing for more than one day, do, if the House shall think fit, and shall so order it, take the Chair in like manner on any subsequent day during such absence."
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he believed there had been a great diminution in the number of visitors to other institutions in 1851–52, as compared with 1850–51, the time of the great Exhibition, as well as to the Museum; but he begged to inform the Committee that during the last six months the increase of visitors to the Museum had been very perceptible, as compared with last year.
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, the hon. Member was mistaken in supposing that none of the recommendations of the Commission had been carried into effect. Immediately after their Report was made, a meeting of the trustees was held, which was attended by the late Sir Robert Peel, for the purpose of considering the various recommendations made, and adopting such of them as fell within the competency of the trustees, and met their approval. He considered the present board of trustees inferior to no fixed board of management which could be appointed. Amongst those
 1298 l. l. l. l. 1299
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, there were two classes of visitors to the Museum—those who came from motives of curiosity, and those who visited it in pursuit of science. The Tuesdays and Thursdays were reserved for scientific visitors and for foreigners of distinction—Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, for the general public—and Saturdays were reserved for cleaning.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  explained that the dilapidated condition of the mansion, as reported by Mr. Burton, the architect, confirmed by Mr. Albano, who had been sent to Paris for the especial purpose, rendered these repairs absolutely necessary. The estimates had been formed on the report of the latter gentleman. With regard to the fitting-up of the dining-room as a chapel, he must state that previously to this representation of the condition of the embassy, the ball-room was used and fitted up as a chapel. But it was considered that to appropriate a room in which a ball was held to-night for the performance of divine service to-morrow was most indecent; therefore it was thought proper that the dining-room should be fitted up for religious worship at the British Embassy.
 SIR W. MOLESWORTH  said, that various plans for providing increased accommodation for the Museum were some time ago referred to the Board of Works, in order that they might report upon them to the Treasury. That Board had lately given in their Report, which was now under the consideration of the Government, and he hoped that before next meeting of Parliament steps would be taken in order to provide increased accommodation for the British Museum.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, the report made to the noble Lord was made by Mr. Burton. A representation having been made to the Board of Works from another quarter, Mr. Albano was sent to Paris, and it was on the report of that gentleman that the present vote was framed.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that the gentleman who was now appointed the architect was Mr. Albano, and upon whose second report this estimate was founded. The person who was the architect in Paris, and who had made the reports, was Mr. Burton.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, there was a clerk of the works at Paris in charge of the mansion, and an English architect was sent over once a year to inspect the building, and report what repairs were necessary.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he must explain that there had been a large amount of outstanding accounts for works which had not been measured and valued, and the Votes for the Houses of 'Parliament had hitherto been based on the probable amount of expenditure, and not upon the amount of works executed in the financial year. The Votes, therefore, had been less than the cost of the works which had been executed in the financial year. Similar errors, however, could not happen again, because the arrears of measurement had been got rid of, and in future the Votes for the Houses of Parliament would be based on an estimate of the expenditure in the financial year.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that the sums voted by Parliament since 1835, exclusive of the 70,000 l. 1314 l.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  believed it was impossible to furnish an estimate of the sort.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that the recent alteration in the lighting of the House had been effected under the direction of Mr. Gurney, after consultation with Mr. Stephenson and Mr. Locke, and that nothing had been done in that respect without the approval of those Gentlemen.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, that the lights below the gallery had been placed there at the express wish of Mr. Speaker, who could not see hon. Members on the back benches when they required to be called to order, which, he regretted to say was the case occasionally.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he would not say anything on the subject of remuneration, but with respect to the manner the Commissioners performed their duties he would offer a few remarks, The Committee were aware that the selection was left to the persons who moved for those Commissions. They chose lawyers because their character and ability best fitted them for the duty. These lawyers were circuit-going lawyers, and the Committee could hardly call upon them to forego their pro-
 1310
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, there were two kinds of treaties—the one class was with civilised nations, by which they established mixed Commissions and Courts of adjudicature; the other was with Native Chiefs of Africa, giving officers of Her Majesty's Navy the right of entering and seizing any slaves in their territories. The policy of the Government had been to
 1308
 VISCOCNT PALMERSTON  said, he presumed these slaves were slaves on shore, in a barracoon belonging to some slave merchant, the rest of the cargo being on board ship. As rewards were given as inducements for the capture of slaves, they should adopt a liberal principle, and give the same bounty for slaves rescued from slave merchants on shore as for slaves rescued from slave ships afloat.
 The SOLICITOR, GENERAL  said,
 1398
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the parties embraced by the first clause were several classes of proprietors who were disabled by the Charter of the South Sea Company from taking part in the proceedings of the Company. These classes were three in number: first, the class of corporations, or public bodies; secondly, the class of private trustees; and, thirdly, the class of smaller proprietors,
 1404 l. l. l. l. l. l.,
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he considered that, the South Sea Company having assented to the right hon. Gentleman's first proposition to accept a money payment, it was a very bad precedent in the Government to depart from the first proposition and to proceed to the second. The first proposition, having been deliberately made and deliberately accepted, should have been adhered to,
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer would place himself in a very disadvantageous position if this clause were passed; for if, on the 25th of December, the Treasury offered a commutation, and the parties had eleven days to consider whether they should accept it, operations might take place in the money market which would embarrass the right hon. Gentleman in his arrangements. He wished the Chancellor of the Exchequer to explain what course he proposed to adopt in the event of the stockholders refusing to accept the alternatives held out to them under this clause, which he much feared was a probable event.
 The CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must decline giving any explanation on the point, whatever might be its interest. He protested against the public discussion of remotely possible contingencies by Gentlemen, some of whom, he was hound to say, seemed to speak as if they had no other object than that of ex-
 1406
 MR. HUME  said, he hoped his hon. Friend would consider the immense population that was to be benefited.
 MR. HUME  said, he had objected to the commencement of these works; but now that they were actually in progress, it would be, in his opinion, not by any means a wise proceeding, to discontinue them.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, the hon. Gentleman had complained that this was a public Bill, introduced under the cover of a private Bill. He begged, however, to inform the hon. Gentleman that this was nothing else but a private Bill. If it had been introduced as a public Bill, Mr. Speaker would immediately have objected to its introduction in that way, on account of its being a private Bill. It was a private Bill, because it was promoted by a private company. He believed that great good would be done to the country if such a corporation as that proposed by the Bill were established. It proposed to perform for executors and trus-
 1397
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  could only so far state what the intention of the Government was as to say that when all the Reports of the several Commissioners should be printed, the Government would consider what measures ought to be adopted with regard to the different places which were affected by them. As to whether it would be advisable to include them in any general measure, or to deal with them by a separate one, was a question which must be left open for consideration. As to the discussion of any great measure of reform, he
 1416
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought this Vote involved a principle of the utmost importance. The various counties through out the country supported their own bridges, and therefore the cost of the Chelsea, bridge should fall not on the country at large, but upon the county of Middlesex He had been very much surprised, there fore, at the opinion expressed by the hon. Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume), win had stated, some two years ago, in bringing forward a Motion on the subject of reform, that he had always found the population and property went together. If that proposition were a true one, it was
 1408
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it was in consequence of the plan for making a park at Battersea that he particularly opposed this Vote. They were told by the right hon. Baronet that the plan of asking for Votes was adopted in consequence of the objection which he (Mr. Disraeli), on the part of the late Government, had made to the system of advances by the Exchequer Loan Commissioners for carving out this project. The right hon. Baronet had not stated, however, that the Commissioners had ceased to make these or similar advances, for at present the machinery for such advances still existed, although these Votes were proposed in Committee of Supply. His (Mr. Disraeli's) objection to the advances by the Exchequer Loan Commissioners was, that very considerable expenditure was thus incurred without any proper control on the part of Parliament, for purposes of a local and partial character, which had really nothing to do with the general convenience and interests of the country. The right hon. Baronet said, in effect, "We intend to continue the same pernicious system, but, in consequence of the statements you made, we shall continue it by other means." Now, he (Mr. Disraeli) considered that Battersea Park ought never to have been made. He objected to the expenditure of so large a sum of money as 500,000 l.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the hon. Member for Westbury was mistaken in supposing that no attempt had been made by the late Government to stop these works. The subject had been brought before him when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer, and it appeared to him of the greatest importance to the public interests that measures should be adopted for stopping all works of the kind. He took the earliest steps in his power to discontinue advances, and he had entirely opposed all grants for the establishment of a park in Finsbury, which was proposed to the late Government. It was represented to him by a very large deputation which did him the honour to wait upon him from that populous and wealthy district, that it was of the utmost importance that such a park should be made, and he told them he would consider the proposition if they would inform him what sum the district would contribute to the object. He was sorry to say, however, that the very wealthy community of Finsbury were apparently not prepared to advance a single pound sterling for the purpose. The late Government, therefore, had given no encouragement whatever to such projects.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he entertained a very great suspicion indeed of Her Majesty's Government, and of this new system which they were about to inaugurate. He was slow to regard anybody with suspicion, but he would not conceal from the country the folly of England being thus placed at the feet of the foreigner. He was there to protest against confidence being reposed directly or indirectly in the foreigner, be he the Russian, the Frenchman, or the American, for the game of all was to undermine England, and attain an ascendancy over her. There was that Crystal Palace, had he not told them that the Sovereigns would laugh at them for it; and that they were only be-
 1414 Laughter, and
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the Government had had objects in view which were wholly distinct. The one was, the advantage of our diplomatic communication, and the other was, that British commerce should enjoy the full benefit of the advantages which the convention gave to those nations who joined in it. It was highly desirable that this country should not be wholly dependent upon the Electric Telegraph Companies in foreign countries.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, with respect to this Vote he would state in explanation that a convention had been agreed upon between certain foreign countries for the establishment of electric communication throughout the whole continent of Europe. This country was invited to join the convention, but the Government of the day did not accept the invitation, because they had no power of establishing a communication with the wires upon the Continent. That communication had, however, since been effected, and he thought it most important that the Government of this country should avail itself of the advantages of the convention. The advantages of joining the convention, so far as the diplomatic service was concerned, were the right to priority
 1413
 MR. CARDWELL  said, if we wanted to enter into this convention, we must do so as a Government. The Imperial Government of France had given the monopoly of the supply of electric telegraphs along the whole coast of France to a single commercial company, and in like manner the Belgian Government had given a monopoly of their coast to an English telegraph company. The only way of preventing monopolies was for this country to accede to the convention through its Government.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had examined the provisions of this Bill, and he had no doubt whatever as to its expediency, or as to the necessity for passing it. The policy which the Bill enunciated was approved of by the majority of the Company; and the reason it was not investigated by a public Committee was simply that the forms of the House required that it should be a private Bill. Being unopposed, it was referred to the Chairman of Committees, who thoroughly examined its provisions, and reported it as unobjectionable. Whence, then, arose this opposition? The Bill had been approved of by the Company in public meeting assembled; and since the supposed absence of the consent of the Proprietors was the present ground of opposition, he thought the House ought to experience no difficulty in passing the measure.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he must now state his reason why he thought the House ought not to proceed further with this Bill. In the first place, the statements which he had made on a former occasion had not been refuted. He had said that the marketable value of these three new stocks were 93 l. l. l., l., l. 1399 l. l. l. l., l., l., l. l. l. l. l., l. l., 1400 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 1401 l. l. 1402 l. l. l., l., l., l., 1403
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he thought the Bill of such importance that it ought to receive further deliberation, and be considered more at length than it could be at that period of the Session. The effect of this Bill would be to make the South Sea Company a great trading company, carrying on business as trustees for other parties; and,; although that change might be advantageous to the proprietors, he contended that, without the sanction of all the proprietors, it would be neither more nor less than an act of spoliation to pass this Bill. The real operation of the Bill would be this—parties who had invested their money in South Sea Stock, under the impression that it was for a particular purpose, would be paid off without ceremony, if they did; not consent to the terms of the Bill. In; point of fact, the South Sea Company was a copartnership, and the object of this Bill was to compel the parties to dissolve the partnership. If the assent of all the proprietors had been obtained to it, of course his objections to the Bill would cease; but without that consent the Bill was nothing more nor less than an act of spoliation, and the House ought, therefore, to reject it. They were told, indeed, that the Bill was founded upon a resolution passed by the Company; but they had no information as to how the resolution was discussed or carried. They did not know whether all the proprietors entitled to vote agreed to it; if they did, of course there would be an end to his opposition, but upon these points the House was, as yet, entirely uninformed.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that supposing he was a trustee holding 500 l.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman would be placed in a very difficult position by the passing of this measure. If, on the 1st of November, he should be called upon to fix the price, and the 3¼ per cents were at par, the Government must, in any case, be losers. Suppose the right hon. Gentleman fixed the price at 99 l. l.,
 MR. DUNCAN  said, he objected to a toll being placed on the bridge; but, in the hope that eventually the Government would not impose any such toll, he was prepared to vote for the grant.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, he could see nothing in this matter but a local improvement, which ought to be paid for, as in the country it would be paid for, out of local rates. They ought to be the more cautions in adopting this Vote, because he believed it was but the commencement of other embankments, which ought to be continued from Vauxhall down to London bridge, but which ought to be paid for the inhabitants, and not by the Unite Kingdom.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he cordially concurred in the sentiments expressed by the right hon. Gentleman; but he must observe
 1411
 MR. HENLEY  begged to state, for the information of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli) that counties could not be, and were not, liable to build bridges, although they were bound to maintain them. His object was to get this bridge built, and then the expenses of it would be thrown on the counties of Surrey and Middlesex.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought this Bill was very obscurely drawn, and regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not condescended to inform the Committee what was the amount of money to which the clause now under consideration would apply. In his opinion, the measure proposed to the Committee would tend very greatly to destroy the public credit.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would suggest that the Bill should be sent back to the Select Committee, with instructions especially to report the proportions of proprietors who assented to this Bill. The Bill created new powers and new objects, which the Company were to carry out; and before such a change as that could be made in the constitution of the Company, the House ought to be satisfied that it had been sanctioned by the great majority of the proprietors. The Bill was, however, objectionable on other grounds; for instance, it extended the principle of limited liability, while some of the clauses were so framed that the Company could hold lands to any extent—a power which Parliament had always refused to confer upon joint-stock companies.
 MR. COBDEN  said, he objected to our Government interfering with enterprises which ought to be left to the action of private competition; and he wished to know if all the objects which the right hon. Gentleman had in view might not be secured from the lines at present in existence?
 MR. COBDEN  said, he thought it would be better to endeavour to effect an arrangement with the existing companies before applying to Parliament for money to create a rival set of wires.
 MR. MALINS  said, it was plain to everybody that the scheme of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been a total failure; but the bargain ought to be adhered to, and the dissentient holders of the stock should be paid off. If the right hon. Gentleman had not sufficient balances in the Exchequer for the purpose, let him come to Parliament and ask for the necessary means.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he wished to know whether the South Sea Company, as a Company, having refused to accept the offer which had been made to them, were to have the offer repeated?
 MR. SPOONER  said, he protested against the proposal, for he was of opinion that any difficulty which existed the Chancellor of the Exchequer had brought upon himself.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he rose to move that the Bill be rejected. The Bill, although standing on the private paper, was
 1396 l.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, that the real question was whether distant counties ought to be called upon to pay for the luxuries of other parts of the country.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must complain that the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down stated that he had not condescended to inform the Committee of the amount proposed to be commuted. He had already informed the Committee that the amount would probably exceed 2,000,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the South Sea Company was a corporation possessed by law of a certain indivisible trading stock, although the interests of individuals in that stock was made saleable and transferable from one party to another. The consequence was, that when the Government made the offer to the Company to commute its stock, the effect of the commutation not being accepted made it absolutely necessary for the Company to come to Parliament for powers to divide this trading stock, which was otherwise indivisible. It was necessary that that should be dealt with by a private Bill, and the House had passed a private Bill, which amounted to the practical resuscitation of the Company; but that was a matter entirely distinct from the one they were now discussing. He had thought the most convenient course to pursue was to deal with the South Sea Company as a public body, and he proposed to give the trustees the same power, as far as regarded their portion of the stock, as the whole body had possessed by their votes. This clause must therefore be considered in conjunction with certain other clauses in the private Bill of the South Sea Company,
 1405
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that this clause grew entirely out of the view which the South Sea Company took of its own interest, and had no connexion whatever with the operation which had lately been going on. The Company desired to be constituted a trust Company, and Parliament had assented to its being made so. One condition to the carrying out of that arrangement was, that the Company should have a guarantee fund of 300,000 l.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that his answer to the hon. and learned Gentleman was this. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated a particular opinion in regard to the present Value of certain stocks; but, in the first place, that was a matter entirely of opinion, and, in the second place, even if the opinion of the hon. and learned Gentlemen were correct, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) did not think it had the slightest bearing on the question whether the House should go into Committee on this Bill.
 MR. W. BROWN  said, he must beg to renew his annual protest against these Votes of public money for London embellishments. Why was London, which was so rich, to be beautified at the expense of provincial taxpayers? London could afford to embellish herself, and should do it without coming on the country.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he should support the Bill, simply on the ground that the Chancellor of the Exchequer must be enabled to meet the engagements he had been authorised to contract.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he considered the work a national work. It was strange that hon. Gentlemen opposite should object to this Vote on the ground that public money ought not to be granted for local objects, when the very next Vote was for a harbour in Ireland.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that he took a very grave view of the probable effect of this Bill in case it should pass into law. It seemed to him calculated to strike at the very root of our national credit.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that having gone through the evidence which had been taken before the Commissioners, he should not offer any opposition to the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, that no new writ be issued during the present Session. He wished, however, to know whether the noble Lord intended early next Session to deal with these boroughs, or whether he proposed that they should remain—be their population more or less—disfranchised, with a view of considering them in connexion with a general measure of Parliamentary reform? The matter was one of considerable importance, as it involved a great constitutional principle. They had issued this Session six Commissions affecting no less than eleven Members; and before that the borough of St. Albans and the borough of Sudbury had been disfranchised; therefore no less than fifteen Members were excluded from seats in that House. It was for the House to consider whether they would proceed to legislate on so great a question as that of a change in the constitution of the House, with these vacancies continuing. He thought it was very desirable that the noble Lord should give some information as to what the intentions of the Government were upon that point.
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he found an Act of Parliament of the last Session, the object of which was, by amending the previous Act, to hasten the completion of the embankment of the Thames. According to the first Act the embankment could not be commenced until certain agreements were entered into with the landed proprietors, the object of which was to make those gentlemen contribute a certain sum of money towards the construction of the embankment. An Act—the 15 & 16  Vic. 1412
 SIR WILLIAM MOLESWORTH  said, he concurred with very much that. Had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman. He cordially agreed with him that henceforth some plan should be adopted whereby the metropolis should be made to contribute the means for carrying out its own public works. But at present there was this difficulty—that they had no municipal machinery under which the funds could be raised. That power implied the principle of representation. The Government, however, had under its consideration the whole subject of metropolitan improvements, and t he trusted the result would be the adoption of a sounder system. But with regard to this Vote—it was part and parcel of the scheme for the new park at Battersea, founded upon the Report of the Metropolitan Improvement Commission of f 1845. In consequence of that Report, two Acts of Parliament had been introduced, one to authorise the formation of the park, s and the other the construction of the
 1409 l. l. l., l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1410
 MR. HUME  said, he must complain of an item of 374 l.
 MR. HUME  thought this was carrying civility to an enemy a little too far. There were several other inconsistent and extravagant items in the estimate: he would suggest that in future the Treasury ought to look more closely after them. He hoped that these miscellaneous estimates would be submitted next year to a Select Committee for revision, and that all fees payable on occasions of honours being conferred, should be done away with.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he objected to what he termed the desultory character of the entire Vote. He did not see why so many estimates should be referred to one general head, and why, at all events, with respect to several of the items under the words "civil contingencies," a particular Vote should not be taken.
 MR. HUME  said, he hoped that the country, now that it had to pay 100,000 l. 1453 l.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to know, before this Vote was agreed to, what was the tenor of the Report of the Committee which had been appointed to inquire into this subject. He had been informed by very competent men that the effect of voting so large a sum for the packet service had hitherto been to impede to some extent the progress of the facility of intercommunication between this and other countries. Rival companies had been prevented from starting, and of course competition was at an end. He wished to know if a reduction of the amount proposed to be voted, had not been recommended some time since by the Committee which was appointed to consider the subject.
 MR. COWPER  said, the Report of the Committee to which the hon. Gentleman referred, was already on the table of the House, and had been for some days, having been printed on the 29th of July. Having been a Member of that Committee, he could assure hon. Members that the whole subject of the contract packet service had been thoroughly examined. All the details of the subject had been fully gone into, and would be found in the Report. The Committee had not been able to recommend any immediate or great reduction in the service, because most of the sums paid for it were sums agreed to be paid by the Government under contracts for a series of years; and so long as the contracting parties continued to execute their contracts efficiently, it was not possible for the Government to determine them. At a future period, however, when the present contracts came to a conclusion, there was a prospect that arrangements might be made by which the service could be performed as efficiently and more
 1454 l. l. l. l. l. terra firma. 1455
 MR. HUME  hoped that no new contract would be entered into without the fullest inquiries being made. He thought the country had great reason to complain that, after paying all these large sums for the packet service, they were not allowed the benefit of an ocean penny postage. He believed the main reason why it was not established, was the obstinacy of the departments interested. He was certain the Government did not properly take into consideration the immense number of emigrants who had left our shores in the course of the last few years, and the great interest which this country had in their being enabled to keep up a correspondence with their relations at home.
 MR. COWPER  said, he had alluded to the transference of the Mediterranean service to the Peninsular and Oriental Company, by which a saving was made. No doubt similar transferences might take place in other directions. With regard to the service from Dover to Calais, and from Dovor to Ostend, the Government would ask for tenders, and if the inquiry was satisfactory, then the Queen's packets would be given up. With respect to the service to Australia, he had to say that at present the experiment as to which was the best route was in progress, mails being sent alternate months by Singapore and by the Cape of Good Hope, and the choice of a route by the Government would depend upon the results.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  said, he by no means shared in the opinion that this was the last Vote which that House would be called on to grant for a Kafir war. He believed that more territory must be ceded, and the Colony contracted into more defensible limits, before they could venture to indulge in the hope of a permanent peace there.
 MR. HUME  said, he very much doubted the sincerity of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. Was it fair on almost the last day of the Session to urge a renewal of the discussion on this Bill? What he (Mr. Hume) should desire in the situation of the hon. Gentleman would be, that a full and fair inquiry should be made. The time for discussion would be when that inquiry was moved for.
 MR. HUME  said, he wished to know whether there was about to be introduced any general plan of secondary punishment, for he had not yet heard of any plan whatever being about to be proposed? He found in the Estimates a charge of nearly 1,500,000 l.
 MR. HUME  said, he considered the alarm of last year to have been utterly unfounded, and was still of opinion that we were wasting the public resources, instead of proceeding to relieve them of every burden which could be removed. The military mania now abroad would cost the country very nearly 1,000,000 l. 1476
 MR. HUME  said, he would have placed his opinion on record by going to a division, had he not been aware that public feeling was in favour of the measure. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Walpole) seemed to forget the addition made to our naval force, which had been augmented by 10,000 seamen. We had now 380,000 troops in arms, or ready to be called out, which, in proportion to the population, was a larger military force than that of France.
 MR. VERNON SMITH  begged to ask whether the system which prevailed under the old Act of making mere complimentary colonelships, by giving the commissions to
 1477
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he thought the right course would have been not to have introduced into the Bill, in the first instance, any clause for exemption for two years. The course which he intended to have taken was, first, to suggest clauses by which the change might have been made, and in the event of these clauses not being agreed to, then to propose such an exemption as had been agreed to for two years. However, when the Bill came on, and the noble Lord agreed to make an exemption for two years, he thought it not desirable to agitate the question further. For his own part, fully agreeing in the opinion that such a change ought to be made, he should be glad to assist in supporting clauses putting Roman Catholic charities on a legal footing.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he did not agree with his hon. Friend (Mr. Lucas), that the exemption clause ought not to have been inserted. He thought a protection of that kind was absolutely necessary. He heard, with great pleasure, the observations of the noble Lord on the subject, and begged to express the gratification he felt at the mode in which the noble Lord had given utterance to his sentiments. He did not wish that this Bill should not apply to Roman Catholic charities; he thought it ought, for he looked on the Bill as an
 1487 Geo.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  denied that there was any similarity between the position of Durham and Oxford and Cambridge Universities. The former by no means held equal rank as a corporate body with the two latter. And he felt sure that unless institutions like Durham and London came within the operation of this Act, that they could never be made the subject of a particular enactment, and therefore they would be removed beyond the pale of the law altogether. He therefore trusted that hon. Gentlemen would not oppose the insertion of the word proposed.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he was sorry to sec the manner in which this question was debated, for hon. Members who wished that every institution should be brought under the operation of the Bill, yet wished to exempt this one merely for the sake of a little wounded vanity. He thought it would have been desirable that all halls and colleges should be under the operation of the Bill; and to talk of exempting the University of London, which embraced all sorts of institutions which chose to affiliate themselves to it, would lead to many institutions so affiliating themselves in order to avail themselves of the exemption. Colleges and halls were exempted on account of their being corporations under peculiar charters, and schools and institutions supported by voluntary subscription were not included in the Bill at all. He objected to any endeavour to limit the operation of the Bill.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, the hon. and learned Solicitor General had not answered the argument of the hon. Member for South Lancashire (Mr. Cheetham), that the question had been brought under the notice of Lord Aberdeen, and that the University of London had been restored to the clause. This was, in fact, a question with regard to the Dissenters' University—that University which alone was open to them.
 MR. BLACKETT  said, as one of the representatives of the smoke-producing class, he would repeat the appeal he before made to the noble Lord against going on with this Bill at this period of the Session. This Bill would cause great expense to the manufacturers of London. A second point was, that this Bill would produce a total disarrangement of the northern coal trade. ["Oh, oh!"] Why, what was he sent there for but to represent those interests? Those were reasons, if not for rejecting the Bill, certainly for not proceeding with it at this period of the Session.
 Mr. MACKINNON  said, he trusted the noble Lord would persevere with the Bill. It was perfectly easy to remedy the smoke nuisance, both in steamers on the river and in manufactories, at a very small expense in alterations. The whole objection arose from a disinclination to incur expense in altering furnaces, and from the coalowners in the north, who were apprehensive that anthracite coal would supersede the consumption of theirs in the London market.
 MR. PETO  said, that at present there was an intolerable nuisance from small steamers above bridge from the quantity of smoke emitted by them. All that was wanted was that they should burn coke instead of coal. With respect to furnaces it was somewhat different; but still it was a question of fuel, and the Welsh coal was always to be had, and he undertook to say that there would be no difficulty in carrying out the provisions of the Bill.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought there was a fallacy in the reasoning of those who, like himself, were friends to the University of London; for, if the authority of the Commissioners under this Bill was to operate beneficially, he did not see why they should wish exemptions like those of Oxford and Cambridge to be carried further.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he held very strong views on this question himself. The practical question, however, was, what was
 1469
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he thought it would be better that the Government Orders should have precedence throughout the whole of the day, and that the words "until three o'clock" should be omitted from the Motion.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, that perhaps he should best consult the convenience of the Committee at that late period of the Session if he addressed to them a very few observations in proposing this Vote for the Militia. The number of men that was now enrolled, as far as could be judged from the last returns, was about
 1471 l.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, he should offer but a few words in answer to the observations of the hon. Member. In the first place, with reference to the remark of the hon. Member that a militiaman could be trained into a good soldier in twenty-one days, he begged to say that he had every disposition to give credit to the militia force; but the Committee must not imagine that at the end of that short period the militia would be in as effective a state as the army. They were trained, no doubt,
 1474 l.
 MR. SYDNEY HERBERT  said, the number to be raised last year was 50,000, and this year 30,000. It was only proposed to raise 25,000 this year.
 MR. SIDNEY HERBERT  said, the attention of the Secretary of State for the Home Department had been called to the circumstance that persons employed in the colonial service also held commissions in the militia. There were not many cases of that nature, but the noble Lord had insisted that all persons who were permanently employed in the Colonies should resign their commissions in the militia. In future, also, lieutenant colonels commandant, instead of full colonels, would be appointed to militia regiments; so that, if the militia should be stationed in a garrison town where there were troops of the line, the command of the whole force would be taken by the officer Commanding the regular troops, who would probably be superior in rank to the lieutenant colonel of the militia.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, that
 1497
 LORD DUDLEY STUART : Sir, a rumour of the most important character has been circulated in the public prints of to day. I allude to the rumour that the Emperor of Russia has agreed to certain proposals which have been submitted to him by the different Powers of Europe for
 1463
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : In answer to the question of my noble Friend, I have to state that there is a foundation for the rumour to which he has alluded, and that we have just received a despatch from Her Majesty's Minister at Vienna, which is of a satisfactory nature. The answer which has been received from the Court of St. Petersburgh is in reply to the first proposal which was agreed to at Vienna. I have further to state that the messenger who was to have gone to Constantinople, and who, as I said on a former occasion, would leave Vienna on the 31st of July, did not actually leave Vienna until the 2nd of August; so that the reply from Constantinople cannot be received as soon as it was at first expected.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Mr. Speaker, in answer to the hon. Gentleman, I have to state, with respect to his first question, that before the prorogation of Parliament, I will give such information on the subject of the existing relations between Russia and Turkey as I may think consistent with my sense of public duty. In answer to the second question of the hon. Member, I cannot say that I think it would be advisable for the public interest that in the present state of the negotiations between Russia and Turkey, there should be any day devoted to a general discussion of that subject.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he thought that it would be much better to defer any discussion upon this subject until the second reading of the Transportation Bill, which would come on to-morrow. Whatever plan might be adopted, must depend very much upon the change of circumstances from time to time. The alteration with respect to transportation had been in a great measure owing to the present State of the colonies, and the strong feeling that existed there upon the subject.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I cannot at present state the propositions which have been made to the Emperor of Russia. I have already stated, in answer to a question, that before the prorogation of Parliament I will give all the information which it is consistent with duty to afford. What that information may be, of course I will not anticipate; but I will certainly state to the House as much as it will be in my power to state with a view to the public interest.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he would readily agree to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie), especially after the statement of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), so that Government orders should take precedence during the whole of Wednesday.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : I beg to explain that what I said was, that I would give such information as it would be in my power to give consistently with my sense of public duty; and I think that it will be more satisfactory that I should give that information at the latest moment before the prorogation of Parliament.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : As far as the Government are concerned, it is not their opinion that it is desirable, under existing circumstances, there should be a discussion.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  moved that on Wednesday next the Government Orders of the Day should have precedence until three o'clock.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  thought it a
 1466
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he must explain that what he had said was, that he wished a fair decision—not that he voted for the proposition of the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he must disclaim any intention of giving offence to the Dissenters, for he was one of those who was anxious for the foundation of the University of London, and assisted in its progress, and, therefore, he did not wish to cast any stigma upon it; but he had argued that a Commission had issued to inquire into the case of Oxford and Cambridge, and they were become the subjects of legislation, but no such steps had been taken with regard to the University of London, and so far it had been favoured.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said that, notwithstanding the last division, he must object to the exemption proposed. Whatever might be the reason for the vote to which the House had just come in respect to Durham, it seemed to him there might be mischief done if the House adopted the proposed Amendment. The colleges of Oxford and Cambridge, it was well known, were connected with those institutions; but the only way in which you could connect the colleges and schools in various places with the University of London was, that those schools requested that they might be permitted to send young men to that University, in order that they might pass examinations and obtain degrees. Now, there might be a charity school of
 1493
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, he agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down, that it would be very desirable to
 1486
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that he did not consider the case of the Chief Commissioners of the Poor Law Board being entitled to sit in that House as precisely analogous to these Commissioners, because the functions of the Commissioners under this Bill were partly judicial. Generally speaking, however, he was in favour of taking away the disqualifications with respect to persons sitting in that House; and he did not know that if they had had a full discussion of the matter when the Bill was in Committee, he might not have been induced to vote in favour of his hon. Friend's Amendment; but it ought to be recollected that the Bill went through Committee, and was reported without any special notice being taken of this point; and he did not think it would be just, after the Bill had passed through these stages, to make so important a change as that now proposed; and he certainly, therefore, could not consent, on the part of Government, to the Amendment.
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  proposed that the clause relating to exemptions should be so altered as to exclude the University of Durham from its operation. The Universities of Oxford and Cambridge were to be exempted; but then it was because the colleges and halls of those Universities had very recently been made the subject of inquiry, and would have to be considered in future legislation. No such reason, however, could apply to either Durham or London, and he therefore proposed to alter
 1491
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he wished to call attention to the condition of the inferior officers in the Customs, and the impossibility of their obtaining promotion, and would beg to move the following Amendment:—
 "That no persons who have not undergone a long training in the lower classes, such as weigher, locker, or superintendent locker, shall be eligible
 1483
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he was satisfied with the explanations which had been made by the hon. Secretary to the
 1485
 MR. LAYARD : Am I to understand that there will be a discussion of the question before the prorogation?
 MR. DISRAELI  said: Sir, I take this opportunity of making an inquiry of Her Majesty's Government with respect to a question which I understand has been adverted to in an earlier part of the evening, namely, to the account that has been received of the acceptance by the Emperor of Russia of certain propositions which were presented to him by what I may call the Congress of the Great Powers, which has been sitting at Vienna. I understand that the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) holds out no prospect to the House of the papers being laid upon the table, or of any day being appointed for a discussion upon this important subject. And considering the month, and the date of the month, I am not at all surprised that the noble Lord indulged in these observations. But what I wish to know from Her Majesty's Government is, considering, the peculiar circumstances of this case, whether the noble Lord has any objection to state to the House the nature of those propositions which, we understand, have been accepted by the Emperor Of Russia?
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, as this was the only occasion when it would be possible to bring this subject before the House, he hoped he should be pardoned if he took up a few moments in adverting to the late settlement of the Kafir war. He thought that House, as guardian of the public purse, was bound to see that the
 1456 1457 1458 1459
 MR. NEWDEGATE  preferred the Amendment, merely because it was more direct than the Motion.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that it was impossible to mistake the intention and object of the Motion made by the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), when the House considered the nature of the notice which stood first for Wednesday next, that was, the Recovery of Personal Liberty Bill, second reading, upon which an Amendment had virtually been adopted by the House for the appointment of a Committee to inquire into the system and practices of Conventual Establishments. The noble Lord and the Government had been in a minority on that subject on the 22nd of July, and the object of the noble Lord was to render the ratification of the decision of the House in favour of an inquiry into convents impossible; the noble Lord, in fact, brought the weight of the official votes, which were at the command of the Government, to destroy the last remnant of sphere for independent action, which remained to the House. For the House had, at the instance of the Government, yielded first Thursdays to Government business, had then consented to morning sittings, then, on other days of the week, to the exclusion of Members engaged on Committees upstairs, and had at last yielded Tuesdays also, until the only days of the week which remained for the business introduced by independent Members were Wednesdays, the morning sittings on which were limited to terminate at six o'clock. The noble Lord now proposed to take away half the six hours in the week which remained for the discussion and decision of measures introduced by Members not of the Government. The noble Lord's proposal was merely limited to the first three hours, in order to conceal the fact that he intended to abrogate the last remaining opportunity for independent action on the part of the House. He (Mr. Newdegate) therefore preferred the more manly and direct abnegation of the right of independent Members, proposed by the hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie), and upon that as raising the true issue would take the sense of the House. The noble Lord was perfectly aware of the difficulties with which those who desired a solution of this question, by a decision of the House, had to contend. Those who took an interest in a question which stood first on the Orders for Wednesday, were seeking, as the noble Lord was perfectly aware, merely to terminate the discussion on that question by a fair debate, and to enable the House
 1465
 MR. NEWDEGATE  begged to explain that the allusion he had made to a party which had a peculiar organisation, and was confirmed by a speech made in Ireland by the hon. Member for Mayo. [ And was proceeding, when cries of and were raised from the Ministerial benches, and Mr. Speaker interfered.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP , as one who had the honour of commanding a regiment of militia, begged to express the gratification with which he had listened to the high terms of commendation in which the right hon. Gentleman had spoken of that body generally. He should suggest, however that a second period of training should be allowed, being convinced that both the men themselves and the majority of the civil population also would be favourable to such a step.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  would tell the hon. Member for Manchester that he recollected his  Delectus cuilibet in sua arte credendum est.
 MR. E. BALL  said, the right hon. Gentleman had wisely avoided attempting to meet his arguments, knowing their weight. Acting upon the advice of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner) he should not divide the House.
 MR. E. BALL  rose to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice. On a former occasion, when he had brought forward a similar Motion, and was near carrying it, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had glided like a spectre into the House, and while delivering himself of a long speech sent his scouts out about town; and having collected such a number of his supporters as showed him that he must be successful, had succeeded in defeating the Motion by a small majority. He (Mr. Ball), though he had not been fully heard on that occasion, did not think that he should have brought the subject forward again, had it not been that he had been informed by influential persons that the Ministers had been un-
 1478 l. 1479 1480 l. l.
 MR. CAYLEY  said, he entirely concurred in the speech of the hon. Member for Cambridgeshire, and considering it, as he did, utterly unanswerable, he advised the Chancellor of the Exchequer not to attempt to answer it, for it would be difficult for him to do so, and it would be wiser for the right hon. Gentleman to promise to take the subject into serious consideration previous to the next Session. The importance of doing something with the malt duties ought to obtain the relief suggested.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he wished to take that opportunity of saying that he thought that those who were interested in Catholic charities had committed a mistake in coming before the House on a former occasion, and claiming, or having the appearance of claiming, for those charities an exemption from the laws which ought to affect all classes of the community equally. He had a very great objection to taking any course which could have even the appearance of putting forward a claim to exceptional legislation on the part of the Catholics of this Empire. He believed that they had no interest in such exceptional legislation, and he believed that it would be a very great blunder in them to demand it, so far as their own interests were concerned, for it was their own true policy to stand on the ground of common right and common law. But with regard to this particular question, it happened, in fact, that Catholics were not demanding any exceptional legislation in their favour. He believed that the best course that could have been taken would have been to introduce into this Bill clauses which would have placed Catholic charities on a proper footing, and redressed the grievances of which they complained, instead of excepting them from the operation of the Bill. He considered that exception to be of very little value, and he should as soon see the Bill without it, though he was quite willing to acknowledge the readiness with which the noble Lord had introduced it. He (Mr. Lucas) was therefore disposed to move the introduction of a clause to carry out the object which he had in view; namely, the exempting them from disabilities on the ground of superstitious uses, and if it should be found to be impossible to insert it in the Bill, he hoped that the noble Lord would at least give some assurance, on which Catholics might rely, that every effort would be made next Session to place Catholic trusts on a satisfactory and firm basis.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he could not allow the impression to go forth, that hon. Members at his part of the House shrunk from the discussion of this subject. So far from being unwilling, he was anxious to discus it, and he would tell the House the reason why, personally, he was anxious to discus the question. He was anxious to call the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) to account for certain statements which the hon. Gentleman made on former occasions when he (Mr. Lucas) had not an opportunity of answering. If he did not think it most absurd that the House should spend next Wednesday in a discussion which could end in nothing, he should wish to have a discussion. It would be affectation in him not to understand the allusion to a party of whom the hon. Gentleman spoke as being banded together, and as acting contrary to Parliamentary precedent. He (Mr. Lucas) was sure that the party with which he was connected has not conducted itself in a manner inconsistent with Parliamentary usage or practice. If the hon. Gentleman alleged an intention of talking this question out, the noble Lord had given an answer by reference to a discussion in a previous Session,
 1468
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he hoped that within two years the law of Mortmain would be amended. At present it was a matter of the utmost difficulty, in some parts of the country, to settle property for benevolent purposes, such as infirmaries, schools, and the like. They could not take a lease for a term of years for building purposes, but they were obliged to resort to the subterfuge of having a nominee as lessee, who assigned to the trustees; and in regard to copyhold property, it was perfectly impracticable to make a title until Lord Tenterden's decision was overruled, because it could not be conveyed in the way that the Mortmain Act required. The noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) would render a greater support to education by removing these difficulties, than by a thousand Education Bills. If he would put the law in a form by which they could have facilities for establishing these institutions, they would have plenty of them in the country, and the law ought to be such as to apply equally to all.
 CAPTAIN SCOBELL  said, he must complain that ablebodied seamen were now the only class which had no bounties held out to them.
 MR. AGLIONBY  said, he did not see what there was to prevent the noble Lord from taking the discussion upon the question then. He thought the matter should not be delayed, because, in his opinion, it would be of the greatest possible advantage that the Commissioners under this Bill should have seats in that House, and be able to state in the face of day, in answer to the inquiries of hon. Members, what had taken place on the Commission.
 MR. I. BUTT  said, he should oppose the Amendment, because, as the Charitable Trusts Commissioners were to a great extent Judges, he thought it would be most objectionable that persons exercising judicial functions should be liable to be questioned in Parliament on the subject of their decisions. He also objected to the Amendment, because, if it were adopted, a Commissioner who had to inquire into the administration of charities in a particular borough, which charities were made subservient to electioneering purposes, might himself become a candidate for that borough, and thus all confidence in the fairness of his proceedings would be destroyed.
 MR. HEYWOOD  said, these colleges or halls in connexion with the University of London were voluntary, and not charitable institutions, and he did not see why the London University should not be placed on the same footing as the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge under the Bill.
 MR. HEYWOOD  could not understand why any distinctions were introduced. What was wanted was a general Act applicable to all the Universities, and one that would improve their condition.
 MR. J. WILSON , in reply to the hon. Member for Bridport (Mr. Mitchell), said that the hon. Member was under a misapprehension as to the examination of the different grades of Custom-house officers. If the lower grade could read and write their name, it was all that was required; but the upper class were examined in arithmetic as far as decimals, and were also required to be able to write correctly from dictation.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he completely concurred in the views of the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Pellatt), who however, seemed not to be aware that the regulations which he was anxious to have adopted were the subjects of a Treasury Minute, and not of an Act of Parliament. There was no attempt by this Bill to make any special regulations or arrangements. General powers only were given to the Commissioners to employ such persons a they should think fit. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that the promise he made at the early part of the Session was being complied with to the letter.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he attached the greatest possible importance to the subject to which the hon. Member had called their attention. Captain Larcom, who was at the head of the statistical department in Ireland, was a most efficient officer, and he felt assured that his most zealous attention, as well as that of the Government, would be directed to the subject.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, the item was paid by the Treasury in consequence of a communication from the Foreign Office to the Treasury. General Rosas was brought over in a ship of war, and it was always usual in such cases to pay the expenses out of the Treasury.
 MR. J. BALL  said, he considered that one of the Commissioners, at all events, might be allowed to sit in the House. He was most anxious to see all important Ministerial departments represented in that Assembly, for he believed that such representation afforded to the public the most effectual security for the careful and judicious management of public affairs.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that there was no
 1475
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the vote was 100,000 l. l.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to ask whether it was the intention of the Government to fill up the numbers of the militia to 80,000, as fixed by the Act of last Session, because Ministers had said that they did not want to raise any more men than
 1472 1473 l. l.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, that one of the greatest decisions ever given in the memory of man upon a question of a charity had been recently delivered. In that case, a large charity, yielding upwards of 9,000 l. 1490
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, he should support the Amendment, for he had always considered the University of London to be on the same footing as the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. On this point being brought before Lord Aberdeen, he reinstated the University of London in the clause, and he therefore protested against its being now rejected.
 MR. JOHN MACGREGOR  said, he believed that a postage of 3 d. d. d. d.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that no Catholic Member would shrink from a discussion when so many monstrous assertions had been made by hon. Members who had been led away by their imaginations.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he must oppose the Amendment of the hon. Member for Gateshead, on the ground that if the Commissioners were eligible to seats in Parliament, they might be enabled to exercise undue influence in borough elections by means of the local charities.
 MR. SULLIVAN  begged to call the attention of the Committee to the item of 2,000 l. 1452
 MR. MALINS  said, he should oppose the Amendment, believing that it was better that persons holding judicial offices should not have seats in that House.
 MR. MALINS  said, he must contend for an exemption in favour of Durham, and could not understand how, after the compact which had been entered into with the hon. Member for Durham, the Government could come forward with such a proposal, Though he regarded the situation of Durham in a very different light from that of London University, as the latter had neither colleges nor halls, he would rather vote for the exclusion of the latter from the operation of the Bill than consent to the inclusion of Durham.
 MR. MALINS  joined in pressing the noble Lord not to proceed with the Bill this Session. He had seen several members of the manufacturing interest on the subject, who declared to him that it would be utterly impossible to carry out the measure.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he must object to this Bill being proceeded with at that hour [ quarter past
 MR. SPOONER  said, he must reprobate the jocose way in which the right hon. Gentleman spoke on the subject, and would recommend him to recollect that it was not the force of his reasoning which had secured his success on the occasion referred to, but the number of his supporters, who had given him a majority against reasoning and against justice and good sense. The right hon. Gentleman had alluded to the "experiments" which had been tried under the auspices of the Government; but they were of the most absurd character. A couple of philosophers had conducted them, and having taken a couple of heifers just calved and full of milk, had tied them up by the neck and fed them on dry malt. Why, of course, that was not the sort of experiment likely to succeed. But practical men had found by experience that under proper management malt was the best food for fattening cattle. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been led to an opposite conclusion, all he could say was, that he had been grossly misled. It was of the utmost importance in more points of view than one, that the agriculturist should be allowed to use the produce of his farm for the purposes of production as he thought best. Would the manufacturers submit to be fettered by the Excise as to the raw material they used? By malting inferior barley into food for cattle, it would be made profitable, when, otherwise, probably it would be lost to the farmer, and this was a consideration of the more importance at the present period, when the supply of barley was likely to be large in quantity, but to a great extent inferior in quality. In a moral point of view, the proposed measure was important, because it would tend to draw the labourer from the beershops by enabling the farmer to brew good beer for his labourers. Under all the circumstances, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had consented to consider
 1482
 MR. SPOONER  seconded the Motion.
 MR. SPOONER  said, he thought the Motion nothing but an attempt on the part of the noble Lord to put an end to a discussion which he dared not meet, but which the country demanded. The noble Lord, in the Charitable Trusts Bill, had ex-
 1467
 MR. SPOONER  said, he agreed with his hon. Friend and Colleague (Mr. Newdegate) that, if there was to be an alteraation with respect to the order of business on Wednesday, he should prefer having the subject of Nunneries wholly postponed. If hon. Members were animated with the spirit which ought to actuate all of them—namely, a desire not to create delay, but to discuss the subject fairly, they might bring the debate to a conclusion on Wednesday. The noble Lord took credit to himself for having voted in favour of the proposition of the hon. and learned Member for Hertford, and cast blame on the Opposition. The noble Lord's memory, he apprehended, was at fault.
 MR. INGHAM  said, he wished to see the exemptions extended to the University of London, which had shown itself fully entitled to every mark of respect and confidence.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the present Bill was one of the most important that had occupied the attention of the Legislature for some years. For himself he entirely approved of it, and he congratulated the noble Lord on at last finding out the means by which these public estates were to be placed upon a better system than heretofore. But in proportion to the importance of the Bill was the importance of considering who were to be the Commissioners, and whether or not they should have seats in that House. As to whom they were to be, that of course would rest with the Government, and no doubt the whole value of
 1489
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would beg to remind the hon. Members for Montrose and Manchester, that when this measure was brought forward by the late Government it was distinctly stated that it was not proposed in consequence of any apprehension of hostile proceedings on the part of any other country. He (Mr. Walpole) then said, that the measure had been propounded by the late Sir Robert Peel's Government, and by the Government of the noble Lord opposite; and it had been urged upon the consideration of Administration after Administration, by those who were most competent to form a judgment upon such matters, that it would be wise and judicious to establish for the permanent defence of the country some such force as that which had last year been sanctioned by Parliament. He thought, then, that the Legislature had not taken a false step on this subject, and that it would be most injudicious to disband the militia force, especially after the testimony which had been borne, not merely to its popularity, but also to the admirable conduct of the men, and to the great efficiency they had attained, after a very short period of training. He wished to take this opportunity of expressing his opinion that the successful working of the measure was attributable in a great degree to the assistance afforded to the Government in carrying it out by the noblemen and gentlemen in the various counties, to whom the country was under great obligation.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, although the Bill he held in his hand contained 355 clauses, little need be said by him beyond thanking I the Government, and especially the hon. Secretary to the Treasury, for the large measure of relief the Bill afforded to the commercial community of this country. He was happy to think that, ever since the accession of the present Chairman of the Board of Customs, means had been used for gradually improving the regulations of that Board, and he looked upon this Bill as one of the greatest boons ever conferred on a trading and commercial community. Not less than from 1,000 to 1,500 Acts of Parliament were either repealed or consolidated by this Bill. The object of the present Bill was to simplify the law, and that object had been happily accomplished. His constituents had gone through the whole of the clauses, and he rejoiced to say that it met with their hearty approval. With regard to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Southwark, he believed there was a disposition on the part of the Government to do justice to the officers. He wished, however, to offer one suggestion to the Government. He thought the Chairman, or one of the Commissioners of the Board of Customs, ought to have a seat in the House of Commons. If anything connected with foreign affairs occurred, the Secretary of State of that department was present to give explanations; if anything relating to the Home Department happened, even down to the case of a cabman, there was an opportunity of questioning the Home Secretary; and so in regard to our Colonies; but let the most important questions arise connected with the commerce of the country, and that great interest was found to be unrepresented in that House.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he must complain that the examinations of the higher and lower classes of officers were too much alike. It was true that one class were required to read and write, while the others were required to read and write well; but practically this distinction was without a difference. He should suggest also the inadvisability of making the general appointment of landing waiter at twenty-one years of age. The system now adopted at the public docks was a better one. These young men were received at the age of seventeen, and if they went through their duties for three or four years with the approval of their employers, they were at the age of twenty-one made clerks. If
 1484
 MR. THORNELY  then proposed an Amendment, providing that the Act should not extend to any school or college connected with the University of London. It was not that he wanted to exempt the University of London from the Act, but that he wished to put that University upon an equality with the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, that he proposed this Amendment.
 MR. THORNELY  said, he was of opinion that there ought to be no exemptions at all; but if Oxford and Cambridge were to be exempted, he thought London ought to be similarly favoured, and it was his intention to move an Amendment to that effect.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had not the slightest intention of endeavouring to answer the speech of the hon. Gentleman, for this, amongst other reasons—that it was answered by anticipation. The hon. Gentleman was well aware that what he had to say on the subject was offered to the House on a former occasion; and although he certainly thought it was in general bad taste in a Member of that House to praise his own speeches, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could not help saying that he had every reason to be satisfied with the result of the speech that he addressed to the House on that occasion. The hon. Gentleman had himself admitted that while
 1481
 MR. W. BROWN  said, in seconding the Amendment of the hon. Member for Southwark, he begged to express the great satisfaction which he felt at the provisions of the Bill, which consolidated the Customs law, and abrogated a great many Acts of Parliament that served only to impede and embarrass mercantile men. A doubt had been expressed that the judicial hearing of disputes between merchants and the Boar of Customs would not be with open doors; but he had no such fears. He believed that the Courts would be opened to the public and to the reporters for the public press.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said the principle of religious equality would be violated if there was this difference of exemption. If Oxford and Cambridge were national establishments, and not ecclesiastical corporations, the London University would never have existed; and, therefore, those who founded that institution claimed to be placed in the same position as Oxford and Cambridge, and they felt that this was an instance of placing it in an inferior and degrading position. He agreed that the operation of the Bill was beneficial, and that there should be no exemptions whatever; but when the
 1495
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, he took a different view of the subject to his noble Friend and Colleague. In reference to this Bill, he had not had one remonstrance or suggestion against it. Such a Bill would be a great public improvement, and he hoped the House would adopt it.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, that if
 1462
 SIR DE LACY EVANS : Will the noble Lord communicate the promised information at such a time as will enable the House to discuss the question?
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  assured the Committee that the measures referred to by the hon. Gentleman had received tin approbation of the colonists themselves who recognised in them a security for the good government of the colony, and for the maintenance of peace. That with regard to the first point to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded—the evacuation of the Orange River territory—the opinion which the noble Duke at the head of the Colonial Office had expressed on the subject was very much strengthened by the fact, that the possibility of this course being taken was foreseen by Lord Grey some time ago, and that the right hon. Gentleman the late Secretary for the Colonies, as he was informed, had himself been prepared to act upon the same view. Her Majesty's Government were of opinion that, where it was practicable, instead of extending, we ought rather to contract, the limits of the Colony. The principal difficulty with which the Government in South Africa had to contend, had arisen from the enormous extent of that territory, from the long line of frontier, and from the impossibility of protecting that line, so that not one single point should be left open without a expense to this country disproportionate to the value of the object to be secured; and moreover, far beyond the ability and disposition of this country to persevere in. He was sure that of all measures which had been adopted at the Cape, the most questionable in respect to their policy had been those which had involved the acquisition of territory. When Sir Harry Smith first went out to the Cape, there were very large additions made to the Colony. Not to speak of what took place in the north, the Orange River territory was annexed without any previous communication with the authorities at home, and with very little acquaintance with the feelings of the inhabitants; and even that little, as it had subsequently turned out, was entirely incorrect. Sir Harry Smith annexed that enormous extent of territory, and during the five years which had elapsed, it had been of no advantage either to this coun-
 1460 1461 l,
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that when he had introduced the Bill for the organisation of this force, he had stated, in answer to questions put to him, that the probable expense of raising 10,000 men would be about 100,000 l. l.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  hoped the gallant Officer would go down to Spithead on Thursday, and he would there see as fine a body of British seamen as ever were collected together, all raised without bounties.
 SIR JOHN DUCKWORTH  said, he could bear testimony both to the efficiency of the militia as soldiers, and to their good conduct in quarters. He would suggest that it would be a great improvement to have them placed in barracks, instead of being billeted on the publicans, for not only was it advantageous to a regiment to be kept together in barracks, but the publicans would thus be relieved from expense and inconvenience, for which they did not receive adequate compensation as matters now stood.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, the cases of the Durham and London Universities were very dissimilar, the former being regulated in accordance with the provisions of an Act of Parliament. He must say he very much regretted, after the undertaking which seemed to have been entered into, that Her Majesty's Government were now prepared to depart from their announced intention, and include Durham University under the working of the Bill, and the more so as it had passed through all its stages in the other House containing a clause of exemption.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, on a former occasion the Chancellor of the Exchequer had certainly with success spoken against time and secured a majority; but, as to his arguments, they were fallacious, because founded on the worthless experiments of the "philosophers" who had taken two couple of heifers, two of whom were diseased. Could anything be more absurd? If the right hon. Gentleman really wished to get at the truth, he would have better experiments tried, and would particularly see that the effect of malt was tried on sheep. As a practical man, he (Sir J. Shelley) could assure him that he had been grossly deceived into imagining that the question was of no importance to the farmer.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would also inquire, at the same time, whether the old system would be continued of allowing officers who were abroad to hold militia commissions?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, connected with this subject, there was a very destructive disease prevalent among the stock of the agriculturists in this country, and large sums had been expended by private individuals and societies for the purpose of instituting inquiries into the nature of that disease, and of obtaining accurate statistical information with respect to it. He thought it extremely necessary that the Government should take the matter into their own hands, and appoint parties to investigate the subject, who should receive their salaries out of the public funds.
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY : Sir, I have to put a question to the noble Lord the Member for London, upon a subject which is deeply interesting to the people of this country generally, but more especially to the mercantile classes, and which, I believe, also very nearly concerns the dignity and the responsibility of every Member of this House. The question I have to ask of the noble Lord is, whether Her Majesty's Government will, previously to the prorogation of Parliament, submit to the House of Commons a statement of the existing relations between this country, Turkey, and Russia, touching the aggressive attitude assumed by Russia towards the Sublime Porte, and whether they will appropriate a day for the expression of the opinion of this House upon this important subject?
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  said, he thought that the feeling of the House had already been sufficiently elicited to show the noble Lord the Member for London that the adoption of the proposition of the hon. Member for Gateshead, in a modified form, would be acceptable. He thought the object of the hon. Gentleman would be attained if he adopted the suggestion of the right hon. Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole).
 SIR ROBERT H. INGLIS  could not but think that it would have been much better if the noble Lord had left the Bill as it was.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, he could not at all comprehend the resons assigned for the proposal of the noble Lord; nor the very nice legal distinctions of the hon. and learned Solicitor General between the positions of the Universities of Durham and London and those of Oxford and Cambridge; for he believed that the University of London had quite as much bodily subsistence as either of the other two. Tine intention of the whole affair appeared to be to cast a stigma upon the University of London, which, it seemed to be forgotten, was an older institution than Durham.
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, no doubt there were very good reasons for including within the scope of the Bill the schools and colleges connected with the Universities of Loudon and Durham; but he thought the reasons assigned for exempting those of
 1494
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, there would be less difficulty in acceding to the proposal of the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell), if he would afford facilities for the termination of that discussion on some other day. An hon. Member, who, like him, had brought before the House a question of that character, had serious responsibility imposed upon him, and could not consent to the indefinite postponement of the decision of the House with respect to it.
 MR. HUTT  said, he also doubted the sincerity of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Spooner), who spoke of discussing the subject at the very time when country Gentlemen and independent Gentlemen were leaving the House.
 MR. HUTT  said, he was willing to modify his Amendment, so as to render only one of the three Commissioners eligible to a seat in that House; but he thought it should be remembered that, although he had originally proposed that all three should be eligible, it was not likely that more than one Commissioner would be actually elected.
 MR. HUTT  said, he had an Amendment to move, the object of which was to enable the Commissioners to sit in Parliament, if elected, in the same manner as the Poor Law Commissioners.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the argument of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Spooner) was an argument against all improvement. He said, "You have borne the nuisance so long that you can bear it still longer." Then the hon. Gentleman said, this could not be done—manufacturers could not consume their own smoke. The same thing had been said by the glove trade and the silk trade, when it was proposed to admit French gloves and silks. They declared that they could not possibly compete with the foreigner; but the trade was thrown open, and they did compete, and successfully too. The same argument had been used in agriculture, and so it was in regard to smoke. The manufacturers said they could not consume their own smoke, but if Parliament would only say, "you must do so," the smoke would be consumed, and the public would be relieved from this nuisance. If ever there was a case in which, he would not say the interests, but the prejudices, of the few were opposed to the interests of the many, this was such a case. Here were a few, perhaps 100 gentlemen, connected with these different furnaces in London, who wished to make 2,000,000 of their fellow-inhabitants swallow the smoke which they could not themselves consume, and who thereby helped to deface all our architectural monuments, and to impose the greatest inconvenience and injury upon the lower class. Here were the prejudices and ignorance, the affected ignorance, of a small combination of men, set up against the material interest, the physical enjoyment, the health, and the comfort of upwards of 2,000,000 of their fellow-men. He would not believe that Parliament would back these smoke-producing monopolists, and he was ready, therefore, with great confidence to go to a division.
 MACARTNEY  said, that if this Bill was passed immediately, it would produce the greatest inconvenience in Ireland, where there was not sufficient accommodation for the present number of convicts, to say nothing of the increased number who would have to be provided for under the
 1550
 ADDERLEY  said, he was glad that the right hon. Gentleman repudiated that argument; and was glad to find, also, that both sides of the House acknowledged the propriety of endeavouring to cut off the spring of crime in this country, rather than of providing a depository for it in other countries. There was now a prospect of being so able to deal with criminals in this country, and especially the young, by a reformatory process, as to lead to a hope that it might be practically dealt with by the extended use and application of various kinds of prisons in this country. The system of detention was more in the nature of real punishment than transportation, and yet we had never dealt with the question of perpetual imprisonment as the nearest substitute, in the worst cases, for the penalty of death. The Duke of Newcastle had been taken up rather warmly for saying that they were singing the requiem of transportation; but he (Mr. Adderley) believed that system had come to an end of itself, and all that it was necessary for them to do was to prepare for the inevitable result. He rejoiced to think that this measure carried in it the seeds of the entire cessation of transportation, and that it was the germ of the transfer to this country very speedily of the whole system of secondary punishment. If, however, any transportation remained in operation, it ought to be conducted on principles diametrically opposed to those of the Bill, by which the most atrocious criminals were to be sent out to enjoy all the ad-
 1553
 MR. PETO  said, as he had been connected for two years with the Sewers Commission of the Metropolis, he wished to say a few words respecting this Bill. When that Commission was originally appointed, it consisted of thirty-two or thirty-three individuals, and there was a violent schism between them, one party headed by Mr. Chadwick being in favour of sumpts and pipe drains, and the other led by Mr. Phillips, advocating the plan of conveying the sewage by main drains so far below the metropolis that it should not be brought back again by the tide. The Board of Works, the then head of which was the Earl of Carlisle, appointed a Commission of practical men to investigate into the sewerage system in the metropolis, and, if possible, to propose an efficient plan for effecting that object in a complete and substantial manner. When he (Mr. Peto) was called upon to take a part in the affairs of that Commission, the Board was composed of practical men, and he had associated with him Mr. Robert Stephenson, Sir William Cubitt, Mr. Rendell, Sir John Burgoyne, Captain Veitch, Sir Henry de la Beche, and other eminent persons. They at once told the First Commissioner of Works that they could not consent to act, except on the express understanding that they were to undertake the formation of a plan to give a complete and efficient drainage to the metropolis; and to advise the Government as to the best mode of carrying that plan into execution. An under-ground
 1578 l. l. 1579 1580
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he would be prepared to lay before the House a copy of the medical report which had been made upon that subject? He understood that the question had been referred by the Board of Admiralty to the medical officers of the Navy, with a view to ascertain whether in a medical point of view rum possessed any advantage over home-made spirits. He was given to understand that the Report of those officers was in favour of native spirits, and that, in their opinion, rum contained deleterious qualities which those spirits did not possess, while it did not contain their good qualities. He believed that if a choice was given in this matter to the sailor, he would invariably prefer British to Colonial spirits. There was no doubt that the movement against the existing practice in the Royal Navy had originated with the distillers of the United Kingdom; but those gentlemen were perfectly justified in seeking to obtain the abolition of a monopoly which was a direct infraction of that principle of unrestricted competition which had of late years been adopted in the commercial policy of this country.
 MR. PETO  said, he would suggest that the expense of the formation of the sewers should be spread over a period of thirty or forty years, which might be said to be the natural life of a sewer. By this means the expense to the metropolis would be less than the actual cost of maintaining the present crazy sewers. He wished also to call the attention of the noble Lord to the unfair mode in which the rates were levied. For example, the inhabitants residing near Hyde Park and other districts in the outskirts of London, and who were mainly rich people, paid no sewers rate; while the inhabitants of the Tower Hamlets and other districts through which these outlying places were drained, and who were
 1591
 SIR DENHAM NORREYS  said, he wished to move a clause having reference to the new fares proposed by this Bill.
 MR. BOUVERIE  brought up the Report of the Committee of Supply.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he most strongly objected to any such instruction being given to the Committee as that which the noble Lord had proposed. The inhabitants of the metropolis had no objection to make any pecuniary sacrifice in order to provide for the public health of the population. Show them proper measures, and they would do what was required of them; but what they feared was, that they would be put to great expense without obtaining any corresponding benefit. They believed that all the talk about cholera and the public health was merely a mystification, and that after a large outlay they would find themselves in a worse condition than they were in before. He strongly suspected that if the proposed money were taken, the country would be burdened without receiving the slightest advantage, just as it was now burdened with the expense of an Army and a Fleet, which were of no use whatever, because they were never suffered to go where their services were required. So little confidence had the public in this Commission, that he believed, if the metropolis were polled, rather than assent to the proposition of the noble Lord, they would gladly give 50,000 l. 1588
 Lord DUDLEY STUART  said, that in point of fact the Commission expired on the 7th of August, and he wished, therefore, to inquire whether it was possible to continue a thing which had no existence?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he should oppose the clause, which he thought would have a tyrannical effect. It was, besides, an interference with free trade. Several cab proprietors had a number of cab licences, but it did not always suit their interests to continue the same number; and, if this clause passed, they would be unable to withdraw their cabs without ten days' notice, which would inflict a serious loss upon them. He saw no security that there would be any appeal; and, considering the manner in which magistrates had of late exercised their power, he could not consent to vote for this clause.
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  brought up a clause to establish an appeal in certain cases. Though he condemned the recent strike of the cabmen, he thought that some palliation was to be found fur their conduct in the manner in which the previous Bill on this subject had been discussed. The consequence of that hasty and inconsiderate measure had been to give satisfaction to no one. It would have been much better if that Bill had been referred, as was proposed, to a Committee upstairs. He now proposed, that, in cases of refusal of licences, there should be an appeal from the decision of the Police Commissioner to the Quarter Sessions; but, to prevent any inconvenience, he thought that the refusal of the licence should be valid until the final decision of the appeal. He proposed further to give an appeal from the decision of the police magistrates. The want of this appeal was considered a peculiar grievance
 1596 1597
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  would be glad to know what were the intentions of the noble Viscount with regard to the adjustment of the employment of convicts. The noble Lord had mentioned public works, and as far as it went that plan was excellent. He wished, however, to call the attention of the noble Lord to the prison at Cork, where malefactors were so beneficially employed that they obtained funds for their own sustenance, and were enabled when set free to obtain an honest livelihood. The farm system, the separate system, the aggregate systems and the manufacturing system—were all combined in the system at Cork.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he fully approved the proposition of the Government. The right hon. Baronet the late Colonial Secretary (Sir J. Pakington) had told the Committee that it was the intention of the late Government to put a stop to transportation at the beginning of next year. There was, therefore, only six months' difference between the propositions of the two Governments in point of time, but in every other respect the difference was very much greater in favour of the present proposition. Did the right hon. Baronet mean to say that, knowing the feelings of the colonists on the subject, he would have landed convicts in Van Diemen's Land during the remainder of the period which he had fixed, because, if such were the intention of the right hon. Baronet, he would take leave to tell him that he would have run the risk of signalising his reign at the Colonial Office with as mischievous an  éclat 1551 terra incognita, 1552
 MR. CHARLES S. BUTLER  said, that as the question of the sewerage of the metropolis was of great importance to his constituents, he hoped that he might venture to trespass upon the indulgent forbearance of the House. He was sorry to say that the ratepayers of the Tower Hamlets had no confidence in the Commission of Sewers as
 1582 l. 1583 l. l. l. l. s. d. 1584 "I have made an inspection of a considerable portion of Spitalfields, a part of Mile End New Town, most of the north part of Whitechapel; and have witnessed scenes that would have appeared almost incredible without personal examination. I have seen court after court, and house after house, which in a sanitary point of view are scarcely fit in their present state for the abode of man. The history of populous courts and neighbourhoods may be summed up in a very few words; bad paving, cleansing defective, no efficient drainage, cesspools or open privies over drains loaded with putrescent deposit. There is a high rate of mortality. Preventible zymotic disease is always cutting off its victims; great epidemics come and go at their will, and the ratepayers are taxed for consequences which might by prudence and foresight be averted." l. 1585 1586
 MR. FREWEN  said, he would admit that the greatest inconvenience had been sustained by the public during the late strike, particularly by persons arriving by railway from the country. But he was informed that the loss sustained by the cab proprietors in consequence of the strike was so great, that doubts were entertained whether they would ever try that experiment again. It had been calculated that the loss to the proprietors of cabs from the three days' strike amounted to 2,500 l. l.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he had more confidence in the "plenitude of the wisdom of a police officer than in the wisdom of half the Treasury Bench. He would rather submit to his decision and impartiality than to the wise Gentlemen on the Treasury Bench. He was no lawyer, but he had put a plain common-sense proposal before the House. He had done his duty, and the responsibility must rest with the hon. Secretary to the Board of Control and the Government.
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, he thought the House and the country were greatly indebted to the noble Lord the Home Secretary and to the hon. Member for Lewes (Mr. Fitzroy) for the active part they had taken in promoting this measure. He considered, however, that some additional regulations were still necessary. He had frequently seen the lives of persons jeopardised from the practice of taking up or setting down passengers in the centre of the streets. He considered that the proprietors of public vehicles ought to be made responsible for the misconduct of their servants; and he believed if such a regulation were adopted they would not be very likely to hear of violence or insult on the part of the drivers. He thought it was desirable that drivers should be prohibited from sitting in their carriages, for he had frequently seen drivers smoking in their cabs, and the smell was not very pleasant, especially to women who might afterwards engage the vehicles. He would therefore beg to propose four clauses to remedy those defects.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord of the Admiralty whether he could assign any reason why rum should be the only spirit selected for consumption in the Navy? During the last thirteen years, various tenders had been made to supply the Navy with spirits, the produce of British corn and British labour. In 1841, this question was submitted to the consideration of Parliament, and the Board of Admiralty at that time gave the House to understand that, acting in accordance with the advice of medical authorities, the heads of the victualling department were about to introduce some other spirit beside rum for the use of British sailors. Since that period, the question had not been much mooted; no steps had been taken to carry out the promise of 1841; and he understood that at this very time a contract was being executed for supplying Her Majesty's Navy with 30,000 gallons of rum. Now, it certainly was a very surprising fact, that free-trade Ministries, which had carried the principle of unrestricted competition so far as to accept tenders for supplying the British Navy with foreign beef, pork, and bread, had endeavoured to prop up the colonial monopoly in supplying the same Navy with rum. The parties whose interests he was then advocating did not ask the Board of Admiralty to take British
 1561 s. d. s. d. s. s. d.
 MR. F. SCULLY  then moved the insertion of the following clause:—
 "That the proprietor of every hackney carriage or metropolitan stage carriage, licensed to ply for hire within the limits of this Act, who shall withdraw his carriage from hire for two consecutive days, or for any two days in one week, without just cause, of which the magistrate before whom the complaint is heard shall be the judge, shall be liable to a penalty of a sum not exceeding 20 s.
 MR. F. SCULLY  said, he entirely concurred in the proposition which had been made by the noble Viscount the Home Secretary, whom he heartily thanked for a measure which he had been long desiring to see. He did not himself admit the expediency of the entire cessation of transportation which hon. Members opposite advocated. Western Australia, for example, so far from rejecting convict labour, required it as a means of developing her resources; but, undoubtedly, the convict labour to be supplied to Western Australia should be of the best and not of the worst description, as had been suggested by hon. Gentlemen. The worst classes of convicts, he felt, should be dealt with elsewhere. Colonel Jebb, to whose unwearied and most able efforts the country was so much indebted on this matter, in his  Report on the Discipline and Management of Convict Prisons and Disposal of Convicts, "In considering the means necessary for giving effect to any change of system affecting the continuance of transportation, it is deserving of consideration whether it would not, in many respects, be desirable to form a penal establishment in this country for convicts convicted of the worst classes of crime, and for incorrigible convicts; and, if any are sent abroad, to make a selection of the best and most deserving of the convicts, instead of the very worst." Report on the State of Government Prisons in Ireland 1554 "Serious complaints are made, however, of the limited number of prisoners appropriated to these public works, and the ineffectiveness of their labour. Fort Camden contains five small rooms leading out of each other. 132 prisoners are detained there. Fort Carlisle consists of two rooms fitted up to receive 84 convicts. The entire number of convicts contained in Spike Island and forts is 2,380." "While no difficulty will be found in providing employment for a portion of the prisoners confined in Mountjoy and other prisons, there is a large section of the convicts of Ireland quite unsuited for any trade or handicraft. The disposal of this class is a matter of serious moment; and I would again beg to bring before your Excellency the necessity of establishing an agricultural depôt either on the mainland or on some island. This is a measure which cannot be too speedily taken into consideration." 1555 "The class of convicts requiring assistance in this country would, probably, be most difficult to deal with; but if they were released with conditional and not free pardons, and some systematic efforts were made to enable them to meet the difficulties of their position, I should confidently expect a much more favourable result than might be generally anticipated. Rather than leave them to their fate and to the chance of Government being again burdened with the cost of a trial, and other attendant evils, I believe it would be desirable to retain the services, on public works, of such well-conducted convicts as could not readily find employment."
 MR. LUCAS  said, he had been in communcation with the noble Lord the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmerston) on a subject connected with this Vote, and he had to thank the noble Lord for his great attention, courtesy, and frankness. Referring to the form of the Vote, hon. Members would find that there were sixteen Government prisons, of which eight in Great Britain were entered on one page, and eight in Ireland on the other. It was an extraordinary fact that two systems of prison discipline, as respected one very material point, were enforced in those prisons—that the system in the prisons which were included in one-half of the Vote, was different from the system in the prisons which were included in the other half of the Vote. He referred to the provision made for the religious instruction and moral reformation of prisoners, and particularly of Catholic prisoners. In Ireland there was one practice and arrangement, and in England another which was totally different. The House would see that this was a question which was of the greatest importance, in consequence of the change about to be made in the manner of treating criminals. The system of transportation had been abolished, or nearly so. The treatment of prisoners was to be almost entirely at home, and therefore their discipline and management had relation to the system of transportation, as that system was carried out in the Colonies. What had been the system pursued in the Colonies with respect to religious instruction? It had been that of perfect religious equality. No difference whatever had been made in the religious treatment of convicts in consequence of differences of religion. That system originated with the Earl of Derby when Secretary for the Colonies; and, with the permission of the House, he would refer to what that noble Lord said in 1847. [The hon. Gentleman read an extract in which Lord Derby expressed the opinion that it
 1564 1565 s. 1566 1567 1568
 MR. LUCAS  said, in explanation, that the statement he had made was, that the Catholics coming to New South Wales from England were 15 per cent of the convicts thence, while the Protestants coining from Ireland were 10 per cent of the convicts thence.
 MR. I. BUTT  thought a strong case should be made out before they refused the right of appeal. He proposed that the magistrate should reduce the evidence to writing when an appeal was taken, and remit such evidence to the Court before which the appeal was to be heard.
 MR. J. BALL  said, he hoped the noble
 1571
 MR. FLOYER  said, it appeared to him that the classes exempted in the 11th clause were the very classes who, of all others, should be sentenced to transportation. He was not one of those who would do away altogether with the punishment of transportation. It placed the convict in a new country, removed him from the scene of his dissipation and guilt, brought him into communication with a new class of people, and opened up to him a new and more honest course of life. He wished to ask the noble Lord a question. One of the present depôts of convict labour—that at Portland—was situated in the county which he had the honour to represent. An apprehension prevailed in that neighbourhood that if, under the system, the ticket-of-leave men were to be dis-
 1557
 MR. PHILIPPS  said, that whatever doubt might be entertained as to the effect produced by sentences of transportation now, there could be no doubt they were formerly considered a very serious matter. As to the inequalities of sentences, they were occasioned by various matters brought to the knowledge of the Courts relative to the former conduct of the prisoners. He hoped to see the measure carried into a law, and trusted that both this country and the Colonies would greatly benefit by the change.
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he hailed this measure as a great improvement in our penal legislation, so far as regarded the system of secondary punishment. Transportation, as a punishment, was notoriously inefficacious, operating neither as an example to others—the main object of punishment—nor for the reformation of the offender, nor for his punishment at the most economical rate to the State. He fully concurred in the propriety of the objection that had been urged against sending out to the Colonies—if convicts were sent out at all—convicts of the worst, instead of those of the best description. There was, however, one great defect in the Bill, that it did not provide any means by which the convict, discharged from his imprisonment, should be placed in a position for putting to account the industrious habits and the reformed principles he might have acquired during his punishment. It was highly expedient that these unhappy persons, that they might not, of necessity, fall again into their evil associations and their evil courses, should be enabled, in some way, to proceed to a distant Colony, or to apply their reformed sentiments and their improved habits to the purpose of an honest livelihood. Another great object to be attained was the effective superintendence of the convicts who were to be retained at home with tickets of leave, instead of being transmitted to the Colonies.
 MR. MALINS  said, it could not be doubted that the proceedings of the Commissioners of Sewers hitherto had resulted in a miserable failure. He was not indisposed, however, to give the noble Lord the power of raising 300,000 l. l.
 MR. SPOONER  would suggest that there should be two points of departure—Charing-cross for the cabs going west, and St. Paul's for those going cast.
 MR. LOWE  said, he did not consider it necessary to reopen the question of the two centres, which had already been thoroughly discussed. He was quite willing to accept the Amendment of the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. V. Scully), provided several verbal amendments were made in it.
 MR. LOWE  thought, recent events had shown that the proprietors of public carriages possessed a great and important power, with which it was not safe to intrust them. A more unwarrantable annoyance to the public than the recent cab strike could hardly be imagined. On the Monday those who represented the cab proprietors had seen his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Fitzroy), and had obtained from him assurances of concession on two points to which they attached much weight, and both of which had been since carried out. Notwithstanding, however, the assurances these persons obtained, they had not chosen to wait and see if they would be carried out, but "struck," and by withdrawing their vehicles produced the greatest possible inconvenience to the public, and much loss to the drivers. All they had got by the strike they had been promised before, and yet after it was all over they met together and congratulated each other upon the triumph they had achieved. He knew also that it had been in the contemplation of the omnibus proprietors, who could not pretend that they had any grievance, and who had the power of regulating their own fares, to strike, he supposed out of mere gaiety of heart, for the purpose of assisting the proprietors of cabs. Now, he did not want to take any measure in a retaliatory spirit; but he thought it was only just that the public should be protected from combinations like these, entered into not so much for the purpose of carrying any point, as of showing the power of the proprietors, and of producing public inconvenience. His hon. Friend the Sec-
 1595
 MR. LOWE  said, he had strong objections to this clause. His first objection was, that this matter had been brought forward by the noble Lord in the Committee on the Hackney Carriage Bill, and then fully argued and negatived. And now, on the third reading of another Bill, at the end of the Session, the noble Lord came forward and asked the House to repeal that decision. But the case did not rest here. Let the House only think what the effect of this power of appeal would be. These gentlemen had already shown what they could do in the way of combination, and if the appeal were granted it would be the virtual repeal of everything done by Parliament for the regulation of the public conveyances. Everybody knew that there was great difficulty in inducing people to come forward and make complaints in the case of cabs and omnibuses, and that numerous delinquents in consequence escaped; but, if to this they added the appeal, the difficulty would be greatly increased of reaching a class of men not very observant of the law, and not very decorous in their conduct. It would be found that the appeal would be universal; for the proprietors of hackney carriages would form a fund, and, by appealing against every decision, secure themselves from punishment, for attempts to bring them up before the magistrates would soon cease to be made. He might state, that the general opinion of those who administered the law was against the appeal, and he thought their objections were well founded. The noble Lord objected to the decision being left with the police magistrates; but they were, nevertheless, as intelligent and learned a body of men as could be found; and he would not retort upon the noble Lord the  argumentum ad hominem l.
 MR. LOWE  said, he could not agree to the clause, which was liable, in the first place, to the objection that it was legislation of a too minute character, which ought to be left to some subordinate authority. The House had passed a law that the distances published in the book of fares, signed by the Commissioners of Police, should be conclusive, and that with regard to other distances they should be measured. The clause proposed that the magistrate should measure the distance by the Ordnance map. He might do so now. ["No!"] Yes, he might measure the map and give his opinion, and then if that were disputed, the parties must abide by the measurement. The rule of law was, that the best evidence, where it was procurable, should be taken, and it would not to be right to deprive a party of his appeal o actual measurement. The hon. Baronet had correctly anticipated that the magistrate might not know exactly where to begin his measurement; but the mode pro-
 1593
 MR. LOWE  said, he could not consent to the clauses proposed by the hon. and gallant Member, which did not appear to him to come within the legitimate scope and meaning of the Bill. He considered that as the clauses, which were highly penal, would materially affect the interests of a large body of persons, they ought to have been brought forward when the Bill was in Committee. He agreed with the hon. and gallant Member that it was not right that omnibuses should set down passengers in the middle of the streets; but the police had power to prevent such a system, and that power was exercised every day in the metropolis with regard to all carriages, whether public or private. He must say the clauses were drawn in a very informal manner. They provided for the infliction of a penalty of 40 s. 1592
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to know if the noble Lord would have any objection to alter the clause so as to do away with transportation for less than ten years, instead of for less than fourteen years?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he entirely concurred in almost everything which the noble Lord had said; but there were one or two points to which he desired to allude before they considered the clauses  seriatim. 1543 l. l. 1544
 Mr. V. SCULLY  moved to substitute for Clause 13 the following clause:—
 "Where any hackney carriage shall be discharged beyond the circumference of a circle the radius of which shall be four miles from Temple Bar, it shall be lawful for the driver of such carriage, in addition to the fare now directed to be paid under the Act of the present Session of Parliament, chap. 33, to charge a sum of 6 d.
 MR. EVELYN  said, he had listened with much pleasure to the speech of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) at the Mansion House, when the noble Lord had expressed a hope that the Thames would soon be as clear as the waters of Blandusia, and trusted the noble Lord would take immediate steps to free their parent river from its present pollution. He thought the noble Lord was particularly bound to do this, as permission had been refused to two private companies which had proposed to do so. If the necessary works were not commenced at once, he would suggest that a clause should be inserted to give to some private company the power of undertaking this highly necessary measure. He considered the Thames would never be freed from pollution except by the results of some private enterprise; and he would support any measure which would give to the metropolitan parishes the power of self-government. Nay, more, if no other Member did so, he would himself venture to bring forward a measure which would confer the power of self-government on all the towns of England.
 MR. W. J. FOX  said, he would add, that there was a third class of persons who needed protection, and that was the cab drivers. When the proprietors took their cabs off the stands, they deprived the drivers of their work and wages; and it was within his knowledge that many drivers (who were entirely dependent upon their masters) were very much annoyed as well as injured by the strike which had lately taken place.
 MR. MICHELL  wished to know whether it was the intention of the Government to allow persons under sentence of transportation to be employed at harbours of refuge—works greatly required on many parts of our coast—provided no additional expense was incurred beyond the usual maintenance of the convicts.
 MR. WILKINSON  said, he must express his surprise that the great pains already lavished on this subject had not been attended with a more beneficial result, and trusted that the noble Lord at the head of the Home Department would turn his at-
 1587
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  said, that the noble Lord was mistaken, in supposing that at present the Commissioners had power to raise money to an unlimited amount. He was quite aware of the clause in the 11 & 12  Vict. 1573 l. 1574 l. d. l. d. d. 1575 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1576 
 
 Houses paying duty. Duty paid. Population. 
 Poole 143 £126 9,255 
 Shaftesbury 55 59 9,404 
 Wareham 41 42 7,218 
 Bridport 165 201 7,566 
 404 £428 33,443 
 
 Houses paying duty. Duty paid. Population. 
 Marylebone 34,569 £76,835 370,957 
 Finsbury 27,208 42,534 323,772 
 Tower Hamlets 25,001 25,522 539,111 
 Westminster 20,146 67,396 241,611 
 106,924 £212,287 1,475,451 1577 l.
 SIR BENJAMIN HALL  would suggest that the Commissioners of Sewers should at once be directed to have a plan prepared on which they should delineate their propositions, and that it should be put forth in such a manner as to be accessible to the ratepayers. He was convinced that this would prove a great facility to the operations of the noble Lord.
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, he must confess that he must plead ignorance of the precise expressions with reference to the rum market to which the hon. Gentleman had referred. He did not know what the "sweepings of the rum market" were, and he could not, therefore, offer any explanation upon that part of the subject. He really must beg leave, however, somewhat to doubt whether this question had originated from any desire to promote the comfort of the sailor, or whether it had not rather some more immediate connexion with the distilling interest of the United Kingdom. But, whatever the reason, he could only answer the hon. Gentleman in one way—namely, that it was the opinion of the Board of Admiralty that it would not be conducive to the good of the service or to the discipline of the troops if there were an issue of more than one kind of spirit on board Her Majesty's ships. From almost time immemorial rum had been the spirit
 1562
 SIR JAMES GRAHAM  said, that that was not a question of free trade or of monopoly; it was merely a question of what was most conducive to the discipline and the comfort of the men in Her Majesty's Navy. He was not aware whether the question of health, as regarded the use of any particular kind of spirits in the Royal Navy, had been under the consideration of
 1563
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  would suggest the substitution of the words "period of imprisonment" for "penal servitude," because if, by the latter words, the Government meant to distinguish that punishment which was to be a substitute for transportation, then larceny, which could not be punished with transportation, would not be brought within the scope of this Bill.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had been quite misunderstood.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, this was a subject in which he had not only taken a great interest and assisted in discussions in it in that House, but which in discharge of the duties of his office last year, had met with his serious attention; he hoped, therefore, that he might be allowed shortly to address the Committee on the measure. He thought there was reason to complain of the Government in bringing forward a subject of such extreme importance, and which had caused a strong feeling in the country, at so late a period of the Session as to preclude the possibility of a satisfactory discussion either to themselves or to the country. The late Government had made up their minds for various reasons as to the impossibility of transportation to Van Diemen's Land, the only one of the Australian colonies to which practically criminals had been transported of late years. There had been remonstrances on the part of the Colonies, and it was not only a question whether the Colonies could receive convicts, but whether with prudence they could be sent there. In addition to other grounds upon which they had based their opinion upon that point, he might mention that one not the least important
 1546 sub silentio. 1547 1548 1549
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that there was no doubt the members of the present Commission of Sewers were men of eminent ability; but still when his hon. Friend (Mr. Peto) said that they were on that account entitled to confidence, he could not help calling the attention of the House to the infrequency of their attendance. Thirty-four Courts had been held during the years 1852 and 1853; out of these Sir John Burgoyne had only attended six, Mr. T. Hawes nine, Captain Veitch six, and Mr. L. Gordon two. Of fifty-five committee meetings held during the same time, Sir John Burgoyne, had attended eleven, Captain Veitch eight, and the other members in proportion. Now, if that was so, it was evident that the eminence of these gentlemen was not a sufficient reason for public confidence being reposed in the Commission, but that we must look to those who actually did the work. The plan which the hon. Member had so strongly recommended for effecting the drainage of the metropolis was not that which was now proposed. It was proposed under the former to carry the whole of the sewerage of the metropolis to such a distance below London that it could not be brought back by the tide; but by the present it was proposed to cover in and make use of Hackney Brook for the purpose. That, he thought, would prove to be quite ineffectual, and, as a practical man, acquainted with draining, he had no hesitation in saying that it would be found to be absurd. He believed firmly that no one out of that House had the slightest confidence in the present Board of the Sewers Commission,
 1581
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that the noble Lord should be careful how he trusted Sir William Cubitt too much, because that gentleman had stated in evidence before a Committee of that House that the Thames was the best drain, and, in fact, the natural sewer, for the metropolis. He would prefer leaving the case in the hands of Mr. Stephenson alone.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he entirely differed from his noble Friend. It must be recollected that the House had not only
 1594
 SIR JOSHUA WALMSLEY  said, he would suggest that at the Isle of Man a
 1545
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  trusted that the noble Lord would take care that no money should be laid out in any district without previous communication with the best informed persons in that district. He begged to state that he had voted in the minority against the noble Lord, because he feared that the money would not be expended as the noble Lord had since stated that it should be.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  seconded the Motion, but said he must complain that the East and West India Docks, and the important districts clustered around, were cut off from the circle of four miles which was proposed, while Hampstead-heath and part of Tooting-common were embraced within it. In his opinion it would be much more advantageous to have an ellipse than a circle.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  presented a petition from a Sanitary Committee at Stoke Newington, praying that, as the Bill only continued the existing Commission for one year, such borrowing powers only should be given them as was necessary for the execution of works which were urgently demanded.
 SIR WILLIAM CLAY  said, if he rightly understood the noble Lord, he would take the opinion of the inhabitants of the district in which the outlay was to be made; but if the result were only to be that, after a conference of that nature, the opinion of the Committee was still to be maintained, then he should object to so much of the expense as would be occasioned by converting Hackney Brook into an arterial sewer.
 Sir WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he hoped the two first clauses would be omitted, in accordance with the suggestion of the right hon. Member for Midhurst (Mr. Walpole).
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, the question had hitherto been argued as a convict question and a colonial question, and the effect of the measure upon our social system had almost been lost sight of. The 9th clause was of immense importance to this country, and must materially affect our various institutions. Looking at the accommodation to be provided for convicts in this country, it appeared to him that, in the course of a short period, a large number of men with tickets of leave would be thrown upon the industry
 1556
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, there was no subject more important or more difficult to deal with than the question of secondary punishment. In the early stages of society crimes produced in the minds of the community but one feeling—that of resentment; and the sole object of legislation was one almost simple, namely, vengeance. In those more barbarous ages that vengeance was carried to such an extremity that not only was the punishment of death inflicted for almost every offence that could be imagined, but for graver offences the actual extinction of life was not considered sufficient unless accompanied by varied and exquisite torture inflicted upon the offender previous to death. Where death was not inflicted, imprisonment for a long period, attended with every severity that human ingenuity could inflict, was awarded to those whose lives were not actually taken away. As civilisation advanced, and as milder feelings had prevailed in legislation, the punishment of death had in principle been restricted to offences of the most serious and flagrant character, and secondary punishments had been substituted in the greatest number of cases. But the question of secondary punishments was also one of extreme difficulty. You want to make the punishment penal upon the offender, to make it a deterring example to prevent others from committing similar crimes, and yet at the same time you wish to avoid shocking the feelings of the community by sights revolting to mankind, and you ought to endeavour, if possible, to do that so as to
 1536 1537 1538 1539 1540 1541 1542
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  was not prepared to accede to that proposition.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the object of the Government was this. They did not intend to touch the law by which confinement within the walls of a prison was
 1560
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, in the first place, I have to express, on the part of the Government, the great gratification which they have felt at the general acquiescence in the leading principles of this measure; and, in the second place, I have to express our gratitude for the many valuable suggestions which hon. Members have thrown out in the course of this discussion; and which, bearing upon the execution of the measure, will receive our full and attentive consideration. I think that almost everybody seems to have come to the conclusion that this is a measure of necessity, that transportation to our Colonies could no longer be carried on. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington) suggested that we should look back to the origin of New South Wales as a Colony founded by convicts; but I think his object has been somewhat misunderstood. I imagine that what he meant was this—not that the example of New South Wales gave us any claim upon other Colonies, but rather that we should found a new Colony in the same manner in which that Colony was founded. Now, I do not quite concur with the right hon. Baronet in the inference to be drawn from that example. I am disposed to think—what was stated by another hon. Gentleman—that if you look back to the infancy and childhood of New South Wales, however much it may have improved in its manhood and maturity, you will not see anything to induce you to follow the steps of those who founded that Colony as a penal settlement. I think there is one consideration which must have occurred to the mind of every person who has reflected upon the subject—that in founding a penal Colony in which you look to the enlargement of the convicts after a certain period of detention, you ought to provide that there shall be a due proportion of the sexes; and that is hardly possible if you begin a new penal Colony in the same manner in which New South Wales was founded. The right hon. Baronet said, that the statement I made was not perhaps as ample as might have been wished, in regard to the detailed means of execut-
 1558 1559
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he was sure the hon. Member who had just sat down did not need to make an apology to the House for having brought under their consideration a matter of such great interest and of such deep importance. For his own part, he had to thank the hon. Gentleman for the courtesy with which in private he had communicated the views he meant afterwards to state to the House. Perhaps, as regarded the difference to which the hon. Gentleman had adverted, between the proportion of Catholics and protestants, as appearing in the returns of prisons here, and the proportion which appeared in the Colonies, he was not sure whether he understood the statement exactly as the hon. Gentleman had put it; but if he understood it rightly, that difference might be accounted for by the fact that the convicts in the Colonies included all those who came from Ireland as well as those who came from England.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he was not prepared to consent to any alteration in the Bill.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, if he found the people of West Hackney did not wish to improve their sewers, he did not apprehend the Commissioners would wish to force them.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, his noble Friend must not be surprised to be informed that Parliament had the power of continuing an Act which had no existence. The Act of 48  Geo. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1572
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, however that might be, he had taken precautions to prevent mistake on that point in future. He had issued directions that, on entry to prison, a prisoner should be called on to state to what religious persuasion he belonged. Therefore, the declaration of the prisoner on his arrival at the gaol would be taken as evidence whether he was a Protestant or a Catholic; or, if a Protestant, whether he was of the Church of England or a Presbyterian. Beyond that, he was ready to admit to the hon. Gentleman that the prisoner who made that declaration ought to know that nothing in regard to his comfort in gaol would depend on whether he declared himself of one religion or another; that he ought to be equally sure of receiving religious in-
 1569 data 1570
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that he had no wish upon that occasion to enter upon a long answer to all that he had heard. He was sure that at that hour of the night it would be undesirable that he should do so. He would merely say that he was desirous to act upon the suggestion which had been thrown out by his hon.
 1589 1590 "Houses thick and sewers annoy the air,"
 VISCOUST PALMERSTON  said, it was the intention of the Commissioners to raise money on annuities in the manner which had been proposed by the hon. Member for Norwich.
 MR. WILSON  said, that in moving the Third Reading of this Bill, he could not omit the expression of his deep obligations to the Gentlemen whose unremitting and most able co-operation had enabled him to prepare this very important measure. The Commissioners of Customs, and their very able solicitor, had been indefatigable in the application of their labour and their knowledge to this most difficult and most complicated subject, the complication of which might at once be understood from the fact that the Customs Acts, originally no fewer than 1,500 in number, and since reduced to 300, were now reduced within the compass of this one measure, which was framed with so much perspicuity as to be at once intelligible to any person consulting it. He had also derived most valuable aid from the merchants of London and Liverpool. That measure was at once the accomplishment of the great work commenced by Mr. Huskisson, and the completion of the commercial reforms begun by Sir Robert Peel. The amendment which the measure effected in the system of prosecution under the Customs laws would of itself constitute a most valuable reform. The assistance rendered by Sir Thomas Fremantle in the completion of the Bill was beyond all praise. With respect to any improvements of the Cus-
 1600
 MR. CARDWELL , in reply, said, that as the law at present stood, incorporated joint-stock companies had not limited liabilities. There was power in special cases for the Queen in Council to grant charters with limited liability. The practice with respect to these charters was this: They were sent to the Committee of Privy Council for Trade. Those consisting of financial questions—for instance, colonial and banking charters—were disposed of under the responsibility of the Treasury. Charters, neither commercial nor financial, were under the responsibility of the Home Office, and the ordinary charters were disposed of under the Committee of Privy Council for Trade. With respect to those charters, the rule had been to grant them only in cases where the enterprise, from its magnitude, demanded a very large capital, and where the benefit to the nation from the undertaking was evident. That rule was not of easy application, and the course of precedent had not been uniform. The pre-
 1599
 MR. WARNER  said, he wished to ask the right hon. President of the Board of Trade whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in a Bill early next Session to amend the present law of partnership, with a view to facilitate the formation of companies or partnerships with limited liability, without the necessity of a charter or Act of incorporation; and, if this was not their intention, whether the Government intended to lay down any, or what, principle for their future guidance in giving or refusing charters with limited liability?
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON  said, he fully concurred in the praise which the hon. Gentleman had so deservedly accorded to those gentlemen by whom he had been assisted in this great measure, and he felt bound to express the gratitude which he conceived due to the hon. Member himself for the indefatigable assiduty with which he had applied the energies of his able mind to the work. He felt that the hon. Gentleman had, in this measure, conferred a most important benefit on the commercial interests of the country.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to take that opportunity, as the third reading of this Bill was appointed for to-morrow, to refer to two Amendments which had occurred to him to be absolutely essential for the proper working of the measure. In the first place, he thought that they should retain the power, at any rate, of sentencing convicts for ten years, and transporting them, if the Crown thought fit. His reasons for that were these: As he understood the proposition of the Government, it was founded on the expectation that Western Australia would take 700 or 800 convicts a year. The returns showed, however, as he had stated on a former occasion, that the average number of convicts sentenced to transportation for periods exceeding ten years did not amount to that number. The hands of the Crown, therefore, would be unnecessarily tied when it might be advisable to carry on transportation. Again, if they passed a Bill allowing only those convicts to be sent to Western Australia who were now willing and anxious to go there, or those who were under sentence of fourteen years and upwards, it might induce the colonists to believe that the worst kind of convicts, and not the best, were sent there, and would be no longer willing to receive even that limited number. For these reasons he was anxious that the Government should consider the propriety of abolishing transportation only for seven years' sentences, and not for sentences be-
 1601
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that the suggestions which had just been thrown out should receive the consideration due to the importance of the subject, and the respect to which anything that came from the right hon. Gentleman was so pre-eminently entitled.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  moved that the House, at its rising, should adjourn till ten o'clock to-morrow. It was desirable that the House should meet, with the view of carrying on certain Bills another stage, and he should hope that those hon. Gentlemen who might not be over-fatigued by the labours of the morning, would not
 1602
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, that in the present state of the law, a great hardship, he would rather Say a great injustice, attached to the situation of persons considered as criminal lunatics, by which term was not to be understood generally persons who had committed acts of great violence, but acquitted by juries on the ground of insanity so unequivocal as to relieve them from criminal responsibility; but it not unfrequently happened that persons became subjects of criminal charge of a very minor character, but when in custody their sanity became matter of inquiry, and in the end it became a question whether the magistrate should require sureties to keep the peace, or pursue the provisions of
 1604 Vict. 1605 "Save as hereinafter provided; that is to say, it shall be lawful for one of Her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State to issue his warrant to remove or discharge any insane person who shall be in custody under the provisions of the said Act of the 3rd and 4th years of Her Majesty, c. 54, provided it shall be duly certified to such Secretary of State, by two physicians or surgeons, that such insane person was harmless, and might be discharged from restraint as an insane person without danger to himself or to others, in like manner as if it had been certified to such Secretary of State that such person had become of sound mind, anything in the said Act or any other Act to the contrary thereof in any wise notwithstanding."
 MR. WALPOLE  moved to add the following clause:—
 "And whereas by the said recited Act it is provided that every person to be appointed in the room of any Commissioner, being a barrister of five years' standing at the bar, and upwards, shall be a practicing barrister of not less than five years' standing at the bar; and whereas it is expedient to amend the said provisions as hereinafter mentioned, the present or any future Secretary to the Commissioners, if at the time of his appointment to be such Secretary he was or shall have been a practicing barrister of not less than five years' standing at the bar, shall be eligible to be appointed a Commissioner in the room of any such Commissioner as aforesaid."
 MR. MICHELL  moved the following clause:—
 1603 "Provided also, That it shall not be lawful for a proprietor or superintendent of any licensed house, to keep or confine beyond the period of six months any person admitted into such house as a lunatic under the provisions of this Act, unless a jury, as in the case of a writ de lunatico inquirendo, shall have been summoned to ascertain the lunacy of such person; on the unanimous finding of this jury, the person shall be discharged or detained, as the case may be; if the jurors cannot agree, then the person shall be transferred to the nearest county lunatic asylum, as provided for by Clause 20."
 MR. BLACKETT  said, that subsequent to the conclusion of the Schleswig-Holstein war, a treaty was signed, to which this country was a party, fixing on the Prince of Glucksburgh as the future heir of the Danish Crown, failing issue of the reigning king and his immediate heir. That treaty was laid on the table of the House last year; but the House were not aware what were the views of those who represented this country in the matter, nor by what instruments the treaty was accompanied. He had information, on the one hand, that the Court of Russia had executed full renunciations of its rights of succession; while, on the other hand, it was remarkable that those renunciations were not included in the treaty of last year, as
 1680
 MR. BLACKETT  said, that the only document he would mention was the reply to the Danish Minister's circular of May last; but, if the noble Lord would permit him, he would communicate with the noble Lord privately on the subject.
 The SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he was very well aware that the Bill, which he trusted was then about to pass, dealt in a very summary manner with a very difficult question; but he thought they were not prepared to go further upon the present occasion than the Bill professed to go. The Bill which would be introduced next Session by the Government, founded upon the Report of the Common Law Commissioners, would make a proper provision for witnesses who entertained religious scruples to the taking of an oath, and would, he hoped, amongst other things, amalgamate, or, as it was called, make a fusion of the functions which were at present
 1682
 MR. KEATING  said, there were several clauses in the Bill which deserved the careful consideration of the House. He would refer more particularly to those clauses by which it was provided that the Secretary of State should give tickets of leave t such criminals as should have a sentence of penal servitude at home substituted for a sentence of transportation. There could be no difference of opinion as to the propriety of doing every thing which could be done to effect the reformation of a criminal. At the same time they should bear in mind that that was not the only object for which punishment was awarded. One great object of punishment was to deter others from the commission of similar crimes. Now, in his opinion, those clauses, introducing as they did a novel system into the criminal procedure of this country, ought to be well considered by the House before they were enacted. In the first place, by means of this ticket-of-leave system, which he presumed would be granted on a large scale a new class of persons would be introduced into society in this country—a class of persons, namely, who might be considered as  quasi 1684 ex parte
 MR. HUME  said, he had a strong opinion that the attempt to reform criminals never had, and never would, succeed. He admitted the force of the arguments used by the hon. Member for North Warwick-shire (Mr. Newdegate); but in this case the Government were helpless, and were driven to the measure by the refusal of the colonists to receive convicts. This was to be regarded as an experiment, and it was not their part to throw difficulties in the way. Seeing the dangers arising from an immense accumulation of convicts, he thought Government was perfectly justified in trying the experiment.
 MR. HUME , in seconding the Motion, said, that he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would allow this Bill to go to a Committee upstairs, by whom its details might be considered, and by whom amendments might be introduced. Agreeing as he did with the right hon. Gentleman in general, he nevertheless differed with him on some points which he would mention. He would inflict no money penalty whatever in cases of bribery, but would simply deprive individuals found guilty of the offence of giving or taking a bribe of the franchise for a period of ten years. No doubt, there would be great difficulty in the definition of bribery and treating (which he would punish with the same penalties), and that would be matter for the consideration of the Select Committee. When the agent who gave the bribe or carried on the treating was not a voter, it would of course be necessary to punish him by some other penalty. Then, as the offences of bribery and treating were clearly offences against the nation and against Parliament, whose purity they tended to impair, he thought that the duty of prosecuting the guilty
 1704
 MR. STUART WORTLEY  said, that seeing convicts could not be transported, as they had hitherto been, or, at all events, to the extent to which they had hitherto been sent to the Colonies, it appeared to him that the provisions of this Bill might prove to be extremely beneficial. There was one special provision which he hoped would not be impaired by the executive administration of the law. There was nothing more embarrassing to Judges in the execution of their duty than the uncertainty under which they laboured as to what would be done with the convicts after they had received sentences of transportation. He (Mr. Wortley) had, for his own part, felt that embarrassment very considerably. When he first undertook the duties of his present office (Recorder of London), he applied to the Home Office in order to ascertain what the regulations on the subject were; but, though not from any want of courtesy certainly, but simply from the difficulty of supplying information, he was able to learn very little indeed as to the principle upon which convicts were disposed of after sentences were passed. It was notorious, however, that the sentences were not carried out in the terms in which they were passed; and the Judges were consequently left in ignorance as to what extent of punishment would be consequent upon any particular sentence. According to the terms of this new Act of Parliament, there seemed to be much greater certainty introduced with respect to the operation of sentences in future; and he would take the liberty of suggesting that, if it was intended to have a system or code of regulations according to which sentences would be carried out in a particular manner, which did not appear on the face of the sentences themselves, it would be extremely desirable that from time to time as alterations were made, those alterations should be communicated to the Judges who presided in the Criminal Courts, in order that they might have an opportunity of seeing what would be the effect of the sentences which they passed. There could be no doubt that considerable terror used to attend the passing of sentences of transportation; but this salutary effect had of late years been greatly impaired by the utter un-
 1683
 MR STUART WORTLEY  said, if this Bill were passed, the law would be in an anomalous state, for a wife would be permitted in civil actions to give evidence for or against her husband, whilst in criminal proceedings she would not be permitted to give evidence against her husband. He mentioned this subject with the view of directing the attention of his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General to the Report of the Common Law Commissioners, with the hope that he would next Session introduce some measure to carry their recommendations into effect. He also wished to call the attention of his hon. and learned Friend to another subject. Early in the present Session, he (Mr. Wortley) called upon the Government to consider the propriety of making provision for permitting witnesses to make an affirmation instead of an oath, when they objected to taking an oath on religious grounds. Shortly after he made that suggestion, the Common Law Commission recommended that such permission should be given, and he understood that a Bill would be founded upon their Report; and his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General promised that there should be inserted in the present Bill a clause which would give that permission to witnesses. A clause to that effect was inserted in the Bill, but afterwards withdrawn in consequence of the opposition of the hon. and learned Member for Stamford (Sir F. Thesiger).
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that he remembered the weight of the evidence against the abolition of transportation as a secondary punishment which was given in 1847, when fifteen Judges of England, the Scotch Judges, without exception, and the Irish Judges, excepting Judge Perrin, declared it as their opinion that few greater mistakes could be made in the government of this country than the abolition of transportation. He, therefore, could not help looking with diffidence on any measure that contravened such a decision. For some 200 years this country had been relieved of the worst part of its criminal population by means of transportation, which accounted, in great measure, for the fact of our having a more moral population than any of those countries which did not possess the same outlet for criminals. The history of the troubles of France proved that its demoralisation had been aggravated, if not caused, by the absence of all opportunity, such as this country possessed, to get rid of its criminal population. When he (Mr. Newdegate) was in the United States, he frequently heard Americans complain of the great difficulty they had to contend with in establishing a good system of secondary punishments, inasmuch as, being on a great Continent, and having no colonies, they were without the means of transportation. He (Mr. Newdegate) admitted that difficulties at present existed in continuing transportation, because the sphere of the penal colonies had been contracted most unwisely by successive Governments. In 1839 (the noble Lord (Lord J. Russell) unconditionally promised that no more convicts should be sent to New South Wales; that rendered the number sent to Van Diemen's Land, Norfolk Island, and the other penal colonies, too large for the means of accommodation, employment, and subsequent absorption of convicts into the general population at the expiration of their terms of primary and ultimate punishments, and created disorders, of which the colonists of Van Diemen's Land complained justly; but those evils might have been avoided by providing a wider sphere for the reception of our convicts. This was not done, and now transportation to Van Diemen's Land was to cease. That was the result of maladministration, of neglecting to provide new penal settlements; not of any fault in the system of transportation itself. He wished to know if Her Majesty's Ministers had ever contemplated the plan
 1696 1697 1698
 COLONEL SIBTHORP  said, that he had seen many measures of various descriptions brought into that House, with the pretended object of attaining what was called purity of election; but he had never seen one which was founded on the sound principle of uniting purity of election with a proper consideration for all classes of the people. His family had represented Lincoln since 1714; and as during that time none of them had ever sought either place or pension, in either Church or State, from the Ministry of the day, he at any rate could not fairly be charged with being implicated in corrupt practices. The present Bill seemed to him to be wholly unintelligible, and to be so drawn as to involve innocent persons within the scope of its penalties. It might do very well as applied to a person who came down to a borough from the clouds, never having seen it before; but persons who like him were closely connected with the place they represented, might, under its provisions, be involved in great difficulty by merely attending, as they ought to do, to the local claims upon them, and to their local duties. He must protest against bringing forward a Bill introducing such extensive changes into our representative system at this late period of the Session; it was neither fair to that House nor to the people, and, even had he stood alone, he would have divided against the present Bill, had it been intended to carry it further than the second reading during the present Ses-
 1705
 MR. J. G. PHILLIMORE  said, he quite greed in the observations which had fallen from the hon. Member who had just sat down. He believed that the clauses to which attention had been called were the most objectionable parts of the Bill, for they introduced a principle which was at present unknown to our law, and which vas calculated to produce such dangerous consequences both to the person under punishment and to the public at large, that
 1693
 MR. SPOONER  said, that having had considerable experience as a magistrate in a very densely populated district, he begged to say that he entirely concurred in the views that had been expressed by the hon. and learned Member for Reading (Mr. Keating) on this subject. The noble
 1692
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he had stated on a former occasion that the responsibility of a
 1687 1688 l. l., l., l. l.; l.; l. l.; l. l., l. l.; 1689 l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l. l.; l. l.; l., l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.; l. l.; l. l., l. 1690 1691 
 
 GREAT BRITAIN. IRELAND. 
 Males. Females. Males. Females. 
 1847 938 334 — 134 
 1848 817 490 599 515 
 1849 1,476 377 636 606 
 1850 1,808 360 575 200 
 1851 1,568 422 310 432 
 6,607 1,983 2,120 1,887
 MR. WALPOLE , in moving the Second Reading of this Bill, said, he did so with the purpose rather of engaging the attention of the House and getting the principle confirmed, than with any expectation of passing the Bill at this period of the Session. The object of the Bill was best explained by the title of it. It was to consolidate and amend the law for the prevention of corrupt practices at elections; to consolidate the law, and, therefore, to simplify it; to amend the law, and, therefore, to improve it; by preventing, as far as might be, all those corrupt and dishonourable practices which at all interfered with the free exercise of the franchise. The law, as it at present stood, was somewhat anomalous and contradictory. The Statutes at present relating to it were the 6 & 7  Will. Geo Geo. Vict., Vict., Geo. Geo. 1700 Will. Victoria, Will. 1701 l. Commentaries. 1702 l. l., l., 1703
 MR. BARROW  said, he was not so surprised as some hon. Members appeared to be at the clauses under consideration. The principle of "qualified servitude" was not entirely a novel one, for persons very often entered into recognisances to appear and receive sentence at any time when called upon. This was quite analogous to the provisions of the clauses in question. But while he did not concur with those who found so much to complain of in this part of the Bill, there was a portion of the measure in which he should like to see the amendment, of which he had given notice, made. Most persons were aware that for the crime of felony a great variety of punishment might be inflicted, commencing with, he believed, a shilling fine, and increasing, under the existing system, up to transportation. But in addition to the punishment at the different ends of the scale being thus wide apart, there was also a great hiatus in the middle, for, as things stood, there was nothing between simple imprisonment for two years, and transportation for seven years. In the present measure as proposed by the Government the matter was in some degree remedied, the jump being only from two years' imprisonment to four years' penal servitude. He saw no reason why there should be any such gap at all; but, on the contrary, thought the measure would be more efficient if it provided that a short term of penal servitude might be inflicted. He would therefore propose in the 12th clause to leave out the word "four," and insert the word "two." By this alter-
 1694
 MR. EWART  said, he thought that all experience led them to believe that they were to hope for the amendment of criminals, not from their congregation, but from their dispersion. The right course, in his view, would be to make transportation not a part but a supplement of the punishment, and to put the convict in such a position that he might have every inducement to form for himself a new character, and create for himself a new career, which could never be done in the country that had been the scene of his crime. He hoped the result would be, that, when criminals had been reformed as far as possible in this country, the colonists would no longer feel that extreme repugnance to receiving them, and the Colonies being open, a process of natural dispersion would take place.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must express his regret on learning from the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) that he had not thought it desirable to adopt the suggestion he ventured to offer on a former evening with respect to extending the periods for which the punishment of penal servitude was to be inflicted. He confessed he thought the maximum of eight years' as the substitute for fifteen years' transportation, and the minimum of ten years where the existing Acts contemplated the duration of penal servitude for life, were periods too short. But his chief object in rising was, to express his regret at the explanation which he understood the noble Lord to give regarding that portion of transportation which was still to be retained. He was not disposed to recede from the general approbation of the measure he formerly expressed, but the idea of
 1699
 MR. T. CHAMBERS  said, that in adverting to the subject which had been discusssed in the earlier part of that portion of the debate, he thought that the objections against the ticket-of-leave clause of the Bill were reducible to two heads: first, that they introduced a new system; and, secondly, that the system so introduced was a vicious one, and would produce injurious results. Now, the early part of the speech of the hon. Gentleman who preceded him completely answered the first objection, that there existed at present an analogous power to that which it was proposed by this Bill to give to the Secretary of State; and he would therefore only address himself to the second. It should be borne in mind that the question was not whether convicts were to be allowed to return into society or not—that it was impossible to prevent—but the matter at issue was under what conditions should they return, and how should they be prepared for so doing in order that they might be benefited, and society suffer as little as possible? He thought human ingenuity could not devise a better scheme for doing this than was developed in the present Bill, which did not leave their return to the period when they had fully atoned for the crime which they had committed, and so could claim that return as a matter of right, but allowed them to come into the world with the sentence still hanging over their heads. Thus the convict returned into society with everything to hope if he behaved himself, and with certain punishment awaiting him if he did not do so. As regarded society, the result was equally beneficial. If a man were returned to the world determined and hardened in his wickedness, and the law had no control over him, he must proceed to commit fresh crimes before the hands of justice could overtake him. Under this Bill, if such an individual obtained a conditional pardon, he might, immediately on his disposition showing itself, be brought back to punishment. As to the possible evils in regard to a person in a state of qualified freedom entering into engagements or contracting marriage, that was undoubtedly a drawback in the scheme, but it was no greater than what attended all human efforts. The question was, how to effect the objects of the measure with the least possible drawback, and he believed that was done by the Bill before them.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he was not surprised that the hon. and learned Gentleman, who had probably not attended to the discussions which had already taken place upon the Bill, should be struck with the novelty of the proposed arrangement. He could, however, assure the House that the subject had received the most deliberate consideration from persons much more competent to deal with it than he could profess to be, and it had been thought that the new system would be attended with considerable advantage to the country, as well as to the criminals themselves. The practice had hitherto been, after a certain period of preliminary imprisonment, and a certain period of employment upon public works, to send convicts to a penal colony under that system of qualified servitude which was called the ticket-of-leave system. The hope of obtaining that indulgence had been found to have a very powerful effect upon the mind of convicts confined in prisons, and employed upon public works, and had tended greatly to produce resignation to their condition, and a deter-
 1685 1686 Geo.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON , in reply, said, that the correspondence to which the hon. Member referred was exceedingly voluminous, extending to, perhaps 6,000 pages of folio, and the expense of the printing such a mass of correspondence would be very great, and certainly would not be repaid by the interest which it would create. That the production of such a correspondence would lead to inconvenience he could assert, inasmuch as he had been he instrument through whom it had passed. Besides, it contained a great many details which, at the present moment, had lost all interest. As things stood, the succession to Denmark Proper went in the female line, the succession of Holstein went in the male line, the succession of Schleswig was disputed between two parties; and, therefore, on the death of the king and his uncle, who was the next heir, Denmark would have gone to the female heir, Holstein to the male, and Schleswig been divided between them. It was the business of the British Government to endeavour to prevent such a state of things; and it was thought an important object to keep together those three States which in common parlance were called the Danish Provinces. He was anxious to get renunciations also from that male branch which had claims on Holstein, and to combine the whole in some party who might equally claim all portions. That was accomplished by the treaty. If the hon. Gentleman named the renunciation of Russia, or if there were any particular documents as to which the hon. Gentleman would have the goodness to give him (Lord Palmerston) a memorandum, he would ascertain whether there was any objection to their production.
 MR. WODEHOUSE  said, that though the question of the land tax was of trifling importance in the more opulent parts of the country, it was felt in other districts to operate like a property tax; and he was, therefore, glad to learn that in another Session the subject would, probably, be dealt with in a more general and comprehensive form.
 MR. FITZSTEPHEN FRENCH  said, he complained that the redemption of the land tax in Ireland, which was at one time sixteen years' purchase, had been raised by order of the Treasury to twenty-five years' purchase; and that during the proceedings under the Incumbered Estates Commissioners, the Government had insisted on having that twenty-five years' purchase, though the property brought only ten years' purchase.
 The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had now to move for leave to introduce a Bill to supply an omission in the Bill which had passed through both Houses of Parliament, and which he believed had received the Royal Assent, with respect to the redemption of the lend tax. There had been a certain preference for a limited time given to parties interested in the lands on which the tax was to be so redeemed for the purpose of that redemption. That, he repeated, was for a limited time; and since then the redemption of land tax had been open to all the world. Various inconveniences had attended the present state of the law. The minute charge to which the land tax commonly amounted, was unnecessarily kept alive. Independent and separate parties had been introduced in an anomalous relation between the owners of the soil on the one hand, and the Government on the other. The Government still remained subject to the responsibility of collecting the land tax, even when they had no interest in it; and, in consequence of the redeemed land tax standing in the nature of personalty, the Government had been often required to institute difficult and laborious investigations to ascertain the ownership, after it had been lost sight of for a period of time. Up to the present time the redemption of the land tax was offered on terms less favourable than the purchase of stock. By the Act of the present year it was proposed to give it on terms materially more favourable; but the intention of that Act was to improve the condition of those interested in land, with respect to the land tax, and not to offer an inducement to persons not interested in the land to come in as intermediate purchasers. The measure with respect to the redemption of land tax was introduced with views of getting rid of it as a distinct charge. It had been found, however, that the Bill he had previously introduced did not give effect to those views. He did not propose to deal retrospectively with the anomalous cases which had arisen. It would be better in a future Session to consider whether an arrangement might not be made which might be conducive to the convenience of the parties and the advantage of the Government, for merging the land tax and getting rid of it—for disposing of the land tax where redemption had been effected under former Statutes. He proposed to
 1708
 Mr. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the object of the Bill was to correct some anomalies in the present law, and to facilitate emigration from China to the West Indies. The West India Colonies and Guiana desired to have labour imported from China. Not only had there been great mortality in vessels which had gone from Amoy to British Guiana and other Colonies, but speculators had employed Chinese crimps, who had practised every species of deception on their fellow-countrymen. If the emigration were to continue, it was indispensable that it should continue under Government control, with a Government agent, and from a Government port. No Native should be allowed to embark on any vessel without its being ascertained where he was going to, and without his entering into a contract. But, unfortunately, the Passengers Act, though it applied to Hong Kong, did not apply to other ports in China, as no others were in British possession. The Passengers Act required that fifteen superficial feet should be allowed in vessels which crossed the tropic for each emigrant; and the object of the present Bill was to empower the governors of British Colonial possessions to reduce that allowance to twelve feet, which it was thought might safely be done in the case of Asiatics. There was every reason to believe that the reduction might be made without injury. There had long existed an extensive emigration to the Mauritius from the East Indies. In 1850 and the three seasons which had since elapsed, no fewer than 8,000 Coolies had been sent to the Mauritius. The Passengers Act did not apply to that emigration, which was regulated by enactments of the Indian Government. The allowance for each passenger was twelve feet, and there was no reason to believe that Asiatics from China would require more space than those from India. The Passengers Act was intended to apply to the emigration of Europeans to Australia and New Zealand. The expense of transport was greatly increased by granting a space of fifteen superficial feet to Chinese passing to the West Indies; and he apprehended that if the power were not given to reduce the space, the emigration would go from Chinese ports without the Government having that control which it was desirable they should have.
 SIR JOHN FITZGERALD  said, that the experience which he had had convinced him of the great necessity there was for the insertion of this clause in the Bill. The simple food of the natives of India absolutely required salt in order to make it palatable, while at the same time the wages of the people were so low that it was difficult to obtain this or any other necessary of life. If the House should agree to the Lords' Amendment, and exclude this clause, he hoped something would at least be done in order to provide the natives of India with unadulterated salt at a cheaper rate than the present price.
 MR. HUME  said, he would appeal to his hon. and learned Friend, not to press the Motion to a division, as there appeared to be great doubt as to the right to order the production of these papers.
 MR. J. T. CHAMBERS , in seconding the Motion, said, that if these amended laws of Malta received the sanction of the British Parliament, they would become British law, involving an alteration in the criminal code of a portion of the Empire. There was nothing in legislation more important to guard against than sudden al-
 1735
 MR. HUME  said, the observations of the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, arose from applying principles to Malta which ought only to regulate this country. He had visited Malta in 1809, shortly after it had fallen into our hands. When the French garrison was in possession of the forts, all efforts of the blockading fleet to dispossess them were vain till the inhabitants united with it. When possession was taken, the inhabitants were guaranteed in the free exercise of all the rites and ceremonies of their Church, and protection for the Roman Catholic as the dominant religion. They had an elective assembly in Malta which had altered the laws. Hon. Gentlemen disapproved of those alterations, and they called on that House to interfere, as if those laws were to be applied to Protestants in a Protestant country. They complained of the Roman Catholics for seeking to make their religion dominant, but he feared they were following their example. Many countries were subject to this. The same rules could not be applied to all. In Lower Canada, as in Malta, the Catholics were most numerous, and should be treated as the dominant party.
 MR. J. D. FITZGERALD  said, the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) had called attention to the 54th Article of this code, which imposed certain punishments for reviling or otherwise insulting or ridiculing any article of the Roman Catholic Church, and that hon.
 1746
 MR, KINNAIRD  said, he must beg to tender his thanks to the noble Lord for the remarks he made on this subject, more particularly as they formed a complete justification to him for bringing it forward. He thought the noble Lord had answered the observations of the hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies with entire impartiality. The hon. Gentleman had accused him of showing bitterness in his speech; but if the hon. Gentleman would read that speech in the newspapers to-morrow, he would not find a word in it calculated to wound the feelings of any one. After what had been said by the noble Lord, he would not press the Motion.
 MR. KINNAIRD : No; I objected to the application of the term "blasphemy" in the code.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that he regretted to be obliged to trespass on the House at that late period of the Session; but before Parliament separated he was desirous of calling the attention of the House to an amended code of laws proposed in Malta, and sent to this country for the sanction of Her Majesty. Some months ago his attention had been called to the proposed alterations in the Malta criminal code; and he applied to the Government for a copy, but was informed it had not yet arrived. He afterwards learned it was lying in the Colonial Office. On this he moved for the production of such portions of it as related to offences against religion; but the papers had only been delivered that morning. This code gave great and just offence to the Protestant inhabitants of that island, and he understood that the law advisers of the Crown in Malta, prepared an amendment, which the present Governor refused to entertain. In the second book of this amended code there were seven separate articles relating to offences against the respect due to religion, of which he would only at present say that the punishment therein awarded reminded one more of the intolerant enactments of despotic Governments, than that of the enlightened legislation of a free country, whose boast it was to have taken the lead in the assertion of the principles of civil and religious liberty. They were also, he would add, unprecedented in the laws of Malta itself. The only argument that he had heard adduced in their favour was, that they were the necessary result of our guarantee to the Maltese of the continued free exercise of their religion. He asked, then, when such a guarantee was given as to warrant the passing of such a code, for he was at a loss to discover it? When Sir Thomas Maitland, the Governor, issued a proclamation at Valetta, dated October 5, 1813, on taking possession of the island in the name of the Crown, he promised to secure to the Maltese, in the fullest manner, the free exercise of their religion, and to retain their ecclesiastical establishment. Recognising this promise in its fullest extent, it could not be fairly interpreted to mean
 1733 "whoever shall disturb with violence, or with intent to profane, the sacred functions or ceremonies, whether of the Roman Catholic or of the Anglican religion during the celebration thereof." 1734
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, there was no doubt that the House, in inquiring into the existence of corrupt practices at any particular place, had a perfect right to examine an attorney as to any communications which had taken place between himself and his client, for he himself had asked such questions of an attorney under examination at the bar, and the House had decided that he was perfectly competent to do so. In this case, however, they had not exercised the jurisdiction themselves, but under an Act of Parliament they had delegated their power for inquiry into the existence of corrupt practices in the borough of Canterbury to Commissioners appointed under that Act. Having, therefore, transferred their powers, the thought they were  primâ facie 1731
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that in dealing with this question they must consider the position in which they found the Roman Catholic Church in Malta, what was due to the subjects of Her Majesty who were residing in that island, and also what was due to civil and religious liberty on the part of the Government of Her Britannic Majesty. Now, with regard to the first of these points, no one would deny that when we took possession of Malta the great majority of the inhabitants of that island were Roman Catholics, and it was promised and proclaimed to the people of Malta that we would respect and protect their religion. In one of the proclamations of General Pigot, that officer declared that it was his duty as well as his inclination to insure to the Maltese people full protection for their religion and their property. Indeed, in every declaration on the part of the Crown of England with reference to the island of Malta, there was an open and solemn declaration that the religion of the Maltese should be confirmed, maintained, and respected. Now, the religion alluded to in these declarations must be admitted by every one to have been the Roman Catholic religion. It must be recollected that at the period when we took possession of Malta the question was not so much as it now was between the Roman Catholic religion and various denominations of Protestants, but between the Christian religion and those who opposed it. When, however, the English took possession of that island they engaged to protect persons of all religious opinions. Such being the case, we were bound to respect the worship, practice, and faith of the Roman Catholic Church; and in order to do that it was included in that profession that some punishment should be
 1748 1749 1750
 MR. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he was of opinion that the code contained a vast amount of objectionable matter, and that it was alike hostile to civil and religious liberty. He saw no reason why any class of religionists, whether dominant in the State, or established by law, should have any advantage in point of criminal law over any other religion. The speech of the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies was not at all satisfactory on this subject. He had admitted that the code awarded one degree more punishment for offences against the Roman Catholic clergy and ceremonies than for any other; and it was just that one degree that he (Mr. Pellatt) objected to. He thought the country was greatly indebted to the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Kinnaird) for having brought the subject forward.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he must point out the wide construction which the words of the code relating to insults offered to Roman Catholic ceremonies, functions, and articles, might be made to bear. It was a rule with the Roman Catholic Church, that whatever was once made an article of the faith never ceased to be such, though some articles might be suspended for a time, or in their application to certain persons or localities. The doctrine against which the oath of abjuration taken by Members of Parliament was aimed, namely, the "Impious," "heretical," and "damnable doctrine and position, that princes excommunicated by the Pope might be deposed and murdered by their subjects," as recited in the oath taken by every Protestant Member at the table of the House, though some Roman Catholics said it was suspended, was still an article of the Church of Rome, which it would be punishable in Malta to revile, or ridicule, or speak in the terms of the Protestant oath, if the criminal code passed in the form in which it was submitted to the House, and had been sanctioned by the Maltese Legislature. This code condemned, in fact, the oath which had been taken by every Member of that House. It might be well to tolerate the Roman Catholic religion; but he hoped the House would not
 1745
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman could not move a substantive proposition. The Motion before the House was, that the House should agree to the Amendments of the Lords. The hon. Gentleman could move a negative to that Motion.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  believed that the case to which the hon. Gentleman referred occurred before 1832—that it took place when the Company had a monopoly, which they had not now. He (Sir C. Wood) should be the last person to maintain a high duty on salt, and was perfectly ready to concur in any reduction of the duty on salt which could be assented to with common prudence and discretion by the Government of India. It was contrary to all sound principle that this House should take on itself to legislate in detail for India. There was one large branch of the
 1725
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  would not enter on what took place twenty years ago, but quite agreed with the principle then laid down, that adequate provision ought to be made for the spiritual instruction of Roman Catholic servants of the East India Company, as provision was made for the Protestant servants of the Company. The Company did not profess to do more than provide for the spiritual instruction of its servants, or in any way whatever to provide for the religious instruction of the community. Several witnesses had been examined before the Committee on the Indian Territories with respect to points referred to in the hon. Gentleman's questions. Some of those points were of considerable difficulty. He (Sir C. Wood) was quite prepared to admit that the provision at present made for the Roman Catholic servants of the Company was far from being adequate, and that the Indian Government were perfectly alive to the spiritual wants of their servants, and that they were prepared to meet the wants of those servants.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  moved that
 1724
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that that question had been brought under the attention of his right hon. Friend at the head of the Board of Admiralty, and also of the mercantile marine department of the Board of Trade, and would certainly receive all the attention it deserved. He believed he was to have the honour of receiving Mr. Ingersoll upon the subject; and, with regard to the conference to which the hon. Gentleman had alluded, he had to state that that conference was appointed to be held at Brussels, in the present month, and that Captain Beechy, of the Board of Trade, was to attend it on behalf of Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he rose to move, according to notice, an Address to Her Majesty for the production of the papers
 1727 primâ facie
 MR. CRAUFURD , in reply, said, the noble Lord (Lord John Russell) was in error in stating that the papers were still in possession of the parties; they were in point of fact in the custody of Her Majesty, having been impounded by the Commissioners.
 MR. WARNER  was afraid that by the proposed code a Protestant would be liable to imprisonment if he should remain covered whilst a procession of what was called "the host" passed by hint in the streets of Malta. By the 51st Article, any one
 1747
 MR. FITZ-STEPHEN FRENCH  said, he should support the Motion. It would be a dangerous president to allow the Commissioners to suppress documents. The House would afterwards have to act on this Report, and they ought to have the whole of the evidence before them.
 MR. LUCAS  said, he rose to ask a question of the right hon. President of the Board of Control as to the Provision made for the exercise of the Catholic religion in India, in pursuance of the compact of 1833, and also to the provision hereafter to be made for the same purpose. He would request permission to refer to the promises of the Government on the subject in 1833. Mr. Grant (now Lord Glenelg), speaking of the Roman Catholic community in India, said—
 "That they deserved the particular regard and consideration of the Government," "he should be happy to communicate with the hon. and learned Member for Dublin on the sub-
 1723 Provided always, that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent the Governor General in Council from granting from time to time, with the sanction of the Court of Directors, and of the Commissioners of the Affairs of India, to any sect, persuasion, or community of Christians, not being of the United Church of England and Ireland, or of the Church of Scotland, such sums of money as may be expedient for the purposes of instruction, or for the maintenance of places of worship."
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he could not allow this discussion to end without entering his protest against the omission of the clause relating to the salt tax. He looked upon the salt duty as one of the most objectionable taxes which could be imposed upon the people of India, and would therefore move that the House should disagree with the Amendment of the Lords by which the clause had been struck out.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he must express his thanks to the hon. Member (Mr. Kinnaird) for bringing the subject forward, and also to the noble Lord (Lord J. Russel) for the latter part of his speech. The discussion was sure to do good. The time was come when in the eye of the law all religious persuasions must be equal. It was the boast of this country that a slave could not put his foot on any British territory; but the best and the sweetest of all liberties, and the brightest gem of the Crown, was religious liberty, which would enable a man to worship his Maker according to the dictates of his own conscience. He respected the rights of the Roman Catholics equally with his own; he asked nothing for himself that he would not concede to them. Having these sentiments he hoped they would use no weapons but those of reason, scripture, and truth.
 MR. G. A. HAMILTON , in rising to ask the right hon. Baronet the First Lord
 1721 1722
 MR. I. BUTT  said, as he understood the facts of the case, they were these:—The solicitor of Mr. Butler Johnstone, when preparing to defend that Gentleman's seat for Canterbury, took down the evidence of witnesses and made marginal notes for his own private use and for the information of Mr. Butler Johnstone's counsel. The Commissioners exercising their jurisdiction, required that these papers should be produced before them. The solicitor refused compliance with their request, on the ground that it would involve a violation of professional confidence, and the Commissioners gave him two days to consider the matter and to obtain counsel's advice. After obtaining such advice, the solicitor produced the papers in question before the Commissioners, who used them
 1730
 MR. I. BUTT  said, that he wished he could agree with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that this code dealt impartially with all religious persuasions. On the contrary, he still believed that the effect of it would be to make the Roman Catholic Church the dominant religion in Malta. He did not now allude to the language in which the Roman Catholic religion was spoken of, while every other persuasion was studiously disparaged. Not that he believed even this a matter of light importance, but he alluded to the enactments of practical effect and importance. In the first place, he could not agree that the clauses which prohibited any disturbance to the Protestant and Roman Catholic worship were in effect the same; the clause relating to Roman Catholic worship contained the words "within or without a place of worship;" but these words were omitted in that protecting Protestant worship. He did not know how a Maltese Court of Law would interpret such a clause; but if it were an Act passed by that House, and interpreted in a British Court of Law, he had no difficulty in saying that the Judges would decide that the omission of these words in the second clause was a plain intimation that it was designed to make a difference between the Protestant and Roman Catholic ceremonies—to protect the latter out of doors, and to confine the former to their places of worship. He believed this to be the meaning of the framers of the code. What else could possibly have caused the omission of the words in the paragraph protecting Protestant worship—in every other respect a  verbatim 1742 "whoever shall publicly blaspheme, or impiously execrate the name of God, or of any of the persons of the Most Holy Trinity, or of the Blessed Virgin, or of the saints; or shall revile, or otherwise insult, or ridicule by words, gestures, or exhibitions, any article of the Roman Catholic Church, or an essential article of the Christian religion as received by the generality of Christians, shall be punished with imprisonment." "whosoever during the performance of the
 1743 de facto, 1744
 MR. MILNES GASKELL  appeared at the bar and reported that the Peterborough Election Committee had determined—
 "That George Hammond Whalley, Esq., is not duly elected a citizen to serve in this present Parliament for the city of Peterborough. "That Thomas Hankey, jun., Esq., is duly elected, and ought to have been returned a citizen to serve in this present Parliament for the city of Peterborough."
 MR. SPOONER  thought what had fallen from the noble Lord must be perfectly satisfactory to the House, as he had stated that he would give his best attention to the suggestions that had been thrown out during the discussion, with regard to modifications that ought to be introduced. There was one point in the very first Article which provided for the commission of any offence "within or without any place of worship." Now, that applied only to the Roman Catholic religion; the words "within and without" were not applied to any other form of worship, and he could not understand why there should be that exception. Again, there were the words "insult and outrage," which were very indefinite words, and which were to be
 1751
 MR. LOWE  said, that until the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Craufurd) had uttered his last sentence he was at a loss to understand the object of his Motion. He (Mr. Lowe) understood the case of the hon. and learned Gentleman to be, that a portion of the papers given in evidence before the Canterbury Election Commissioners had not been produced by them; that some attorney in the city of Canterbury was alleged to have been guilty of
 1728 1729
 MR. GREGSON  said, he objected most decidedly, on behalf of the poor natives of India, to the excessive duty which was at present imposed on salt in that country. He would remind the House that salt shipped here at 10 s. l. s.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. W. WILLIAMS  said, he must express his regret that the hon. Member for Kidderminster had, on the part of the Government, objected to the production of these papers. If the doctrine of that hon. Gentlemen was correct, it appeared that Election Commissioners had the power of suppressing or withholding any portion of the evidence given before them. His own opinion was that the House ought to be put in possession of the fullest information that was obtained with reference to corrupt practices at elections; but if they allowed the Commissioners to exercise their discretion as to the publication of evidence, they might as well at once put an end to the large expenditure which was incurred for these inquiries.
 SIR DE LACY EVANS  said, the was glad to learn that it was not on principle, but rather on technical grounds, that the right hon. Gentleman concurred in the omission of this clause; that the right hon. Gentleman was rather in favour of the clause, but that he thought the House ought not to interfere with the actual administration of India. Though obliged to acquiesce in the Amendment of the other House, in consequence of the delays which might otherwise arise, it was impossible that the House of Commons could express itself too strongly in favour of an alteration of the duty on salt. The opinion of the hon. Member for Lancaster (Mr. Gregson), who was well acquainted with the subject, was entitled to much weight. Having been in various parts of India, he (Sir De L. Evans) could corroborate the statements of the hon. Member for the county of Clare (Sir J. D. Fitzgerald), and he hoped the President of the Board of Control would not content himself with a statement of his readiness to concur in acts of the Indian Government on the subject, but that he would take steps to have the salt duty put on a different footing. It would be quite inconsistent with the free-trade principles of the present Government to allow the existence of this tax, or to prevent the free introduction of salt into India
 1726
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL : His hon. Friend, at all events, referred to the law of Tuscany and to the case of the Madiai, leaving the impression that the amended code of Malta would render persons liable to punishment who should act as the Madiai had done. Those persons had been punished for reading a Protestant Bible; but there was no provision under this code by which any Maltese, whether Protestant or Roman Catholic, could be punished for such an act. The House must bear in mind that Malta was a Roman Catholic country, placed under a Legislative Council which was now elective; that Roman Catholics had been returned to that Council; and that this was a law which, after a great deal of consideration, that Council had thought fit to adopt. His hon. Friend considered that this was an unnecessary alteration of the code of 1837; but he had fallen into some inaccuracy with respect to that code. His hon. Friend had eulogised the code of 1837 as impartial; but the House would probably be surprised to learn that that code was only one draughted by the Commissioners: it had never been brought into operation—had never for a single day been enacted as the law of Malta. Li fact, it was merely a code prepared by the Malta commissioners, and sent to England for confirmation, and had never been adopted. He was surprised, however, that the hon. Gentleman
 1737 1738 1739 "Whoever shall outrage the objects of worship of the Catholic Church, whether within or without the places appointed for public worship, shall be punished," &c. 1740 "Whenever the acts contemplated in this title shall be accompanied by circumstances rendering them liable to more serious punishments, such punishments shall be 'awarded, increased in one degree.'" 1741
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, he was not sorry that his hon. Friend had stated his objections to this criminal code in a clear and substantive form. In one respect, indeed, he must qualify the satisfaction with which he had listened to his speech, because he must say that he thought it to a certain extent an injudicious one, calculated to keep alive the animosity between different sections of the community at Malta, which it was their object, if possible, to allay. He thought, also, that it was not so accurate as it might have been, if the hon. Gentleman had chosen to refer to the facts upon record, which were as accessible to his hon. Friend as to himself. He understood his hon. Friend to take general exception to this code, upon the ground that Malta formed part of the dominions of the Crown, and that that Crown being a Protestant one, the Government could not properly assent to a law which established the Church of Rome—
 MR. BLACKETT  said, he would not leave himself open to the censure of the noble Lord at the bead of the Government by criticising the late transactions, until they were placed before them in an authentic form; but, at the same time, he thought that the noble Lord, by steadily refusing to take Parliament and the people of England into his councils, had increased greatly the responsibility that rested upon the Government; and, of course, the future judgment of that House must be severer than it would otherwise be if it should turn out that, when Parliament reassembled, the t noble Lord had been mistaken in his views, or that he had miscalculated his own position. There was one point that he wished particularly to press upon the House, and that had reference to the occupation of the Danubian provinces. The noble Lord left them in no doubt on the subject, because, from his eloquent silence, they could not think they were wrong in assuming that no mention of the evacuation of the Principalities was contained in the terms to which they were told by the noble Lord the Emperor of Russia had assented to. The question as to the evacuation of the Principalities seemed to him (Mr. Blackett) to be of far more importance than the terms of any treaty which the Emperor of Russia and the Sultan might agree to. He had never doubted that the ingenuity of diplomatists would be able to contrive some document which either party could sign without much humiliation; but the question of the continued occupation of the Principalities was more important, because it was more manifest to Europe, and pressed most heavily on the Turkish power. He should be sorry to see Turkey signing any treaty f of a humiliating character; but the know ledge of that treaty would be confined to a t comparatively limited circle of persons interested in diplomatic affairs, and many a years might elapse before either Power was called upon to put that power into execution, and they had the chapter of accidents to trust to; but the occupation of the n Principalities by the Russian troops was a fact that pressed upon the attention of every peasant in Wallachia and Moldavia, a and was calculated to disorganise the entire Turkish rule. It would be out of the power y of those Principalities to obtain any treaty that would enable them to avoid the intolerable position of occupying the debate able ground between two hostile Empires.
 1797 prestige 1798
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he thought it would be seen from this debate that the spirit of the British people was not dormant, but that they were prepared to support those Ministers who took an active part in repressing the wanton aggression of Russia. He regretted that the moral influence of this country had been very much weakened by our conduct in the East, for he thought we had taken exactly the contrary course to that adopted by the Romans;  Parcere subjectis et debellare superbos. 1811
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  wished to address some observations to the House on a subject to which he had turned much attention for a great many years. He was free to admit that, although on many subjects he did not agree with the right hon. Baronet (Sir J. Pakington) and hon. Gentlemen opposite, yet on the present occasion he coincided with almost everything the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich had said. With the right hon. Baronet, he thought the House had
 1784 1785 1786 1787 1788 l. 1789 1790
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I now rise to propose that this House at its rising do adjourn till Friday next. I have already stated that before the prorogation of Parliament I would endeavour to make some explanation to the House of the relations at present existing between Russia and Turkey. I certainly have to thank House for its forbearance on this subject during the present Session; and, in anything that I may have to say I shall not enter into anything which might be considered to be a defence of Her Majesty's Government, because Her Majesty's Government has not been attacked in this House. On the contrary, I think every disposition has been shown to leave in the hands of Her Majesty's Executive Government the conduct of the negotiations in this important case. I have, however, a few words to say as to the production of papers which some Members of this House think ought to have been laid on the table. Upon that subject I will say that, on reverting to what has been done on previous occasions, even in cireum stances exceedingly critical, I have not found that it has been usual to lay on the table of the Houses of Parliament papers relating to the negotiations in a state similar to the negotiations which have been lately carried on, and which are now being carried on among the Powers of Europe. I find that in the year 1840, when a convention had been signed amongst various Powers of Europe, with respect to the relations of Turkey and Egypt, my hon. Friend the Member for Montrose (Mr. Hume) asked my noble Friend the Member for Tiverton (Viscount Palmer stop) then Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to produce the convention, and lay it on the table of this House. That hap pened on the 6th of August, and the pro rogation of Parliament took place on the 11th of the same month. My noble Friend declined to lay that convention on the table, as it was not then ratified; but he entered into some explanations at that time, and he stated that the whole of the papers relating to the negotiations would be laid before the two Houses of Parliament at a later period. In the year 1844, again, some discussions took place between this country and France, with respect to
 1761 1762 Chargé d'Affaires 1763 1764 1765 casus belli, 1766 1767 1768 1769
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL : Sir, I owe some explanation to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Droitwich (Sir J. Pakington), who appears to think that I ought to have given a longer notice of the statement I was going to make. With regard to the absence of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), that right hon. Gentleman must have been aware—and, no doubt, was aware—that I said on a previous occasion that before Parliament should separate I would make the statement that I have made this evening. No doubt the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire thought (and he was correct in so thinking) that I was not going to enter into a discussion of the reasons and ground on which the Government have proceeded, and that I was merely going to state some facts relating to the present relations between Russia and Turkey. The right hon. Gentle man the Member for Droitwich is quite right when he states that no Member is committed to any opinion on the conduct of Her Majesty's Government in regard to this subject. I wished to elicit no opinion, and I did not state any arguments proving or attempting to prove the wisdom of the course of the Government. But several hon. Members had wished some explanation should be made, and I complied with that wish with the view of giving them such explanation as I could give. In point of fact I went beyond the precedents in this case, and I stated more than was stated in the case to which I alluded in 1841. I think that what the hon. Member for Aylesbury (Mr. Layard) has said, only shows that any opinion as to the wisdom or folly of our course ought to be reserved until the papers are seen. I shall not enter into a dispute with him, because if I did so, I would be obliged to enter into a narrative which I can only tell from the papers to which he has not access. Therefore I don't think it is right to enter into that discussion. I can only say, that if peace at any price is a bad maxim, I cannot see that war at any price is at all better. My noble Friend the Member for Marylebone (Lord
 1794
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, I hope that the House will grant me that indulgence which it usually grants to Members who address it for the first time, and will permit me to say a few words on a subject which, as the House may be aware, has long and deeply interested me. My noble Friend the Member for the City of London has commenced by stating that he is not going to defend the policy of the Government, as that policy has never been attacked—and for a very good reason—the noble Lord has never given me or any other hon. Member an opportunity of making any comments whatever, either favourable or unfavourable, upon the policy of Her Majesty's Government. My noble Friend will, therefore, I trust, admit that I have in this Motion shown no factious desire to impede the policy of the Government, or to throw any difficulties in their way, or to induce Her Majesty's Ministers to make disclosures which might prove injurious or inconvenient to the public service. I hope my noble Friend will believe, and that the House will believe, that I should not have been so presumptuous as to put myself forward in a matter of such vast importance and of so eminently delicate a nature had I not been conscientiously convinced that I had an act of duty to perform, and that I might, however humbly, throw some light upon the question at issue. Indeed, in the first instance I was of opinion that discussion in this House, and a public statement of the true facts of the case, which had been greatly misunderstood and distorted, would have much contributed towards strengthening Her Majesty's Government in pursuing a firm and wise policy. But I have in this respect also shown, I trust, a due deference to the opinion of Her Majesty's Government, and remained silent, although, by so doing, I have exposed myself to considerable misapprehension and even animadvert-
 1770 1771 "My Lords, I cannot agree with the noble Duke, that nothing less than an immediate attack upon the honour or interest of this nation can authorise us to interpose in defence of weaker States, and in stopping the enterprise of an ambitious neighbour. Whenever that narrow, selfish policy has prevailed in our Councils, we have constantly experienced the fatal effects of it. By suffering our natural enemies to oppress the Powers less able than we are to make a resistance, we have permitted them to increase their strength, we have lost the most favourable opportunities of opposing them with success, and found ourselves at last obliged to run every hazard in making that cause our own, in which we were not wise enough to take part while the expense and danger might have been supported by others. I fear, my Lords, it is too much the temper of this country to be insensible to the approach of danger until it comes with accumulated terror upon us." 1772 1773 1774 1775 1776 1777 casus belli, 1778 ipso facto, 1779 1780 prestige
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  trusted, that the explanation which the right hon. Gentleman had thought it necessary for his own character to give, would be satisfactory to those persons who might feel disappointed at what had occurred. Of course, the right hon. Gentleman could hardly expect him to say that he regretted very much his absence upon that occasion. Certainly every pains had been taken with regard to the notice paper to provide against such an accident as had happened. There had been a special order that the House should meet at One o'clock. Notice had been given of it; and the India Bill stood first upon the Orders, so that the right hon. Gentleman had had every opportunity afforded him of ascertaining what was the fact. With regard to the question itself, he could add very little to what he had already said. He was as anxious as the right hon. Gentleman himself could be to see a reduction of the duty upon salt in India. It was, unquestionably, the first that ought to be reduced, because it was the only existing duty which pressed upon the people of India. He was not prepared, however, to direct an immediate reduction of that duty, because that must be left to the discretion of the Government of India, and must be regarded as a matter of finance. A considerable portion of the revenue of India—upwards of 3,000,000 l. 1757
 MR. MUNTZ  said, as the noble Lord had gone back to the time of Charles II., he would also do so. It was told of that celebrated monarch, when the Dutch Ambassador made a very objectionable proposal to him, and the King said—"You never would have made such a proposal to Oliver Cromwell;" the answer was—"No: but you are a very different man from Oliver Cromwell." He believed that if we had such Ministers as we should have had, and determined men to govern the country, the Russians never could nave marched into
 1795 1796
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he was glad to have that opportunity of explaining what was the position of the Mint with regard to the coinage of this country, which had recently been the subject of so much complaint. With regard to the copper coin, the House would recollect that he had stated some time ago that a contract had been entered into with a house in Binning ham for a supply of 500 tons of that coin. The delivery of that supply had been commenced on last Saturday. The first portion of it was required for the Ionian Islands, Ceylon, and other Colonies. He believed that the remaining portion of the supply would be speedily delivered, and that all the parts of the Empire would soon be provided with a sufficient amount of copper coin. With regard to the silver coin, he had to state, that in the eight weeks terminating on last Saturday, 244,800 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1760
 MR. COBDEN : I do not exactly see, Sir, that there is any difference of opinion on the question that is before us. I find everybody is agreed that Russia has acted in a manner that is treacherous, overbearing, and violent. I find that, in and out of this House, everybody entertains the opinion that the most fortunate result of the late proceedings in the East is, that it has brought about a firm alliance, not only between the people of England and France, but between the Governments of England and France, for I never can cease to separate the people,  de facto, 1799 1800 1801 l. l. 1802 1803 l., 1804 l. l. l. l. 1805 1806
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he thought the noble Lord the Member for Marylebone had dealt rather hardly with the Government, and had made a very rapid deduction, that they must have done something of which they were ashamed, because they had not laid the papers relative to this question on the table of the House. He was afraid that on this subject there existed a great deal of prejudice both on the one side and on the other. They knew it was the habit of this country to allow the Foreign Minister to do what he liked, and to get into as many scrapes as he pleased, always trusting to the ability by which he would be able to get out of it. At the same time, this was one of those peculiar questions on which the display of a little more confidence in the House of Commons would have strengthened the hands of Government. As far as that Government had permitted the knowledge of their proceedings to transpire, he believed that they had acted with very great prudence and judgment; nevertheless, he thought that if the House of Commons had been let a little into their councils their policy would not have at all been lessened in the estimation of the public. He thought in fact that the House of Commons would have urged the Minister to adopt a stronger and a firmer policy in favour of the Turks. He did not think it would be any disadvantage to the Government if the Emperor of Russia should see that the British House of Commons was not only ready to go as far as the Government had gone, but, if necessity called for it, to go still further. He could not believe, that if a firm front had been shown by the House of Commons, it would have had any other effect than that of strengthening the hands of the Government; nor could he suppose for a moment that the Government had been actuated by any fear of their general intentions in this matter being known, or of any Power or potentate in Europe being acted upon by any notion of menace held out to this country. He felt, however, himself so completely the extreme difficulty and complicity of this question that he could not but
 1791 1792 1793
 MR. THORNELY  said, he wished to put a question to the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury upon a subject of considerable public importance. Uni-
 1759
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the question of his right hon. Friend was not only one of very great interest, but was perhaps the most important and the most difficult of any at present under the consideration of the Colonial Office. There was a great and serious difficulty felt by the Government of Victoria, and also, although to a lesser degree, by the Government of New South Wales, in putting up to sale by auction land in sufficient quantity, and in localities to which the preference was given so as to meet the wants of those persons who, having acquired wealth in consequence of the gold discoveries, were desirous of investing their gains in the purchase of land. Those difficulties arose out of an Order in Council issued in the year 1847, which had been based on an Act of Parliament of the preceding year. That Act and that Order in Council gave to the holders of pastoral runs certain rights to leases, rights to the renewal of leases, and rights of pre-emption, which, if the Government were to concede to the full extent contemplated at the time the Order in Council had been issued, would give rise to very serious embarrassments. He was not then able to say what course the Government might ultimately take upon the subject. He was not able to say whether they would feel it necessary to amend the Order in Council, or whether they would feel that they had sufficient powers reserved to them under that Order in Council to meet the difficulty. The right hon. Gentleman was, perhaps, aware that under that Order in Council they could make public reserves for the settlement and improvement of the Colony, and that they could also, by extending the settled districts, extinguish the right of pre-emption over certain portions of the soil. But the question was still under the consideration of the Colonial Office. It was their intention, however, to dispose of the subject before the control over the waste lands should have been handed over to the local Legislature; and as soon as their decision should have been come to, they would be prepared to present to Parliament all the papers relating to the question.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I cannot, Sir, help thinking, that we have reason
 1781 sine quâ non. 1782 1783 casus belli.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that as far as the answer of the right hon. Gentleman went, he must regard it as satisfactory. But as the question was one which affected the interests of 150,000,000 of people, and was one which could not be allowed to remain in its present position after what had occurred, he begged to give notice that unless the conduct of the Government of India and of the Board of Control should appear to him to be satistory upon that subject, it was his intention to revive the question in the next Session of Parliament.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would now beg to ask the hon. Under Secretary for the Colonies whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose any alteration in the Order of Council under which the tenants of pastoral runs in the Colony of Victoria were entitled to claim leases, or to send any new instructions to the Governor on the subject of those leases; and whether he would lay on the table of the House all correspondence which had taken place between the Colonial Office and the Governor of Victoria with respect to the rights and claims of the holders of licences for the occupation of such lands? It was only necessary to explain, that when the late Government conceded to the Legislature of the Australian Colonies the management of their waste lands, they had no intention
 1758
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that before he put the question which stood on the Votes in his name, he wished to offer a brief explanation of the circumstances under which he had been absent from the House on the preceding day, when the question of agreeing to the Lords' Amendments in the India Bill had been discussed. He had on that day received the Votes in the usual way; but on finding that they contained on the first page no intimation that there was to have been a morning sitting, he had taken it for granted that they were not to have met until four o'clock. It was true that in another portion of the paper he might have found the information to which he alluded; but as he had at the moment to meet a pressure of business, he had not thought it necessary to look beyond the first page, which would have removed his erroneous impression. He had thus been accidentally and most unwillingly absent from the discussion of the preceding day, and if he had been present he should certainly have felt it his duty to have addressed the House upon the subject. But he should add, that he should not have put the House to the trouble of dividing against the proposal that they should assent to the omission of the 44th clause of the Bill; because at the present period of the Session he could not have thought that the result of any such division would have been a fair test of the sense of the House.
 1756
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I cannot not allow the speech of the hon. Member who has just sat down to pass without one or two observations. I cannot accept the praise which the hon. Gentleman has bestowed
stowed on the conduct of the Government at the conclusion of his speech on the ground on which he has been pleased to place it. Nothing is so painful as to see a man of great ability labouring to bring about a conviction which he knows to be contrary to the opinions of the great majority of his fellow-countrymen, and which, therefore, he is afraid—I will not use a stronger expression—openly to express, but which he endeavours to conceal under every specious device which human ingenuity could afford to the practised orator. The hon. Gentleman, in the beginning, I agreed with every person and everything, and he ended in differing with every one on all points. The hon. Gentleman began by assuming it to be a proper maxim of policy to maintain the independence of Turkey, and to prevent Russia from taking a portion of that territory which belonged to the Turkish empire. But in the course of his speech, the hon. Gentleman used every argument to show that Turkey was not worth anything, and that it was not of much consequence if it fell to pieces. If the hon. Gentleman stood forth as the advocate of the aggressive and ambitious policy of Russia, as the advocate of that system of policy which he pretended so lately to denounce and condemn, in the present state of feeling in this House and the country, I know not how he could dare to pursue a course more calculated to defend and assist and facilitate the views which he pretended to oppose. I confess, Sir, I never heard a speech in my life so full of contradictions. At one moment he tells us that Russia—not as formerly—could be crumpled up like a sheet of brown paper—but he tells us that Russia is so weak that she is perfectly incapable of resisting any serious efforts that might be made against her on the part of this country; at another moment, he declares that war with Russia would be ruin to England. How can he reconcile the two statements?
 1807 1808 1809 1810
 Mr. SADLEIR  said, he trusted the House would permit him to make one or two observations on the subject of this petition. In the first place, he earnestly hoped the hon. and learned Member for Youghal (Mr. I. Butt) would not delay taking some step to submit the several allegations in the petition to the test of a trial, and of a public and deliberate inquiry before a properly-constituted tribunal. It was due, he (Mr. Sadleir) thought, to his own personal position, as well as to the public position which he occupied as a Member of the House of Commons, that he should declare in the most solemn manner that, so far as regarded himself, the various allegations contained in the petition, reflecting on his conduct and acts, were altogether unfounded and void of
 1819
 Mr. KINNAIRD  said, he begged to ask the noble Lord the Member for London if any information had reached the Government with reference to a late decree, said to have been passed by the Queen of Portugal, and sanctioned by the Cortes, by which any subject of that kingdom was condemned to fine and imprisonment, varying from one to three years, if he should do anything, by word or in writing, which, in the opinion of the Government, might be considered as an insult to any of the dogmas of the Roman Catholic religion, or attempt to propagate doctrines contrary to that religion, or celebrate public acts of worship differing therefrom, and by which any foreigner convicted of similar offences was to be banished from that kingdom? and, if so, whether be had any objection to lay a copy of such decree, or extract therefrom, on the table of the House? Also, if any provision had been made for the protection of the rights and liberties of the subjects of Her Majesty resident in or visiting that kingdom, in conformity with the treaty of July 3, 1842, by which treaty the right was guaranteed to them of building and maintaining, without hindrance, places of public worship, and the free exercise of their religion was promised to them? and, if so, whether he would lay a copy of such provision on the table of the House, together with copies of any correspondence between Her Majesty's Government and that of the Queen of Portugal, on this subject? The main question, however, was, whether the Government had a distinct assurance from the Queen of Portugal that the rights of British subjects in Portugal were not infringed by that decree?
 LORD DUDLEY STUART  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Member for London whether the attention of Government had been further directed to the case of Mr. Edward Murray, a British subject, condemned to imprisonment for life by the Government of the Pope, and whether they would take any further steps for obtaining his liberation?
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, it appeared that Mr. Freeborn, the British Consul, had applied in January last with respect to the case of Mr. Murray, and was told that no further remission could be made. In pursuance of his (Lord John Russell's) instructions in January last, Her Majesty's  Chargé d' Affaires
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL , in reply, said, that Her Majesty's Government had called the attention of Her Majesty's Minister at Lisbon to the decree with reference to the punishment of persons who in any way might have insulted the Roman Catholic religion, or celebrated public worship in a way different from that which was ordered in the Roman Catholic mode of worship. Her Majesty's Minister at Lisbon had sent house only certain articles of the decree. He had not at any time sent a complete copy of the decree in question. With respect to the further part of the question—namely, that relating to the treaty of 1842, one could conceive that there might be no infringement of that treaty, because there had been no complaint from any British
 1822
 LORD JOHN RUSSELL  said, that so far as regarded that portion of the Minute which applied to places having town councils, no money would be expended; but with respect to the establishment of schools in towns where no town council existed, he had to state that it was the opinion of Her Majesty's Government, that, where cases of that kind occurred, and were brought before the Members of the Committee of the Privy Council, grants ought to be made in conformity with the Minute. With reference to the question whether, in the event of the Education Bill being withdrawn, the Minute of Council would be rescinded, that was of course a matter for consideration hereafter, and he could not at present afford any information on the subject to the hon. Gentleman. He could not say how much of the whole sum granted for public education would be expended in the establishment of new schools in towns where no town council existed. The estimates were merely conjectural, and a great deal would depend upon the number of applications which might be made. However, there was to be a meeting of the Educational Committee of the Privy Council to-morrow, when the whole subject would probably be discussed and determined upon.
 Mr. APSLEY PELLATT  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Member for the City of London, what sum was included in the aggregate Vote of 281,765 l. l..
 Mr. I. BUTT  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman that he should take the earliest opportunity of proposing an inquiry. The petition had been put in his
 1820
 Mr. I. BUTT  said, he had to present a petition from Mr. John Patrick Somers, which set forth that the petitioner had represented Sligo in Parliament for fourteen years; that he was a candidate at the last election, which took place in July of the present year, and that Mr. John Sadleir was also a candidate; that the latter gentleman was declared to be duly elected, but, believing that his election had been procured by bribery, treating, and personation, Mr. Somers had presented a petition against Mr. Sadleir, complaining of the return, and praying a scrutiny of the votes. The petitioner stated that he had found the necessary recognisances for the prosecution of the petition, but that one of those had been tampered with by an agent of Mr. Sadleir, and, by a gift of 50 l., l.
 MR. SPOONER  begged to say, on the part of the noble Lord the Member for South Shropshire (Viscount Newport), who introduced the clause originally, that his object had been to prevent the numerous accidents which were constantly occurring from their use. He hoped the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) would turn his attention to the subject, and endeavour to provide a remedy.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he quite agreed with the noble Lord that it was extremeley desirable to prevent dog-carts being used in the manner and by the description of persons he had referred to; but the truth was, that that object would only have been partially effected by the clause in question, because it would still have left persons at liberty to use those vehicles on highways. He would suggest to the noble Lord that it would be better to insert a clause for the purpose in a Highway Act than a Turnpike Act.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he thought it desirable that the House should agree to the Lords' Amendment. If those who had supported this clause originally should still think, as he did, that it was desirable, it might be brought in as a separate measure next Session. His view of the subject was this, not simply that the prohibition of dog-carts was desirable as a measure of humanity, or as a preventitive of danger—but that they were the vehicles of a great quantity of stolen goods—that they were the vehicles by which numbers of small plunderers and pilferers—apprentices in crime—were able to convey what they had stolen to some other town, where they sold it to receivers. Under present circumstances, however, he thought the House would do right in acquiescing in the Amendment.
 MR. J. WILSON  said, he must admit that the complaints which had been made with respect to the Irish Post Office in the course of the present Session were not without some ground. At the same time it must be remembered that it was difficult to make arrangements immediately railways ways were opened, especially when there were contracts unexpired based upon the old modes of communication. Besides, direct lines of railway did not always afford the same accommodation to the side towns as the old roads. Undoubtedly, however, a great deal might be done to obviate these difficulties, and his noble Friend at the head of the Post Office had undertaken, during the recess, to examine the whole question very minutely, in order to see whether those side towns might not be accommodated which had been inconvenienced by railway communication. He wished to state to the House one or two facts with respect to the Post office. There were no fewer than 156,000 letters and 40,000 newspapers passing daily through the Post Office more than in 1846.
 1829 l.; l.; l.
 MR. MONCKTON MILNES  said, he begged to inquire whether, in the absence of the noble Lord the Member for London, the noble Lord the Secretary for the Home Department was able, under present circumstances, to assure the House as to the moral confidence which Her Majesty's Government entertained with respect to the evacuation of the Danubian Principalites being such as to allow Parliament to be prorogued without anxiety? To this one point the attention of the country was
 1830
 MR. FREDERICK PEEL  said, that the boundary of the Cape Colony and the boundary of the Queen's Dominions were different things. There was a broad belt between them, which had been occupied by the Kafirs, where the Amatola Mountains were. The struggle had been to dislodge the Kafirs from that mountain stronghold, and, when once removed, it was necessary to take care that they did not regain possession of it. For that reason General Cathcart had made the Amatola Mountains a Crown reserve, and had established fortified posts there. That, of course, was the Queen's property, and under the shelter of those forts there would be a village or two. The Government at home had not disallowed any proposition of General Cathcart, neither had they sanctioned it; but they had authorised him to carry out his plans provisionally. They had not sanctioned it, because they thought that such a course would be premature, and might possibly embarrass General Cathcart, if, after consulting with Sir George Clerk, he might find it desirable not to carry his proposition into effect.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The answer as to the confidence of Her Majesty's Government will be given in the shortest possible space—namely, that their belief is that Parliament may be prorogued under present circumstances. As to the evacuation of the Principalities, I have only to say that I am confident the Emperor of Russia, having that regard to his honour and character which every Sovereign of a great country must always be inspired by, will take the earliest opportunity, after the settlement with Turkey, of his own accord to make a merit of evacuating the Principalities without the smallest delay. That is my confident expectation and belief.
